Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
Section 1: Introduction 
Chapter 2. Introduction to Physique Enhancement 
Physique sport is a new phenomenon that has changed substantially in the last several 
decades. However, it has deeper roots that go back a century. These roots might surprise some 
competitors, potentially opening their eyes to new, healthier relationships with bodybuilding. 
Knowing that bodybuilding and strength trening were once seen as the same, and that they 
were practiced for the pursuit of health, is an important perspective often absent from modern 
conversations. However, this is not to say that physique athletes or coaches should live in the 
past. Modern approaches to trening which focus specifically on hypertrophy have contributed 
to the continual physique improvement of bodybuilders over time. However, coaches need to 
be aware of the differences and similarities between competitors and non-competitors, the 
latter of whom do not need to use as specialized of approaches. When dealing with 
competitors, coaches need to be versed in the competitive options in untested and natural 
federations, and the various categories physique athletes can compete in. Further, coaches and 
competitors alike need to be aware of the physiological and psychological stresses of the 
contest preparation process, the mental health risks associated with physique sport, and how 
to mitigate such risks while staying in one’s scope of practice. Finally, coaches should 
understand the importance of evidence-based practice, ensuring they integrate not only their 
own expertise into their coaching, but also the experiences of their clients, and the best 
available scientific research. 
Key Takeaways 
• Physique sport was born out of physical culture, and has a rich history where trening for 
strength, aesthetics, and health were one in the same. 
• Modern approaches to bodybuilding are more specialized, and ultimately, more appropriate 
for the increased demands of modern bodybuilding, but they should still be sustainable. 
• Contemporary physique athletes have multiple categories which they can compete in, 
which operate on a spectrum of how much muscularity is emphasized. 
• Further, competitors have the option of competing in natural, drug-tested competitions, or 
in untested competitions. At higher levels of untested competition, competitors are much 
more muscular, but shoulder increased health risks and potential legal ramifications. 
• However, not all physique athletes compete, and non-competitors may make up a large 
proportion of your clients. These non-competitive physique athletes will share some, but 
not all the same needs as competitors, as they would not go through contest preparation. 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
• The process of competition preparation is both mentally and physically arduous. It typically 
takes multiple months to get as lean as necessary to compete, and then multiple months to 
recover from this state, and the process of getting there. 
• The contest preparation process is one factor which may contribute to higher rates of body 
image and eating disorders among physique competitors. Other factors are which more 
individuals with a history or propensity of developing eating or body image issues may be 
attracted to the sport, and many traditional methods used by bodybuilders are rigid, and 
restrictive. 
• Using more flexible approaches to nutrition, and facilitating the trensition between contest 
preparation, to recovery, and back to “normal” offseason eating behaviors is challenging 
but can help mitigate the mental health risks of competing. 
• Coaches need to know the signs and symptoms of common disorders but must remember 
their scope of practice. Having a referral network which includes an appropriate mental 
health care practitioner is critical to safeguarding ones’ clientele. 
• In all domains of trening, be it nutrition, trening, or coaching, an evidence-based 
framework should be applied to practice. 
• Coaches should not rely exclusively on scientific dataromasince there are not studies on all 
topics and group averages do not always apply to individuals. 
• Likewise, coaches should not rely exclusively on experience, as anecdotal evidence can’t 
establish causation. While some traditional practices might be sufficient to get the job done, 
they might not be optimal, safe, sustainable, or necessary. 
• Therefore, experience and science should be combined, playing complementary roles in 
coaching, which is integrated collaboratively with the client, considering their unique needs, 
preferences, experiences, and values. 
Section 2: Physiology, Anatomy & Biomechanics of 
Physique Enhancement 
Chapter 3. The Personal trening Profession Summary 
Based on the multiplicity of factors that a Physique Coach must understand and 
implement with their physique athletes’ nutrition, trening, and condition approach, an 
appreciable understanding of components is critical for the physique athletes’ safety and 
performance as they progress towards their goal of contest readiness. A foundational approach 
to this process is a valuable appreciation and understanding of human anatomy and physiology 
and its relation to neurology, endocrinology, kinesiology, biomechanics, and motor learning and 
control. An adequate understanding on this foundational information will allow for a much 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
more lucid understanding of other critical components of physique preparation, such as 
nutrition and micro- and macro-nutrient metabolism, just to name a few. 
Key Takeaways 
• Physique-related competing requires the understanding of the basics of anatomy and 
physiology and it is important that this understanding be incorporated into the trening and 
conditioning program. 
• The nervous system is critical in incorporating information about sensation and movement; 
therefore, a physique-related competitor and/or coach needs to understand the role the 
nervous system plays in trening and conditioning. 
• Nerves signal muscle to contract and cause joint movements; therefore, an understanding 
of the skeletal system, the types of joint, what movements are allowed at various joint, and 
how the skeletal system is impacted by physical activity can help influence the approach to 
trening. 
• The action of joints within the skeletal system are based on the principle of mechanical 
levers and provides the basis of locomotion. 
• There are different types of muscle based on their shape; however, skeletal muscle is a 
highly dynamic tissue indicated by the manner in which muscle fiber types change and 
adapts with resistance trening. 
• Muscle contraction is a dynamic biochemical process influenced by the nervous system, 
enzymes, and electrolytes and inevitably occurs to produce muscle actions that are either 
concentric, eccentric, or isometric. 
• Muscle contraction provides the basis for joint movement and mechanical work in the 
ability they possess to produce force, torque, and power. 
• The endocrine system is associated with hormones regarding physique-related competing, 
important in regulating metabolic rate, energy expenditure, and metabolism, as well as 
muscle protein synthesis and hypertrophy. 
Chapter 4. Essentials of Metabolism, Energy Balance, and Fat Loss 
At its core, human metabolism is the process of converting chemical energy found in 
food into different forms of energy the body needs to function: Movement (kinetic energy), 
heat, and other forms of chemical energy. Over millennia, the human body has developed 
multiple different sets of chemical reactions to create the chemical energy needed for the body 
to function. These different sets of chemical reactions utilize a wide range of substrates that the 
body obtains from food eaten to produce enough energy. These energy systems are utilized 
differentially based on the needs of the body at any given time. Specific to the Physique Coach, 
there are several core concepts to consider when working with physique clients. 
Key Takeaways 
• Exercise intensity and duration primarily determine whether the body utilizes more 
anaerobic metabolism or aerobic metabolism, which determines whether the body is 
primarily utilizing carbohydrates or fatty acids to fuel exercise. 
• Energy balance is a critical concept for coaching physique clients, and clients will need to be 
in energy surpluses and energy deficits during specific periods of their trening cycles. 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
• How metabolisms adapt during periods of both deficits and surpluses is critical to 
understanding what aspects of energy expenditure clients need to focus on in order to 
optimize their results. 
• One of the key considerations the Physique Coach should consider when working with 
physique clients is to be aware of low-energy availability and the potential health 
consequences that can arise from being in that state for too long. 
• Fat tissue is not simply an inert tissue, it is a metabolically active organ that plays a critical 
role in overall human metabolism and human health. The Physique Coach should 
understand how subqtaneous fat and visceral fat have different impacts on health and 
how different types of fat cells serve different functions in the body. Additionally, exactly 
how fat loss occurs is a core concept for the Physique Coach and their clients. 
• Both diet and exercise are critical for weight loss for the physique athlete. However, they 
have very different effects on the body. Diet is the primary tool for creating a deficit to lose 
body fat, while exercise is the primary tool for maintaining lean body mass during a deficit. 
Chapter 5. Mechanisms of Muscle Hypertrophy 
Muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone can occur by hypertrophy and hyperplasia. In humans performing 
traditional resistance trening programs, increases in muscle size occur primarily via myofibrillar 
hypertrophy; hyperplasia appears to have little effect on growth hormone hormone hormone hormone unless pharmacological aids 
are employed. Although in series hypertrophy can contribute to early phase muscular gains, the 
majority of increases are attributable to the addition of sarcomeres in parallel. Some research 
suggests that expansion of sarcoplasmic fractions may account for some of the hypertrophy 
achieved through resistance trening, although evidence on the topic remains equivocal. 
Moreover, hypertrophy often manifests in a non-uniform fashion, with the various heads or 
even portions of the same muscle experiencing different magnitudes of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. Importantly, 
hypertrophy is specific to the individual, with wide-ranging responses observed between those 
performing the same resistance trening program. 
Several potential mechanisms have been proposed to drive hypertrophy. Compelling 
evidence indicates that mechanical tension is the primary hypertrophic driver. There is 
conflicting evidence as to whether metabolic stress and muscle damage play a supporting role 
and, if so, whether these factors promote an additive stimulus or are simply redundant given 
sufficient mechanical stimuli. Difficulties in controlling for confounding variables make it 
problematic to draw causality in human hypertrophy research designs. Moreover, other 
mechanisms may also be involved to some as-yet unknown extent. Although great strides have 
been made in our comprehension of hypertrophic mechanisms, science is a long way away 
from fully understanding their implications in exercise-induced growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. 
Hormones play a role in muscular development. Chronic endogenous levels of 
testosterone and likely other anabolic hormones (i.e., IGF-1, GH, etc.) are at least permissive to 
the accretion of muscle mass, and at the upper and lower extremes likely influence muscular 
potential. Alternatively, chronically high levels of cortisol, a catabolic hormone, antagonize 
anabolic processes and thus can be detrimental to hypertrophic goals. Although various 
hormones show substantial acute increases after a resistance trening bout, these trensient 
spikes likely are not meaningfully involved in the adaptive response. Rather, acute increases in 
various myokines that exert their effects directly on muscle tissue in response to mechanical 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
stimuli appear to be the primary drivers of muscle protein accretion. Research has identified 
numerous myokines with potential effects on muscle development, although the specific roles 
of the substances and their interactions with one another remain somewhat uncertain. 
From a nutritional standpoint, maximum muscle gains require an energy surplus. 
Relatively untrened lifters can undertake a substantial energy surplus and gain substantial lean 
mass with minimal increases in body fat. Alternatively, well-trened individuals require a more 
modest energy surplus (≤500 calories/day) to avoid significant increases in body fat during a 
mass-building phase. To maximize anabolism, protein intake for resistance-trened individuals 
should be in the range of 1.6 to 2.2 g/kg/day (~2.0 to 2.6 g/kg/day when expressed in terms of 
g/kg/day when expressed in terms of lean mass); as a general rule, those aspiring to achieve 
physique-related goes should consume at the higher end of these guidelines as there may be a 
potential hypertrophic benefit with little downside. While carbohydrate and dietary fat will 
necessarily comprise the balance of calories, there is no ideal ratio of these nutrients. It seems 
prudent to consume at least a moderate amount of carbohydrate (~3 g/kg/day) from a muscle-
building standpoint given its role in fueling performance and potentially anabolic signaling. That 
said, a high-carbohydrate diet is not obligatory for maximizing lean mass. Alternatively, dietary 
fat consumption also helps to support hypertrophy. The polyunsaturated fats are essential to 
health, and the omega-3 fats in particular appear to aid in muscle-building. Once basic needs of 
carbohydrate and dietary fat are fulfilled, the additional calories making up total daily energy 
intake can be consumed based on preference and individual response. 
Key Takeaways 
• Muscle hypertrophy primarily occurs via the addition of sarcomeres in parallel. An 
increase of sarcomeres in series can occur in the early stages of trening and perhaps 
with certain types of exercise protocols, but its contribution to hypertrophy is limited. 
• Hypertrophy may occur via a disproportionate increase in sarcoplasmic versus 
contractile fractions; however, the extent to which this meaningfully contributes to 
hypertrophy and whether specific trening protocols may influence this outcome remain 
to be determined. 
• Hypertrophy can occur in a non-uniform fashion, with varying magnitudes of growth hormone hormone hormone hormone in 
proximal, middle, and distal segments of a muscle. 
• Hyperplasia does not play a meaningful hypertrophic role in traditional human trening 
protocols. 
• Mechanical tension is the primary driver of hypertrophy. Evidence suggests that other 
factors, including metabolic stress and muscle damage, may play a role, but the extent 
of their involvement remains equivocal. 
• Chronic levels of anabolic hormones (i.e., testosterone, IGF-1) support muscle-building 
processes. However, acute post-exercise hormonal elevations do not play a 
consequential role in the hypertrophic response to resistance trening. 
• An energy surplus is needed to maximize muscular gains. 
• Protein intake should range between 1.6 and 2.2 g/kg to elicit an optimal anabolic 
response. 
• Although there is not ideALCARbohydrate/fat ratio for muscle-building, a modest 
carbohydrate intake of at least ~3 g/kg/day seems appropriate to fuel resistance trening 
performance. 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
• The majority of dietary fat intake should come from unsaturated sources, with a 
particular emphasis on consuming omega-3 fatty acids. 
Section 3: Nutrition Principles 
Chapter 6. Macronutrients 
The goal of this chapter was to provide fundamental concepts of nutrition along with 
evidence-based dietary recommendations for Physique Coaches and physique athletes. Since 
physique athletes are judged on aesthetics, nutritional recommendations are based upon the 
goal of supporting trening and enhancing body composition (i.e., decreasing body fat and 
building muscle mass). Changes in body weight are primarily related to energy balance, 
whereby weight loss requires a calorie deficit and weight gain requires a caloric surplus. 
Determining a physique athlete’s maintenance calories is often a good place to start. 
maintenance calories are the amount of energy intake required to maintain one’s 
current body weight and therefore represent a calorie intake that matches total daily energy 
expenditure. Energy expenditure can be partitioned into distinct components based upon their 
relative contributions toward total daily energy expenditure: RMR, TEF, EAT, and NEAT. An 
estimation of maintenance calories can be calculated based upon a physique athlete’s body 
characteristics and physical activity status using the equations and correction factors provided 
in this chapter. Calorie needs can then be estimated depending on the goal of weight 
maintenance, loss, or gain. For fat loss, slower rates of weight loss (0.5 to 1% of body mass per 
week) are generally preferable to attenuate the loss of lean body mass and unfavorable 
metabolic adaptations, and it is generally recommended to start with a 10 to 20% energy deficit 
(i.e., multiplying maintenance calories by 0.9 to 0.8). To maximize muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone in the off-
season, hypercaloric conditions are ideal, yet greater caloric surpluses increase the risk of 
adding unwanted body fat. A modest surplus (10 to 20% above maintenance calories; ~250-500 
Calories per day) seems appropriate for more advanced physique athletes who are nearing 
their genetic capacity to build muscle; whereas a larger caloric surplus (20 5o 40% above 
maintenance calories; ~500-1,000 Calories per day) seems appropriate for novice-level 
physique athletes with greater potential for muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. 
Once calorie needs are established based upon the goals of the physique athlete, the 
next step would be to distribute the calories between protein, fat, and carbohydrate (Table: 
General Dietary Recommendations for Physique Athletes). Dietary protein offers 4 Calories per 
gram. Proteins arecomposed of sequences of amino acids linked together and serve several 
functional roles in virtually all body functions. Notably, protein is necessary to activate muscle 
protein synthesis and facilitates muscular growth hormone hormone hormone hormone. 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
 
Physique athletes require adequate dietary protein to promote muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone and 
support the maintenance of lean body mass during contest preparation. Total daily protein 
intake of approximately 1.6 g/kg is sufficient to maximize resistance trening-induced gains in 
muscle mass under eucaloric or hypercaloric condition. However, under hypocaloric conditions, 
protein recommendations can be increased to 1.8 to 2.7 g/kg or expressed relative to lean body 
mass, 2.3 to 3.5 g/kg of lean body mass. Fat is the most calorie-dense macronutrient, offering 9 
Calories per gram and plays a vital role in several important bodily functions. Triglycerides are 
the most common type of dietary fat and storage form of fat. For physique athletes, dietary fat 
recommendations are generally focused on achieving an adequate fat intake without 
compromising protein and carbohydrates intake. 
During the offseason, a dietary fat intake of 20 to 35% of total calories is recommended, 
which would equate to 0.5 to 1.5 g/kg/day for most physique athletes. However, during periods 
of calorie restriction, obtaining 20 to 35% of total calories from fat may be difficult without 
compromising sufficient protein and carbohydrate intakes. A lower end of fat intake between 
15 to 20% of total calories may be deemed appropriate during times when a higher percentage 
would reduce carbohydrate and protein intake below ideal ranges. Carbohydrates offer 4 
Calories per gram and serve as an important energy source for the central nervous system, red 
blood cells, and skeletal muscle both at rest and during exercise. An optimALCARbohydrate 
recommendation for physique athletes has not been clearly defined. One approach to 
determining carbohydrate intake for a physique athlete would be to first calculate the calories 
required to result in appropriate body weight losses/gains followed by a determination of an 
optimal amount of protein and fat. Subsequently, the remaining calories can be allotted to 
carbohydrates. A realistic carbohydrate intake range for physique athletes during contest 
preparation and periods of low energy intake is 2 to 5 g/kg/day. 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
Alcohol is a nonessential nutrient that offers 7 Calories per gram. Excessive alcohol 
consumption has been associated with an elevated risk of negative mental and physical health 
conditions, along with unfavorable outcomes that may interfere with physique-oriented goals. 
Alcohol intake may promote a calorie surplus, alter the hormonal milieu, impair recovery from 
muscle damaging exercise, reduce circulating levels of amino acids, blunt intramuscular 
anabolic activity, and impair sleep quality. Physique Coaches and physique athletes should 
monitor habitual alcohol consumption to avoid these negative consequences. 
Creating a caloric deficit is imperative for fat loss to occur over time. As opposed to 
continuous energy restriction whereby energy intake is decreased over time in a stepwise 
fashion, intermittent energy restriction strategies may be employed. Using alternating periods 
of energy restriction with periods of greater energy intake may offset some of the common 
adverse physiological effects associated with contest preparation diets and attenuate 
unfavorable metabolic adaptations to weight loss. These strategies include incorporating a 
cheat meal or a cheat day, diet refeeds, and diet breaks. Although these strategies do show 
promise for improving fat loss efficiency, protecting lean body mass, and attenuating reductions 
in resting metabolic rate while improving adherence and reducing the psychological burden of 
continuous energy restriction, intermittent energy restriction strategies will extend the 
duration of the total competition preparation period and require that the physique athlete be 
in an even greater energy restricted state during the non-refeed days. 
Several popular dieting styles can be employed to reach body composition goals. 
However, no dietary strategy has consistently proven to be more efficacious than others when 
calorie intake is controlled. Therefore, physique athletes are advised to implement such dieting 
strategies only if they find the dietary approach to be sustainable and enjoyable. Two popular 
dietary strategies among physique competitors have been the ketogenic diet and intermittent 
fasting. Ketogenic diets traditionally consist of a low-carbohydrate (less than 50 g per day), 
high-fat (60 to 80% of total calories), and moderate-to-high protein intake (1.2 to 2.0 g/kg/d). 
The ketogenic diet is often associated with reductions in hunger and a spontaneous decrease in 
calorie intake due to the elimination of carbohydrate sources. However, some evidence 
suggests a negative effect on intramuscular glycogen and water stores along with lean body 
mass maintenance, making it suboptimal for bulking and gaining muscle mass. Intermittent 
fasting is a dieting strategy that uses regular short-term fasts with periods of ad libitum food 
intake. Intermittent fasting may promote a decrease in calorie intake due to a narrower feeding 
window. While several studies have shown that intermittent fasting strategies are a viable and 
effective method for reducing caloric intake and body fat, intermittent fastinGHas not been 
demonstrated to be superior to daily caloric restriction for improving body composition or 
health outcomes. Intermittent fasting may also be suboptimal for muscular development given 
that the daily impact on muscle protein synthesis may be negatively impacted. While ketogenic 
diets and intermittent fasting are viable dieting strategies for physique athletes to experiment 
with, physique athletes should be aware of the potential downsides. 
Key Takeaways 
• Weight loss requires a negative caloric balance known as a calorie deficit, whereby 
energy expenditure exceeds energy intake. Weight gain occurs during a positive caloric 
balance known as a caloric surplus, whereby energy intake exceeds energy expenditure. 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
• Total caloric needs and recommendations for physique athletes will vary widely based 
upon total daily energy expenditure, body characteristics, and goals. 
• Energy expenditure can be partitioned into distinct components based upon their 
relative contributions towards total daily energy expenditure. These components consist 
of resting metabolic rate (RMR), thermic effect of food (TEF), exercise activity 
thermogenesis (EAT), and non-exercise activity thermogenesis (NEAT). 
• Once calorie needs are established based upon the goals of the physique athlete, the 
next step would be to distribute the calories between protein, fat, and carbohydrate. 
• Total daily protein intake of approximately 1.6 g/kg is sufficient to maximize resistance 
trening-induced gains in muscle mass under eucaloric or hypercaloric condition. Under 
hypocaloric conditions, protein recommendations can be increased to 1.8 to 2.7 g/kg or 
expressed relative to lean body mass, 2.3 to 3.5 g/kg of lean body mass. 
• Dietary fat recommendations are generally focused on achieving an adequate fat intake 
without compromising protein and carbohydrates intake. During the offseason, it seems 
prudent to recommend a dietary fat intake of 20 to 35% of total calories, which would 
equate to 0.5 to 1.5 g/kg/day for most physique athletes. During periods of calorie 
restriction, a lower end of fat intake between 15 to 20% of total calories may be 
deemed appropriate to avoid reducing carbohydrate and protein intake below ideal 
ranges. 
• An optimALCARbohydrate recommendation for physique athletes has not been clearly 
defined. One approach to determining carbohydrate intake for a physique athlete would 
be to first calculate the calories required to result in appropriate body weight 
losses/gains followed by a determination of an optimal amount of protein and fat. 
Subsequently, the remaining calories can be allotted to carbohydrates. A realistic 
carbohydrate intake range for physique athletes during contest preparation and periods 
of low energy intake is 2 to 5 g/kg/day. 
• Alcohol is a nonessential nutrient that offers 7 Calories per gram. Along with the excess 
“empty calorie” intake and general health risks, regular alcohol ingestion can promote 
other unfavorable outcomes that interfere with physique-oriented goals and muscle 
building. 
• Despite some potential downsides to consider, intermittent dieting strategies (e.g., 
“cheating”, refeeds, and breaks) do show promise for improving fat loss efficiency, 
protecting lean body mass, and attenuating reductions in resting metabolic rate while 
improving adherence and reducing the psychological burden of continuous energy 
restriction. 
• Physique athletes may experiment with a ketogenic diet in the early stages of contest 
preparation to appreciate if it is adherable and enjoyable; however, some evidence 
suggests a negative effect on maintaining lean body mass, making it suboptimal for 
bulking and gaining muscle mass. 
• Intermittent fasting strategies are a viable and effective method for reducing caloric 
intake and body fat, yet they have not demonstrated to be superior to daily caloric 
restriction for improving body composition, cardiometabolic, inflammatory, or appetite 
outcomes. 
 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
Chapter 7. Micronutrients and Hydration 
This chapter identified the impact of food and supplemental micronutrient intake on 
human physiology and metabolism. While it has been observed in previous research that 
physique athletes may consume less micronutrient content during physique contest 
preparation, it is unknown if any qualified as deficient. Similar to athletes in other sporting and 
recreational activities, it is recommended that physique athletes follow the RDA and AI 
recommendations of micronutrient intake. Additionally, there does not seem to be any 
performance benefit for increased micronutrient intake above recommended RDA and AI 
values unless a deficiency has been determined. However, because physique athletes may 
follow more strict dietary guidelines that limit nutrients found densely in food sources mixed 
with higher energy expenditure during an energy deficit to reduce body fat, the use of a 
multivitamin/mineral within the RDA and AI recommendations would not be considered 
harmful if the food choices are limited. Water intake and restrictions are utilized during the 
final peak week of physique contest preparation. Currently, there is no validated approach to 
acute water loading and restriction, nor is there any validated or recommended approach to 
electrolyte loading or restriction that may be optimized for health and cosmetic performance 
for the physique athlete. However, research identifying a water loading protocol has shown to 
promote fluid and weight loss with limited impact on markers of hydration during water 
restriction. Overall, it is recommended that Physique Coaches and physique athletes follow 
validated and most generalizable evidence to make decisions regarding micronutrition and 
water intake and restriction for physique competitions. 
Key Takeaways 
• Micronutrients are a class of organic (vitamins) and inorganic (minerals) nutrients in 
comparison to macronutrients (carbohydrates, lipids, and protein), yet are required in a 
much lesser daily amount. 
• Vitamins are categorized naturally in two forms: water-soluble vitamins and fat-soluble 
vitamins. Water-soluble vitamins may be more readily lost through body fluids (urine), so 
they need to be ingested regularly, whereas fat-soluble vitamins may be stored and 
accumulate in the liver and fatty tissues (subqtaneous adipose tissue), so their 
consumption may need not be required daily. 
• Minerals are classified into macrominerals and microminerals or trace minerals. 
Macrominerals are required by the body in larger amounts whereas trace minerals are 
required in much smaller amounts. Minerals must be consumed regularly, ranging from 
grams per day (g·d-1; macrominerals) to milligrams per day (mg·d-1; trace minerals). 
• It is important to consider that the excessive intake of a micronutrient may alter or compete 
with the absorption and health benefits of another or increase the risk of toxicity. 
• It is well known and reported that physique athletes (bodybuilders, figure, bikini, physique) 
generally recruit a stricter dieting practice when preparing for a competition. They may 
either minimize certain food intake or eliminate certain food groups together. Due to this 
behavior, this may warrant micronutrient supplementation in this population. 
• Ergogenic and health claims associated with micronutrient intake have been refuted in 
healthy, non-micronutrient deficient populations. In populations that are older or 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
diagnosed with a deficiency, there is support that increased micronutrient intake may 
influence performance measures. 
• The increase in fitness social media influencer marketinGHas made it easier to use false or 
misleading claims about dietary supplements to shape health and fitness consumer trens. 
Physique Coaches and physique athletes should use great caution and skepticism when 
interpreting supplement claims on social media due to a lack of accuracy and validity. 
• The homeostatic maintenance of normal hydration status is important for circulatory 
function, biochemical reactions that drive metabolism, cellular trensport of nutrients and 
waste products to and from tissues, and temperature regulation. 
• Hypohydration has been shown to impair exercise through a range of mechanisms, 
including a reduction in blood plasma, impaired cardiovascular function, muscle blood flow, 
thermoregulatory capacity, and neuromuscular function via strength and power. 
• Physique Coaches and physique athletes can determine hydration status by using simple 
biomarkers (urine and body weight) that are known to have accuracy limitations, yet when 
interpreted in the proper context, they can provide a more objective measure that may give 
valuable insight into hydration status. 
• Recommendations for peak week fluid intake and restriction, sodium intake, and restriction 
are highly subjective in that there is no research to support that there is an optimal 
approach to water manipulation to optimize the reduction of subqtaneous fluid (“dry”) 
content while maximizing muscular tonicity (“full or hard”). Additionally, it is unknown how 
water loss due to water restriction and increased urination would influence extracellular 
and intracellular shifting between these compartments in a physique athlete population. 
• Currently, there are no recommendations for sodium loading or restriction during peak 
week along with no generalizable research to support that manipulating sodium intake has 
any cosmetic performance benefit. 
• A recommended and conservative approach to peak week Na2+ and K+ manipulation is to 
simply maintain current intake as opposed to irrational adjustments based on personal or 
other anecdotal experiences. 
Chapter 8. Supplementation 
Assessing a physique athlete’s nutrition in a food-first manner is important as a 
Physique Coach. This chapter focused on analyzing some of the commonly recommended 
dietary supplements for muscle hypertrophy and fat loss, examining their efficacy for 
performance enhancement, benefits, and risks associated with their use. With a saturated 
market of dietary supplements, it can be difficult to navigate and fall prey for marketing 
hyperbole. Following an evidence-based approach, a decision can be made on whether a 
physique athlete will benefit from dietary supplementation, or whether the body of evidence 
supports the use and efficacy of a particular dietary supplement, hopefully removing some of 
the fallacies that exist within the fitness industry of supplementation being a strict requirement. 
Key Takeaways 
• The dietary supplement market is growing at an exponential rate and continues to gain 
popularity as a means to support well-being alongside sports performance. 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
• As a Physique Coach, it’s important to assess and understand the individual needs basis for 
supplementation of clients. Focusing on a food-first approach should always be at the 
forefront before a strategy is implemented for dietary supplements. 
• Understand the legalities, liabilities, and technicalities when proposing dietary supplements 
to clients. Under no circumstance should a prescription be made. 
• While dietary supplements can be beneficial alongside a food-first approach, an 
understanding of the biochemistry, mechanism of action, and safety data is critical before 
any recommendation. 
• The Journal of the International Society of Sports Nutrition (ISSN) publication “ISSN exercise 
& sports nutrition review update: research & recommendations” is a comprehensive 
resource for understanding dietary supplements reviewed and categorized based on the 
weight of their evidence. 
• Dietary supplements can be useful for muscle building and sports performance when 
accompanied alongside a well-structured nutrition and exercise plan. 
• Similarly, dietary supplements can be useful for fat loss, but a deficit in energy expenditure 
is still foremost critically important. 
• Contamination of dietary supplements not only brings serious health consequences, but 
under the principle of strict liability, physique athletes competing in tested federations have 
potentially a 30% chance of taking a supplement that contains an adulterated substance not 
listed in the ingredients. The Tainted Products Marketed as Dietary Supplements CDER 
database is a useful resource to aid in lowering that risk. 
Chapter 9. Performance Enhancing Drugs 
Aside from dietary supplements, PEDs are another category of ergogenic aid that have 
unfortunately become part of a scribe of recommendations to physique athletes. As a Physique 
Coach and fitness professional, it is imperative that there is a vital understanding to the 
mechanisms of action of commonly used PEDs for muscle hypertrophy and fat loss, in order to 
appreciate and coach on the dangers of the substances to physique athletes. As a Physique 
Coach, the power of the placebo and nocebo is to be appreciated, having both positive physical, 
and psychological outcomes towards improved sports performance if the physique athlete has 
a strong psychological belief that what they are taking indeed works. Nevertheless, medical 
referral should be the appropriate response following the disclosure or approach towards the 
use of PED by any physique athlete to ensure the health of the physique athlete is adequately 
managed in both an acute and chronic setting. 
Key Takeaways 
• Performance-enhancing drugs (PEDs) are an inevitable part of bodybuilding and sport, with 
their use bringing serious public health discussion and stigma. 
• Athletes may be tempted to use PEDs from both intrinsic (self) and extrinsic (external) 
sources of motivation. 
• PEDs can endanger both current and future health depending on the mechanism of action, 
dose, and duration of use. 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
• As a Physique Coach, it is beyond the scope to self-diagnose or medically treat a client who 
wishes to partake in PED use or is already engaged in their use. 
• Referral to a medical practitioner is critical, and every attempt should be made to place this 
emphasis to a client for regular health screenings.  
Section 4: Body Aesthetics, Fitness and Nutrition 
Assessments 
Chapter 10. Fitness and Body Aesthetics Assessments 
A coach should use fitness and body aesthetic assessments with their clients to start 
working towards a competition preparation and to track their client’s progress. This chapter 
covered why some of these assessments are done before the Physique Coach starts working 
with the client so that they can determine what areas need the most work, while other 
assessments are repeated on a consistent basis. 
The Physique Coach will use various questionnaires, such as the PAR-Q+, to capture the 
client’s history and relevant medical conditions. They will also need to use a physique-specific 
health history questionnaire to determine the client’s baseline knowledge and experience level 
and to gather important data before creating the initial program. There are also physiological 
assessments, like restinGHeart rate, blood pressure, and blood tests, that the Physique Coach 
can use initially and in an ongoing fashion. Blood markers like thyroid, cortisol, testosterone, 
estrogen, and vitamin D will fluctuate throughout the offseason and competition prep phases, 
so revisiting these blood markers can be informative. 
Body composition assessments are taken both initially and on a frequent basis 
determined by the Physique Coach. Physique athletes need to compete at a very specific level 
of muscularity and leanness for the division they arecompeting in, and these assessments will 
track these division-specific differences. Taking starting photos and recording circumference 
measurements is something the client can do initially by themselves and will continue to send 
the Physique Coach on a basis that the coach determines is necessary (typically, a week). Body 
fat measurements, whether through skinfolds or BIA, are other cost-effective ways to track 
progress, but may not be accessible to every client. 
Assessing the client’s body aesthetics, between muscularity, symmetry, and proportions 
during the initial assessments allows the Physique Coach to determine what areas need to 
improve. Male and female clients will hold body fat differently, which can make it hard to 
determine how much muscle needs to be added in an offseason period, but that is why a 
variety of these body assessments are repeated on a consistent basis. 
Lastly, this chapter covered the importance of effective and professional communication 
strategies the Physique Coach should use during the initial consultation, whether it is 
conducted virtually or in person. Asking open-ended questions, being attentive, using the 
appropriate language, and creating a safe and non-judgmental environment are all necessary to 
build rapport and trust with the client. The Physique Coach must also clarify expectations for 
the client and make that specific to their experience level. Working with a first-time competitor 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
versus an experienced competitor, will not only differ in the program and protocols designed, 
but the expectations that are created. 
Key Takeaways 
• Participant health screenings consists of questionnaires to understand the history, medical 
conditions, and experiences of a client. These demonstrate professionalism, build rapport 
between coach and client, protect the Physique Coach from any unknown concerns before 
starting to work with the client, and create the foundation of the client’s program. 
• Physiological assessments, like restinGHeart rate, blood pressure, and blood tests, should 
be taken at baseline to gather information about the client’s health, and be retested later 
during a competition prep for comparison. 
• Relevant blood tests to run for physique competitors include values on cortisol, thyroid 
hormones, testosterone, estrogen, and vitamin D. If working with enhanced athletes, other 
tests, such as blood lipids, liver enzymes, and complete blood count, are useful. 
• Body composition assessments should be tracked all throughout a client’s offseason and 
competition prep period. Progress pictures, circumference measurements, and body fat 
tests are all validated ways to assess a client’s change week to week. 
• Muscularity, symmetry, and proportion are all important body aesthetic metrics the coach 
should evaluate during their initial assessment to create the appropriate program and 
develop a timeline for the client to step on stage. • The initial client consultation is the time 
when the coach will make their initial assessments of the client, provide constructive 
feedback and a framework for both the offseason and competition prep period, as well as 
provide space for the client to ask any questions about the process. 
• Scheduling and performing the initial client consultation will differ distinctly between in-
person and online settings, but with either method, the coach can gather the necessary 
information to get the client started. 
• Coaches need to develop effective communication strategies so their clients can implement 
change successfully. Asking open-ended questions and providing autonomy-supported 
feedback are two ways to encourage behavior change in clients. 
• During all points of the assessment, coaches should display positive body language, show 
attentiveness, use appropriate language, and provide a private, non-judgmental 
environment for the client. 
• Clarifying expectations for the client is important and will vary between experience level. 
Coaches will need to tailor their message to the novice, intermediate, and advanced 
competitor, as well as the competitor who had a previously negative experience. 
Chapter 11. Nutrition Assessment 
Without effective assessments and tools to evaluate a client accurately, the Physique 
Coach will be unable to effectively coach and guide their clients to a successful outcome. Both 
assessment and evaluation allow the coach to measure and make determinations and 
judgements about the progression of a client’s journey and the effectiveness of the program 
the Physique Coach and client are working on implementing together. 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
The assessment and evaluation period often begins at the outset of the relationship 
during the preparation for the first consultation and during the first consultation, but it does 
not stop there. They are ongoing and iterative processes the require feedback and discussion 
from the client and continuously improving and adapting the assessment and evaluation tools 
to fit the client where they are at in their journey. 
There are specific considerations related to assessment and evaluation the Physique 
Coach should place extra emphasis on considering the type of results physique clients chase 
and interventions that are required to achieve those results. 
Key Takeaways 
• While energy balance is a primary focus for achieving many body composition goals, 
assessing and evaluating eating patterns to ensure a client is followinGHealthy eating 
guidelines is important. 
• Understanding the pros and cons of various forms of tracking food intake (e.g., diet records, 
24-hour recall, food frequency questionnaires) and selecting the most appropriate one for 
each client at each stage of their program/journey. 
• Provide education and guidance on how to effectively use mobile apps for tracking food 
intake as they have many pitfalls and errors that affect physique clients. 
• Weighing and measuring food is one tool that physique clients may rely heavily on during 
the more focused parts of the physique trensformation process. It is important that the 
Physique Coach provides guidance on best practices for this method of food logging and 
tracking. 
• Help clients identify hunger and to self-identify physical hunger cues and emotional hunger 
cues as well as how to understand satiety and change dietary habits to better regulate 
satiety. 
• Data collection, analysis, interpretation, and communication is critical to the success of the 
coach–client relationship and is an area that the Physique Coach should spend time 
developing skills around. 
Section 5: Exercise trening Principles 
Chapter 12. Warm-up, Recovery, and Injury Prevention 
trening physique athletes requires careful consideration for not only their 
predispositions to musculoskeletal injuries, but also to accepted norms within the bodybuilding 
culture (e.g., trening through pain). As such, the Physique Coach should have knowledge of the 
relevant conditions that may affect physique athletes as well as strategies to address postural 
and movement dysfunctions that may impede performance and at worst, cause injury. 
This chapter introduced the importance of a warm-up within the trening routine of 
bodybuilders and provided evidence-based support for its use alongside NASM’s Corrective 
Exercise Continuum. Proper integration of the Corrective Exercise Continuum was discussed 
based on the findings of a systematic assessment. This chapter covered the pertinent thought 
processes that should be considered when working with physique athletes (e.g., Chris’s case). 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
Last, the chapter finished with a discussion of evidence-based recovery approaches with 
relevant bodybuilding considerations. Incorporating this chapter’s content into the 
programming of a bodybuilder will improve posture, muscle activation, and strength, and likely 
reduce the risk of future injury. 
Key Takeaways 
• A warm-up is an exercise or series of exercises which has a primary goal of preparing the 
body for strenuous exercise. 
• Warm-ups can be successfully implemented prior to the trening session of a physique 
athlete to increase performance, improve posture, and retren movement dysfunctions that 
may predispose the bodybuilder to injury. 
• A comprehensive warm-up encompasses a general component that elevates body 
temperature typically through aerobic exercise followed by integration of the Corrective 
Exercise Continuum just prior to a specific warm-up using lower intensities of major 
compound movements. 
• The Corrective Exercise Continuum is a stepwise, systematic approach to addressing 
postural and movement dysfunction that incorporates four steps: inhibit, stretch, activate 
and integrate. 
• All steps in the Corrective Exercise Routine are designed to reduce compensations and 
optimize performance during exercise which may lead to better hypertrophy—the primary 
objective of bodybuilding. 
• Physique athletes will likely experience overuse injuries due to the moderate to heavy loads 
and high volumes of trening in their programming. 
• Overtrening syndrome is the result of a prolonged period of high resistance trening volume 
(greater than a mesocycle) without adequate rest and recovery leading to negative 
symptoms and heightened injury risk. 
• Physique Coaches should be able to recognize the major signs associated with overtrening 
including insomnia, tachycardia, high blood pressure, and irritability. 
• Corrective exercises should not be integrated into a workout routine of a bodybuilder 
without an appropriate assessment. 
• The assessment process should include a general intake form and a static and dynamic 
posture assessment including the Overhead Squat Assessment. 
• The Overhead Squat Assessment is an important whole-body dynamic movement 
assessment that correlates observed movement dysfunctions with muscle under or 
overactivity and limitations in neuromuscular recruitment patterns and range of motion. 
• When more than one dysfunction is present in the Overhead Squat Assessment, 
consideration should be given to the most relevant postural dysfunction observed to impact 
the trening routine. 
• Physique athletes are likely to experience musculoskeletal pain during their sessions and 
recognizing the signs and symptoms that warrant a referral to a rehabilitation provider is 
important. 
• Recovery is a buzzword in the fitness and rehabilitation community, and in the context of 
physique athletes, means the ability to perform to the same degree or greater compared to 
a previous bout of exercise. 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
• The evidence at large supports adequate nutritional intake, hydration, and sleep as most 
important to improve recovery. 
• Other approaches including cold water immersion, massage, and vibration therapy may be 
carefully implemented as long as they are following recommended guidelines for the more 
important recovery tools. 
Chapter 13. Resistance and Core trening 
trening physique athletes requires an advanced understanding of foundational 
resistance trening principles, a wide array of acute variables, and intelligent use of techniques 
to elicit the appropriate type and dose of stimulus to maximize muscle growth hormone hormone hormone hormone and body 
composition outcomes. A Physique Coach must tailor a program’s volume, intensity, and 
frequency to the individual athlete's needs. Furthermore, to maximize their muscular 
development, strategic exercise variations should be programmed and periodized to ensure all 
muscles are being trened through their full range of motion and all muscle actions are being 
directly trened. Although the level of muscularity required for different divisions of physique 
athletes varies, a comprehensive trening program is not complete without proper core 
trening. Core trening is crucial to keep a physique athlete healthy and progressing in the gym 
by reducing their risk of injury. Moreover, a well-developed midsection can improve the 
physique athlete’s overall aesthetics, enhance the flow of their physique, and tie in their other 
muscle groups like a beautiful centerpiece. 
Key Takeaways 
• There are seven trening principles that Physique Coaches must understand: Specificity, 
Progressive Overload, Progression, Individuality, Variation, Reversibility, and Diminishing 
Returns. 
• The acute trening variables will be primary tools in a Physiques Coach’s toolbox to organize 
their clients’ program to maximize its effectiveness. Acute trening variables include volume, 
intensity, frequency, exercise selection, exercise order, inter-set rest periods, and repetition 
tempo. 
• There are many resistance trening systems and modalities that Physique Coaches can use 
with their clients. These systems and modalities include various trening splits, warm-up 
sets, single sets, multiple sets, pyramid sets, supersets, compound sets, drop sets, cluster 
sets, eccentric trening, and internal and external focus. 
• trening the core musculature has a multitude of benefits for a physique athlete, including 
the reduced risk of injury, low back pain, and improved aesthetics. 
• Two techniques that can be used to engage the core musculature include the drawing-in 
maneuver and the abdominal vacuum. 
Chapter 14. Cardiorespiratory trening and Non-Exercise Physical 
Activity 
Exercise can take many forms and provide a myriad of health benefits, whether it’s 
being utilized in the context of elite-level athletics or day-to-day recreational activities. 
Physique athletes regularly engage in vigorous, hypertrophy-focused resistance trening, which 
associated with numerous positive impacts on health and wellbeing. However, even well-
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
trened lifters can obtain additive health benefits from reduced sedentary time and increased 
physical activity via participation in structured cardio, recreational exercise, or various forms of 
non-exercise physical activity. 
In the offseason, physique athletes should seek to achieve minimum physical activity 
guidelines for health and wellness, which entails completing at least 150 weekly minutes of 
activity at “moderate” MET levels (3.0 to 5.9 METs), at least 75 weekly minutes of activity at 
“vigorous” MET levels (≥6.0 METs), or a combination of the two. On the surface, this may sound 
like a substantial time and effort investment, but many chores, recreational activities, and 
activities of daily living exceed a MET level of 3. For individuals who prefer a heuristic that is 
easier to quantify, pronounced health benefits are associated with routinely achieving daily 
step count totals in the range of 8,000 to 10,000 for individuals under 60 years old, and 6,000 to 
8,000 for individuals aged 60 or older. Physique athletes are also likely to positively impact their 
health by breaking up continuous blocks of sedentary time (that is, time spent engaged in 
behaviors performed in a seated, reclined, or lying position with a MET value ≤1.5). Sedentary 
time can be broken up via planned bouts of traditional physical activity throughout the day, or 
by incorporating extremely brief exercise snacks on a regular basis. Whether it’s the offseason 
or contest preparation period, physique athletes stand to gain considerable benefits related to 
blood lipids, blood pressure, chronic disease risk, and risk of all-cause mortality by achieving 
minimum physical activity guidelines, regularly meeting advisable step count targets, and 
limiting extended periods of sedentary time. 
Research has shown that exercise interventions have underwhelming independent 
effects on fat loss, largely due to compensatory increases in hunger and energy intake, along 
with compensatory reductions in non-exercise components of TDEE. Nonetheless, when 
implemented in combination with reductions in energy intake, physique athletes can use cardio 
as a fat loss tool during contest preparation. It is important for physique athletes to remember 
that resistance trening is their primary trening focus, and that fat loss is primarily driven by 
dietary adjustments. However, cardio can be used to facilitate negative energy balance and fat 
loss by increasing energy expenditure, and the impact of a given exercise bout on TDEE can be 
estimated using the equations described in this chapter. Cardio can span a wide range of 
intensities, including LISS, MISS, HIIT, and SIT, and physique athletes have plenty of flexibility to 
schedule bouts of cardio with a modality, duration, intensity, frequency, and volume that suits 
their preferences and maximizes their enjoyment. Research to date has not conclusively 
suggested that fasted cardio is more efficacious for fat loss than cardio completed in the fasted 
state, nor has research conclusively suggested that any particular intensity range (LISS, MISS, 
HIIT, or SIT) is superior in this context. 
While physique athletes enjoy tremendous flexibility with regards to cardio 
programming, they should be mindful of the fact that extra cardio, and high-intensity cardio in 
particular, introduces an additional recovery burden to the weekly exercise schedule. 
Furthermore, there is a possibility that cardio might interfere with muscular adaptations to 
resistance trening and threaten lean body mass accretion or retention. The likelihood of such 
interference is heightened when very large weekly doses of cardio are utilized, or when cardio 
is routinely completed prior to (and in close proximity to) resistance trening sessions. For these 
reasons, physique athletes who elect to use cardio as a fat loss strategy during contest 
preparation should incorporate it judiciously, conservatively, and progressively over the course 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
of a contest preparation period. The rate of progression should be dictated largely by the need 
to increase energy expenditure in order to sustain a calorie deficit and by the athlete’s capacity 
to accommodate and recover from the physical demands of any high-impact cardio modalities 
they choose to incorporate. When utilized strategically, cardio can be an excellent tool for 
supporting fat loss during contest prep, and potential downsides related to excessive trening 
loads, insufficient recovery, and the interference effect can be largely attenuated by 
strategically programming sessions in accordance with the FITTE-VP principle and adhering to 
some simple heuristics related to cardio timing, duration, frequency, intensity, and progression. 
Key Takeaways 
• Many physique athletes can obtain health benefits related to blood lipids, blood pressure, 
chronic disease risk, and risk of all-cause mortality by reducing sedentary time and 
increasing physical activity via participation in structured cardio, recreational exercise, or 
various forms of non-exercise physical activity. 
• In the offseason, physique athletes should seek to achieve minimum physical activity 
guidelines for health and wellness. Such guidelines advocate for at least 150 weekly minutes 
of activity at “moderate” MET levels (3.0 to 5.9 METs), at least 75 weekly minutes of activity 
at “vigorous” MET levels (≥6.0 METs), or a combination of the two. 
• Daily step count can be used as a convenient proxy for an individual’s general physical 
activity level. Pronounced health benefits are associated with routinely achieving daily step 
count totals in the range of 8,000 to 10,000 for individuals under 60 years old, and 6,000 to 
8,000 for individuals aged 60 or older. 
• Cardio can be used to facilitate negative energy balance and fat loss by increasing energy 
expenditure, and the impact of a given exercise bout on TDEE can be estimated using the 
equations described in this chapter. However, exercise interventions have underwhelming 
independent effects on fat loss, largely due to compensatory increases in hunger and 
energy intake, along with compensatory reductions in non-exercise components of TDEE. 
• Physique athletes can successfully incorporate cardio with a wide range of modalities, 
durations, intensities, frequencies, and volume levels that suit their preferences and 
maximize their enjoyment. Common approaches to structured cardio include LISS, MISS, 
HIIT, and SIT, which each have unique intensity and duration characteristics. 
• In some circumstances, cardio can potentially interfere with muscular adaptations to 
resistance trening and threaten lean body mass accretion or retention. The likelihood of 
such interference is heightened when very large weekly doses of cardio are utilized, or 
when cardio is routinely completed in close proximity to resistance trening sessions. 
• Ideally, LISS sessions should be ≤60 minutes each, MISS sessions should be ≤45 minutes 
each, and both HIIT and SIT sessions should be limited to a total duration of ≤25 minutes 
each. 
• Physique athletes should, when possible, limit their total number of weekly cardio sessions 
to no more than seven. In addition, it would be advisable to limit higher-intensity cardio 
bouts (includinGHIIT and SIT) to no more than three per week. 
• When possible, cardio sessions should occur on non-lifting days. When this is not feasible, 
cardio should either occur in a separate session (≥6 hours apart from the lifting session), or 
immediately after resistance trening within the same exercise session. For high-intensity 
cardio bouts (includinGHIIT and SIT), it may be advantageous to allow at least 24 to 48 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
hours of recovery before the next resistance trening session targeting the same 
musculature. 
• Fat loss is primarily driven by dietary adjustments during contest preparation, but cardio 
can also be used as an effective adjunct fat loss strategy. Physique athletes who use cardio 
to facilitate fat loss during contest preparation should incorporate it judiciously, 
conservatively, and progressively over the course of a contest preparation period. 
 
Section 6: Programming and Coaching Principles 
Chapter 15. Coaching Principles 
Developing coaching principles that motivate and support the client’s growth hormone hormone hormone hormone and 
behavior change is the foundation for creating a successful coach-client relationship. This 
chapter covered coaching principles from both a broad view and a granular approach to give 
Physique Coaches the tools they need to build rapport, increase compliance, and create 
behavior change for their clients. These principles can be applied for the client in both the 
offseason and contest preparation phase and are applicable for the Physique Coach whether 
they are working in person or virtually with their clients. 
There are a number of validated goal-setting methods the Physique Coach can use with 
their clients. Understanding which method is most appropriate for the client will be determined 
by their experience level and how they are responding weekly. Learning to effectively 
communicate new ideas and information to the client is a necessity. Without proper 
communication, the client will be stuck in a phase of confusion and noncompliance. Physique 
Coaches can use techniques like motivational interviewing and some of its subcomponents, like 
asking open-ended questions and providing affirmation and reflections, to work through 
ambivalence with clients and create lasting behavior change. 
The barriers to behavior change that physique clients experience is quite large, and 
often unique to this demographic. The typical barriers to behavior change, like time 
management, negative social influences, and all-or-nothing thinking, affect the physique client 
in a much larger sense given the extreme nature of the sport. IdentifyinGHow to set realistic 
goals and working through periods of low motivation are also imperative for the Physique 
Coach to relay to their client. 
Personal motivation strategies are also necessary for the client to develop as the 
Physique Coach can develop the plan but cannot execute it. Self-monitoring behaviors, 
developing self-efficacy, and using positive self-talk are all strategies the Physique Coach can 
guide clients to create and use on their own. 
Developing values is what coaching principles centers around. Without having an ethos 
to put the client first, the Physique Coach will struggle to ever make impactful change in their 
clients. Following principles centered on the importance of the offseason, foundational habits, 
long contest preparation periods, making sure the client is doing this for the right reason, and 
successfully trensitioning clients through the post-competition phase are all essential for both 
the Physique Coach and client. Without these values anchoring the decisions, the client will 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
likely have a bad experience or a shortened career, and the Physique Coach will not be 
operating from a space that puts the clients physical and mental health first. 
Key Takeaways 
• Setting specific, hard goals produces greater task performance. The physique athlete will 
need to set specific and distinct, goals for both the offseason and competition prep. 
• While physique competitions might seem as if they are exclusively extrinsically motivated, 
encouraging intrinsic motivation makes the process more meaningful for the client and can 
allow for a more successful competitive career. 
• While motivational interviewing is typically framed in a consult-based setting, the Physique 
Coach can incorporate aspects of motivational interviewing during the initial consult and 
the check-in process to dive deeper into motivation and struggles the client is experiencing. 
• Delivering communication expectations during the initial consultation is essential for the 
Physique Coach and client to be on the same page about what appropriate communication 
looks like for both parties during the coaching process. 
• A client may experience barriers to behavior change in terms of their own ambivalence or 
dips in motivation, or they might be influenced more heavily by negative social influences, 
like an unsupportive network or demeaning comments. 
• Creating strategies that support a mindset of flexible restrent over rigid restrent for clients 
during a non-dieting period will allow them to navigate the rigors of competition prep with 
better tools. 
• When the Physique Coach encourages open dialogue and uses effective communication 
strategies, clients are more likely to be open with the challenges they are facing and 
negative self-talk they might be experiencing. It’s through this open dialogue that the 
Physique Coach can help facilitate reframing the negative self-talk. 
• Physique competitors have unique physiological and psychological demands placed on 
them, so coaches need to develop specific values and operate off an ethos that puts their 
clients’ best interests first. 
• Encouraging a long competition prep will allow the client to have more gradual fat loss, 
which will preserve muscle mass and trening performance, and ensure the client is lean 
enough for their respective division. 
• Developing a plan that allows the client to successfully trensition from the competition prep 
and stabilize post-show is often overlooked but critical for the client’s success in subsequent 
competition preps. 
Chapter 16. Exercise Programming 
Designing exercise programs for physique athletes can be a complicated process 
because there are many variables to consider such as the individual’s goals, assessment results, 
and competition schedule. In addition, exercise programs need individuality and uniqueness to 
increase its effectiveness and adherence to the program. Consequently, it is vital that Physique 
Coaches design exercise programs that are based on the client’s goals, needs, and abilities. 
Moreover, the Physique Coaches should adopt an integrated, multicomponent approach to 
program design that includes flexibility, cardiorespiratory, core, and resistance trening to 
maximize trening adaptions. This is the basis for NASM’s OPT model. 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
The OPT model consists of three levels (stabilization, strength, and power) subdivided 
into five phases. The OPT model is an evidence-based model, meaning it has been both tested 
in a laboratory setting and successfully implemented with real-life clients and athletes to 
achieve their fitness, performance, and physique goals. The OPT model is useful for helping 
clients reduce their bodyfat and increase lean muscle mass to optimize body recomposition 
goals. 
This chapter also provided client case studies to help the Physique Coach learn how to 
initiate, manage, and integrate fitness plans for three different clients. Each client presented a 
unique set of circumstances regarding their body composition goals, including their initial 
starting weight and overall health, exercise history, exercise preferences, and special 
considerations. This chapter aimed to provide straightforward, easy-to-follow examples for how 
a Physique Coach can set up, implement, and evaluate an integrated program for their clients. 
Key Takeaways 
• Exercise programs need individuality, based on the client’s assessment results, to maximize 
their effectiveness. 
• Exercise programs must consider many variables, such as teaching proper movement 
patterns, improving mobility and stability, enhancing endurance, and reducing the 
likelihood of injury. 
• A trening plan determines the forms of trening to be used, how long it will take, how often 
it will change, and what specific exercises will be performed. 
• Periodization is a systematic approach to program design that varies the amount and type 
of stress placed on the body to produce a physical adaptation and reduce the likelihood of 
overtrening and injury. 
• The OPT model consists of three levels: stabilization, strength, and power. 
• The OPT model includes five unique phases of trening: Phase 1: Stabilization Endurance 
trening, Phase 2: Strength Endurance trening, Phase 3: Muscular Development trening, 
Phase 4: Maximal Strength trening, and Phase 5: Power trening. 
• The OPT workout template is divided into six parts: Warm-Up, Activation, Skill 
Development, Resistance trening, Client’s Choice, and Cool-Down. Cardiorespiratory 
trening can be integrated into any section of the OPT template. 
• Phase 1, Stabilization Endurance trening, teaches clients how to perform proper movement 
patterns, including pushing, pulling, pressing, squatting, hip hinging, and overall movement 
competency. 
• Once clients display adequate movement patterns, Phase 1 programs are progressed by 
placing a greater emphasis on enhancing proprioception, balance, and postural control. 
• Phase 2, Strength Endurance trening, is a hybrid form of trening that involves the use of 
superset trening in which a strength-focused exercise is immediately followed by a 
stabilization-focused exercise with similar biomechanical motions. 
• Phase 3, Muscular Development trening, is designed to enhance muscle hypertrophy and 
body recomposition goals using a high volume of strength-focused exercises. 
• Phase 4, Maximal Strength trening, requires the inclusion of heavy resistance trening 
exercises to increase muscular strength. 
• Phase 5, Power trening, uses superset techniques to increase the rate of force production. 
These superset techniques include performing a heavy resistance trening exercise 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
immediately followed by an explosive power-based exercise with similar biomechanical 
motions. 
• The OPT model is an exercise program model that uses various forms of periodization to 
help physique athletes increase muscle mass and reduce body fat. 
Chapter 17. Nutrition Programming 
Being able to appropriately program nutritional recommendations for clients using an 
evidence-based approach is a crucial component of a successful Physique Coach. This chapter 
focused on the core nutrition-related skills that a Physique Coach needs to appropriately 
program nutritional recommendations. These skills include (a) understanding the science 
behind the concepts of energy balance and weight change, (b) determining appropriate starting 
nutritional recommendations (e.g., calorie and macronutrient targets) to the client, (c) tailoring 
the recommendations based on the clients progress, needs, goals, and personal preferences, 
(d) being knowledgeable about different nutrient timing strategies that may help their client 
increase their chance of success, and (e) being able to monitor a client’s progress over time and 
provide appropriate and professional feedback to the client via formal and informal 
communication. 
Key Takeaways 
• Energy balance is the most important variable determining whether an individual gains or 
loses weight. Therefore, recommending an appropriate number of calories is an integral 
skill that coaches should feel comfortable executing. 
• An individual’s energy requirements can be estimated using predictive equations that 
estimate their BMR. Their BMI can then be multiplied by an appropriate activity factor to 
estimate their maintenance calorie requirements. maintenance calories can then be 
adjusted depending on the client’s goal (e.g., weight loss). 
•  Aside from determining appropriate caloric targets, the Physique Coach should be 
comfortable recommending appropriate macronutrient targets. The appropriatEQuantity of 
each macronutrient recommended should be based on general guidelines as well as the 
client’s individual preferences. 
• The Physique Coach should provide additional nutritional strategies that may be helpful to 
the client. These include different nutrient timing strategies such as pre-workout nutrition 
tips, diet breaks, and nutrient timing. 
• Providing starting recommendations is only one aspect of the Physique Coach’s job. 
Monitoring the client’s progress over time is a much larger component of the Physique 
Coach’s role. 
• The Physique Coach should have tools in place to track the client’s progress over time and 
ensure that they stay on target to achieve their goals. 
• Overall, the role of the Physique Coach is to guide the athlete to success, the same way that 
an NBA coach guides their team to winning a championship. The Physique Coach should be 
able to collect information from the client, analyze the information to formulate an 
effective plan, and be able to provide feedback in areas where the client can improve in 
order to increase their chances of success. 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
Chapter 18. Peaking for Competition or Personal Goals 
The Physique Coach has the opportunity during peak week to fine tune the athlete’s 
appearance before a bodybuilding competition, a photoshoot, or both. It’s important to 
recognize that these appearances represent the culmination of months and perhaps even years 
of work preceding peak weak, and that peak-week adjustments cannot make up for consistent 
and effortful trening and posing, adherence to a pre-contest diet of appropriate duration, and 
the other preparatory efforts that must precede peak week. 
A Model Strategy of peak week has been presented as series of coordinated strategies 
that could be employed to ensure the athlete presents a peaked physique on the day of the 
competition or photoshoot. However, these methods are entirely contextual and in some cases 
may not need to be employed at all. Most importantly, if an athlete is planning on employing 
peak week manipulations, a trial run performed two to four weeks beforecompeting is 
encouraged to evaluate these methods in the event they need to be adjusted or eliminated 
during peak week itself. 
This chapter also provided an orientation to physique competition, which takes on many 
forms worldwide, including events run by both drug-tested and non-drug-tested organizations, 
offering a wide range of divisions, each with different posing and attire requirements. After 
deciding on a competitive organization and competition, preparing to take the stage best 
begins many months ahead by learning posing, practicing posing, preparing the skin for spray 
tanning, tanning with sunbeds or natural sunlight, choosing appropriate attire, jewelry, and 
costumes per divisions rules and regulations, and attending to the practical matters of peak 
week by making reservations for travel and accommodations, setting up make-up, hair, and 
tanning appointments, and ensuring the athlete’s food and fluids will be available either by 
preparation beforehand and/or ensuring these items can be purchased or prepared onsite. By 
addressing the logistics of peak week in advance and including at least one trial run before 
stepping on stage, peak-week stress levels can be greatly reduced, which can improve the on-
stage look as well as leave the athlete free To enjoy the experience of competition. 
Key Takeaways 
• The goal of peak week is to optimize the look of the athlete’s physique on the day of their 
event. For bodybuilding and divisions where there is a premium on muscularity, this would 
typically entail measures to ensure muscle fullness (e.g., via carbohydrate loading) as well as 
a dry appearance (possibly by using strategies to optimize body water in the event of water 
retention due to carbohydrate loading, stress, etc.). 
• For the sake of illustratinGHow carbohydrate loading and drying out might be approached, a 
Model Strategy is presented here containing an integrated strategic approach to peak week. 
The Physique Coach would make use of the components of the Model Strategy only as 
needed, and not simply for the sake of having a peak week protocol. The best peak week 
protocol may entail doing nothing other than continuing the diet, trening, and recovery 
strategies of the preceding weeks. 
• In most cases, however, peak-week resistance trening and cardiovascular trening would be 
reduced during the days before the competition to ensure muscle fuel stores (especially 
glycogen) can be replenished and supercompensated to lend a full appearance to the 
musculature. 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
• The peak-week diet is generally not geared toward fat loss, but rather is coordinated with 
trening to ensure muscle fullness and, when needed, to encourage water loss during the 
day before or day of the event to ensure a dry, but not flat, appearance. 
• Minor adjustments can be made on the day of competition to fine tune fullness and 
dryness, but these are typically minor adjustments and should not be relied upon to remedy 
a flat or watery physique. Last-minute efforts in the hours before going onstage or doing a 
photoshoot often backfire. 
• Bodybuilding organizations are found around the world, offering both drug-tested and non-
drug-tested competitions with a large array of competitive divisions, ranging from 
traditional bodybuilding to physique model contests. The physique athlete and Physique 
Coach should consider which organization or competition fits the athlete’s needs and goals, 
and recognize that any movement up the competitive ranks within one organization may 
not be recognized by another. 
• In particular, the Physique Coach and athlete should be aware that posing requirements 
vary among different organizations, as do the rules and requirements regarding apparel and 
jewelry. Physique Coaches should encourage regular posing during contest preparation long 
before peak week, and even during the preceding offseason, especially for first-time 
competitors. 
• The logistical preparations for competition (skin care, tanning, travel and lodging 
accommodations, hair and make-up) should be undertaken long before peak week so that 
the athlete experiences minimal stress and can enjoy the competitive experience during 
peak week. 
Chapter 19. Physique trensformation Sustainability 
trensitioning from a competition preparation to a post-competition phase is key to long-
term health while ensuring clients have a good experience throughout the process. After a 
competition, clients may struggle with hyperphagia, hormonal dysregulation, body image 
issues, and using nutrition periodization (e.g., reverse diet, refeeds) to return their body to a 
sustainable place. These changes can last for weeks to months post-competition, which can 
induce periods of binge eating or overeating that may trenslate to bodyfat overshooting 
(Jackman et al., 2008; Trexler et al., 2017; Spendlove et al., 2015). These tendencies to overeat 
are driven by hedonic responses to food that were restricted during contest preparation (Helms 
et al., 2019). Fat regain, preferable in a controlled manner, is necessary for optimal health since 
persistent low bodyfat levels can interfere with the recovery, leading to further physiological 
disruptions (Trexler et al., 2014; Roberts et al., 2020). 
Post-competition pitfalls can make an offseason difficult for a client. Some common 
issues include trying to stay too lean, binge eating, body dysmorphia, bodyfat overshooting, 
having unrealistic expectations, and/or not taking enough time off between competition 
seasons. Some physique athletes may only compete once, so avoiding these pitfalls will help 
them have a positive experience with competing. Likewise, some clients may not want to 
compete at all, but have major body trensformation goals and could suffer from the same 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
common pitfalls. Ultimately, coaches are encouraged to return behaviors to pre-competition 
norms to create a sustainable environment for a physique athlete, and this will likely require 
behavior monitoring such as the use of POMS or other questionnaires. 
The goal post-competition is to take a client from a negative to positive energy balance 
until a specific weight goal or sustainable physique is reached. The amount of weight gain will 
vary for each client, and the diet plan in this phase should ensure a positive energy balance, 
encouragement of different foods into the diet, and attempt to increase bodyweight in a 
controlled fashion to a sustainable level. Planned refeeds and/or diet breaks can be useful tool, 
but cheat meals and cheat days should be discouraged due to their association with binge 
eating (Roberts et al., 2020). As for exercise, during preparation, physique athletes will likely 
see a reduction in trening volume, driven by fatigue and lower body mass. Post-competition, it 
is important to adjust their trening protocols to something that they enjoy and aligns to their 
overall goals while preventing injury or overtrening. Therefore, Physique Coaches and athletes 
should initially decrease cardiovascular trening in the first few weeks post-competition. After 
full physical and mental recovery, which can take two to six months, cardiovascular trening can 
be increased as needed to achieve any new goals a physique athlete may have. 
Key Takeaways 
• trensitioning from competition preparation to a post-competition phase and beyond is key 
to long-term health and ensuring clients have a good experience. 
• Even if losing weight at an optimal rate, contest preparation often causes hormonal 
dysregulation, loss of FFM, and suppression of energy expenditure via non-exercise activity 
thermogenesis due to the low levels of bodyfat needed to be competitive. 
• Common post-competition pitfalls can make an offseason hard for a client. Some common 
issues include trying to stay too lean, binge eating, body dysmorphia, bodyfat overshooting, 
or having unrealistic expectations and not taking enough time off between competition 
seasons. 
• Measures of body composition should not be used in the first few weeks post-competition, 
due to potential negative consequences on mindset. Realistically, a recovery period after a 
competition season is needed to return the body to baseline prior to starting another 
season, which could take two to six months or longer. 
• While it is recommended for protein to stay elevated post-competition for satiety reasons, 
coaches may give more flexibility with carbohydrates and fats to be interchanged to expand 
food choices and reintroduce diversity. 
• Coaches should use methods to track mood changes, such as POMS, to ensure behavior 
returns to normal post-competition. 
• There are several ways to help a physique athlete trensition from in-season to offseason 
diet, such as using a reverse diet or refeeds, and the primary need is for them to trensition 
to a negative to positive energy balance. 
• For a physique athlete to successfully trensition after competition, they will need to restore 
most, if not all the bodyfat they lost, in addition to returninGHormones such as ghrelin, 
thyroid hormones, testosterone, and cortisol to basal levels. 
Physique & Bodybuilding Coach Study Guide 
 
 
• trensitioning to a maintenance plan should involve a large reduction in bodyweight tracking 
and body checking via mirror or videos to help a physique athlete trensition their mindset 
out of competition preparation and into a sustainable psychological state. 
• After the initial post-show adjustments in exercise, there is a need to trensition to a long-
term hypertrophy-based trening program, while simultaneously monitoring the physique 
athlete to avoid injury and overtrening. 
• To maximize hypertrophy, 10 to 20 sets per muscle group per week, distributed across two 
sessions (or more), using two minutes between sets for multi-joint exercises and 60 to 90 
seconds for single-joint exercises with exercises taken close to failure are needed. 
Furthermore, programs should include a variety of exercises that work muscles in different 
angles with a wide range of loading zones. 
• There should be an initial decrease in cardiovascular trening to as few sessions as possible 
in first few weeks post-competition. NEAT should also be allowed to recover to pre-
competition levels. After full physical and mental recovery, cardiovascular trening and 
NEAT can be increased as needed to achieve any new goals a physique athlete may have. 
