I'm Brett Contras, the creator of 2x4 maximum strength. So, some of you will be coming on to this website and you don't know much about me. Now, I wear a lot of hats. Here I am in my lab where I conduct EMG and force plate and motion capture research. Um, I'm also an author. Um, I'm a writer. I I have a popular blog. I'm a personal trainer, strength coach, but most importantly, I'm a lifter just like you. And I'm always looking for the answer. I'm always trying to improve my own training so I can achieve my best physique and achieve my maximum strength. And when I designed 2x4, I put in a ton of effort. you know, I'm not just some internet expert or internet, you know, phony guy who, you know, put just slapped together some program. I actually put a ton of effort forth. I reviewed all the past programs that are successful, you know, examining what they had in common and what was different about them. I created my own pro program and I trial trial it with very strong power lifters. um you know, not just beginner lifters who had a ton to gain. I tried it on very experienced lifters and even they gained a ton of strength. So, I'm very very proud of my system. I really think you'll love it and I'm offering a 60-day money back guarantee. So, if you don't like it, you get your money back. So, really there's no risk in trying it. Anyway, once again, Brett Conurus, creator of 2x4. I really think you'll love the resource. It's not just a training program. I also have some really cool bonus materials in there uh on the on the biomechanics of the squat and the deadlift on uh some glute training findings that I've recently discovered. So, give it a try. I think you'll love it. Right now, I'm going to show you clips of training and competing. So, this is me a couple months out uh doing conventional deadlifts. That was 555 and I barely got that. That was really hard for me. Then I switched to sumo stance. This is the most I got in training. This is 585. I don't think that would have passed in a meet cuz I kind of hitched at the top. But then here's me getting 601 at the competition. Uh which I got it much easier than I got the 585. I had a really good tapering process. Um, but anyway, my my deadlift went up, you know, 15 pounds more than I've ever done, but just in the last several months, it went up, you know, like 50 lb just in the last 5 months or so. Here's bench press. Before I started doing 2x4, I think I was doing 285 was my max. And here's me getting 275 for five. And then here's 305 with a pause. And then the next clip shows 3:15, but I didn't pause here. So, I just kind of bounce it up. So, that's the most I did in training. And then at the meet, I didn't think I was going to get that much at the meat cuz I you have to pause. But, as you can see, at the meet, I ended up doing three. This is 3:14. They were calling really fast command, so I ended up getting it a boy. But, uh, yeah, my bench went up like, you know, 30 lbs. Here's me doing squats. This is 365 for three reps. Uh, which when I start, before I started 2x4, this was around my one rep max. Yeah, 365 was my max. And now I'm getting it three times. Here's me getting 405. Up. Up. drive it. And then uh in the meet I end up getting I believe 409 um that's around AI think 20 you know like a 30 lb gain in my squat. Here's what's crazy. This is six plates on each save. This is 585 and I'm getting it for eight reps in the hip thrust. My hip thrust strength. I really hammered hip thrust the last 3 weeks prior to my meet and about six twice a week I would just hammer them. Here's leg press. Now you uh I I remember doing nine plates before and I could get like one rep or two reps and here I am getting uh I think six reps maybe. But anyways, much easier. Here I got way stronger at all my lifts. Everything went up. Here's me doing 45°ree back extensions. This is a 100 lb dumbbell and I have four 11lb chains around my neck. This is 144 lbs. Um, and I think I did like six. Now moving on to Sammy. Here's Sammy deadlifting 275. Now that's her in the meat. I think she got 293 or something like that. And then this is after her meet. She got she kept gaining strength. This is 225. And here, look how fast that's flying up. That's like speed deadlifts. Looks like nothing to her. And one day I tested her one rep max and she actually got 315. It's coming up. So this is she's just flying up with 225 against nothing here. Um, so yeah, she ended up getting a 315. See, there she is. She got 315. It's not the prettiest form you've ever seen, but she got it. So, there's Sammy achieving the 315 lb deadlift. Um, here's Sammy squatting in train in competition. I think her max was like 210, but here she is getting 225. Here she is getting 225 again. And then here's one final clip of her getting 225. So, three different attempts, she ended up getting 225 squat. And then here's a 105 bench press. So, she got gained a ton of strength on on this program. This is a 335 lb hip thrust for five reps. Uh so, yeah, Sammy's strength was incredible. She weighs like 125 lbs. So, she ended up with a 315 deadlift, 225 squat, 105 bench. Um, here's another clip of her hip thrusting. This is 365. So, she gets three reps for 365. She's got some very strong glutes, which I think helps her deadlift a lot. Now, moving on. This is Aaron. Uh Aaron ended up squatting um I believe 140ish and deadlifting 210. There she is deadlifting. Now she can deadlift 225. And this is Rob, my buddy Rob from last year who competed with me at the first powerlifting competition. So his squat and deadlift both went up like 50 lbs. He put 50 lbs on his squat and deadlift. Here's Andrew with a front squat. Crazy front squat strength. Here's him doing block pulls. Uh this is 515. The he gained Andrew gained the most strength out of anyone on 2x4 floor pressing 345. Andrew's hip thrust went way up. He was doing like 365 and 405 and then he moved up to doing 495. Here's a 525 squat and a a 560 deadlift. And then in here's him competing. He ended up with a 525 squat in in competition, a 365 bench press, nice and a 565 deadlift, I believe.