Hey, Brett Contras here and just wanted to film a video showing everything about the glute ham race. So, this one I got from Elite Fitness. Um, I've had it for probably around say 5 years or so, so I've kind of learned uh all the little bells and whistles to it. But, um, there's two different places you can adjust. You can adjust this up and down. And most powerlifters and most athletes I see will have it it down here. And I've never liked having it down here. I've always liked having this um foot play up as high as you can. I've always felt it more in my hamstrings, which actually makes sense when you think about it because up top you the angle allows for a little bit more constant tension. Not much, but I've always liked having it up here. And then you can also play with the lever length right here. Now, if I have it closer to the pad, then my knees will be up here. Um, for some people that they can't tolerate this the stress, just the the the physical trauma that it puts on their knees. But I can do this, but this would extend the lever length because my knees are now here and I wouldn't be able to get as many reps. So, I'll show you um I'll show you what that looks like. So, if I'm way out here now, my look how far my knees are. Now, from here, it's really hard to do a glute ham raise. So, um if I have it out here, I can only get like five five reps. But if I put it out further at hole five, that last one was at hole three. This one's a hole five. Now, my knees stay about here. So, I've got some of my um thighs touching, which decreases the lever arm length, and it also lets my knees sink down a little bit. And so, now I can get more reps this way. So, from here, a lot easier. I can get around between 12 and 20 reps that way. So once you get really good at the glute ham raise, you want to make it harder because you know these I can bust out depending on where it is in my workout. I can bust out a lot of reps. So I'm going to show you four different ways how to make it harder. Um the first way is to just toy around with your arm placement. If my arms are down here, um, I've got a lot of weight. You know, my weight, the weight of my arms is down low. But if I move it up here or even here, that's a lot of weight. You're putting further down the lever. So, it's a big deal. Kind of like doing a lateral raise like this. And doing a lateral raise like this is a lot harder. The further the weight is down the lever, the harder it's going to be. So, um, I found that from this to this is around the same difference as holding on to around a 30 lb dumbbell right here. A 20 to 30 lb dumbbell. So, makes a big difference. So, this would be like maybe a prisoner. You could call it like a prisoner incl. So, here's a one. The first way to make it way harder is to just here to there. Okay. Next way is to hold on to a dumbbell, which I just do right here. Here's a 20 caler. And I keep it right beneath my chin. Okay. Okay. And then the final way, um, actually not the final way, I'll show two different ways, would be to put a band around your neck, this one has this nice little these rings for band attachments, but the nice thing about the band is that it gives you constant tension. Um, up top the glue he is unloaded. So right here there's not much tension, but up top there's a lot. So here's the band. So right here it's pulling me down. And then of course the hardest variation would be a dumbbell and a band which that's really hard. Okay. And then finally um I learned this from Smitty um from the diesel group. Um, but this is something I've been thinking about for a while. I just never got around to trying it. He elevated the back of the glue ham raise. Put this at an angle. I have another video on my YouTube page that shows this and he does, too. But if you if you put this back um backside up onto a bench or something. So, I elevated around an angle like this. And um then what that does is it puts now you're at an angle. So as you come up there's constant tension here. The only problem with the good ham race is that right here. It's pretty much unloaded on my hammies. My hammies aren't doing much. You know, my low back is trying to extend to keep me more upright. But um if you have this at an angle now you have constant tension and it's a lot more effective exercise. I found that if I can do around say u three sets of 12 at the end of my workout. If I do at the beginning I could probably get three sets of 20. But say I do three sets of 12 um at the end of my workout. If I were to do the constant tension glue ham raids at an angle I can only get around three sets of six. So it makes it that much harder and you feel it a lot more in the hammies. So anyway, that's all about the glue ham race. Hope you liked it.