Hey, Brett Contrarus here. Um, this video is going to go over um different types of rotational um core exercises um specifically different types of chops and lifts and uh paloff presses. But, um this is something that I think a lot of people just kind of gloss over. They see it and they just don't think it's that effective. But once you do it, when I make people try it, trainers, coaches, they're always amazed at how effective it is. And one reason why I like these so much is you really get a lot of power in it. But it doesn't just work the core muscles as far as, you know, pelvis to rib cage muscles. It also works the the hips, you know, the glutes, glute medius, upper glute max. Um, and uh, you know, you can you can I'm going to show you how to tinker with different variables to to, you know, make the the exercise more challenging um, for certain reasons. So, the first uh, thing I'm going to show you um is a cable lift. Um, so there's a lot of different ways you can do things. You can do things standing in um, you know, kind of an athletic stance here. Um, this would be called a parallel stance. You can do things in a staggered stance. So either way, um you can do things from your knees. This would be called tall kneeling. And you can do these um from a half kneeling position like this. I think my favorite would be half kneeling. Um I want to say um give credit real quick. I learned these from Great Cook and he has a special bar that he made. It's called the cook bar. I'll be using a rope when I do this today, but I have a cook bar back home and I freaking love it. I think it's one of the most amazing pieces of equipment for for rotational training. There's it's unbeatable. So, the cook bar is super long. It attaches to to the cable and you get a lot of torque in there because of how long it is. Um anyway, you can still use a rope and here I have um this is like an Eric's pad here, so it really helps to have something to kneel on. Okay. So, first thing I'm going to show you is a a cable lift, half kneeling. But see, if I take a wide stance like this, I kind of get spread out. Now, I can go heavier because my my base of support is widened. So, from here, I can really go heavy. You know, I can crank this up. So, I always there's never any slack in the rope. I bring it like this and then press it. Okay. Now, I'll show you with a narrower stance. Um, and I'm going to get my base of support lined up. So, now it becomes more challenging for the hips. This is hard to balance. Okay. So, So, just two different ways to do things with a wide base of support and a narrow base of support. As you can see, this for a lot of beginner clients, this here is just challenging staying in this position here. And then you add stuff to it, it makes it even harder. So, um, again, the lift is starting low and coming high. The chop is opposite. So, um here's a a half kneeling version. Okay. From here to there. And then, um you can do it standing, staggered. Okay. Um and also I can change the angle, the orientation of my body. So, if I want I can now go more straight out like this. So, it's different when you're going facing having the direction of the vector load vector coming this way compared to coming this way. So, here's all these different ways to toy around with it that I'm showing you. Okay. Now, I'm going to move it up to here. All right. Same different. I can do all the same things. So half kneeling wide base. Okay, this one I can go a little bit heavier. So right there, I'm feeling my glute big time. The the rear glute is working overtime here and also through the core. Um, all right. So notice when I do these, my outside leg is uh is forward and my inside leg this changes when I go to chops. Okay. So trying to think of some different things. I can do it more orientated from this direction. Okay. Awesome exercise. All right. And now I'm going to show you. how obviously you would do both sides. If I did three, you know, five reps on this leg, I would switch and do the other leg, too. And then now I'm going to show you chops. Okay, chops. I'm going to do the other way. I'm going to have the inside leg forward and the outside leg backwards. So, this one, um, go a little bit lighter here. This one Okay, half kneeling. And uh you know I can change the angle and more this way if I want. So you can toy around with all these different variables. There's no kind of right and wrong way. Um, you know, as long as you're just feeling it, working the right muscles. You can go low, you can go medium, you can go high, you can do wide base to support, narrow base. again parallel stance, tall kneeling stance, staggered stance, half kneeling stance. And then you can do kind of facing um I guess this would be called like a you know I guess you'd say parallel with the cable stack or you could do it facing away from it, facing perpendicular to it. So there's a lot of different variables and now I'll go over the peloff press real quick. Um, this is another awesome exercise here. And I'm going to show you a wide stance and a narrow stance. So, here's the peloff press. I can go from here. Um, I'm going to show you here. I'm going to have a narrow stance and just go straight out. Hold it. Come back in. Okay. Now, I can also go super heavy on this. Okay. That's like 66 kg. about, you know, that's like 150 lbs. I can get a really wide base of support. Okay, come here. And now I just kind of Okay, so you can see that's really tough. Get a wide base. You can go super heavy on it. And then the last one I want to show you is um you can do a paloff press to overhead. Come back down. So, lots of different great rotary exercises. I really like these ones because they work your core um you know, abdominal and erector muscles and at the same time they work your hip and glute muscles. So, hope you enjoy the video. Thanks a lot for watching.