Hi, I'm Coach Prep Conturus and this video is going to discuss the military press. So, the first thing about the military press that I want to talk about is range of motion. I like people to start right here at the top of the sternum and press overhead to a complete lockout. Now, some people have different ratios of forearm to humorous length and they don't or they just have, you know, tight musculature and they have problem getting problems getting all the way down. If it hurts to go all the way down, don't go down that far. But if you can do this painfree, I like it to start right here. To me, that's a a proper military press. And also, make sure you lock out fully. Don't stop here. Push that extra distance. So that's range of motion. The next thing I want to talk about is your stance width and your core function. So some people like just around a narrow like a shoulder width stance. Some people go a little bit wider. Some people offset their feet. And any one of those is okay. I happen to like around a shoulder width stance. Once the bar is right here on the shoulders, you are going to be leaning back slightly. So, you want to make sure that your glutes are squeezed and your abs are braced. You don't want to be loosey goosey in the core. This needs to be tight. And a lot of as the weight gets heavier and as the reps approach failure, people tend to lean back more. It's almost impossible not to. So you want to have the muscles tight. So to prevent that, you don't want to lean back excessively when you do this. And then another thing before I demonstrate is I want to talk about the scapula. So normal uh scapulmeral rhythm is going to look like this. The scapula upwardly rotate. Now, um there is some research showing that the heavier you go, the heavier you lift, the scapula don't rotate upwards as much. Like if I just go like this, they're going to rotate upwards a lot. Whereas, if I have heavy load, they're not going to upwardly rotate as much. But you don't ever want to limit that natural upward rotation. So, I don't know if you can see my scapula here, but you're going to have this normal rhythm as you press overhead of your scapula going like this. And you don't ever want to interfere with that. You don't want to think of just these scapula sticking in place. They're going to come overhead. Now the next topic is related to that is um how do you do you keep the shoulders down or do you shrug them upwards as you come up and this is a debate. So some coaches think that as you come up you want the shoulders back and down. Some coaches think that you should drive the scapula upwards. I think you don't need to think about that too much. Do what feels natural. My shoulders will come up a little bit. Gymnasts when they're doing their handstand stuff, they shrug upwards. So do most Olympic weightlifters. They shrug upwards. Um but you don't have to exaggerate it. Um you just just press strongly and feel your scapula supporting the muscles supporting the load, you know. So you've got like serrus anterior, lower traps, upper traps. You've got these muscles in the back that will help support the load. So use those muscles. And that's just a natural rhythm. And then finally, before I demonstrate one last thing, um, Olympic weightlifterss, you know, when they pass their head, they will drive their head forward. Once the bar passes their head, they actively drive it forward. And I think that's the best advice. But some of my powerlifting friends, they don't do that. They stay like this because they think that it transfers better to the bench press. So that's worth noting. So, not everyone drives the head forward. All right. So, here's what it looks like. I am going to grab the bar. I'm not way out wide. I'm in here. It's a pretty narrow grip, just outside shoulder width. All right. Some people like the false grip. Some people like to tuck their thumbs. I actually like the false grip here. And I'm going to come down. My shoulders are underneath. I am not starting up here like in the front squat position. My shoulders are my elbows are under the bar. Bar is just above my sternum. I will take it off the rack. Shoulder width stance. Glutes are squeezed. Core is braced. And now from here I am going to have my lats are tight. My triceps are tight. I'll explain what this means. When I have the bar right here, I'm squeezing my lat. I'm going to use my triceps. I'm all this is tight in here. It's not loosey goosey. It's tight. My elbows are tucked inwards too a little bit. Okay. And this leads to the most of the of the load being placed on the muscles. Okay. So, right here, elbows under the bar. Lats are tight. Everything's tight. Elbows are tucked in. They're not flared out. They're in like this. I press upwards. Right when it passes my head, push the head forward. lock out and notice my scap leg come up like this. This is a strong lock out. Come back down. So again, here's what three reps looks like. As you will notice, I was not leaning back excessively. I used a full range of motion. Everything was tight. And I did not let my elbows flare out too much. Here's what it looks like. If you take a wide grip and have your elbows flare out too much, you end up looking like this. See that? And that's not optimal in the long run. Um, it's just not as easy on the joints. So again, let's recap. Shoulder width stance or an off with stance. Okay. Uh, squeeze the glutes. Brace the core. Bar starts from the bottom position. Lats are squeezed. You're going to use your triceps. Elbows are tucked in. Take a deep breath. Explode upwards. The bar skims your face. When it passes your head, drive the head through. And this is when the elbows will come out. You will externally rotate right here and lock out overhead with an active active scapula there. Hold the lock out and then reverse in the same exact motion. Hope you like the video.