Welcome to Booty by Brett, my exclusive online training program. Each month you have three options to choose from. The first option is my favorite, three full body workouts with two pump days sandwiched in between. The second option, four full body days. And the third option is a 5day lower upper split, which is very popular amongst the members. Each of these options come with different exercises to choose from depending on your equipment availability. And members receive their new program every four weeks. Now, these workouts are strategically planned and designed here at Glute Lab, and they're based on all of my years of experience as a lifter, as a personal trainer, and as a scientist and researcher. The subscription is just $29.95 per month, so less than a dollar a day. So, if you want to subscribe, just click on the button below this video and select whether you want the monthly or yearly membership. Now, most of my members stay subscribed long term, but you can choose to cancel anytime you want. Immediately after signing up, you will receive an activation email. Just follow the instructions on that email to gain instant access to the workouts and the membership benefits. The monthly program is accompanied by detailed instructional videos and you also gain access to an extensive video exercise library. You also gain access to an exclusive support group where you can request form checks from our coaches, ask questions, and get support from members all over the world. And I think it's one of a kind. It's the largest support group of lifters who were serious about their glute gains. I didn't design Booty Bubra as a short-term quick fix program that always overpromises and underdelivers. I make sure that you focus on progressive overload. Each week, you're going to build upon previous achievements, aiming to set personal records at the end of each cycle. Through many years of extensive testing, we've found that this is the best possible way to achieve long- lasting, consistent results. So, join Booty Barrett today. Start the program now and start seeing real results.