All right, guys. I don't know exactly when this emerged, the Body Masters low back machine. It could have been like the '9s. I stumbled across it in the early 2000s, and it was right around the time that I invented the hip thrust, which was 2006. Now, I looked at this machine and I'm like, "Look at this picture. That looks like a hip thrust. That doesn't look like it's back extension. That looks like it's hip extension. If you spin this picture around, that looks like it's a hip thrust." So, I get on here. I did a set and I'm like, "Oh my god, my glutes are on fire." So, I actually wrote about it in my first glute ebook. I said, "This is probably the best glute exercise in existence. The only problem is there's some flaws with the machine. the weight stack only goes up to 250 lbs and you can quickly, you know, perform it for 30 plus reps and you need to keep adding weight. What are you going to get to a point where you're doing 50 60? Now, in the early 2000s, it was also thought that lightweight was inferior to heavy weight for muscle hypertrophy. And that has since been debunked. Now, we know that you can grow just as much muscle from lightweight compared to heavy weight. But back then, we didn't know that yet. And so, I thought, well, too bad you can't add weight to the stack. If you could, this would be amazing. But also, this was too narrow, this foot peg. Like, why did this foot peg go out further? And my knees would spread wider than this pad. But even back then, I recognized that this has the potential to be the greatest glute exercise in existence. So, in the meantime, I was always on a quest to replicate this. You could see along the way, like in 2013, here's me doing a banded back attack we called it, but your knees are bent and you're basically doing the same motion with bands. But this is dangerous. What happens if those bands came off or snap back at you? So, this didn't stick, but I did love the way it felt. You can do it off a glute ham developer, but yeah, looks really dangerous. I've also experimented with it with my clients over the years. We've done all sorts of variations, and they always love it. They think it's amazing. Now, two years ago, I finally found a used unit. I got it shipped to Fort Lauderdale and I used it here in my gym and my clients loved it. And I loved it. You know why? I started adding weight onto this lever. So, you push back, you raise the weight stack, but then I'd add 25 lb plates to here. I'd add like three or four 45 lb plates. And this is a long lever. So, that adds a lot of resistance. I would also do enhanced eccentrics where my clients would go back, but I would push down and overload the eccentrics. So, this bar lends itself well to eccentric overload, which makes it amazing. It's one of the most friendly ways to be able to kind of like assist the concentric and resist the eccentric, but it still had the original flaws where my knees spread out and my feet struggled to stay on the platform. So, my friend Arturo saw this unit and he decided to remake it, but he made it even better. I present to you guys the glute builder kneeling glute isolator. I think he should have called it the kneeling hip thrust because it's a hip thrust. Now glute builder teamed up with Precore. They sell it. Have a chance to get this machine. It is my favorite glute machine. As you can see the longer foot plate, the wider mat for kneeling and even more variables to adjust. You have the same foot adjustment. So this is your tibia length. You have the same hip adjustment which is your femur length. You can adjust the back pad to be in different positions and this corresponds to your spine length. We used to put this higher up on the back, but now we're putting it lower on the back because it leads to less incidence of low back pain. Same with looking down. So if you look down, you'll be less prone to hyperextend your back and you can adjust the range of motion as well. So this is your hip flexion mobility. So you can go deeper or more shallow. But when we started using a glute loop around the knees, that's when it became a game changer. I told our tour, I said, "Hey, my knees keep spreading and that throws me off cuz my knees as the set goes on spread outwards and I need them to stay in place." So, I thought about having like like bumper lanes to prevent that. And he said, "Just wear a glute loop." And I'm like, "Why didn't I think of that?" Because to me, this was always for providing resistance where you'd want to abduct. No, wearing this just prevents your knees from spreading. So you put your feet low on this platform. You don't have your toes here. You get low down and make sure your heels are against it. Wear the glute loop. Make sure this is the perfect length. Make sure that the settings are all perfect. And then like I said, look down, thrust your hips into the pad, hump the pad, and make sure you use a full range of motion. So that means tap down on every rep and get a full squeeze, reach full hip hyperextension on every repetition. But what really makes the kneeling glute isolator superior is the way that you can load resistance. So here's the plate peg. This can load eight 45 lb plates. If you have thinner plates, it could load even more. But I am freakishly strong at this. And it still can accommodate me, someone who's been training glutes for decades and doing hip thrust for decades. And I'm still fine here with the eight plates. I can only do that for 10 reps. You can also do combined plates and bands to make it an even resistance curve. So, if you do all plates, it's harder in the start but easier at the end. This would make the resistance challenge more in the lengthen position and less in the shortened muscle position. If you put plates and bands on, then it's an even resistance curve, challenging the muscle throughout the entire range of motion. If you use all band resistance, it's easier in the lengthen position and then harder in the shortened position. So less in the stretch, more in the squeeze. So if you study hypertrophy science, this is a very hot topic right now. Many muscles benefit with regards to hypertrophy when they're trained in the lengthen position, but not all of them. And with the glutius maximus, it's currently up for debate. We've got two studies supporting a lengthen position and three studies showing that they seem to be equal. Now, the studies supporting the length of position involve Kubo 2019, and it showed that deeper squats grew significantly more glutes and adductors than shallow squats. And that makes sense. The deeper you go, the more you're going to use your hips. Now, there are some flaws with that study because the shallow squats could have just done a knee bend. They just looked at knee angle. They didn't look at hip angle. Nevertheless, that's one in favor of training the glutes at longer length. And then the second paper hasn't been published yet. This was conducted by Mao. It was presented as a conference abstract and it showed that straight-legged kickbacks on the multi-hip machine done in the lengthen position just lengthen partials were superior for growing the glutes compared to full range hip extensions. So that's another in support of training the glutes at long lengths. The other three papers are Plotkin 2023. This one showed that squats tied hip thrust for glutius maximus growth. And if you think about squats stretch your glutes more and they're harder in the stretch, whereas hip thrusts involve less hip range of motion and they're harder in the squeeze position. So if long lengths and high torque at long lengths were all that, the squat would have greatly outperformed the hip thrust. But they tied. And the reason why this is important is because if you're okay with doing more volume, you can handle much more volume with hip thrust than you can squats. Squats beat up your body a lot more than hip thrust. All right, the next study is Cassiono 2024. And this showed that stiff leg deadlifts and leg press did not grow the glutes as much as stiff leg deadlifts, leg press, and hip thrust. Okay, you could say, "No kidding. That's obvious. This group did more volume. They did three exercises. This group did two exercises, but the glute growth was linear, meaning six sets of leg press and stiff leg deadlifts grew the glutes 6.1%. And stiff legs, leg press, and hip thrust grew the glutes 9.3%. So, triple the glute growth. When you continue to add sets, it's not linear. You should see it tapering off. So, the fact that it's linear means that the hip thrust could be really good for glutes, potentially better than leg press and stiff legs. And then finally, we have the Bartholomew 2024 paper, and it showed that squats and step-ups tied hip thrust and reverse hypers for glutius maximus growth. So again, squats and step-ups involve more stretch and more torque at long lengths, whereas hip thrust and reverse hypers are more of a squeeze exercise and they challenge endrange hip extension more and they tied for glute growth. So it's kind of up in the air. What an irrational scientific person would say is do both. You should do some exercise that work you in the lengthen position and some exercise that work you in the shortened position. And I brought all this up because with this kneeling glute isolator, you can challenge the lengthen portion or the shortened position just by altering the resistance profile to be to be all plates, all bands, or a combination of plates and bands. I'm going to do one set of each of those. All plates to challenge the lengthen position, plates and bands to make it an even resistance challenge throughout the full range, and all bands to challenge the shorten muscle position. I want to tell you guys, the glutes do not activate that well in the lengthen position. For some reason, when you get down deep in a full stretch, the glutes kind of shut down. They do not have high activation. They max out their activation in the squeeze position. And so, they may not involve that high of passive muscle forces in the stretch compared to other muscles. And they could grow more from training at the optimal length for active tension, which appears to be closer to full hip extension. But we don't have any studies on the glutius maximus. looking at the micro anatomy of the glutius maximus to analyze the length tension relationship. So it's just a guess for now. So what we need are more anatomical studies, more hypertrophy studies figuring out how muscle grows and more training studies looking at topics like what grows the glutes more all plates versus all bands. That would be a cool study, especially if it was autoregulated based on your recovery. Like it wasn't volume equated. You could do as many sets as you wanted as long as you felt recovered. All right. Some of you might find this very interesting. The evolution of the kneeling hip thrust. So, couple images from my ebook in 2009 using the Body Master's low back. You'll notice I state this needs more load or it would be the best glute exercise if you could just add more load. And then here I am in in 2008, my Scottsdale Garage Gym doing a banded variation out of the power rack. Well, we were doing that, you know, 20 years ago. And then here's a a video from 2011. This is when I lived in Auckland, New Zealand. Here's me doing a a bent leg back attack, I called it, with the band. But that's pretty dangerous. What if that band snapped back? And then fast forward to 2019. Here I am using a cable column. This was so great, but the setup's kind of tough. And then similar concept using a band, but you need a strong partner. But we love this. This is my one of my coaches from San Diego Sterner. Couple years later, this is my ex-girlfriend Jackie. Here's us in Tampa. I stumbled across a gym, Optimum Gym, that had a unit. And that caused me to finally find my own and buy it. And here I am in 2023 using it with my client Diana. You can see I widened the base. But now we don't need a wider base. We just put a band around the knees. That was Arturo's idea. Then you see Stephy squats in 2023 overloading the eccentric phase, which is an awesome idea to make it harder um due to the limited weight stack. Here uh you see me adding plates to the front. I never thought of this and this is a a way around you know adding extra loading when you get too strong to the stack. So had I known about these you know 20 years prior I would have loved this machine even more. But that all became obsolete in 2024 when glute builder my friend Arturo remade the unit and he solved all the problems with the body masters unit. But still I didn't have a glute builder at all my locations. So, in in Fort Lauderdale, I'm using the glute builder, but in Vegas, I'm prescribing, you know, these banded variations still. Here's Elizabeth um in Vegas using the the glute rack in the wall. Here's Lely and Mermaid Bri and Sarah. My clients from San Diego using um bands out of the power rack. So, yeah, you'll see this continuous quest to uh you know, improve upon and and come up with variations. But now with the glute builder model, it's perfect. We don't need any of these variations. So, let me do one set of each and you can be the judge. Oh, Okay. So, now remove the plates and go 12 bands. So, we already have six on here. These are the heavy bands. And these are the extra heavy, the hardest. So, this is 12 bands. So, that is a ton of tension, especially as you get to end range hip extension. So there you have it. There's three different resistance profiles. Same range of motion, same positioning, but drastically different torque angle curves. If I had to choose which is best for hypertrophy, I would choose the third option because I can do six hard sets of that and the next day I'm not sore. When you target a muscle at a shorter length, it doesn't create as much muscle damage. Conversely, when you stress a muscle at a longer length, more damage occurs. And so, it could be the case that on a set per set basis, the first option is more productive, the one that was hardest at the longer muscle length. But let's say you did four really hard sets of that, you might be sore for a few days. You might be fatigued. Whereas the latter option, you could do that three times a week and still recover. You could do three, four, maybe even up to six sets three times a week. So, 18 total sets. Again, we're acting like this is the only exercise you can perform. In reality, you can do a variety of exercises. Obviously, you can do like a squat or lunge type movement, a thrust bridge type movement, a hinge, and an abduction movement. And you can do four exercises, maybe even five, three times a week, and you can recover just fine. But I'm just giving you guys food for thought because this is a fascinating topic. It's also the fastest growing topic in sports science right now with 15 new studies emerging in the last year alone. The main thing I want to point out is this is an awesome piece of equipment, the kneeling glute isolator. I loved it in the early 2000s when it was the Body Masters low back machine. I've loved the different variations over the years that I tried, but nothing was as good as the glute builder kneeling glute isolator. So, hats off to Arturo. If your gym has this, definitely learn how to use it. It's my favorite glute exercise. Like I said, I like it more than the hip thrust, but it is a kneeling hip thrust that takes your quad out of it. Hope you enjoyed this quick video. If you like what you saw, please give it a like. Please leave me a comment, tell me what you think, and definitely make sure you're subscribed to my channel. I'm Breis, aka the glute guy.