This month's challenge is the 100 rep back extension challenge. You can use these in either a 45 degree hyperextension bench or a horizontal one like a glute ham developer. Either one works. Now, I've trained around 50 different women who have been able to pull off 100 non-stop repetitions of back extensions, but they didn't start out that way. They start off doing around 20, but over the month, you're going to build up to around 100 reps. All right, here's how you're going to do the exercise. Make sure that when you get into position, the pad is not too low and not too high. It should be right at the hips. Um, when you bend over, you want to be able to achieve full hip extension without causing you to round over. So, you want this right at the hips. Here's how people screw it up. They will come down like this and round their back. And then as they come up, they will extend their spine like this. and you see them hyper extend their spine because they've been told that this is a back extension. They think they should feel it in their back. Well, it's actually a hip extension. And if you need to think of it, think of it as a glute extension because you were using your glutes. So, you are going to come down. You're going to fold your arms like this. Come down into get a big stretch in the hamstrings. And now, when I come up, I think of pushing my hips into the bench and I squeeze the glutes as hard as I can up top. So come down just like that. Squeeze the glutes. Notice I am in full extension right here. This is a strong My glutes are turned on. I have a strong glute squeeze. I do not come up to here and I don't stop short to here. My upper back might round a little bit because of the glute squeeze, because of the posterior pelvic tilt. That's fine. But what you want to do is maintain a normal cadence. So here's what 10 repetitions looks like. Okay. One thing you will notice my feet here are turned out just a little bit. You can externally rotate them. Again, you're not using load, just body weight. Fold the arms. make the movement at the hips. You will feel it in the glutes. You'll also feel the hamstrings. Your hamstrings will get a little sore because they get stretched, but you not should not feel it all in the back. If you do, you're probably doing it wrong. Anyway, make sure you go to the blog where I have the schedule laid out. I think you'll be performing 12 different body weight sessions throughout the month with the last session culminating with the 100 reps. Okay, thanks for watching.