10 days ago, Jeff Nippert released his latest video on YouTube titled The Best and Worst Glute Exercises Ranked Using Science. So, Jeff has 6.7 million followers. Um, he's done a great job of pushing science onto Everyday Bros., and I commend him for that. He ranked a ton of popular glute exercises from S for super and then A, B, C, D, and E, and then F for fail. And he separated them by region. And I want to react to this video because it's right down my alley. You know, I have a ton of respect for Jeff. What I like about this is that if there's a disagreement, he's the type of guy who will help me fund a study. He's funded research before. So has Mike Isertel. So has Jeremy Ethier. So has Menow Hanselman. So between the four of us, we're expanding our knowledge and investigating popular topics. So no shade intended on Jeff. Like I said, I have tremendous respect for him. He probably expects this coming and I've already watched the video. I agree with 90% of it. But one thing I want you to pay attention to is Jeff is a lifter. You know, he doesn't train a ton of people like I do. Most of the popular experts on YouTube and in social media in general, they don't have a gym. They don't train, you know, 30 people, 60 people like I do. Because I train so many people, I'm going to have a unique viewpoint on some of the stuff compared to Jeff. Whereas Jeff is going to have a unique viewpoint compared to me. And I'm sure if Jeff were here every day in Glute Lab witnessing what I did, he'd probably agree with me on some of my reaction. Enough of that. Let's dive into it. So, I'm just going to hit play and I'll pause when necessary. The glutes are one of the single most important muscles for building an impressive physique. They're also one of the largest muscles in the body. So, regardless of whether you're a man or you're a woman, building this one muscle will make it immediately obvious that you lift from the side and the rear. So, in this video, I'm ranking the best and worst glute exercises for muscle growth using the latest exercise science. We'll go from S tier for super all the way down to F tier for fail. And at the end, I'll show you what I think are the very best and the very worst glute exercises of all time. Now, in order to figure out which exercises are better, we need to understand some very basic glute anatomy first. The glutials are technically three distinct muscles. There's the very large glutius maximus, which is the real powerhouse of your lower body. It extends your hips like in a deadlift and externally rotates your leg, like when you point your toes out. There's the glutius medius, which is about 1/3 of the size of the glutius maximus, but it's still well worth focusing on. It's still quite big. It has about the same amount of muscle mass as your delts, and since it sits on the upper glutes, it'll enhance that appearance of a upper glute shelf. The glute medius is very active during hip abduction. Okay, I'm going to pause this. I don't think the glute medius is that active in seated hip abduction when you're leaning forward. maybe the posterior fibers, but um I think the upper glute max and if you lean even more forward, even the lower glute max gets involved here. So I think this right here, what he's showing, the glute medius fibers are more vertical. They would not help out as much in that particular variation compared to glutus maximus and then the deep six hip external rotators where you sweep your leg out to the side and it's a very important stabilizer. So, it's especially active during single leg exercises. And there's the even smaller glute minimus, which is about half the size of the glute medius, but also plays a key stabilization role and can add size to the upper glutes. In addition to being split into those three separate muscles, your glutes can also be divided into an upper, middle, and lower portion. And as we go, I'll reveal my number one exercise for each division of the glutes hidden behind these three doors. So, keep in mind that just because an exercise gets into S tier doesn't necessarily mean it's S tier for the entire glutes. It might be S tier for targeting one specific area. And here's my criteria for ranking glute exercises. To get into S tier, the exercise needs to provide high tension, especially in the stretched position. Okay, I'm going to pause it right there. For the glutes, the jury is still out as to whether it's best to train them in a lengthened or shortened position. We only have a few studies, but the main study is the Plotkin 2023 study, which compared squats to hip thrust. Now, if you think about it, squats involve more length and more torque at long length. So, it's not just that they stretch your glutes more, they also provide more torque in the stretch position. So, if this were a rule, like longer is always better, then squats would have necessarily beat out hip thrust. But the fact that they tied for upper, middle, and lower glutes shows that maybe there's more to the story because hipos are hardest in the shortened position and they have a lot more torque in the shortened position. So for that reason alone, I don't agree with number one being a criteria across the board for all muscles. I just gave a seminar. There are 47 articles pertaining to this topic. It's fascinating. In fact, 15 articles have emerged just in the past year. This is the most rapid growing body of research. But I'm not convinced for glutes yet. But let's go on. It should feel good, which means it doesn't cause knee, hip, or low back pain. And there should be some way of progressing the exercise over time, which is ultimately what'll keep your glutes growing. Okay, let's start with the most popular glute exercise on the internet, the hip thrust. The barbell hip thrust is, oddly enough, one of the more studied movements in all of exercise science. There's a pile of studies showing that it is in fact very effective at growing the glutes. The hip thrust will activate the entire glute, upper, middle, and lower, but mainly target that middle meat because it isolates hip extension. It's a great movement for progressive overload. You can almost always add a little weight each week while keeping your form tight. I don't think you need a 500 lb hip thrust to grow your glutes, but if your glutes are getting stronger on this movement, somewhere in the 5 to 15 rep range, then your glutes are also getting bigger. There is a slight issue, though. A lot of people find that the barbell pinches their hips. You can alleviate this to some degree by using a big cushy pad or even rolling up some yoga mats or by strategically placing the bar in that cushy crease of your hip below the anterior superior iliac spine and above the pubic bone. But even if you avoid that painful pinching, it can still feel awkward. It also takes time to set up, especially if you don't have a hip thruster platform or if you're loading a lot of plates. The hip thrust also doesn't get the glutes into a super deep stretch. Even a deep range of motion hip thrust only gets the glutes into about 90° of hip flexion compared to the 130 degrees of range that's possible for most lifters. But this isn't as much of a dealbreaker as you might think. I don't know that the glutes need an ultra deep stretch to grow. A recent 9-week study with untrained subjects found that the hip thrust was just as effective as the squat at growing the glutes despite the fact that the squat does stretch the glutes more. Now, that's just one study and other research does suggest that the glutes respond well to deeper training. I'm going to pause it right there. That graph came from the Kubo study, which showed that deeper squats grew the glutes and the adductors better than partial squats, but not the quads. Quad growth tied between the two. But they only disclosed the knee range of motion in that study, and they didn't have pictures. I'm really glad that modern researchers like Daniel Plin, Milo Wolf, and PAC, these guys are uploading pictures and videos of all the exercise subjects. So there's no doubt as to the form and technique that was used during the studies. With the Kubo study, I'm sure if you did low bar and sat way back, that would require tremendous torque at the hips and it would probably build the glutes well. But that study involved beginners, they probably did high bar, stayed super upright, and just did a little knee bend. That's why they got such good quad growth out of it. So, I would love to replicate the Kubo study, but have subjects sit back because a partial squat can actually be effective for glute building if you sit way back and utilize the hips. But I digress. Let's move on. So, like other muscles, I suspect the glutes will grow best from a combination of exercises that challenge them in a more stretched position like the squat, plus exercises that challenge them in a more shortened position like the hip thrust. All right, I'm going to pause there. Totally agree with that. and to add to create the best programming that maximizes the recoverable volume so you can do a ton of volume of both stretched and shortened glute work. So, I'm really glad Jeff mentioned that. As an overall glute max builder, I'm putting the barbell hip thrust into high B tier. Now, if you have access to a good hip thrust machine like this Nautilus glute drive, I think you can solve a few of those issues. The belt is much more comfy than a barbell. You also don't need to set anything up. And because the machine is very stable, you won't need to use any balance and should be able to focus on engaging your glutes better. I personally do these every single week and I think they belong in high A tier and I'm actually going to pick them as my number one option for the middle aspect of the glutes. Their only downside, as I see it, is the lack of a really deep stretch, but we'll pick that up with some other exercises. Another really, this is where my expertise comes into play cuz bros love the Nautilus glute drive. I love it. Um, but I had it in Glue San Diego for a couple years and only one of my female clients liked it out of like 30. 29 of them felt it all in their quads and only one of them loved it. What's ironic is that she was a shorter client. I love the Nautilus glute drive. Jeff loves it, but most women do not. As you can see in that video, it did allow you to go deeper and it is very stable. I wish Jeff could try the BC strength thruster pro. I think that's better than the Nautilus glute drive. I think it's the best plate loaded hip thrust machine on the market. Second being hammer strength. But I'm gonna go off on a little tangent here. Whenever I'm working really hard on back squats, I find that my hack squat, my leg press, my belt squats, my pendulum squats, my V squats, they all stay strong. Squats are the one exercise that keeps all of those strong. But the converse isn't true. If you're doing hack squats, your back squat will go down. And it's the same thing in my experience for hip thrust. You can do all the plate loaded devices, the selectorized devices, all the glute drives, and it'll make your barbell hip thrust go down. But conversely, when you're doing barbell hip thrusts, your strength on all the machines stays high. Why? Because they're so hard in the lockout. When you haven't done barbell in a while and you do them, you're like, "Oh my god, the lockout is hard." So, I do wonder if machines are superior to barbell. With regards to the hip thrust, there should be a study on this in time. But I like hearing Jeff's opinion on that because it is more stable. It's more convenient. It doesn't require any setup. And the more convenient something is, the more often you'll do it in the gym. Good option is the single leg dumbbell hip thrust. These will hit the entire glutes, but unlike the other options, may shift some emphasis to the upper glutes because the glute medius and minimus will need to stabilize for balance. You can also prevent left. This applies to all single leg movements. People always say, well, it's going to work the glute medius and minimus well for the stabilization factor. I'm not sold that the glute medius gets hit hard with single leg movements. You're not moving dynamically side to side. You're just stabilizing. So, you're never going to fire maximally in a stabilizing role. I'm not aware of any research that shows market glute medius growth from anything, but my guess is that any single leg movement, including single leg hip thrust, including all the lunges and split squats and step-ups, the single leg RDL, I'm not sure if they'd grow the glute medius that much. What I think is that they're harder as you bend down. And the more you bend down, the more glute maximus it's going to work. All right, let's continue. Prevent left to right muscle imbalances by focusing on each glute individually. And I don't like to go heavy here. Just stick to 12 to 15 reps and really focus on controlling the movement. They're going in A tier as well. The glute bridge is really just a hip thrust but with less range of motion. They're a bit easier to set up because you don't need a bench and they're great for beginners because they require less stabilization. Some people also say they can isolate their glutes more with these by taking some of the quads out, but I still prefer the hip thrust because it has more range of motion. Low B tier. Frog pumps. I totally agree with him there. I like glute bridges off the Smith machine because you can use a more fuller rom. But if your main interest is growing your glutes without growing the legs, then I think glute bridges are your main exercise. Pumps are also kind of like a hip thrust except you externally rotate your hips and clamp your feet together. This will shift some emphasis to the upper glutes since abducting your hips will engage the glute medius more. Actually, I don't think that it works that way. I think frog pumps interestingly activate the upper and lower glutes really well. But that external rotation and abduction, I think it just lines up. You know, the glutes are a diagonal muscle. I think when you abduct and externally rotate, it just lines up the fibers a little bit better and improves their moment arm. But getting in that stance or even doing like a sumo deadlift, yes, you're abducted, but but the glute medius isn't providing that abduction. You just set up that way. So, I don't think frog pumps are going to activate the glute medius or minimus. I think it works by just putting the glute maximus in better alignment. I don't hate these as a high rep finisher, but they're hard to load, which forces you to use really high reps, and they don't stretch the glutes very well. We do frog pumps off the Smith machine as well, which allows you to go heavy. I will add that I feel my glutes more on frog pumps than any other exercise, but my feet tend to be turned out. So, if you're like me, frog pumps could be an S or an A tier exercise, whereas for other people like to have narrow stance with everything. I even have a client who likes to turn her feet inwards a little bit. They would be an F tier exercise for her. I'm putting them in high Ctier. All right, so let's take a look at some exercises that actually do stretch the glutes quite a lot. We'll start with squats. I think squats are a super underrated glute builder on social media. Like the hip thrust, you're extending your hips, so you'll activate all regions of the glutes, but especially that middle chunk. I would say most of my own glute development does come from squats and my background in powerlifting. The only potential downside of squats is that they don't really isolate the glutes well. You get a huge quad stimulus, too. So, if you're only trying to grow your glutes without growing your quads, squats aren't your best option. that I would also say a huge adductor stimulus especially if you go really deep. Said you can make the movement more glute dominant by placing the bar a few inches lower on your back, leaning further forward, and focusing on really driving through your hips. Also, research shows that squatting deeper is important for glute growth. So, try to at least break parallel. Despite some limitations, I'm still putting the barbell squat in a tier for glute growth. With the Smith machine squat, you can place your feet further forward to make it more glute dominant, and you never need to worry about losing your balance. It's also going in a tier. The Bulgarian split squat gets a deeper stretch on the glutes than the standard barbell squat. And because they're single leg, in addition to the middle glutes, you'll get the upper glutes more involved. To make them even more glute focused, place your front foot further forward and lean forward as you squat. Again, think about driving through your hips rather than just standing up with your knees. This will help you engage your glutes a lot better. These are very close to S tier, but they are a bit harder to overload, especially if you do them with dumbbells. They also smoke your quads and are a really exhausting movement in general. I usually do two sets per leg and call it there. I'm feeling I love that Jeff pointed that out. He does two sets per leg. Sometimes if I do a single leg movement, I I might even do one set per leg because they beat me up so much. Once you get really really strong, they beat you up a lot and they interfere with your training frequency. You don't need to worry about that if you train legs once a week. But if you're training glutes three times a week like most of the females out there, then you have to take that into consideration. High eight here. Before I get to our first S tier exercise, let's knock out a couple duds. Donkey kicks probably don't grow your glutes very well. They're really hard to overload. Even with a band, you're still getting very little tension while the glutes are stretched. And it's hard to progressively overload using a band anyway. I think they're solid as a warm-up activation drill or to help beginners feel their glutes engage, but as a glute hypertrophy exercise, these are going in low D tier. Fire hydrants have similar issues. They just don't get high tension on the glutes. They can work for mobility or in rehab context, but I'm putting them in low D tier as a glute builder. All right, let's look at some exercises that target the upper glutes. Hickbacks are great for the upper glutes, especially if you kick up and out diagonally. That's because the upper glute fibers perform both hip extension, which is the up part, and hip abduction, which is the out and diagonally part. Kickbacks are actually very stable if you brace against the machine, and perhaps even more stable if you brace against a bench. The resistance profile should feel nice and smooth. You don't get the biggest stretch, but that can be made up with other exercises that we'll get to. I don't do a whole lot of kickbacks myself, but I do think they're a really great option if you like them or if you want to isolate the glutes without hitting quads. Yeah, I've never really seen any bros that do kickbacks. I started doing them. It took me a while cuz the hip flexor on my my stabilizing leg took a beating. I had to strengthen that for kickbacks to feel good. But I will mention Glute Builder came out with a kickback machine. It is amazing. Um it's so good. Also, I want to mention that you can do kneeling kickbacks or high pulley kickbacks to make it kind of more like a step up to put more torque in the stretch position and less torque at the lockout. You can shift the torque angle or the strength curve around to suit your preference. But my main kickback I like is the swoopy standing upright kickback. And I really like it because it's like penalty-free volume. You really don't get sore from it. So, my girls will always throw kickbacks in at the end of the workout. I'm thinking low A tier. Step-ups will target the upper glutes because you're doing one leg at a time and the stability requirement engages the glute medius and minimus. They get a deep stretch on the entire glute, especially if you set the box a little higher at or just above knee level, which will force your glutes to work harder than your quads. If you have a handle to grab onto, you can keep your balance better and overload the glutes even more. They can be a bit awkward at first, but once you learn how to engage your glutes more than your quads, I think they're killer. Low A tier machine hip. I totally agree about step-ups. Interestingly, step-ups don't tend to get people as sore as lunges and Bulgarian split squats. So, they can be performed more frequently. That's one thing in the last two years here at Glute Lab Fort Lauderdale, we've done way more of is glute dominant step-ups, and I think it's been beneficial. But again, I don't think it works the glute medius and minimus that well. We need research on that because I could very well be wrong. The glute medius is going to fire hardest when you're upright. The exercise isn't that challenging up tall. It's challenging at the bottom where the glute medius doesn't have good leverage. The glute max does. And if you got to the top and fired your glute medius as hard as you can, you'd move to the side. So, anytime a muscle is just a stabilizer, it just fires it the right amount to maintain balance, but not maximally. Machine hip abductions are fantastic for the upper glutes. That's because they really challenge the glute medius and minimus directly through their primary function of hip abduction. Seated hip abduction leaning forward I think will work the posterior fibers of the glute medius and minimus but not the anterior middle in my opinion and they'll involve the upper glute max and possibly the lower glute max will and then the deep six hip external rotators but this is an area I'd love to see research on too because if you look at the fiber directions of the glute medius they're not well aligned for leaning seated hip abduction however you can just bridge up and do a hip thrust and then do bridged seated hip abduction and then you're really targeting the glute medius for that reason at my glute labs we always do two typ types of seated hip abduction. One leaning forward and one bridged. Leaning forward for the glute max, bridged for the glute mection. If you lean forward by about 30°, you'll improve the line of pull of those upper glute fibers and you should feel a deeper stretch at the bottom. I usually do these for 15 to 20 reps, although heavier low rep work is also good. You can always progressively overload the movement by just increasing the pin weight. And when you eventually max out the stack, you can use a gym pin to add more if you want a little. We always do around 20 rep sets. This is one exercise that when you go super super heavy, it doesn't feel as good. So, don't feel the need to do sets of six or anything. That tends to irritate your hips and activate more TFL. So, always high reps on those in my opinion. Extra range of motion. You can add an extra pad on the inside. And while it may not be the best overall glute builder, it's just so good at targeting the upper glutes. And for that reason, it's our first exercise going into S tier. And it's also my number one exercise for the upper glutes, making it the reveal behind door number one. Cable hip abductions do the So, that being his number one exercise for upper glutes. Maybe it is for upper glute max. I don't think it is for glute me and men, but we need research on that cuz that's something we should all know. Hip abductions do the same basic thing, but I find them harder to overload. They're not quite as stable and they're a bit more annoying to set up. I'm thinking B tier. The lateral banded walk is the I wish Jeff could try the glute medius hip thrust. I wonder if he'd like that. That's my favorite upper glute exercise. But I do think in order to maximize glute meat and mid growth, you should do po possibly like seated hip abduction for the posterior and then like straight out to the side for more like anterior and middle and then angled back 30° for more of the bulk of the glute medius like the middle fibers. But there are some movements he might like including the glute medius hip thrust. Same basic movement pattern, but the band offers virtually zero tension in the stretch. These are fine enough as a warm-up drill or for helping people engage their glute medius better, but they're just not going to add much meat to your glutes unless you're a beginner. I'm putting them one exception I will tell you, I had given all my girls glute loops and during the quarantine they were so bored they had nothing to do. So every single day they were doing kickbacks and standing hip abduction with the glute loop and their glutes grew like crazy during the quarantine. So that's what's tricky about this. If you're willing to train glutes every day, band standing hip abduction is brilliant. I don't like lateral band walks as much, but I do like bandstanding hip abduction, but yes, they work at short muscle lengths, but they deliver a serious pump. I will tell you, most guys go to do them and they're so insanely weak at them. Like, my girls are way stronger in hip abduction than most men are. So, the devil's in the details. These don't create any muscle damage, so you can do them frequently. No guy that I've ever known cares so much about glute medius growth that they will be willing to do, you know, glute loop workouts every night, but the ladies are. Another observation, men tend to get these bubbly glutes. We don't really need to do abduction. We don't need to train the glute medius to have the shelf, but a lot of women do. But I do agree if you just train legs or glutes one day a week, it would be far more effective to use a cable column than a band if just doing them one day a week. But if you're doing them every day, the band would be superior in my opinion. Them in C tier. Okay, speaking of stretching the glutes, let's talk about lunges. Lunges will hit the entire glute. You'll get the upper glutes because of glute medius activation due to the stabilization demands. You'll get the mid glutes from the hip extension and the lower glute area from the deep stretch as you lunge. You can accentuate that stretch by taking longer strides forward and by leaning slightly forward by about 30°. There are many different ways to do lunges, but I like old school walking lunges the best. I like the idea that you're moving through space. It gives you something to actually work toward rather than just doing reps on the spot. I find that more motivating. And sure, while you can probably get a slightly better stretch with Bulgarian split squats, if you take big steps on lunges, you'll feel a massive glute stretch, too. And even though soreness isn't everything, I get more sore from lunges than anything else. I do, too. I get more sore from lunges than anything. They also make my adductor magnus sore. And this is a strange thing to say, but they're almost too effective. They annihilate me so bad. They make me too sore. Theoretically, the repeated bout effect, you should stop getting sore. But for me, they hit me so hard in the adductor magnus and the lower glutes. They get my glutes so tight. A lot of times I hurt my back in the days following walking lunges because my glutes are so tight. I end up moving differently and hurting my back picking something up off the floor. I've also had times where like two days after doing a heavy walking lunge workout, I remember my stepbrother jumped on my back and I pulled my adductors. Like I strained my adductors. They were so damaged. My female clients can lunge up and down. They don't get too sore. But for me, lunges get my glutes more sore than anything. And it's strange because I think that's evidence that they're so effective at targeting the glutes in the stretch position. They require so much torque. But then I can injure myself. And if I did like four sets, I would be sore for like eight days. I don't think I could walk the next day if I did four sets, like close to failure. So, I'm glad he said that because yes, people say soreness is overrated, but if an exercise gets you really sore, it's usually an indicator that's a very effective exercise. But if you train glutes three times a week, you probably can't get away with doing walking lunges every single workout. For my female clients, if they train glutes Monday, Wednesday, Friday, I program them on the Fridays so that they get an extra day of recovery before they hit them again on Monday. I'm a huge fan of walking lunges and I'm sending them straight to S tier. Smith machine lunges have all the same benefits, but again, I just don't like doing all my reps on the spot when I have the option to move through space. That's more of a personal preference thing, but I'm still putting these in high A tier. If you elevate your front foot on a small box, you'll get a bit more range of motion at the bottom, which is just enough to sneak these into S tier with curtsy. Well, all right. If you compare his video of the Smith machine reverse lunge and the deficit reverse lunge, I think you're getting a similar stretch. You're getting more torque with a standard variation. Sometimes when you elevate the front foot for deficit, you go deeper, but torque diminishes because your hips move under the bar and it shortens the moment arm and it ends up getting you a similar stretch. It's not just the stretch, it's the tension in the stretch that matters more. So, for that reason, I think that regular reverse lunges are better than deficit lunges. You step back diagonally behind your other leg. This requires more balance, meaning it'll activate the glute medius more. So, another good option for the upper glutes. That said, I think because they're harder to overload, I don't think they're quite as good as a standard lunge. They're definitely an option you can include every now and then, but I'm feeling low B tier. Okay, let's cover three lower glute. I agree about the curtsy lunge. Um, I wish Jeff could try this new exercise we've been doing, the kneeling dumbbell hip raise. It's like a curtsy lunge done in a kneeling position that gets high stretch and high torque in the stretch position, but it takes the quads and possibly the adductors out of it. There's this kind of nifty little exercise that behaves similar to the curtsy lunge that has all the good stuff about the curtsy lunge without all the bad stuff, especially with the B stance option builders. First up, the deadlift. The conventional deadlift is a good glute builder since it trains hip extension. It gives a big stretch on the lower glutes and it's amazing for progressive overload. The issue is it's just such a fatiguing exercise physically and psychologically. This is why it's said to have a low stimulus to fatigue ratio. You get a lot of stimulus, but you also get a lot of fatigue, especially in muscles other than the glutes, like the spinal erectors. As a strength builder, it's elite, but as a glute hypertrophy exercise, I have to put it in low B tier. The sumo deadlift is very similar. This EMG study found no difference in glute maximus EMG activity between conventional and sumo stances. That said, because of the hip abduction and hip external rotation from the wider stance and the foot flare, the sumo deadlift probably does hit the glute medius harder and might Yeah, I don't think it hits the glute medius harder. I just think it improves the moment arm of the glute max. But I will say that Escamilla study didn't show a difference, but there's probably like 12 EMG studies looking at sumo versus conventional. Almost every study shows an advantage for sumo with EMG. So sumo probably activates the glutes better whereas conventional stretches the glutes better with a narrow stance. So which is more important stretch or activation? Well, think of the plotin study. Hip thrusts activate the glutes more. Squats stretch the glutes more and they tied for muscle growth. And they probably grow muscle through independent mechanisms. One pertaining to activation and active force production, the other pertaining to stretch and passive muscle force. So you probably need both types of exercises for maximum glute growth. and might shift some emphasis toward the upper glutes. I'm putting it in high B tier as a glute builder. The Romanian deadlift is the better choice for glute hypertrophy in my opinion, especially for the lower glutes in that glute hamstring tie-in area. And while it does hit the hamstrings hard as well, it smashes the glute max as a basic compound lift that's very conducive to progressive overload. I'm feeling high A tier. And this is actually my number one exercise for the lower glutes, but it's not my number one exercise of all. Before we get to that, let's knock out three final exercises. One that I love, one that I hate, and one that's just okay. I love the 45°ree back extension. A lot of people think of it as just a low back exercise, but since you're extending your hips, your entire glutes will be very active in both the lengthen position at the bottom and the shorten position at the top. I prefer to overload these by adding reps, but you can still work up to some solid weight by holding plates to your chest. If you round your upper back on these, you should be able to connect with your glutes much better. I'm honestly feeling S tier for these. I would also say flare your feet out a little more as that leads to better lockouts and slightly greater glute activation. But I'm glad Jeff mentioned the rounding of the upper back because when you round your upper back, you're taking the erectors out of it. But what you're also doing is increasing the torque at the lockout. If you're arched, it's less torque compared if you're rounded because you stick out further from the hip joint center. So more torque at lockout is a good thing if you're using this for the squeeze position. So, like an RDL for the stretch position and a 45 hyper for the squeeze position. They complement each other well. Cable pullthroughs are okay for me. They're great for beginners without much glute strength, but eventually you'll be limited by how much weight you can hold comfortably. They just start to feel awkward once you get some real weight on there. I'm thinking low B tier. I'm unless you're pregnant. If you're pregnant, the pullthrough becomes an A tier exercise. But I agree with Jeff here. Not a big fan of kettle bell swings. You can definitely get a good cardio workout with these, and I think they do have some utility for building explosive power, but for glute hypertrophy, you're just not getting enough tension. Low Dtier. Okay. And if I had to pick just one exercise from S tier to raise it up to S tier plus as the best of the best, I think I'd have to go with the walking lunge. I realize that's a hot take, but these are all great glute builders, and if I had to personally just pick one, I think it would be the walking lunge. And I'll go with the donkey kick or the fire hydrant as the worst of the worst. Not because they can't have their place as warm-up drills, but it's just really hard to reach high glute tension for muscle growth. I'm actually really trying to bring up my own glutes this year, so I'm doing a ton of hip thrusts, hip abductions, and walking lunges. But it's not enough to just dial your training in. Your diet is also crucial. You need to ensure that you're eating the right number of calories and protein to support muscle growth. And so many people still underestimate the impact of diet on your physique. Dialing in my own diet over the last year made a gigantic difference in my progress. So, if you'd like to get on track yourself, you can download my nutrition app, MacroFactor, for two weeks for free if you use code Jeff. And I'll put a link to that over here next to my head. All right, that's it for this one, guys. Thank you so much for watching. Don't forget to leave me a thumbs up if you enjoyed the video. Subscribe if you haven't already, and I'll see you all here in the next one. Man, 1.1 million views in 10 days. I wish I never gave up on YouTube. Uh, I had a few hundred,000 followers many years ago, and I switched all my focus to Instagram, but long format has always been my thing. I'm not good at the short form content, but this is a great video. Jeff did an awesome job. He knocked it out of the park with this. Honestly, my list wouldn't be that much different from his because ultimately I think it's the combination of exercises that matter most. I do think the walking lunge is probably the best exercise for the lower glute. But that's an interesting topic too because the Plotkins study showed that squats and hip thrust built the same amount of upper, middle, and lower glute max and neither grew the glute medius. So, the jury is still out as to whether you can target upper and lower glute. You definitely feel more soreness in the lower glutes from walking lunges. You definitely get higher glute EMG activity in the upper glute max from like hip thrusts and back extensions and kickbacks, but you can target different subdivisions of the glute max cuz right now that's lacking. But like I said, I would agree that the walking lunge is the best lower glute exercise, but it's just too good. And Jeff's a bro. He probably trains lower body twice a week. And I think he probably doesn't relate well to women who train glutes three times a week. For that reason, I might choose the step up over the walking lunge. Not because I think it's better, but because it doesn't fatigue you as much and you can perform it more frequently. I think I like the barbell hip thrust over the nois glute drive because I want the hardest glute exercise at the lockout and that's definitely the barbell hip thrust. I do agree with him that if you had to just do one, the novice glute drive takes you through more range of motion and it's more stable. But again, it's the combination of exercises. So, because we have an exercise already that's so effective for the lengthen position, the walking lunge or the step up, then I would pick the barbell hip thrust. And lately, we've been hip thrusting on the glute builder ramp, which I like the most. My female clients, they all like the rotisserie hip thrust the best off the rotating pad, which is interesting because that almost takes away some of the hip thrust properties. When you rotate, it's harder at the bottom and it's easy at the lockout, which is opposite of the standard barbell hip thrust. And then for upper glutes, I'd go with the glute medius hip thrust with a close second being the glute medius kickback, but probably done the way coach Cass recommends, which is to really stretch the glute and have high torque in that stretch position. And it's really stable. The way he does it, I think is the most effective. But I could see the logic in everything Jeff said. Again, Jeff knocked this out of the park. Much respect to him. If you're very popular and you make a video on glutes, I'm probably going to react to it because this is my jam. Again, what I love about Jeff is if we ever disagreed on something, Jeff, Jeremy Ethier, Mike Isertel, Menow Hensmans, we would actually say, "Hey, let's fund a study. Let's see who's right." And I love that for the first time in strength and conditioning history, you've got popular social media influencers funding research. So, two thumbs up for Jeff. Much respect. Anyways, I hope you like the video. Be sure to like it and make sure you subscribe to my channel if glutes are your jam, just like mine. I'm Brez, aka the glute guy.