 think back, I've done my first ever weighted one-armed pull up, and how outside my pull up training, I've made great strides in my back I've ready strgi by deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep deep at the very least that exercise selection really does come down to three things. Find a vertical pull you like, a row, and finally a heavy hip hinge. The simplicity of it all is beautiful. You're likely already doing all those things, but what matters the most is execution. And that's what I don't see done well very often. With all that in mind, how you develop your width should be intentional because regardless of which exercise you pick in the vertical plane, grip and elbow path are what matters the most. Because you see, width ultimately comes from three things, your upper lats, your lower lats, and that big old hunk of ribeye called the Terry's, otherwise known as the lats little helper. And how these three things get developed depends entirely on how you execute your movements. Now for those upper lats, it is my instinct to just recommend a good old-fashioned weighted neutral grip pull-up, particularly with the elbows kept in front and tight to the sides. Those are going to smash your upper lats to smithereens. You can't deny that. However, the honest truth is this. In that regard, pull-ups gave me the best return on investment when I could do a lot of them, say 20 or more, and add a lot of weight to them as well. So instead, I do think that neutral grip lat pull-downs will be a better option for most of you, but still immensely effective. Just missing out on some cool points, that's all. The truth is, lat pull-downs loading is more customizable than pull-ups, and even when you get really strong, you can add weight to the stack going beyond the full stack. So you can spam these bad boys at any point in your training career, whether you're new or advanced. But whichever one you pick, in terms of execution, other than keeping those elbows tight and in front of you, I'm also a big believer in adding in three-quarter reps to your routine to supplement full range of motion reps. They're fun, help you pump up your volume, and most importantly, help you keep a better mind-muscle connection with your back. How I suggest implementing this is pretty damn simple. Just try replacing a full day of vertical pulling with three-quarter reps, and let me know what you think. In terms of reps, your standard three sets of 8 to 12 with the double progression works great. But a fun mix-up is to do a heavy top set and then strip some weight for back offsets and more reps. Moving on down from the upper lats to the lower lats, these puppies are something that people treat like freaking unicorns, but they're pretty simple to hit as well. You can maintain their size pretty well with just about any back exercise that you enjoy, as long as you stay strong at it. But in terms of building them specifically, I've always loved rack chins. They leverage your body for a diagonal pull exactly like your favorite high to low pull machine, but with zero equipment needed, other than something to elevate your feet on and then a bar to hang off of, which can even be a barbell as you see me using here. Rack chins are easily loadable if you need to, you can do them anywhere, and they're accessible since you're only lifting a portion of your body weight. So if you can't do very many pull-ups, try these out. You're going to be able to bust out 10 or more, I bet. Cooper, a longtime friend and client of mine, absolutely loves these. For reference, he's the size of a moose, and here's him repping out 315 pounds on the incline press like air, so they're scalable for all experience levels. Don't be afraid to load these bad boys up when you can get past more than 12 reps or so in a row. Now, I'd be doing a disservice if I didn't also mention that I also love doing super wide grip pull-ups as well, but to be honest, they're not super accessible, and I just like rack chins better. In terms of implementing these with a specific rep range, do your normal rep range, but every once in a while, for fun, do a cluster set. I got this from world-renowned coach Josh Bryant, and they're a classic, engaging, and fun way to get a ton of work in in a small amount of time. You're going to do 10 to 12 reps to failure, rest a few breaths, bang out three to five more reps, and then rinse and repeat that for a few minutes. Enjoy the massive pump and all the productive work that you just got in on a small amount of time. Lastly, for the Terry's, the lats little helper, your best bet is a golden era dime, the behind-the-neck pull-down. Execution-wise, the key for me is to pull to only about my ears at most, and personally, I just pull until I bonk the bar off the back of my coconut. That's the perfect range of motion to isolate the Terry's, and actually a lot of lats too. Not only does this technique eliminate a lot of the momentum that we typically need to use to get that last little bit of range of motion, but it also spares the biceps and the forearms a lot of fatigue, which is great if you wanted to isolate those muscles, but also if your biceps or your elbows happen to be sore, it's a great way to get in some back work while also allowing those things to recover. The truth is, a lot of benefits come into play with back exercises once you start to shorten that end range of motion a little bit. It allows you to isolate and expose key properties that otherwise aren't part of the movements that we do. Now hold your horses. That doesn't mean don't have a form standard. You still want that upper arm to be at least parallel to the ground to effectively target your back, and try to keep those elbows in a straight path when you're pulling down. Don't let them scoop back and forth at the bottom to compensate for a lack of confidence in your mobility. Overall, behind-the-neck pull-downs are a great finisher after you've already done a larger back exercise. Just do them in a slightly higher rep range, and you're good to go. Moving on from width now to thickness, getting that thickness up to snuff was much more of a struggle for me than it was getting my back wide. The answer to that dilemma now being frustratingly simple. It doesn't matter what row you do, how much weight you use, or how well you follow the Dr. Mike textbook on Accenture Control, or even if you watched my video on how to do barbell rows, the final answer. Pausing, or at least attempting to pause, must. And if you don't do it, oh boy, I dare say, my friend, that you are wasting your time, and you might as well just do a vertical pull. In my experience, stretching your upper and your mid-back with a lot of weight, and making sure that your rows generally, in terms of textbook form, look pretty good, is not enough to grow your upper and mid-back as well as you could. Now how I discovered this is one, in eating a slice of humble pie, but two, it was through doing copious amounts of Kelso shrugs. Named after a famous and dearly departed weightlifting coach, Paul Kelso, they specifically isolate a squeeze in the upper back, all without taxing your lats or arms. And I started thinking to myself, man, what if I started squeezing the shit out of my rows too? The result? Pumps that I've never felt, fun that I've never experienced, and a depth to my back that I've never really had before. Now if you're interested, I did make a video covering programming strategies for the chest supported row, along with how I like to execute them, which you can find in this video here. So I won't go on about pausing at the top of rows very much, just demanded that I punctuate the urgency in this video, no matter what type of row that you do. Strangely enough, I don't find that pausing at the bottom of vertical pulls offers the same benefits. They actually make the set somewhat worse, so just keep that in mind. It is a bad habit I do have myself, no one's perfect, but just try to do well. And lastly, for fellas that want a low equipment option, try out inverted rows. Now I personally used to hate them, I'm not gonna lie, because I never felt my lats while I did them. But now, I love them, because what I do realize is that they hit that mid-back in isolation. Whichever exercise sounds the most fun to you, but try that cue out at home, fellas. Lastly, finishing up with the lower back, I won't waste your time. Everybody knows hip hinges work your lower back well, but just like with the upper back and lats, it's all about the motion of the ocean, baby. In other words, it's not what you do, but how you do it that matters. And spinal erectors are loaded entirely by isometric contraction on your hip hinge, which basically means you're flexing your muscles in place. They're not dynamically moving through any range of motion, unless you want to snap your shit up. Now, I do like movements where your back does dynamically move, but those are loaded a lot more gradually and a lot lighter. But fret not, my friend, there's two things that we can do with standard hip hinges to make them more effective, starting with slowing the reps down. Where slowing the tempo down for most muscle groups is generally just a way to get more out of less weight. Doing it for your lower back increases the total amount of time your low back is isometrically contracting. And two, you're going to stop your reps when your back is parallel to the ground or even a little bit lower than that. Your back gets more and more challenged the deeper you go. That's pretty much why we're doing that. You have what's called an active hinging range, which is the deepest that you need to go to basically stretch your hamstrings and your glutes. We're going below that so that we could further challenge our back. Now, both of these things working in tandem will reduce your working loads quite substantially, but the trade-off is your lower back is going to feel a lot stronger, get a lot more pumped, and overall, you'll feel a lot more solid. For those that are just starting out or that have never done something like this before, do one day of hinging in your active hinging range with a normal tempo. That's going to be to push performance and build strength, and then have another day where you slow down and extend that range of motion a bit. Now, to quickly cap off chapter one, as an added bonus, your lats can also get torched on RDLs and stiff legs. Long story short, they're a powerful bracing muscle on par with your abs. Put your lats in your pockets, bars the cheese grater, the legs are the cheese, pull over the bar into your shins. There's a lot of ways to do this, but the idea is to pull the bar back into your thighs as hard as you can. Just pick whichever cue makes sense. And if you're having trouble because you don't exactly know what this feels like, try out some cable pullovers. Not only are they really good for isolating the lats when your elbows and your biceps are tired, they perfectly mirror the type of motion that I want you to try while doing your hip hinges. Check out this video that I made on how I like to set cable pullovers up if you're interested after you watch this one. But now you have three accessible, fun, and brutally effective ways to build your back's width and thickness regardless of how far along you are in your training journey. Before diving into chapter two's masterclass on pull-ups, I have an announcement for some free programs, a demo, and then a giveaway. First, I just updated Raider, my most popular free program, and those updates are officially coming to the Boost Camp version as well. I'll also be updating all my old free programs on top of that, so let me know which one you want to see next. That's a thank you from me to you for all the support. Two, for the fellas that checked out my new coaching app, Omnihypertrophy, or for people that want to see what it can do, I made a free demo taking you through a full week of coaching, how to use the app, easy editing of your program, stress management, and more. It's currently $16 a month if you go with the 44% off annual option, which is way less than $200 to $300 online coaching usually costs. And that's $200 to $300 every month. But with all that being said, for folks that can't afford it or don't need it, look forward to more free programs and check out my Berserk Method self-coaching guides. Lastly, for the giveaway, I'm going to give away another one of my Omni Bars. It's that cool specialty bar that you see me use in all my videos. And how you enter is simple. Just like the video, subscribe if you're not already subscribed, and then leave me a comment saying that you entered. Go ahead and pick your name off of a wheel of names and announce that on Instagram in about a week. Thanks again, fellas. But enough about that. On to chapter two. We're going to talk about taking that back size that we built in chapter one and then translating it into performance on the pull-up, weighted pull-up, and eventually even one-armed weighted pull-up. You see, the pull-up is the king of all upper body exercises to some. The best back exercise ever to others, but beloved by all that go to the gym no matter what. Now, as we covered, some of us either can't do them, can't do very many of them, or can't add very much weight on them when it comes to weighted pull-ups. The solution to that, thankfully, is pretty simple no matter what your experience level is. Go ahead and take your total combined body weight between your body weight and then any weight added, and you'll aim to be doing close to that weight for reps on rows if you want to hit it on a pull-up. This helps both folks who are trying to hit a body weight pull-up goal and advance guys that are heavy to get access to an accessory that is more loadable that they can use to build their back strength. That's why we spent so much time laying the foundation by talking about ways to build the back in chapter one that aren't just doing pull-ups. Too many people seek to maximize pull-up strength by only doing pull-ups, and that seems kind of counterintuitive, but that's just the way that works for most people. The truth is, for you to use pull-ups to get better at pull-ups, you have to be really strong and have great control over your body weight already. But that also doesn't mean that you're weak if you can't do very many pull-ups. Again, Cooper, 260 pounds, massive, the size of a moose, can't do more than 12 pull-ups in a row. So you might just be too heavy. So remember, pull-ups are based on total weight moved, and use that to guide the perspective about how you think about them. And also, I was a chonky boy, so I couldn't do very many pull-ups when I was younger either. So diet-wise, if you do need to slim down, check out my guide in the Berserk Method 2025 self-coaching video to get cooking tips, dietary strategies, and ways to get in high activity levels without disrupting your lifestyle. Moving on now from preparation to technique, technique is going to break down two ways. If you're strong enough to use pull-ups to accumulate a lot of volume, you may want to use it as a bodybuilding type of exercise. In which case, check out my how to do pull-ups the final answer video for more info on that. But if we're just looking to simply move as much weight as possible or do as many reps as possible with body weight, two things. Use a thumbless grip and then try to keep your shoulders locked into place. That keeps you stable. The biggest thing is not just pulling up, but up and forward. You do those things, you'll get a lot more performance out of the pull-up. We're going to keep chapter two pretty brief just because the pull-up's basic and we've already built a huge base of back strength and size with chapter one. Moving directly into chapter three concerning weighted pull-ups and one-armed pull-ups. Once you slay that dragon and find yourself at the top of the mountain, congratulations my friend. You are now strong enough to employ my favorite technique for getting stronger at weighted pull-ups. Treating them the exact same way a powerlifting program treats squat, bench, and deadlift. I made a free program that I intensely beta tested before public release called Conquest that tackles this in a fun, approachable way. I'm not going to do a complete overview of the program in this video, but at a high level, it comes with a guide that tells you exactly how to interact with it, provided your current body weight and strength levels, which is a quality of life feature that will make running it extremely simple. Structure-wise, the key takeaways are this. For all intents and purposes, the pull-up is now your bench press on a powerlifting program, and curls, those are your press downs and extensions. Otherwise, the structure is identical to my signature start lower weight high reps and then end with heavyweight lower rep system that I love using. Check out Conquest for more details and look forward to that full video breakdown of the program. For now, to cap things off, let's talk about a strength standard that you need to hit before you can tackle the one-armed pull-up. Wrapping up the video now talking about one-armed pull-ups, it's fitting because they're a new game plus type of situation. You already beat the game, rescued the princess, and now you're just doing stuff for fun. They're not a particularly good exercise at building muscle or really for developing strength, but they do make for a badass, awesome feat of strength. Keep in mind as well, I am absolutely not a calisthenics skill expert, but I do have some meathead tips for the one-armed pull-up. So to begin the attempt at the one-armed pull-up, most of the stuff that I saw, like the archer pull-ups, the assisted one-armed pull-ups, that stuff was mostly useless for me. What really got the needle moving was getting strong at weighted pull-ups in rows, baby. That's the way. The foundational exercises and getting really brutally strong at them is everything. So do like 90% of your body weight added for a smooth single on pull-ups or about one and a half times your body weight on rows with reasonable form for reps. Boom, you just unlocked one-armed chin-up strength, baby. Technique is another story. You can get tripped up on the form because balancing with one arm is tricky. What worked for me was not pulling straight up, but up and towards my opposite shoulder. Now you can definitely yank yourself straight up into the air. I definitely have, but more balanced pulling to the opposite shoulder leads to smoother reps in my experience. Eventually, you'll be even able to add a little bit of load to the one-armed chins the more beastly your pulling strength gets. And that's all she wrote, fellas. Thank you so much for watching. Go ahead and drop a like and a subscribe if you liked the video. Enter my giveaway for my free OmniBar. Be on the lookout for those new programs. And if you're interested in supporting the channel and you're looking for coaching, please check out my Omni Hypertrophy app and that free demo so you'd learn how to use it. Y'all have a great day. See ya.