 I can still, I can still remember vividly how fired up I got as a kid when I got home and there was a new episode of my favorite show waiting for me or a really good part of my game for me for me to come back to. And lifting weights is one of only a few hobbies that as an adult brings me back to that. So it always amazes me how the gym is romanticized as this place of suffering when it's actually an amazing place to pick yourself up. No matter what, you can always hit the gym, get a sick pump, and immediately feel like a million bucks, no matter how bad your mood was before. Ladies, gentlemen, I got a Think back, try to remember the best training session that you've ever had in your entire life. The skin splitting pump, the PRs, one of the most consistent ingredients in making this happen boils down to something you've heard people say a million times before. Just get in there and do something. Now, while this is helpful advice on its own, my first tip for today adds that we should also aim to make that something feel good. Because ultimately, forcing yourself through something shitty just because you want a good outcome ironically leads to worse results. And if you just aim to have fun and make the exercises feel great, this is particularly helpful if you're someone that has trouble separating yourself from the outcome and expectations. In that regard, for me personally, I recently tried a few things with some of my favorite exercises with the goal of making them feel awesome. That led to some cool PRs and discoveries that I'd like to share with you guys at home too. Starting off strong with the channel favorite, Weighted Dips. Folks are always looking for ways to make these bad boys feel better, making this the perfect first step on our journey. As always, I'm overjoyed to share that I hit a volume PR of 28 total reps with three plates on ass to grass weighted dips after not even doing them for a couple weeks. Now, while this was a cool PR, I really want to share how I did it so that you can hit a PR at home too. The big game changer on top of having really good fundamentals with form was checking for stability because I can sometimes lose bracing and stability at the bottom of my reps, particularly on those really hard sets when pushing things to the limit. So during my warmups, I experimented with tucking my chin down and keeping it there because I'm a big believer in the idea that where the head goes, the body follows. You want to keep your back straight on hip hinges, you keep your neck straight. Oldest trick in the book. And I just wondered if the same thing would apply to my dips, which it did, thankfully. Overall, I'm trying to buy some more tensed up, rigid, braced body posture. And balling my chin up into my pecs helped a lot with enforcing that across my entire body. It's the smallest, stupidest thing in the world. But my abs stayed crunch and braced. My hips stayed back. And overall, I was locked into a great position to crank out rep after rep, which bada bing, bada boom led to the PR. But more importantly, it also helped out with the consistency of the range of motion. Since I could visually see where I was hitting depth, so my three sets were also very consistent in that regard as well. Now, for you fellas at home, if that chin tucking cue sounds at all interesting to you, go ahead and try it out. Let me know what you think. And if you're interested, check out this video I made on dip form fundamentals that'll really help that cue thrive after you finish watching this video. Ladies and gentlemen, moving from upper body to the legs, take a leap of faith with me because I have a way to make the more boring parts of leg training a lot more fun. And what better of a way to talk about legs than with horses? As a kid, horses in video games and in pop culture were just as cool to me as the big jacked superheroes and fighters that I love. While they're mostly known for their loyalty, obviously, we love them because of their powerful physical traits, chief among them being the fact that they look like open bodybuilders and have massive thigh muscles. Now, there's some leg day motivation. We know it's something we need to do. We know it's like eating our vegetables. But there's a difference between just eating your vegetables because you know you should and making an effort to make them delicious. Now, the late great John Meadows once said in an old video that hamstring curls are one of the most important leg exercises that you can do. Mostly because people always lack development back there. I think the problem is, is I really, truly don't think people push the leg curls hard enough. They don't put enough intensity into them. Now, we all do hamstring curls, but there's two things missing in most people's programs. One, emphasis. And two, a good standard of form. And despite stiff-legged deadlifts being awesome, I do them all the time. Hip hinges alone are not going to get you the hamstring development that you want, unfortunately. And once I heard that, I made it a point to have extremely strong hamstring curling strength on every variation. Lying, standing, seated. But my problem, nonetheless, is that when my hamstrings fatigued, I had a really bad habit of overly engaging my lower back to kickstart the weight and add reps to the logbook that probably shouldn't have been there. Further amplified by the fact that I use extra padding for more range of motion in the stretch position. Which is good for that, but ironically can make it even easier to kick your lower back into it. Now, the first solution that I thought of, super simple. Just stop training legs. I wear these big parachute pants anyway. People wouldn't know, right? But the real solution that I thought of after that was to just plant my head firmly into position. Just like with the dips. This kept my body in a position where zero torso movement was possible, forcing my hamstrings to do the work all on their own. This did decrease performance a bit at first, I'm not going to lie. But I did feel my hamstrings work a ton harder. And the weights were still substantial enough to be challenging. And here's the lesson for you, the golden tidbit. Most of the time, with any cue that you try, it shouldn't require you to strip away tons and tons of weight for you to improve the stimulus to fatigue ratio or make the exercise feel better. A decent decrease is normal. But if you go from using 200 pounds to using 50 pounds, we're crossing into gimmick territory, I'm afraid. Since I didn't have to strip back that much weight, I've actually built up to a little bit more weight than I was using before, which was really cool. Now, friends, if the legs are like a mullet, hamstrings are definitely the party in the back. Quads, obviously, are business up front. And for quads, it's no secret that I really love sissy squats. And I credit most of the leg development that I've made this year to them specifically. Admittedly, along with a lot of deficit leg extensions and leg pressing, but that's the holy trinity, with sissy squats being my favorite to do. And the reason why I love those three exercises, namely sissy squats, is that they're a great way for someone who has longer legs and a short torso, like myself, to crush their quads. Especially when used in combination with those leg-biased exercises, like the leg press or the split squat. Now, I've done sissy squats single leg, with weight added, for high reps, low reps. But I couldn't find a way to really load them up very well. So for a while, it was my least favorite way to do them, of those varieties. Recently, though, a friend of mine showed me how to load them up with my hips on a Smith machine, which was really cool to see. I'm not going to lie, I never thought about doing this. Pretty much resembles a somersault squat, if you've ever heard of that. It's an old-school exercise that you can also do on a Smith machine as well. They're a hip-loaded movement, and I thought that it would be better to load them this way than with a SSB or weight in the hands or chains. I've tried a lot of different stuff, fellas. But bada-bing, bada-boom, I loaded up those sissy squats, and boy, they felt great. Now, fellas at home, if you did want to try this, you can also do it zurcher style. But either way, make sure you use a lot of heel elevation. You should pretty much be standing on your tippy toes. In terms of loading, I'm pretty decently strong at leg exercises. But embarrassingly, 10 pounds per side was pretty hard for some sets of 6 to 8. So as with literally every other exercise, make sure you're able to do a good amount of reps with just your body weight and with minimal assistance from your upper body pressing down into the bar or whatever you use for support. Before you go and add weight to them, if you want a full video breaking down this movement specifically, let me know. I'll make it. Now that we've touched on some stuff for upper and lower body, we're going to go ahead and wrap up Chapter 1. But before we hit the save station, I do want to say, while these tips will make your training snappier and more enjoyable and give you motivation because of those things, little tips and tricks can never come before 1. Knowing what exercises that you like to do in the first place or 2. Knowing how to do those exercises effectively. Now again, if you're interested, I have a playlist full of videos of exercise tutorials for some of my favorites that you can check out after you watch this one. But without any further ado, the demon of unproductivity has been slain. So let's save our progress and head into Chapter 2. I'll see you there. A quick announcement before Chapter 2. New updates to my free programs are coming soon. Sorry for the delay on that, by the way, fellas. And for those that are interested, my coaching app just updated to include easier ways to edit your split and a new rest timer. All your feedback helps to make my app better, so try it out if you're interested in coaching. I also have a free and fully time-stamped demo demonstrating the full coaching functionalities in the description and pinned comment if you're interested. Thanks again, fellas. Keeping up with the theme of prioritizing making your sessions feel good so that you enjoy them, so that you feel better about your training, and get more motivated, another easy way to motivate yourself is to simply just do something that you know is fun every once in a while, even if the program doesn't exactly call for it at the moment. Bonus points if you haven't done it in a really long time. Picture eating your favorite dessert for the first time in a really long time. The smell, the flavor. My friends, that is one of the only things in this world that feels better than the pump, and is exactly what this next tip feels like. We're also going to keep things productive by assigning a goal to our fun. My go-to, lately anyway, is to assign three to five sets of five to this movement because it's a good amount of volume for one, it's heavy so all the work will be really high quality, and lastly, it's a nice way to gauge your strength as well. For me, I really like doing flat, touch-and-go barbell bench press, the most meathead lift of all time. Now, I don't do it very often because dips, camber bar bench press, and even dumbbell pressing are all, in my opinion, significantly more targeted and effective exercises for growth on my program anyway. But in the words of the legendary wrestler Scott Steiner, load up the bench. I needed a little extra fire and gusto because that's been running low the past few weeks. And much to my surprise, I clipped off a bunch of sets with five with 315 pounds or three wheels, which I haven't even tried to do since I was peak bulk. And replicating that strength with better form and while very lean, fired me up about the effectiveness of my overall training program. It was all the dips, shoulder pressing, and hard tricep isolation that made this possible. And now that I've had my fun, I'm happily back to doing those things primarily. Now, speaking of dips and presses, I got a quick three-fold update that runs in tandem with my heavy fives shenanigans on bench press. I also hit a very nice volume PR today with three sets of five with 170 pounds, ass-to-grass on the dips. And I did some heavy fives on pin presses as well. You see, whenever I'm working with genuinely heavy weight, say around 80% of my one rep max or more, I always make sure that I do my best with hydration. That doesn't just mean water, it also means electrolytes. Super simple, got the tip from Stan Efferding. I just add a half a teaspoon of salt to whatever I'm drinking, and that helps facilitate blood flow, which ultimately facilitates performance. Now, with that being said, I do genuinely think that that heavy pin pressing led to me being able to also smoke my 260-pound shoulder press PR with better form and far more smoothly than the last time I attempted this weight. So there's something to those heavy fives when you're building volume, I think, because to be honest, the only other inclusion here was something super recent. My buddy Sam suggested following up my heavy work with a mid-range set of no-lockout presses to work on my sticking point. So far, I've tried it not only for presses, but for dips as well. And if nothing else, it's fun, and it helps me get a pump, and it's pretty difficult, I'm not going to lie. But I'll have a full video of my thoughts towards 5x5 training, along with that no-lockout strategy to go along with it, as well as a video about seated shoulder pressing. So look forward to those in the future. One thing that I want to punctuate before we move on into Chapter 3 is that I just didn't randomly do something I wasn't prepared for with that bench pressing, or with the dips, or with the shoulder pressing. There was a lot of training that led up to this point. So just keep that in mind whenever you're choosing what you do for fun, and you'll be good to go. With that being said, friends, the fiend of Demotivation's ass has been kicked. So let's get some potions, save our progress one last time, and head on into Chapter 3. I'll see you there. When you've played a game a million times before, a really simple way to continue to have fun with it is to play it in an entirely new way, to try something new. Whether that's a weapon you've never used, or a character that you've never tried, all of these things can lead to an entirely new experience, which is how we'll beat the final boss of today's video. Stagnation. Stagnation of ideas, experimentation, and fun is one of the worst things that you can encounter. Let's make our horse buddies proud and start off with the legs. I'm a big fan of isolating the adductors. Historically, I struggled to get the full stack for a few reps, but something as simple as putting a yoga block behind my hips on the adductor machine makes a night and day difference in stability and feel. And now, that full stack is a joke to hit. So much so that my adductors actually got super sore from hitting so much volume with that heavy a weight that I never really got for that many reps before. Additionally, bigger adductors also help in squat and leg pressing patterns just as much as the quads do. So isolating them better also allowed me to hit some very satisfying leg press PRs as well. Not that anyone cares how much you leg press, but it's getting beefed up. Moving on to the upper body, we all obviously love training back here. Now, with pulldowns, they're a prime lat builder. And to facilitate this, it's useful to keep the arms not only tucked, but also in front of the body as well. And I can personally find this a bit tricky to do automatically without thinking. So to make it easier, I just slide back in the seat a little bit. Now, when I do this, I have to pull slightly diagonally, and my arms are forced to stay slightly in front of my body, which is exactly what we wanted. The only caveat being, I do have to brace my core a bit more to stay in place, but honestly, that's no big deal for me. I train my abs a lot anyway, and you should be bracing on all your compounds as well. The reason why I'm going through the trouble of making sure that my form is dummy proof is that because back exercises are very sensitive to arm path, where you pull, how hard you squeeze, throwing each of those three things on the rails so that you can't deviate from them ensures that you're working the exact muscles that you want to work on your back so that you can just focus on working hard, which is ultimately what makes you big in the first place. By now, some of you will notice that this is mechanically pretty similar to a rack chin, which is another exercise that I love. This pulldown variation, while it does take a little bit more of a setup, does feel a little better. So try them both out, see which ones you like. Watch the video that I made outlining rack chins, along with some other gems, after this one. But in short, if you want to try those pulldowns, you can swap them out one-to-one in terms of reps with whatever back exercise you're doing right now. Now for the penultimate new exercise in my program, these leg raises, which I got from the GOAT, Brian Ulceru. By the way, thanks for the engagement on the short that I made outlining this exercise. Typically speaking, leg raises do tend to be a lot of hips worked for a lot of people, but these bad boys are all abs, probably because of where the load is distributed, but I'm no mathematician. I just know that they work. So try them out. Check out that short that I made after this video for the basic setup, and then a quick workout you can try if you haven't seen it already. By the way, you can also do them for the obliques as well. A fellow in the comments asked about it, so here you go. Here's the setup for it. Now lastly, I did also start doing double drop sets with my lateral raises. I really like drop sets for muscle groups that respond well to, quite frankly, having the shit beaten out of them, as Lee Haney used to say. But even if they don't actually work any better than normal sets, they're really fun, and they gave my shoulders a big pump. And that pump is really good at looking cool, obviously, but there's a big shoulder health benefit as well. In fact, if you're someone that's never really getting a pump when they work out, it's probably leaving your tendons and joints less recovered than they could be. Those puppies don't have veins like muscles do, so the only good way to deliver blood to them is through getting a pump. A cool new tool that I've been using in addition to these double drop sets is the Boulder Shoulder Machine. Now, I've seen some experts question if they're good or not, but I say that they are not because they do anything special, but because you can really lock into a fixed range of motion and arm path where you're isolating your delts. There's something called the scapular plane, where if you move within it, your shoulders are getting worked, but more importantly, that range of motion is going to be pain-free as well. And when you can lock into that range of motion, bada-bing, bada-boom, you got a Boulder Shoulder, baby. Now, with anything that we've talked about today, whatever you choose to do, make sure it aligns with your goals, and if it ain't fun, don't do it anymore. Fellas, that's the last stop on this ride. Thank you so much for watching. If you're interested in supporting the channel or you're looking for coaching, check out my Omni Hypertrophy app in the description and pinned comment. There's a demo and tutorial for you to try out as well to see if it's a good fit. And then if you want a free program to get started with instead, those are available for you as well. Also, be on the lookout for new updates to my most popular free programs. But that's all, Shiro fellas. I'll see you later. Have a great day. Bye.