 always one step ahead of me, no matter how much I progress, you always seem to surpass me, you always seem to surpass me, and now you've done it again, you were always there, laughing in my face, why won't you leave me alone? We, yes we, have all been obsessed with getting a massive, meaty set of shoulders and traps from the time we're old enough to say barbell to when we're old gray and all our hair is falling out. I struggled for a long time to grow mine personally, but what the hell is my hair is falling out. I struggled for a long time to grow mine personally, but what the hell is my hair is going to be a long time to grow mine. Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey week at all, you would still make amazing progress. Ladies, gentlemen, I'm Bald Omni-Man, your host for today, and please allow me to take you through the hero's journey of getting swole. I hope you enjoy. The call to adventure today comes courtesy of our delt swelling from seated shoulder presses and behind the neck presses. They're two uncrowned kings of upper body development. While not quite as popular as bench presses or dips, they're not without their loyal customers and followers. When both are done in the same training session, these two movements synergize perfectly. You get the biomechanic perfection from shoulder pressing with a high incline and the pure shoulder adaptations from a deep behind the neck press. They're like the green hornet and Kato of shoulder exercises. And for today, the seated shoulder press is going to be our main performance metric that we'll use as an indicator of our shoulder growth. And you can think of the behind the neck press as the shadow billionaire secretly investing in the growth of the company. With that being said, I did hype up the seated overhead press by calling it biomechanically perfect. Simply put, the shoulders seem to be hit better from a slightly laid back position, as opposed to straight up and down position. Now you can facilitate this with the standing overhead press as well, but that calls upon your lower back quite a bit. But with seated, you're knocking out two birds with one stone, baby, sparing that lower back and activating the delts better by having a seat to lean back into slightly. Additionally, you can drive even further into the pad by kicking into it with your legs using leg drive. Pretty awesome stuff. As for the height of the incline, just adjust it to one level below fully vertical. That hits the spot perfectly every time. And funnily enough, in case you needed some more convincing, most shoulder machines also set their seats with an angle pretty dang similar to this. That's just some food for thought. Moving on from benefits to technique, the seated press form that I like to use is pretty dang simple as well. But I do have a few preferences that I'd like to pass along to you. First of all, I do prefer to press with a close grip straight up and down and stop the bar about a couple inches shy of hitting my collarbone. First and foremost, the close grip is going to recruit my triceps better and overall just feels awesome on my joints, creating a lot more stability and keeping me stacked. I have tried a wider grip as well, but full disclosure, kind of felt like shit, even though it was a good bit easier. Now, in terms of the bar path, pushing straight up and down is going to sound pretty weird to the standing overhead press aficionados, but it's going to be different than what you'd expect on a standing overhead press. The reason being is that the only reason that you press up and around your overhead on a standing OHP is because that coconut's in the way. However, on a seated overhead press, we've already essentially pushed that coconut out of the way so we can press over our center of gravity optimally just by pressing straight up and down. Pressing up and back here just honestly feels weird and is actually going to reduce stability a ton, take reps off the board, and overall lead to worse gains in the long run. Lastly, the pause or the light touch at the bottom is intentionally a couple inches shy of my chest, and that's just simply there to increase stability where folks tend to lose it. Right out of the bottom, baby. When you go for that last couple inches of range of motion, you do get a strong stretch reflex effect, which is basically going to feel like a spring bouncing you out the bottom of the rep, pretty much even if you pause. But your bar path can get pretty crazy if you utilize that bounce and stretch reflex in that last couple inches. So I just like to cut it out altogether. All in all, this technique has allowed me to have more consistent progression. And speaking of progression, I've seen the best results by programming this exactly like a bench press. You can take your favorite bench press program, substitute bench for seated press, and you'll get fantastic results just by doing that. Now, if you're interested, I do have a preferred method of week to week loading that I've been using personally, but you can find in the description right now. Just go ahead and make a copy and you're good to get started. I ran that to a T and got incredible gains. Lately at a high level, Sam's been having me train with a projected training max that's slightly more than what I've actually done. So it's set with 270 as the training max instead of 260, which I actually did. That works really well for me as a lifter because it lets me push really hard and challenge myself on those earlier weeks where I otherwise would just honestly take it slightly easy. But I'm a seasoned lifter though, so definitely don't try that your first go around using this template. Go ahead and set your training max as something conservative and then go from there. But above all, if you're asking for one simple thing that you can do today, that's going to lead to better progress. The most important thing that you can do is just to keep a strict cap on your rec quality. In other words, do not get ahead of yourself and go off plan just to beat the books and do a little bit more than last time, just because you feel like you should 30 reps, mostly paused will do a lot more than you getting 36 reps total between two or three sets. And they're all significantly different rep quality. Stick to the plan and do it right. Moving on to a great accompaniment to seated overhead press. I want to first reference last week's episode on exercise combos. Watch it after this one if you haven't already. But in short, I gave three exercise combos that would build most of your muscle if you had to start over again. And seated overhead press plus chest supported rows was an honorable mention that people had a little bit of debate about in the comments. I made a full video breaking down technique for the chest supported row. But one additional golden tidbit that I'd like to give you is to avoid pulling with your lower back. Unfortunately, this is all too common and defeats the purpose and makes the movement feel entirely different. We're doing a chest supported row to remove our lower backs from the equation and increase stability to allow our upper backs to work harder. When you do go ahead and flex that lower back, you can get a good bit of horsepower out of doing that. And a few inches of range of motion. So keep that chest flexed and pressed firmly into the pad from start all the way to finish. After you punish that upper back, take it to pound town again with some calso shrugs. My favorite. All jokes aside, fellas, chest supported rows and overhead press in general synergize extremely well just because of how the upper back plays a role in giving horsepower at the bottom of a press. Simply put, behind every big press is an equally developed upper back. And for those that want to save a little bit extra time at the gym, go ahead and superset these bad boys too. They work opposite muscles. So that's totally fine. Now that we've built up our shoulders and back density, we're going to descend into the abyss. Next up in the exercise order for me is the behind the neck press. Now I've covered this before, but it's like the backbone of any pressing program. What it lacks in the seated press is biomechanical perfection and makes up for with raw power development. Lurking in the shadows of every good overhead pressing program. The behind the neck press is what makes everything possible. And it's because they're merciless and brutal in terms of their adaptation that I prefer to add the shoulder pressing volume from behind the neck press in a program over other shoulder machines, mostly because increases here have always directly correlated to increases in seated or standing presses. Because the truth of the matter is this, while adding in some of that additional pressing volume from say a hammer shrink machine feels really nice, mechanics wise, those machines end up being really similar to the normal seated press for my taste personally. Redundant in other words. Now technique wise with the behind the neck press, I do perform these bad boys in a Smith machine. So there's not really a whole lot going on in terms of form here, but there is a couple of things I do want you to keep in mind. Go ahead and take a grip that feels comfortable on your joints. And for me, that's a little bit wider. And the only thing that you're going to ensure is that you don't let your elbows track back and forth at the bottom to compensate for a lack of mobility in the shoulders. You don't want to share our shoulders to shreds here. The best way I found to facilitate this is just by recording yourself first of all, but mostly by doing a lot of pulling in the same plane of motion as a warmup, which leads us to our accompaniment by doing some behind the neck pulldown superset with your behind the neck press warmups. You're greasing that groove of mobility and that position that you're going to press in without loading the shoulders at all. And you're pumping up your upper back bit too, which is going to help it recruit better on the behind the neck presses as well. Now for folks that have reservations about the safety of these behind the neck pulldowns and presses, there's an easy way to acclimate yourself, not only to this movement, but to greater and greater ranges of motion. While you're super setting the presses and the pulls back and forth during your warmups, just go ahead and pull to your comfort level and then increase that range of motion in the middle of your warmups and overall as time goes on. For reference, I started behind the neck press with a measly 95 pounds. That's a quarter per side for those at home and then built up to upwards of about 200 pounds over time. Lately, I've increased the range of motion from going to about where my ears are to all the way down to the bottom of my traps, which has knocked the load down a bit, but I'm building it back up, baby. In general, like I said, press to your comfort level, but pressing to the ears or the base of your skull is perfectly fine. I got a lot of great results from doing that, particularly for the first several runs of this program. No matter what range of motion that you choose to go with, progression-wise, it's going to look the same. A normal double progression is going to work fine for most people, and it has for me so far. But as I said, start with that weight on the very light side and give yourself higher rep targets. When I was on a measly quarter per side or 95 pounds, I was doing sets of upwards of 15 to 20 reps. Part of that admittedly was chasing the pump. I'm not going to lie. But I'm also giving myself extra time for my tendons and joints to acclimate to an extreme position and range of motion that it is not used to. The main takeaways are go with a comfort level in your range of motion, graduate that range of motion over time, and then build those reps and that weight up until you get to normal working weights. And then you can just follow a regular double progression from there. Climbing now out of the abyss and brutality of behind the neck presses, I've come to the realization doing your smaller shoulder exercises is really important. And every little gram of muscle in that shoulder and upper back is going to build a bigger, stronger shoulder press. The fact of the matter is, fellas, shoulders can always use a little bit of extra intense, progressible, high quality work. But unfortunately, we can only do so much pressing before the returns start to diminish and then ultimately put us in the red, which is why we isolate. And throughout the course running this new program, Sam's giving me free reign to pick my favorites, which has been really exciting for me. And he also allows me to do them in a way that I find to be the most fun, which is the most important thing for buy-in for me. So here are my three favorite shoulder isolations to do, which I go ahead and swap between every couple of months, starting off strong with the reverse pec deck. Now, first and foremost, fellas, full disclosure, I mostly do these because you look extremely jacked while you're doing them. If you have a nice set of shoulders, nice upper back, but I really like doing a single high rep set include a couple of rest pauses to extend that set longer because ultimately aside from it looking extremely cool, it also smashes the upper back rear delts, but most importantly, works protraction and retraction of the shoulders, which is extremely important for building stability in any press. Progression wise, it's super simple. If I get 30 reps in say two minutes, I just try to get 30 or more reps within the same or less amount of time and bada bang, bada boom. That's the first one. Now moving on to the second one. If I'm trying to get as much work done as possible with as little loading as possible, I just go ahead and use my boulder shoulder thingamajig with the mythical and all powerful shoulder boulder thingamajig. It's basically a really stable lateral raise machine with a little bit of extra tension at the bottom. And I'll just pound sets to failure and try to beat my rep count week to week. And then I sneak in some cheeky rear delt flies to failure after my lateral raises just to completely finish off my shoulders. Not gonna lie, I like this one a lot. I get a lot of work in with relatively little weight. I just got a measly 10 pounds on here. But these pale in comparison to what is ultimately my favorite shoulder isolation. Last but not least, enter the chest supported Y raise. I made a video breaking down form and technique on this movement. If you're interested, check that out after this one. I do extensively break down the benefits of that exercise on that video. So I'm not going to spend a lot of time doing that here. But I will sell you on it though. Everybody that watched that video and tried that exercise loves it. Enough said. Moving on. That was that for shoulders and back. See how that rhymed. But every journey has a trusted companion on our last step where they come in clutch as the backbone of the group. Finally, in the home stretch, the greatest gift to any workout is of course, some arm day stuff, baby. Now I just want to preface vertical presses do seem to work the triceps a good bit more than horizontal presses do, relatively speaking. And all on their own will actually get your triceps pretty pumped and bigger. But again, there's only so much productive pressing that one can do in a workout before it just becomes counterproductive. So here's my list of favorite tricep isolations for those horseshoes and what I like to pair them with. I have two distinct combos that I switch and swap between just depending upon what I need. One is my ideal for that day, which is an overhead extension and a preacher hammer curl. The overhead is preferred because it hits the meatiest part of your triceps the best. And I just like hammer curls here because I can work my biceps while also sparing my elbows and tendons a bit in preparation for those barbell curls that I'll do on my weighted dip day. When it comes to choosing cables or free weight on the overhead extensions, you could really pick both and you wouldn't be going wrong. On one hand, the cables, we have a really customizable form, but everybody wants to use the cable stack. So you may be waiting around to go ahead and use that sucker. And on the other hand, you have your free weight overhead extensions, which utilize free weight. It's in the name, baby, which is going to feel the same anywhere. It's going to feel more locked in in terms of the form. If you're using a tricep bar, which is going to force those elbows in with downside here being that that locked in form might not be well tolerated by everyone's joints. At least not at first. Check out my video on exercise combos for an elbow health protocol that I love to use. If that happens to be you. But like I said, it's all about what you need and what you have access to. Now, my secondary combo for arms on this training day is going to be my recovery combo. And I'll deploy this one when I need some extra recovery and some extra blood flow. I'll just simply do some press downs and then some arm blaster hammer curls. The press downs come into play with my tricep bar. My tricep are tender in that overhead stretch position. I just need to pump them up with blood to make them feel better. I do like to keep pushing my elbows into my pockets as much as possible to keep the other muscles out of the equation. Another way to think about it is to push your shoulders down into your hips. No matter which one you go with, go ahead and try that cue out at home, fellas, and let me know what you think. As for the arm blaster curls, honestly, they just look really cool when they generate a lot of blood flow. Pretty simple stuff. Similarly, the progression is really simple on these as well for either of those combos. Just hit a normal double progression. And bada bing, bada boom. That is all she wrote, fellas. Here's my complete plan that I used to get my 260 pound shoulder press and how I will continue to inch towards that coveted three plate shoulder press. Fellas, thank you so much for watching. I hope you've been entertained. You learned a little bit. And I want you to like the video. If you liked it, leave me a comment. Subscribe if you're new. And if you wanted to support the channel, please check out my new Omni bar. It's that sick specialty bar that you saw me using throughout the video. You can use it for rows, extensions, pull-ups, bench press. You can use it as a cable attachment for rows and lat pulldowns. You get a lot of benefit out of this bar, and I put a lot of love into making it right. Thanks again, fellas. And watch these videos now that you watch this one. Have a great day.