 avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz avanz plenty of content about incorporating calisthenics into a program with weights, but how jacked can you actually get with calisthenics alone? Ladies, gentlemen, welcome in. I'm Bald Omni-Man, your host with the most receded hairline, and today, using my own training as an example, we'll uncover any limitations a calisthenics-only workout might have and how you can get the most out of it. So kick back, pour yourself your favorite drink or grab a snack, and I hope you enjoy. Make the first step with me on our quest to lay down our barbells by addressing the elephant in the room. The biggest limitation folks see with calisthenics is with progressive overload. How do you grow with an exercise long-term if you can't add weight to it? You don't have a barbell, right? Well, first of all, fellas, you can just add load to most of your calisthenics exercises. Of course, I'm not here to tell you things you already know, but just like with a default weapon on a video game, calisthenics exercises can be upgraded in a lot of different skill trees, just like the fancy new stuff you pick up as well. Now, what I don't hear people really talk about, and what I want to share with you today is adding load to your isolations with calisthenics exercises as well. We'll cover the specifics on that in chapter two, but with that being said, even if you choose not to add load, you can still grow with them even as an advanced lifter. In last week's episode on progressive overload, I talked about how you don't need to even add load or even reps half as frequently as you think you do in order to grow muscle, no matter what movement you do. And the truth behind that is this, repeating high-quality rep counts and really milking away for all it's worth is where the real muscle is built. So go ahead and check that video out after this one if you're interested. You'll be happy to know that calisthenics fall right into that framework perfectly, baby. That's because we, yes we, oftentimes fudge our form on calisthenics exercises to get more reps. In fact, think of it this way. Anytime you've seen someone do a high rep set of push-ups, what did their form look like? I rest my freaking case. So the room to truly master those movements and bodyweight exercises before you even add load has a lot more longevity than you might think at first. Moving on, some of my favorite characters in games are those hidden gems. You know which ones I'm talking about. The ones that are really good but don't look like it at first and don't cost a lot to put on your team. Those are the ones I have in mind, baby. And in the same way, calisthenics are easier to recover from than barbells or machines. And they're oftentimes much friendlier on the joints as well. Now those hidden gem characters are also often pliable and versatile, just like a lot of calisthenics exercises are. You can manipulate how the body's leverage to make them harder long before you need to add load. And some compress multiple roles into one, which we'll cover more in chapter two. Now ladies, gentlemen, that's all well and good. But let's just say for a second that you don't care about the enhanced recovery aspect. Why would you want to do a calisthenics only or calisthenics dominant workout for that matter then? Well, let's double back to a previous episode on when to incorporate minimalist workouts. Sometimes it's just beneficial to have a workout that covers all your bases without doing too much. A couple compounds here, some isolations there just to work the muscles well, but not to overstuff your time at the gym. And in this sense, calisthenics are like that all-rounder character in a fighting game. They do a little everything well without being overtuned in any one area. And they're most people's favorite character anyway. You may also want to use them as a buffer or supplemental workout. For instance, sometimes I'll program things like this for folks I coach if they just came off a specialization phase as a transitional workout. And folks, if you want to try this at home, usually I'll just keep the first upper body session of the week the same and then just swap out the second one. That's done in order to either build some physical momentum by letting the body recover or some mental momentum just by giving you something fresh to do. And personally, I think calisthenics workouts are also great if you love to train. That's how I personally would go about adding an extra upper body session to make that jump from two times a week to three times per week upper body frequency. I've used calisthenics workouts for all of the above. Now, lastly, you can finish a full calisthenics workout without wandering around your gym to a million different machines and benches, which I think is great. One or two spots and you're good to go. Now, ladies and gentlemen, with all that being said, let's put it all together for a workout. So pack up your gymnastics rings or set up your doorframe pull-up bar and let's head on over to the gym. I'll see you there. I got a quick one for you while we're on our way to the gym. Ladies and gentlemen, if you wanted to run a calisthenics biased workout and be coached through it, check out my Omni Hypertrophy app. It's designed based on my exact style of Berserk Method programming and recently has been updated to give you even more thorough coaching than before. You can edit things more easily and the overall load times are a lot faster than they were before as well. Lastly, you'll get bulking, cutting, or maintaining macros based on your activity level with body weight. This thing is even accurate for me. So if you tried it out in the past, thank you and consider checking out this updated version. Anyways, see you at the gym, fellas. Chest pumps have to be my favorite thing in the entire world. And if we're talking core memories, the core memory of my adulthood has got to be seeing some jabroni break his arm trying to punch Goku in the chest. So needless to say, chest pumps always make me feel like a tank and no better to kick off the pump of Palooza than the channel favorite exercise, weighted dips. So I'm pretty close to my heavy single week on weighted dips and the weights are starting to take a toll on me a little bit. They're getting heavy after all. Despite that, I was feeling good and I'm overjoyed to share that I hit a volume PR with 170 pounds added to my body weight. Last training cycle, 170 was tough for a single set, but here that first set was relatively easy despite being done with more solid rep quality. While it was the same number of reps as last time in the progression model that I outlined last week, sometimes you got to be okay with not making any progress on paper anyway and just logging in a solid workout. But baby, when you feel good, you know you're in for a PR of some kind. In this case, it was a volume PR as well as just relatively hitting the weight better. Anyways, I hit a couple of sets with 170 and for my last set of dips, I really wanted to focus on mind muscle connection with three plates and beating single set numbers for this point in the workout. By that, I mean sometimes progress looks like putting up some good numbers despite being fatigued and that's what I was going for. Last workout, I think I hit three or four reps with this weight and now I hit a lot more and with better form. Lastly, I've talked a lot about dips, particularly in this video that you can watch after this one, but on top of pumping up your pecs, shoulders, and triceps, deep dips also prime up your biceps just a tad. They don't work them, they just fill them with a little bit of blood, which is perfect for preparing me for probably my favorite pec exercise by far. Enter the ring push-ups. Ring push-ups are the Clark Kent of all chest exercises. Mild-mannered and unassuming until they punch you in the chest. These always catch folks off guard when they do them for the first time. On last week's episode, I talked about how they compress multiple rolls into one, but today we'll talk more about synergy. These puppies synergize perfectly with weighted dips because one, weighted dips work different divisions of your chest that aren't worked as much on these push-ups, and two, the dips just prime your biceps, which surprisingly get blasted on ring push-ups, particularly when you turn the rings out. Lastly, as a golden tidbit for form, the best thing that I can suggest form-wise is to treat the motion the same way Arnold Schwarzenegger did when you used to blast pec flies, since that's essentially what this push-up variation is. I personally hit up three sets, and after dips, your pecs will be fried. No need to do anything else after this, for the pecs anyway. As for the back, back training, and particularly a good back exercise, is as important to a good workout as a tank unit is in an RPG. By now, your pecs might be feeling a little bit tight, which is where some pulling comes into play. Now, if ring push-ups are the Clark Kent of chest exercises, then weighted inverted rows are probably that guy on the team that you think will be trash, but he's actually the MVP. Now, the favorite by far of mine is still the chest-supported dumbbell row, but to be honest, weighted inverted rows are almost as good and even quicker to set up, particularly if you use the setup that I stumbled upon on Instagram. They're even easier to load, in my opinion. Special thanks to Nick Nilsson on Instagram for demonstrating this setup. It comes up with a lot of cool variations, but I adjusted the setup slightly just by using an adjustable bench to prop my feet up so I could straighten my legs, but the basic idea is the same. Compared to just propping the weights on your chest raw dog or, God forbid, buying a weight vest, which is a lot more expensive, this is far more stable, easier to load, and you don't have to worry about the plates sliding around and hitting you with that Tekken uppercut. That being said, one thing I will say about inverted rows is that I've given up on trying to get them to work my lats, since I don't feel like they do a great job at that, but they do excel at smashing your mid-back and traps in a way I didn't expect when I was trying to make them a lat exercise. Form-wise, it doesn't matter if you put the plates on a belt hanging off your waist or on the chest, you just imagine pulling high up on the chest and squeeze hard at the top. Now, I imagine a lot of y'all are going to try that setup that I got from Nick, and while I think it's amazing and the variation that I'm going to do personally moving forward, there's still a benefit to putting the plates on the chest that I've never heard anyone talking about. When you do your inverted rows with plates on the chest, the cool thing is that your arms will run into the plates at the top, which gives you something to squeeze against. That not only gives you a barometer for your range of motion, but squeezing against the plates makes the contraction feel harder for me personally. Try that out, let me know what you think. Lastly, I do have an important question for you folks at home that I need you to tap in with, so lock in real quick. The streets love Kelso shrugs. They're another mid-back exercise. Now, he says they're good as a finisher done directly after rows, but not great as a standalone exercise. But what do y'all think? I'll give my thoughts later in the video, probably at the end. But anyway, in terms of the inverted rows, I crushed four sets of inverted rows, so I didn't feel like I needed any more upper back work either way. Moving on to pull-ups, baby. There's nothing much to say here that hasn't been said already. The streets love pull-ups, and you're the odd man out if you say you don't like them. So I probably do not need to convince you to do them. But one thing I can share experientially that I want you to try is that they do feel more stable when your back is already pumped up a little bit. So the two sets of pull-ups that I did after the inverted rows felt really locked in. That being said, while push-ups and pull-ups are self-evident, auto-includes into a calisthenics workout, isolation with calisthenics is a little bit more contentious. But let me tell you right now that there are good options that exist for both biceps and triceps. Let's start with ring curls. Now these are, admittedly, in my opinion, the lesser of the two exercises, just because I do think that dumbbells and cables are just notably better. But remember, something doesn't need to be the best to grow muscle. And ring curls in this context add some variety that allow you to fill in with some extra hard work that you can recover from easily. For example, if meadows curls, which are probably the best bicep exercise overall, give you 10 experience points, but you need two days to recover from them, then ring curls may give you five or six experience points, but you need one or less days to recover from them. That ratio makes those puppies fit in perfectly as a third upper body day exercise, particularly when you do them with a squeeze bias. You can also change the way you face to simulate an incline curl. Lastly, one other thing that I like is how you can incorporate drop sets easily just by adjusting your torso position. And when these guys are on, they're on. One of the best bicep pumps I've ever had actually was from ring curls. So I paid my dues here with four sets between regular and then pelican curls. And as sweet as that bicep pump was, as I said, I do like the tricep companion better. Calisthenics extensions, particularly when you overload them, as I alluded to in the beginning of the video, they're probably even better than barbell extensions. They're just as stable, easier on the joints, simple to load and can mimic anything from a JM press to a skull crusher. The setup's super simple. You get yourself a barbell. You can either put it in the J hooks or put some two and a half pound plates on them to keep it off the ground a little bit. And then you put some plates in front of it and make sure you do that. You need something in front of the plates to stop them from sliding around, unless you want to drag your face on the ground like Vegeta did in Dragon Ball GT. Ouch. Anyways, it is really easy to keep your elbows tucked in close and bias those triceps here. And as I said, these are quickly becoming honestly my favorite tricep exercise. Now, if we're talking about doing them on a straight bar, all that's true. But ring extensions, I feel are notably not as good, unfortunately, because while they have all the same basic benefits, I feel that side to side movement you get on rings can be to your detriment. I feel you have to brace your core way more than say on a pushup than you do on a tricep extension just to keep yourself stable. But it's up to you. I'm open to hear what you think in the comments as well. I did do a whopping five sets here way more than I would normally do, but I was locked in baby. But that's all she wrote for the training session and for this video, fellas. Try out those weighted inverted rows and weighted extensions and let me know what you think. Folks, thank you so much for watching. If you liked the video, please like, comment, and share the video with a friend. And if you'd like to support the channel, check out my Omnihypertrophy app. It's my coaching app based directly on my Berserk method style of programming, both with the guidance in and out of the gym. It's a great resource that I put a lot of time into updating based on your feedback, and I would love for you to check it out. Either way it goes, have a great day, folks. Thanks. Bye-bye.