! GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLA, GLAZCLACLACLAC I'm responding to a good video from a buddy of mine that I'll link in the description. Honestly, the entire conversation kind of irritates me at times, but what's your opinion? Is lifting weights tough or does doing it make you tougher? Go ahead and leave a comment with your opinion before I give mine. I'm really curious to hear what some of y'all think before and after I give my opinion. And if you like that hard intro or like the video at any point in time, just remember to like the video, bro. It helps the video out a lot. Here's my opinion starting from the top. I think training is tough, but it doesn't necessarily make you tough. Now, let me explain that. I think first we have to define what hard training really is. And in terms of that, I think it's best to judge it at a high level because that's where you're going to experience the most difficulty. And training at a high level to me means this. First and foremost, it has to come down to you're at a high level relative to your genetics, whether you're natural or you're enhanced. If you're still at a beginner level relative to your genetics or intermediate, I don't think that you are yet training at a high level. That's not like an elitist thing to say. I'm not saying in that capacity. I'm just saying that you have yet to actualize most of your potential. So therefore, you're not going to see a lot of the things that I'm about to mention after this. I also think that you're training at a high level if you faced hard plateaus that require pushing into uncomfortable territory in terms of your diet and your training. And those are miscellaneous things that make progress not as simple as just train hard or whatever quick, simple tips that are useful when you're first learning something or you're first doing something. I think another big one is that training near the peak of your performance makes you train with weights that physically crush you and just beat the shit out of your joints. For example, you can say as a 225 squatter, do a set of 185 for 10 reps with three reps in reserve, and that will be three reps in reserve. Now, someone that is a 700 pound squatter can say squat 550 for 10 reps with three reps in reserve. They're both still three reps in the tank, but one comes at a much higher recovery cost just because of the weights that are used. And another thing that comes into play with high level training that factors in with those objectively higher lows is that when you're approaching a peak, you're in a peak and shortly after a peaking phase, whether you're peaking a 10 rep max, a five rep max, a one rep max, it doesn't matter. Your sleep is going to be horrible. It just is what it is. And it's something that you're going to have to deal with. The last huge one is this just off the top of my head. You may or may not have currently had injuries that need to be addressed properly for you to make appreciable progress. Now, don't get me wrong. Training is a hobby, first and foremost, for most people. And it's really fucking fun. But going by all of that, I'd say that training, especially at a high level, is definitely tough. Now, is it the toughest thing that you can do in the world? Absolutely not. I've personally done a lot of things that were tougher physically. For example, first and foremost, one of my proudest athletic achievements, I ran a mile and a half or about, I think it's 2,300 to 2,400 meters. I don't know the exact math. Someone could correct me. But I ran that in about seven and a half minutes twice in my life. That was physically much more difficult than even the hardest weight training session I've done. And then on the mental side of things, bro, don't get me started. There's tons of everyday stressors that are more mentally draining than just you train at a high level at the gym and you're getting five hours of sleep instead of eight because you're in a peaking phase. Like, let's be fucking for real, bro. But with training, you do have to expose yourself to a number of things that sap mental and physical energy. And that's definitely not easy either, just because there are things that are harder. If it was the case where it was just this objectively easy thing, absolutely everybody that goes to the gym would be jacked. And obviously that is not the case because the average person that goes to the gym is not jacked. If it was just this easy thing, they'd be able to go in, just do whatever the fuck they want, and then look like Ronnie Coleman. Some people take steroids and then they still have not made a shred of progress since the day that they stepped into the gym. Now, I find that most people love black and white answers, quite frankly. And I also think that people lash out whenever you even suggest that training is hard on any level, because training, like I said, is ultimately a fun hobby. If something is fun, people are going to have a hard time saying it is tough or something that makes you tougher. Here's what I'm going to ask you to consider if you have that opinion. You know what else are fun hobbies? Track and field, boxing, MMA, football. You're going to walk up to James Harrison, this mutant freak, and then say to him, playing football isn't tough, bro. It's fun hobby. Now, there are some brave souls that would absolutely say that to James Harrison, this super mutant freak. But for most people, most of us, all of those things are seen as traditionally tough, manly, quote unquote, high testosterone activities. But realistically, there's no difference between any of those things, MMA, football, boxing, track and field. The only difference is that they're tougher. But that doesn't make things that are less tough, not tough at all. Because then if we accept that logic, everything just becomes a weird circle jerk where you're just this cock measuring contest of, oh, what I like to do is harder than yours. Therefore, it's tougher. And yours is just not tough at all. I think the only other argument that you make is, is that just in general, whether it's boxing, MMA, football, lifting weights, maybe someone would say that physical discomfort doesn't make you tough. Anybody can do that. What makes you tough is blah, blah, blah. Now, for people that have that opinion, I can see where you're coming from, because that doesn't necessarily make you tough. And I'm going to address this at the very last point of mind. But here's some food for thought from someone that was in the military. Here's the thing. The military uses physical training to instill a sense of discipline and to expose people at a small scale level to stress, to problem solving situations and things of that nature to where you have to be decisive. You have to be resourceful. And those are all very tough traits to have. Take David Goggins, for example. He's a dude that does insane physical training, runs for hours and hours and hours and hours, does thousands and thousands of pull ups, brutal training. And he does it to what he call stay hard. Now, a physical training was something that was completely useless to maintaining his mindset, because it's not just a physical like stay hard, like your body stays tough. It's a mental stay hard as well. And if that was completely useless to him, he just wouldn't do it at all. The truth of the matter is, is that physical training can teach you lessons, but you have to be willing to see them one and to respect them and embody them. At the end of the day, hard shit comes on a scale. But let's not act like just because something is harder than something else means that nothing else is difficult or can be seen as difficult. Because when we embrace that logic, it's when we have people who randomly say to someone that they'll just beat the shit out of them because they lift weights and that your muscles don't make you bulletproof. And all you just did was be more jacked to them. It's that kind of vibe. Now, the problem is, is that I also think that while you can become tougher from training or playing football or being in the military or doing MMA, I don't think any of those things necessarily make you tougher by default. The problem is, is that no matter how much tough shit that you do, it doesn't make you tough. And by that, I mean, I've met plenty of people who did a lot of classically tough things who were honestly quite soft overall. Some people who lift a shit ton of weight or who are professional athletes or MMA fighters, they fall out over things or go to war over shit that frankly baffles me. So think in the capacity of lifting weights. Think of your 700 pound sumo deadlifter, roid goblin, broccoli boy douchebag that posts pictures of himself crying on his Instagram story, like literally tears coming out of his eye, crying on his Instagram story. And all because a girl he liked didn't talk to him. They slam mass roids for easy ass gains. And then when they reach their first plateau, they just stop lifting or they move on to some other hobby where they try to spam shortcuts on that as well. This type of lifters basic idea of struggle is just what embodies human inconveniences that we all face every day. Yet they catastrophize it to this massive thing because they don't truly pay attention to anything that goes on in their life. Brain rot is very real and it doesn't just come down to the fact that most people nowadays don't have an attention span that's longer than 15 seconds when they're watching a video or watching a TV show or someone's talking to them and they phase out and it becomes Charlie Brown noise. Three seconds of them talking if there's not subway surfers playing in the background. You know what I'm saying? It also comes down to the fact that people go through things in life with very obvious takeaways and then they just don't take anything away from it, which I find to be baffling. But you have those people that 700 pound deadlift is strong. They train at an objectively high level, whether they're on slamming roids to get to that or not. But there's also people who don't do any of that shit. You just work a regular ass job whose lives can be falling apart in the background, who exhibit a lot more mental toughness than that roid goblin does. And it's because they pay attention to the lessons that life is trying to teach them. Nonetheless, that doesn't mean that there's not still lessons that can be learned in anything tough that you have to overcome or tough things that you subject yourself to for a hobby. But you have to be willing to one, see them in the first place, pay attention to what's going on around you and then be accept them. Lifting weights comes with discipline. You have to adhere to a schedule. You have to accept mental and physical discomfort at a small scale and understand that just because you feel those things, you still have to come in and get the work done. And yes, it's fun at the end of the day, but it's a small exercise that is a microcosm for something that is much larger. And there are plenty of people that have used lifting weights as a conduit to be good at playing sports or to be good at business or good at anything else in life because they take those small lessons and apply them at larger and larger scales at a gradient over time. And that's my opinion at the end of the day. Lifting weights is tough, but it's not necessarily going to make you tougher if you're just not paying the fuck attention to what you're doing. And there are things that are obviously a lot tougher as well. But what do y'all guys think? I want to hear your comments down below. Talking a little bit about my training that you've seen up until now. The first couple of days were from an overhead pressing session that I also do weighted pull-ups on and then a weighted push-up session, which is my light day. And then this last one coming up is my ATG weighted dip day. In terms of the overhead press session, that's still my favorite day, I think, overall, especially now that I'm doing weighted pull-ups on them. I have the goal now of hitting a plus 200 pounds added weighted pull-up. I haven't really trained weighted pull-ups in a strength training capacity in a long time. Anytime I do them, it's just something that I've cycled in and like, oh, it's time for me to change my exercise. Now I'm going to do weighted pull-ups instead of heavy-ass barbell rows type of thing. I've never taken the time to get really neurally good at them for longer than like a month or two. So I'm really keen to see what I can do. My best to date, I've hit four plates at various body weights. Like I said, I'd like to hit 200 pounds added. And then the overhead press training is going swimmingly. I mean, it's felt consistently great. And I credit that to my buddy Sam's really great programming that he helped come up together with me. I'm going to be making full videos about how to get stronger at weighted pull-ups, how to get stronger at weighted dips, and things of that nature. I just wanted to show everything here at a high level. Basically, though, I have a few training goals. So first and foremost, the most important thing to me is getting a 315-pound seated overhead press. I want to be as close to Dan motherfucking Green as I can possibly be. And that dude just blasts 315 on the seated overhead press for a bunch of reps. I just want it for one, though. Also, I'd like to get that 200-pound weighted pull-up. I think that that's pretty close. That's more of like a medium-term goal. And then also a short-term goal of mine is hitting that 200-pound ass-to-grass weighted dip. I almost got it last cycle. I just misgrooved it, didn't brace properly, and I wasn't strong enough to grind it out despite being thrown into a bad position. But this current training cycle is feeling really good, and I'm feeling really great about it. And then I'd also like to put another half inch on my legs, lean size, because I can gain an inch and a half on my legs just from gaining 20 pounds. I'm talking about lean muscle mass. So I've been slamming my squat pattern motions and training my adductors a lot more intentionally as well lately. And then the last thing would be on the barbell curls, I'd like to get a plate with good form, not swaying, none of that bullshit. I'd like to get a plate for 8 to 10 reps, which I think I'm pretty close to, because I think my PR on that is 6 or 7 reps with a plate with good form, no swaying, no cheating bullshit. I also want to make a video on the cable pullover. Just for people that really fell in love with the dumbbell pullovers, I think that the cable pullover is orders of magnitude better. And when you try it out and you get a setup that you like, I think a lot of y'all will enjoy that as well. And that'll be featured in that how to get stronger weighted pull-ups video as an assistance exercise. I also started doing these high incline barbell bench presses, dead stop from pins. That's a fucking mouthful. But I saw my buddy Sam doing them on a training vlog of his, and I thought I'd have to jack those. You know what I'm saying, bro? So I threw them in my program. The reason why I did it, though, is because it makes a lot of sense for me. I'm someone where on shoulder pressing movements, if I can blast it out of the bottom, I'm going to get the rep. But if I have to grind in the middle, I'm not going to get the rep. You see what I'm saying? So this develops that punching power at the bottom. If you want to try this at home, here's how I set up my shoulder presses and these high incline bench presses. For the shoulder press, you want to take it and set the bench so that it's at its most vertical setting and then go one notch down below that. That's going to be your optimal seated shoulder press bench angle to where you're targeting your delts the best. And then if you want to do this high incline bench press, whether it's on a Smith machine, a barbell, dumbbells, whatever, you go one angle down from that. So now you're two notches down from most vertical. And when I said I want to rep a plate with good form on barbell curls, this is what I mean. This is the type of form that I want to have. Now, if I was to introduce a little bit more body English, perhaps sway forward, sway back a little bit more. I could blast a plate for like I think I've even done it at a training vlog for like 15 reps and it's just no issue. And then if I do drag curls, those are a lot easier as well. So I don't want to do that. I want to look chatty when I do it. I want it to have full control. I want the veins to be going crazy. I want my neck to be bulging. I want the shoulders and biceps to be flooding the shirt. That's what I want. I don't want that cheating bullshit. Lastly, I made a slight form adjustment on my chest supported rows. Same type of form. Essentially, the only thing I'm doing differently is that I'm pausing at the top and holding the contraction a little bit, which is not necessarily something that you should do or need to do. I'm only doing it because I don't feel like carrying over the 130, 140 pound dumbbells to do chest supported rows when I could just pause at the top and not have to use as much weight. But in general, a chest supported row, especially when you're doing the mechanical drop set of doing a Kelso shrug afterwards, is probably the single best back exercise that you can do. And this is a super set that I feature a lot. As an example, on my Golden Warrior self-coaching program that is hosted on Boost Camp. This is a program that is the closest thing that you can get to coaching without shelling out for coaching, which is quite expensive. I took a 40 page e-book that I wrote and took all of that information and translated into this program. You can get it right now for two weeks free with code Omni. Check the link in the description and the pinned comment. Check it out. Let me know what you think. Y'all have a great day. See you later. See you later.