 Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald Donald My name is Bald Omni-Man, your host for today, and I created the best self-coaching resource on the planet, the Berserk Method. Last year, I made a guide showcasing everything I do as an advanced lifter to make gains naturally from diet, training, all the way to mindset. And I have new discoveries that I want to share this year, but I also want to talk about how to get the most of the programs you're running already and the advice that you'll encounter this year as well. People go to war over trends and those trends will come and go, but I want you to benefit from it all. Now, this video is meant to be watched multiple times, and I want it to help out a lot of people. So if you liked the video or you thought the intro went hard, please like the video so that this can get out to as many people as possible. Thanks again. Let's break the ice with something fun, fellas. Today's episode is going to be a combination of practical advice on common problems for new and advanced lifters, cool things you can try, and then thoughts about my own training that I think will help. So before we dig into the main course, let's wet our palates with an appetizer. Pick one movement for every muscle group and set a strength goal. After that, you got work to do. You're going to get as strong as possible over the long term at those movements. You probably already got some favorites, so focus on those, but try some new stuff for a change as well. Your lowest hanging fruits get you jacked the fastest. Here are three movements that I think will work well for most of you that are variations or tweaks of stuff that you do already that I think will enhance your training tremendously. Try back-supported overhead extensions to get in that long head of the tricep work that's stable from a back pad. It's going to prevent a lot of the swinging and momentum that you can have when you do a cable overhead extension. Next up, dumbbell rows done with a neutral back. Not only keeping the back straight, but also not letting the back rotate keeps the movement super strict, while also still hitting your obliques super hard as well. I think when it comes to dumbbell rows, folks confuse anti-rotation with rotation rotation, which can inflate the amount that you use on the dumbbells quite a bit, to say the least. Try this out if you're already maxing the dumbbell stack. I guarantee you'll be able to train up with lighter weights again. And then lastly, try good mornings to pins. Most of y'all are already doing a lot of pulling exercises for that Dorito back. And more than anything with good mornings to pins, this lets you get in some hip hinge work without needing to hold the bar in your hands and stretching your upper back and triceps, which can get beat up on rows. Not necessarily built, at least in terms of the triceps anyway, just beat up. And the pins are for depth checking, but also training from a dead stop, just like with deadlifts or stiff leg deadlifts. So these make you strong and stout as well. That's it for the icebreaker. I hope you had fun with that. You let me know in the comments what are three variations that you've tried recently and how you like them. Moving on to our first main topic of the day, the diet stuff. Let's address the elephant in the room, shall we? There's a lot of discourse in the fitness community on if you should bulk, cut, or maintain to build muscle. People are going to war over this shit every day, and conflict creates anxiety in the folks watching videos for answers. Over here, though, I want you guys to kick back and relax. So here's something simple to chew on. Here's the honest truth, fellas. You can definitely gain muscle with all three modalities, and I'll tell you which one I think works best depending on your goals and circumstances. But regardless of what you pick, at a high level, I do like to keep diet simplistic. I did cover this next little tidbit last year, but it bears repeating. If you generally eat tasty, healthy stuff, you salt your food, you eat your veggies, then partner, you're cooking with gas. All you need to focus on is how you feel at that point and how well your training is going. But it's your gusto and your training stimulus at the end of the day that makes you have fun with your training and gets you jacked. It's not what you eat. Food is just there to help you recover and make you feel strong during your workouts. Now, as for if you should bulk, cut, or maintain, here's what I think. If you're a regular, you probably already know how I feel about bulking, or in other words, eating in a calorie surplus. It's a good option for most and is where most lifters are going to spend the majority of their training career. I have a slightly different way of looking at it, though, these days that I want you guys to tell me your opinion on. So I think that you should bulk if you're learning the odds and ends of good dieting and what you respond to best with your training. So you can focus entirely on your training and progressing when you know for a fact that you have enough resources from your food to train really hard. You can make mistakes and you can figure out what works for you. Also, most lifters just get fired up to train really hard just from getting physically larger at a fast rate. And then also just seeing the scale go up, seeing those numbers pump up, baby. That's fun. And enjoyment at the end of the day is a massive factor that beats optimal or what works on paper any day of the week. Now, fellas, bulking deserves glaze every day of the week and twice on Sunday. Training and caloric maintenance, on the other hand, definitely will still allow you to build muscle and strength. But under specific parameters. One, if you're really fluffy, no matter what your experience level is, you have a lot of surplus energy and calories to just train. And then if you're an advanced lifter and you have a great diet, you're eating high in protein with enough carbs to facilitate high performance at the gym. And you got habits like a high step count, enough fiber and micronutrients to partition your food. You eat more effectively. And you can also gain muscle and maintenance as well. And that's what I did in 2025. That's because I liked the body composition that I started at in 2025 and just wanted to improve it. I didn't want to get fluffier. Now, hold your horses. There's going to be newer lifters that hear everything about it being for advanced lifters and people that have a good grasp of their diet. And then they'll try it anyway because they want the best of both worlds. The truth of the matter is this. Most advanced lifters get advanced by doing calorie surpluses. Part of that has to do with the fact that you can just get away with more, but also you're learning the ropes and learning what really works well for you specifically. This isn't me gatekeeping. This is me saying you can't skip the journey to get to the destination. Just wanted to share an update of my own experiences and what I know will work well for people under these specific parameters and then tell you how to do it responsibly. Now, lastly, cutting is super simple. I like the phrase of the folks like this. And I say this all the time, but if you're fluffy, you're just cutting to make more room for bulk. And that's all. In terms of your deficit, I think you should run the biggest caloric deficit that you can handle while still getting in protein with each meal and without becoming too food obsessed or losing a ton of performance. The faster you can get it over with, though, the better. Moving on from diet munchies to mindset. This might sound obvious, but this year, more than any special exercise or fancy program, you should prioritize getting in a great workout every time you go to the gym. This doesn't mean prioritize and lifting more and more weights or doing more and more reps every time you go to the gym, because there are folks that go to the gym for years and get really strong and definitely gain some muscle. But they never really learn to work each of their muscles. Well, there's textbook form and then there's accurately hitting your muscles. And that's what a good workout looks like to me, because sometimes adding weight or reps is impossible. So, for example, I feel tricep press downs a lot in the long head of my triceps with how I perform them. But to those watching, it just looks like a press down. To me, I see a very specific technique that I curated over time to smash the meatiest part of my triceps, and I love it. And the truth of the matter is that you can't really refine your form to that level if you're constantly piling on more and more weight and more and more reps. I'm not saying don't add reps, don't add weight, because then you never get anywhere doing that either. I'm saying that you can make a given weight and rep range productive for far longer than most people think. A good way to start off is by running a triple progression, which basically means that you increase reps, then rep quality, and then you add weight. Don't aim to make the reps pretty, though. Make them matter. Like I said, textbook form is one thing. Hitting the muscles well is another. And sometimes, sometimes, hitting the muscles well is a little ugly, I'm not gonna lie. Something super simple and cool that you can try while you're refining your reps is try squeezing at the top of each rep to help reconnect with your muscles. Sometimes, our form on the outside level can look perfectly fine, but internally, we can feel that we're swinging our ways through the set. And this prevents that automatically. So try that out, let me know what you think, especially on tricep work and back work. Part of mindset is also knowing when and how to use the information that you encounter on social media. Let's talk about a couple ways that you can do that without getting lost in the weeds. First and foremost, most of y'all are gonna try out a few different programs this year. Here's what you should look out for with anything you try. Don't pay attention so much to who's making them, but evaluate them based on how fun they look, how much time they take out of your week, and if they're sufficiently customizable. They shouldn't be killing you with work either. A reasonable number of sets per week is anywhere between 8 and 15, depending upon what you're doing already. So if they're doing much more or much less than that, there better be a damn good reason why. Ultimately, the number of sets per week doesn't really matter, provided that you're not doing too much. But you should do as many sets as it takes to improve your performance as fast and as sustainably as possible. Nothing more, nothing less. Most importantly, above anything else, there should be a realistic and easy-to-understand progression. And it should be reusable as well, especially if you're paying for the program. Now, I am very happy to announce I have finally updated my most popular free programs, Raider and Beast Slayer, for their 2.0 versions. Now, I made them specifically to be as good as other people's paid programs. You can find those for free on Boost Camp, which is a free program app that a lot of people love. Check those out if you're looking for a new program to run or if you ran the original versions and are looking for something updated. Now, if you're interested, you can find those in the description and the pinned comment with my Boost Camp link. Thanks again. Other than programs, you're also going to encounter advice, like this video, for instance, actually. First of all, you should see if that advice you're getting is even applicable to any specific needs you have. Sometimes we get advice that's generally good but won't actually help us all that much because it's irrelevant to our needs or redundant with something that we're already doing. And sometimes you're encountering something that looks flashy and cool but doesn't actually do anything. So remember, what are my needs and how does this fulfill it? Lastly, when it comes to modifying your program using new programming techniques that you might encounter, try to apply all the advice I just gave. And when you do add them in, try to do it on your secondary or less important sessions. I like to say that a great program should work in absence of all the extra stuff. The accessories and cool exercise and bells and whistles definitely help the bottom line. I'm just saying, if you're running a bench program and on your secondary day, instead of doing dumbbell press, you choose to do a chest press machine that you saw on TikTok, it's not the end of the world. Same thing if you chose to incorporate cluster sets or anything that you find programming-wise. And try not to tweak more than one or two things at once. There's something to be said about if you replace every part of a boat. Is it the original boat anymore or is it something else? I think it's something else, so keep that in mind. Speaking of that, let's flex that critical thinking muscle by giving you some cool stuff that I've been doing recently that I think you should try. If you're someone that wants to do more arm work, but you also want something that's a bit easier on the joints, try high rep, arm-biased compound movements as a way to hit your arms on a secondary workout. There are a lot of good ones like supinated pull-downs, dips, but an underrated favorite of mine is actually the seated overhead press, specifically done with a close grip. Dude, these trash the long head of my triceps when I'm doing them for high reps. I can't recommend them enough. Those three lifts are so different from when they're done in a moderate rep range that you can track them as entirely separate lifts because they really are. They have a totally different training effect. Stimulus-wise, when they compare to an isolation exercise, I'm not going to lie, they're not as good. But I do think they're about 75% as good as a set of curls or extensions. But they're a lot less harsh on the elbows as well, so it's a great option to consider. In some ways, they're even restorative because you're driving extra blood flow to your tendons and your joints with all the extra reps. So it's a one-two gains punch, baby. Try that out and let me know what you think. Something else that I do a lot that you won't ever really hear on social media fitness is that I gamify my training, and it's pretty random what I do and when I do it. And I say that's something you don't really hear because it's hard to get people to do it without doing too much. But it's the truth that when we go to the gym, we do random shit sometimes. So to keep myself in check, I narrow it down to a few cool things that I like. First of which being, I'm just going to finish every workout with 50 reps of press downs with half my body weight. Dude, this one's killer. I'm not going to lie. Sometimes I do like 35 or 40 reps of press downs depending upon how cooked I am. But the idea of just finishing a workout with some tough press downs, that's stout. That puts hair on your chest, and it's fun. Try to get them in as little sets as possible. So don't try to do 50 reps with half your body weight. If you can do that, you're super stout, bro. I'm talking like on a one-to-one pulley, so like adjust per your gym's pulley ratio. So if you have one of those cable stacks where you load 100 and then it's really 50 or 25, just adjust from there. As you can see, that's one of my favorites. But another one I like doing is that on the last set of my last exercise, sometimes I like doing a drop set randomly. It's just fun. Not sure what it does, but it fires me up and gets me motivated to train. It drives some extra blood flow, so if I have anything that feels achy, it makes it feel better. And last, but certainly not least, I leave at least one slot in my program free to change weekly or however often I feel like changing it until I find something that I really like to do. After that, I make it a staple, rinse and repeat, do it all over again until I find another staple. That way I can enjoy the structure of a program while also enjoying some freedom of choice. Fellas, thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed the video and want to see more like it, make sure you like the video. And if you're new, make sure you subscribe, especially to see that new top 10 exercises list. I want as many people as possible to see this guide so they can get jacked and stacked this year and have fun doing it. If you're interested, check out my free Raider and Beast Slayer 2.0 programs with my link in the description or pinned comment. See you later.