 I personally, I personally think that the influx of science-based content creation is a net negative overall, but not for the reasons you think. A lot of people think it's bad just because they ultimately don't like the people making the content or they think they're small. That's not my take at all personally. If you're new to the channel, I'm Bald Omni-Man, and today I want to discuss some of the issues that I have with the entire science-based versus Bro debate as a whole. And this is an open discussion, so feel free to chime in at any time, and I hope you enjoy. First and foremost, there's nothing wrong with science-based training, there's nothing wrong with science-based training in of itself. There's nothing wrong with science-based training in of itself. However you personally get fired up to get physically active and improve your health is amazing, because the average American eats 3,500 calories and doesn't exercise at all, which is dire, to say the least. A lot of those excess calories come from not the best sources, so anything that gets you making better diet choices and overall improving your body composition, that's A-OK in my book. Even horribly structured training is going to vastly improve your body composition. your quality of life, provided you're not hurting yourself. Where the problem begins for me is in the style of content that gets put out, and how that information is put out in the first place. Science-based content as a whole seems to be very much focused on rage bait and the overcomplication of simple things. For example, I saw a young man talking about Jordan Peters and how he didn't know how to train well because of poor fatigue management. Now granted, JP is on every ROID in the book, and his results are only possible because of the gear that he uses. 100%. But it's also true that he thinks a lot about what he does in the gym as well. And given his personal needs and circumstances, he trains very intelligently, and he can tell you exactly why he's doing something and what the benefits are. But instead of that young man just saying that, something nuanced that communicates what they think clearly, you get a clearly newer lifter saying with a shit-eating grin that someone who's huge and well-liked and knows what they're doing doesn't know what they're doing, and that they know better. Whether they're right or wrong in their assessment of knowing better or not, ultimately that type of content makes most people want to leave a negative comment. It's driven for engagement, it's driven for clicks, views, usually not for disseminating information or improving people's understanding of training or helping them in any meaningful way. And it's not even just the science-based content creators that do this, so I'd like to correct myself in attributing that to just them specifically, because everybody's been doing that across any topic you can think of, not even just fitness. But something about this new wave of gym bro versus science bro content has made that a lot more pervasive and a lot more acceptable as well. And you see, this becomes much more of a critique of the overall space that fitness occupies than just even that individual or the group of science-based lifters. Because I think to myself, I make content to educate or to entertain. How is rage-baiting someone helping the average person that's new to the gym? What are we really giving them information-wise? Nothing, not a damn thing. And far be it from me to say that you always have to be educational, because my hard intros, those are goofy, those are meant to be entertaining. How is being on the receiving end of being rage-baited entertaining to the person and taking your content? This transcends making a clickable title or a clickable provocative thumbnail and then getting into a nuanced discussion, because to be honest with you on some level, I did that myself. This is purposely creating a divide within a community where we're all supposed to be bettering ourselves. But I digress, because the science-based content creators ain't the only people guilty of doing that. It's a lot of the gym bro content creators as well. That doesn't make that any less significant, because it's still happening. But ultimately, what I will say, just to give the entire thing some grace, is that I don't think most of them do that intentionally. They ultimately just copy what they see gets the most engagement. But overall, still not great in my opinion. The second and biggest thing, which I don't find to be attributable to everybody as a whole in the space, and attributable specifically to the science-based content creator crowd, is this. There's a fundamental failure and a big missed opportunity in making science-based fitness approachable and digestible to new folks. I'm going to talk about that by giving an example with something not related to fitness. I personally read a lot of astronomy and astrophysics research papers. And by a lot, I mean when I watch an interesting YouTube video about those two subjects, I'll go and find the paper and I'll read that. And when you read these things, they're written in a way with a lot of descriptive keywords and lingo and jargon that astrophysicists and astronomers know because that's their job. It's written in that way to accurately disseminate the results of the research, not necessarily to be understandable or legible by people who don't understand those things. So this is where science communication comes into play. This is where you have your professors, your doctors, your content creators. They'll make content or release papers of those papers describing the findings and common sense terms so that someone that knows absolutely nothing about it can learn something new. With science-based lifting content, we almost get this weird circle jerk where these fellas have to prove that they're smart. So they will use a lot of that jargon. They will talk in confusing terms to people who don't know what's going on. And ultimately, it becomes a monument more to look at what I know versus look at what I can show you. People have a hard enough time even buying into the idea that exercise is a necessary part of their life and that they are actively ruining their quality of life by eating poorly and then not exercising. And I love to do this. But when you boil it down to a simple comparison, it just seems ridiculous across the board. Me getting into the weeds about calcium ions when you're not acquainted with academia is like me explaining to you that the shortest distance between any two points is a straight line with math equations. You don't need that to explain that, bro. I like to talk about double progressions, triple progressions, three-week waves, and linear periodization with regards to the organization of our training, like how we split up our training throughout the week. I could 1,000% get granular with a lot of science jargon to explain what ultimately I'm trying to portray and that these are good ways to develop momentum within your training. And ultimately, that's going to get you stronger. Getting stronger is going to get you bigger. Why are we explaining things in a way that is not applicable to people who don't give a fuck about that or are not scientists? And that's not to say that there aren't great science communicators within the space because there absolutely are. But there are so many more newer lifters who are just going to the gym and having a good time that want to build a following, that are able to now build a following better than ever, mostly because of TikTok and Instagram reels. It's this lack of true understanding in which the things that they're communicating, which leads to all the jargon being used, because that's how you talk about things when you don't really understand them. You use a lot of big words, and I'm going to use a big word to describe that, but it obfuscates your actual understanding of something when you're using a big word that someone doesn't know to describe something. You combine that with the first point about the rage bait, and ultimately, you got to clusterfuck. Ultimately, that's my thesis on why I think that the rage bait and then the lack of true understanding combine to a net negative when you take all of the science-based content creators that have like a following of 10,000 or more. That doesn't just include the great science communicators. It includes the 99% of people that don't know what they're talking about that are able to have a voice that influences people. I don't know personally what could fix that type of content from being popular, but how it impacts you starts with your own media literacy. So I just think if you adopt a mindset we're in, you're always thinking, like, look, man, what does this have to do with me? Is it improving me in my journey? Is it entertaining? If the answer is no to both of those things, it's just noise. Lastly, I do want to make it very clear that that was a critique on the science-based lifting culture as a whole, not on what science has contributed to lifting. To deny that is stupid, in my opinion. When you examine lifting, there are more lifters that have better fatigue management, better exercise selection, better workout structure, a reduction in training redundancy, meaning they're not ramrodding the same thing every time they go to the gym. And there's much more, and that's directly resulting from a science-based and really experience-based, evidence-based approach. The pursuit of knowledge is beautiful. The pursuit of understanding things that are going on around us and go on with our bodies is amazing. And I don't even think that it's bad that newer lifters are putting themselves out there and making content and getting popular from it. But I do think this is absolutely a case where having good media literacy can prevent you, as the consumer, from falling down a rabbit hole of getting too deep in the weeds when you don't need to. And as a former fat kid myself, with a lot of family members that suffer from heart disease, diabetes, and things of that nature, I'm really happy to see the average person that's new to fitness be really into it and bought into it. That's a direct result of TikTok and Instagram reels and YouTube shorts making it easier for people to have their voice heard when it comes to getting people into fitness in the first place. Just because there's a lot of bad content doesn't mean that there's not a lot of good content that gets popular as well, and there are a lot of people that see the good stuff. My only hope is that a lot of these new guys stick around long-term, because the way that this current trend is looking, it's looking like it's going to be an easy come, easy go, where they're going to get in because of the controversy, and they're going to get out because they find that they actually hate lifting because they never learned to love it to begin with. But to answer the question, will science-based training kill your gains, I think the unfortunate answer is yes, kinda, if you listen to what you hear most often instead of what works the best or what's actually correct. But that's true on both sides of the fence, in my opinion. Even with the Jimbro content, that's true. There's a lot of good, but the bad is getting heard a lot more, unfortunately, due to the way social media works. But what do you guys think? Does science-based training kill your gains? To what extent? If you think so. If not, I want to know with a comment down below as well. If you like this style of content, or you happen to resonate with the message that was given in this video, let me know with a like and a subscribe and share the video with a friend. If you're interested in supporting the channel, check out my new Omni specialty bar that you saw me using throughout the video. It's sick, people are loving it, they sell out quick, get yours now. You guys watch these videos now that you watch this one, have a good day. See ya.