 tri意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意意 hit 200 pounds on ATG weighted dip. I definitely did not have the energy for both of these. I just put this at the beginning of the video for people that wanted to see it at the beginning. After those two heavy singles, my shoulder strength free fall. So I just didn't even do the volume work. What I always make sure that I do is after I do my shoulder press, I always do some pull-ups. I talked about this in the last video, but when I'm working up to my working weights, I always do chest to bar pull-ups and I cannot give myself a little mini game of how many chest to bar pull-ups can I do before I have to just not go chest to bar? And I made it to 90 pounds. Now I am keeping that one rep max weighted pull-up strength in my back pocket because I'm still training it, but it's going very well. This, what you're seeing here is from today's workout actually, where I reset after hitting a top single and I'm taking it lighter, higher reps. And the purpose of doing that, so going from the heavy weight down to the lower weight and higher reps is to go back down to that base, build that base wider so that we can do a heavier single. When the time comes to do it again. And that closely mirror is something that I'm really bought into with regards to strength training, keeping a couple reps in the tank on the first couple sets, and then just going to failure on the last set to the technical standard, meaning you're just not going reckless abandon with I'm doing whatever I can to put more reps on the board. The biggest thing that's helped me with Sam's programming is keeping me true to that standard. So shoulder press is something that I've always typically been bad at. And because I was bad at it, I would tend to overextend. I've talked about this before, but just that common sense programming has helped me have a very predictable rate of progress on it to the point where now I'm even doing, as you can see, a plate and a quarter on the behind the neck presses for reps. I couldn't touch that for one rep when I first started this program, maybe three months ago. And I've said it before, I'll say it again, training, especially when you're really advanced is about depositing those pennies and not trying to deposit a dollar when you get 50 cents in your account. Cause that's when you get hit with those overdraft fees. One other piece of advice I could give you besides just pacing yourself out is to lower your volume a little bit when you're getting close to the end of your program. And what that means is say, for example, if you're doing six total sets of something, you go down to like three or four sets of doing it. And what that does is it dissipates fatigue, which allows you to express your strength a little bit more. And it lowers injury risk at the point in the program where you're wielding the heaviest, nastiest weights. It's always just made sense to me. This was a fun one. I just wanted to do incline curls. Cause I have a buddy that I saw horse in the eighties on this. So I was like, bro, I had to at least try the seventies. Cause I never really go higher than the sixties, 65s, because I've never typically go below five reps on this. I ended up getting two on the first set, but you saw it bang the dumbbell off the freaking bench. So I'm like, I got to run this back. I got three reps. So my, my boy math tells me that I could get four fresh. If I can get four, that means eventually I'm going to be able to get five. So although I haven't done this lift in a little while, maybe about a year, my caveman brain has been activated. So now I have the short-term goal of getting five reps on this just because I think it would be cool. And then I'll rotate back in the lift that I was doing, which was a Meadows hammer curl, which by the way, if you haven't done freaking French presses with a neutral grip bar, I'm using my Omni bar. Obviously you can use any neutral grip bar or a tricep bar, the little narrow ones that are short, but if you haven't done them on something like that, you're really missing out because you get access to higher loading, more stability. You can micro load it. It feels better on your wrists, your shoulders. And overall, it's just a fantastic tricep exercise. Let me tell you something in the past. I never used to feel anything on overhead movements. And I would always tell people, they're overrated because you know, I don't really feel my triceps on them. If you're that guy, piece of advice I have for you is, is just pause at the bottom and then control it when you're closest to having your elbow touch your bicep. Does that make sense to you? Or rather your forearm touch your bicep. If you use that elastic stretch and then that crash pad effect where you're bouncing off your bicep, your tricep ain't working at the hardest part of the movement. So it makes sense. Moving on to these rows though, this is something that I've been having in this slot for a little while now. I switched from unilateral, meaning like one arm to double arm just because it saves time. And by the end of this, man, I'm cooked and I don't feel like working each side individually. I took the liberty of including this in just because I knew that if I did them single arm, I was just going to half-ass them. What I like to do to make this more lat bias, lower lat bias specifically, because that's what I'm looking for, is I just hunch forward a little bit. And then instead of pulling to the sternum or the solar plexus, I pull to the hip. You also notice that my minimum range of motion on that is to just get my arm to a 90 degree angle at lockout. And that's just because you don't have to go touching your body to work your lats effectively, in my opinion, to work your lats effectively. And last but not least, I didn't do that on this session. This is alternate tricep work that I did on a week prior. Just some tricep rope press downs on a one-to-one cable stack. I like doing it that way just because in my mind, I like knowing that what I'm loading is what I'm lifting on tricep stuff in particular, because it's easier to compare it between other tricep exercises because I do all free weights. But I was looking at my younger brother's training log and he's getting pretty close to mogging me on the press downs, bro. I don't know what's going on. I would love to get freaking mogged, but I haven't done these in a little while. So I'm going to make him work for that mogging, bro. If you're going to mog me, it's going to be me at my best, okay? But yeah, that's all she wrote. I'm going to do a quick overview of my weighted dip day, the PR session. So starting off with my warmups, I always do those top singles explosively. And I knew based on how 180 felt that 200 was a shoeing. And a piece of advice I can give you with that is when you're doing your warmups, if your last warmup feels hard, you know, in your heart of hearts that if you load 20, 40 more pounds, bro, you ain't getting it. All right. So use that last warmup as a proxy of, am I going to be able to get this shit? And if it feels good, you move up. This felt great. And I moved up. What I need to do though, is I need to get some calibrated plates. Not because I'm, I care at all about them being exactly alike with another, but on weighted dips, when you have the thicker plates, they start to push your legs more outward and it's harder to brace and it doesn't feel as stable. And I feel like if I had the thinner plates, I'd be able to hit more weight to put a bow on it with the dips, this cycle, just like the overhead press cycle that I ran. I'm really happy with not only the improvement in reps, weight across the board, how everything felt, but then the quality of the pauses, both pausing at the top and the bottom. Again, a marked improvement over what I did the last time. So, like I said, there's three levers you can pull the weight, the reps, and then the rep quality. Try to pull all three if you can and when you can. But speaking of quality, this is a quality exercise, the chest supported row. And the more that I do it, the more that I want to just do it on all of my upper body sessions. I'd be so bold to say that if I were trapped on a desert island and I could only put four exercises on a workout plan where I had to get as jacked as possible or I wasn't leaving, this would definitely be one of those four exercises just because not only does it work the back really well from head to toe, the only thing that's not really working is the spinal erector, so a hip hinge would have to be one of those exercises as well. But you can do a Kelso shrug as a mechanical drop set without even putting the bar down to just work your mid back really effectively. So pound for pound, this is one of the better back exercises that you can do. All of that aside, I talk about those a lot. I'm getting really close to hitting my goal of 135 on the standing barbell curl for a set of eight. This was from two separate weeks of training. I got one more rep on the set on the right than I did on the set on the left. And just because I just came into that session a bit more fatigue. I'm happy overall with both sets though. I mean, they both felt great. They look good. And overall, I felt my biceps working hard. They got sore. It was a great workout. And look, the truth of the matter is that you can grow just fine from repeating the same weight four, five, six times in a row, as long as you're maintaining a high quality of form. And then just like I said, getting in good workouts with that given weight. I'm not saying practically try to use the same weight and same reps every time. I'm saying if it happens to be that you have to train at a given weight and rep range for a little while to be able to add more reps or more weight, then you just accept that as part of the game. I'm not saying just stick to the pink dumbbells your entire life and just make sure you get a good burn in with those. That's stupid. But there's a training part of weight training that I think a lot of people miss out on. They feel like if they don't add the weight or add the reps, well, then the session was pointless or it didn't do anything or they're stagnated. That's not true at all. And this here is just some super wide lower lap pulldowns to round out the session. Overall, upper body wise, I can't complain. Everything's progressing very well. I'm lean and I'm still getting stronger. Lower body wise, I similarly have no complaints. I did have a lower back tweak that I was working through that currently doesn't feel bad at all. The only problem is that the back is a little detrained just from babying it with lighter weights. But the set of nine paused RDLs also without a belt, I'm very happy with for a few different reasons. One, because the range of motion is really good and better than when I hit 420 for between 18 and 20 reps. And I was happy with that set. Don't get me wrong. But when I was higher body fat percentage, then two, the range of motion wasn't as much and three, it wasn't paused. So yeah, signs of good things to come. And then just for some further lower body accountability, the deep leg presses, a little reset that I'm doing on this in terms of the form, not really that there's anything that you can do on a leg press besides kick your feet up. But I'm using a yoga block for padding for increased range of motion as opposed to just doing like a rogue at mat. Because what I found the rogue at mat is that when you got heavier weights, it would squish back and it would essentially negate itself. Whereas with the yoga block, one is thicker. So you're getting more range of motion as a whole because of that, but it doesn't squish back like the at mat does. Does that make sense? So it's overall maybe like three inches more range of motion, which is a lot on the leg exercise. This kick the weight back a little bit, maybe like one notch on the machine, but I'm still overall working with loads that I was incapable of using a couple of years ago on this exact machine. And similarly to the leg press, I use yoga blocks to increase the range of motion on the leg extension. I think that this is something that folks were hating on a little bit for a while for no reason, in my opinion, because the leg extension works all four parts of your quad very well just by itself. And then boom, you add that deficit on top of that, dude, this is one of the best leg exercises that you can do for like the front of your thigh. Come on, man. Dollars for donuts. If you're not doing this exercise or a sissy squat or something, you're missing out. Hamstring wise though, aside from RDLs and back extensions, I've been doing the seated in the lying hamstring curls with the lying hamstring curls. Something that I'm bought into now is pausing at the shortened or like the squeezed part of the range of motion. One to prevent me from having to add extra plates onto the weight stack. So like pegging a freaking 55 to the full stack. I'm not trying to do that every time, but also I just feel the movement a lot more than when I do that. I suspect it's because that movement is hardest when it's at the squeezed part. And then opposite of that, the seated hamstring curl, the hardest part is the stretched part. So I'm hanging out in that stretched part of the range of motion a little bit more still full stacking and macking it. I'm actually adding a 25 to this and this is a rep PR at that weight. I've seen talk about if you should hunch forward on this, or if you should lean back, like get a gangsta lean on it. Like you see me doing, I honestly just say whatever you feel best to go for it. I've tried hunched forward. I know on paper, that's probably better, but it doesn't feel good to me. I don't feel my hamstrings working as well. Might just be this freaking machine, but this felt really good. So that's why I do it that way. That's all she wrote though. Fellas training has been going very well. If you're interested in supporting the channel, this is the Omni bars, that sick bar you saw me using for the French presses in the rows. I also use it for hammer curls, camber bar bench press recently, and it is an effective bar for getting in a really good workout. You can get a complete workout with just this bar. And the last batch sold out extremely fast. And this next batch is getting pretty close to it as well from what I understand. So if you want to check one out, go ahead and hit the link in description or in the pinned comment. Thanks for watching the video. If you have any questions, please let me know. Don't forget to like the video, subscribe for more content like this, and I'll see you later. Have a good one.