 Minimalist workouts are absolutely horrible, and a huge waste of time, along with, well you can always get more out of less, or two diametrically opposed viewpoints that the fitness community goes to war over. But folks, which side is right? On one hand, all of our favorite characters train their balls off, and on the other, there's something magical about the idea of hitting a few heavy-duty exercises that smash all your muscles, and then calling it a day. Now if you're of the RPG persuasion, you call that min-maxing. But in that case, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, how bad, Two, with as little exercise selection as possible. And three, in as little time as possible. Now, for most of us who have a ton of responsibilities besides training, being in the gym for more than an hour or hour and a half isn't realistic. So minimalist workouts are pretty good in that regard. They're good to use in combination with more intensive, longer duration workouts, if you're able to do that as well, to give you the best of both worlds, which is quite frankly where a lot of my free programs come into play. Now, that sounds awesome. So what gives? Why do people hate them? The honest truth is that hitting a muscle and emphasizing it are two very different things. And emphasizing certain muscles is more important to some people. And it is true that you can round out the edges of a physique by hitting it with some extra, more specialized work. But what if you've already spent a really long time doing that? The major issue with scoffing at min-max workouts is that it ignores the ebb and flow of training, as well as the human aspect of it. Let's say you've specialized on your shoulders hard and with a lot of exercises, but now you want to pivot. The work it took to grow those suckers is not the work it's going to take to maintain them. And fellas, your shoulders aren't just going to magically shrink just because you're hitting two or three weekly exercises instead of five or six. A good program is going to have you go up and down in volume anyway. And that's one way where minimalist workouts come into play. They can be a transitional buffer between the two seasons. Ironically, in addition to that, minimalist workouts are also cool because they leave room for you to hone the few exercises that you are doing to a high level. For example, we all know those guys at the gym that only bench that don't train legs at all. Yet, they still have a pretty impressive upper body and a strong-ass bench. Much the same, all things being equal, you're going to hit four or five exercises with more intensity and make more progress on them than if you did six or seven. Reps, weight, technique, everything is going to improve faster that way. Lastly, if you cut all the fluff out and just hit a limited number of movements, you'll get a great sense of what your next move is going to need to be. Minimalist workouts pave the way for you to make informed decisions as opposed to running an overstuffed program and not knowing what to do next. Now, folks, those are the three biggest reasons min-max workouts can be useful. To close off chapter one, we'll need to hit the road and jog over to the gym to train to reach chapter two. Lace up your shoes and let's hit the road. I'll see you there. If you asked me what my favorite workouts were, I'd tell you my weighted dips hybrid calisthenics training. Dips and chins for the compounds, barbells or dumbbells for the arms. It's simple, clean, and it'll put some hair on your chest. Now that I've sold you, let me give you some specific thoughts and ideas I have about my own training to give you some perspective on what we covered in chapter one. Folks, without any further ado, I'm overjoyed to share that I hit a volume PR on dips with four plates, hitting three by six on some deep ass reps, and then 200 for some threes. This is pretty good for me. I used to struggle with like three plates on the same exercise for the same rep range, and I'd like to hit around my body weight for 10 deep reps in the next year or so. I thought that's all I had to share with you guys, but I got one more trick up my sleeve. Now to go even further beyond. It can't be. Get a load of this. That was me hitting my old PR with better form and far easier than I did last time. And there's a few things I'm using to ascend to the next level. So to start, I use touch and go reps with the four plates to help build some extra volume at a pretty heavy weight. The key to making that productive is to control on the way down so that you stay in a good groove and don't just flail around. That's a big confidence booster. So I knew adding 20 pounds and then pausing it the week after is going to be a cinch. I paused that top set just so I could hit a paused PR. Then I did a touch and go for volume for the same reason, just to build some extra volume at a big amount of weight and boost my mindset. A lot of folks argue about what's better between pausing or not pausing. I say, forget about it. Do both. And this is a great way to use both styles of reps. But overall, my dip workout for the last few weeks has been five exercises max. And I don't count the new lockout dips that I do after my normal volume as a new exercise. I do three or four sets of dips total, including those bad boys. And I do those after my normal dips to crush my pecs and delts and to give my tries some time to recuperate before I isolate them later, basically. With that being said, we all know dips are amazing. They're one of the main movements that I use to recomposition my body this year. But in comparison, how good are their brother, the pull-ups, actually? Let's answer that question and break the ice by settling yet another debate. Which is better, rows or pull-ups? The truth of the matter is this. A good back workout is always going to include both. So how can you compare one over the other? That's like saying, which is better, breathing or drinking water? That being said, pull-ups can absolutely be bad for working your muscles. Arm path and overall range of motion can make or break it. So after I hit my dips, I do hit a couple sets of chins, but in a very particular way. Sometimes fellas let their arms go in any old direction and it just doesn't feel like anything when they do pull-ups. Whereas if I treat my pull-ups the same way I treat my pull-downs, they feel incredible on the back. Probably even a bit better than the pull-down since I can really round my body forward to hit my lats in a diagonal plane this way. They feel a little bit crunchy on the wrists compared to pull-downs though, so it's a good reason to use both. Anyways, this is what I meant on last week's episode when I said the productive form doesn't always look textbook. I could get more reps and weight if I adjusted my technique to release tension at the bottom and let my arms track to a stronger position. But my wrists, elbows and shoulders would feel like crap. And more importantly, my muscles wouldn't get worked that well. Lastly, I do think for that reason and many more that pull-downs are a good stomping ground to master your vertical pulling technique. And you can still load them up pretty heavy, so give them a shot if you're averse to doing pull-downs because you're pull-up build. In that same way of picking an exercise to be a stomping ground to learn form, tricep overhead extensions with back support are a really good way to practice productive triceps form too. Some people can complain about shoulder pain on overhead extensions, and that can cause you to do wonky things with your technique to try and find a comfortable position. It's in the name, fellas. Back-supported tricep extensions are going to support your shoulders, so it's easy to reach back and stretch your triceps more in line with proper technique for an overhead extension. Anyways, I'll hit two or three sets just depending upon how toasted I am after I do dips for my triceps. Which brings me to point number two on triceps training. Autoregulation, which just basically means on-the-fly adjustments to your plan. In strength training, autoregulation predicts what weight you use, but in a muscle-building context, I like to use it to dictate how many sets of something I do. So, for example, if my dips are really crushing my triceps, I might not need three sets of isolation. And vice versa, if I'm feeling a lot more pecs and shoulders, then I'm going to go to town on my triceps with isolations. I might even do more than three. Lastly, for variation, I'll just swap in the same exercise, but with my OmniBar. It's a neutral-ish grip bar, and it's easier to keep in the triceps form-wise. Any old neutral grip bar will help with that, though. So, whatever you got, try it out. Let me know what you think. As we move into the biceps, where I'll talk about an exercise that I did here, by now you might be thinking, why does your minimalist workout hit every muscle twice? Well, that's a good question. For me, personally, I think hitting a muscle with a one-two jab, in other words, hitting it twice in the same workout, is a really good best practice. And if I can still do that within four or five exercises max, that's a minimalist workout, fellas. Biceps, for instance, were starving for some strict curls. And this movement captures the spirit of a min-maxed workout completely, in my opinion. It's a simple, brutal curl that gets the job done. And I want to hit my body weight on these, which I think I can do in about the next year or so. I do want to keep my technique consistent with how I do my other curls, instead of strength-maxing and turning it into a power clean with my back against the wall. When you do them this way, they're crazy effective, and honestly, the fatigue creeps up fast. You may do four reps and then get zapped all at once and have to grind out the last two. But progression-wise, I do prefer to strength train these in a similar fashion in my compound lifts. That's why I'm doing the lower reps here. It's just where I'm at with my progression model at the moment that I'm using. If you want an example of how that looks, check out my free Beef Slayer 2.0 program, linked in the description and pinned comment, if you're interested. Now, I did mention in the beginning that rows and vertical pulls are like breathing and drinking water, so you may expect now that I'm going to be finishing off with a row. And sometimes, I'll put a row after some other pulls so that I can get a good upper back workout with less weight. And on that note, I'd like to take a moment to highlight my form, because there's a big difference between a lat row and an upper back slash rear delt row. Here's a lat row. I'm using three plates for reps easily. Notice that I'm pulling to where my hips would be at, and then I'm bending the wrists back to really dig into my lats. Now, don't get me wrong. The upper back and such is still getting hit mostly at the bottom, but the lats are taking the lion's share of the stimulus. So like the late great John Meadows once taught us. Play the game of arm paths and angles. When I want to bias the upper back, I just grip the bar wider and pull a little bit higher. And here's what they look like side by side. I stop the set pretty much when I can't break 80-ish degrees, and I think that's a lot better than cutting the set arbitrarily when you can't touch your belly, or in this case, the bench. Keen eyes will notice that I'm also doing Kelso shrugs and be like, wait, that's another exercise. Well, listen, hear me out. Kelso shrugs are just a mechanical drop set here. And in my mind, I'm working the same muscle function. I'm just not bending my arms. Therefore, it is not a new exercise. Anyways, fellas, those are the five exercises that I use to quickly smash my upper body into smithereens and get in a lot of productive work. Right now, I want to put more time into mastering a few key performance metric lifts. So while I do have a maximized shoulder day on Sunday, Tuesday dips is more about performance metrics and mastery. And what I lack in variety on this day, I make up for in roll compression. There's another workout I'd say is pretty minimalist, my bench workout, which I'll cover in the next video if you're interested, where I use lifts like L-sit pull-ups and then freestanding rows to, for example, work my core. But we'll talk more about that later, fellas, because that's all we got for today, folks. Thank you so much for watching. If you like the video, please like the video and subscribe if you're new. And if you want to support my channel, pick up my Omni bar. I made it in collaboration with my friends over at Bells of Steel. It's that sick specialty bar that you saw me use throughout this video. You can find that in the pinned comment and description. But anyways, have a great day, fellas. See you later.