 What's good with it fellas? That's one of my favorite intros yet. Y'all let me know what you think. Happy Monday. Hope you have a great day today. I hope you're fired up because I've got heavy bench press for you alongside what might be. My favorite hobby besides lifting weights, souls board. So I got my favorite music from Elden Ring, Dark Souls, Bloodborne. Here you see me doing some heavy warmup singles leading up to a training max. I gave myself a runway of about four or five weeks to get to this single because I haven't done any flat barbell pressing in a long time, let alone with a camber bar, especially this heavy. So I'm pretty rusty. In fact, the 315 felt harder than 330 and 340, but I'm going to use this 340 pound training single as a metric to design the next life. I'm going to be like six, six, seven months of my training. And I'm going to be like six, seven months of my training because I want to beef this particular lift up. Reason being is one, obviously I connect well with it and the movement feels really good, but it's also very oppressive since I have particularly long arms. And then this camber, like the little divot in the middle of the bar gives you a lot of extra range of motion. So it just feels like Davy Jones locker. I also have access to my camber neutral grip bar, the Omni bar, but I'm using this particular bar because it's one deviation harder. And this is my third upper body day of the week. So I'm really, trying to limit the load overall as much as possible. And you'll see that throughout the workout. I tend to pick variations where I'm either using no weight. If it's like a calisthenics exercise or it's an exercise where because of the joint angles or whatever the case may be, it's more difficult and I can get a good workout with relatively less weight. In terms of this pressing though, you'll have noticed that I pause pretty meaty pauses on the singles. And then I'm going like a t-shirt touch and go on the volume work. There's no particular reason for that. If you just want to pause, pause everything that's cool. I just find that when the weight is lighter, keeping a constant tension on the pecs feels a little bit better, but most importantly, form wise, I might be pretty rusty with barbell pressing. But one thing I really pride myself on is my scapular mechanics, like the way that my shoulders move back and forth. As you've noticed, I don't bench with really much of an arch at all. And I find that I can load into my pecs a lot easier that way when I can move my shoulders back and forth. But yeah, dude did some singles, did some volume. Moved into this calisthenics work. It's neutral grip pull-ups. I've been a big fan of lately. I've been on a big neutral grip kick, particularly trying to keep my elbows in front of the body ish and then cueing pulling to the hips, which the neutral grip is going to facilitate pretty much on its own just because of the way that your arms are oriented. In general, arms more parallel to the body coming down is going to work more lats. And this just does that automatically. I'm opting for just body weight here because again, this is my third upper body session. I've already done heavy weighted pull-ups, heavy chest supported rows. There is no reason for me to do another heavy back exercise on this day, especially considering that I have an overhead session two days after this. I think that first set was 24, 25, 26, 27 reps, somewhere around there. And then this next set, the reps fell off a cliff. So something that I've noticed with pull-ups is that when you take a set closer to failure, if you do that on say really any other exercise, you'll lose a few reps, obviously, because you're fatigued. But on pull-ups, you lose like 40% of them plus. So I did that, did the 15 set of Rooney and then did some inverted rows on these rings. I really like these because in my opinion, at least the way that I'm doing them here, they don't feel like much of a lat exercise more so than they feel like a mid-back exercise. I already did a lat-biased pull, so there's no reason for me to work that same exact physical quality again. But yeah, dude, avoiding redundancy and working a multitude of physical qualities is very helpful for creating forward progression for me. And then also just for preventing me from hurting myself because, again, if I'm just ramrodding the same thing over and over again, eventually I'm going to get an overuse injury. This is where you get the tweaks in the elbows and the shoulders, and I avoid that as much as I can by doing stuff like this. Talking about beat-up elbows while I'm doing what probably is the most notorious exercise for wrecking people's elbows. Listen, for me, this is an exercise that alleviates from doing something else that I did two other times throughout the week. I do a lot of overhead extensions these days, and eventually my tricep tendon just, it starts to get a little bit sore, you know? So I'm able to work my triceps, the long head, really well with this variation where I'm not totally putting my arms over my head, so it's not stretching my tricep and my lat in the same way. So it feels really good. Someone asked about my form on this particular exercise on the last video, I think, and I think something that could be helpful for y'all to help you feel it better in your triceps is, imagine dumping your elbows into your hips. So you're almost leading with the elbows first, and you're keeping the elbows in front of your wrists as well, as opposed to essentially just doing like a weird close-grip bench press. You're actually extending the elbow. Try it out. Let me know what you think. After that, I followed up with some press downs. I was sorely mistaken in my ability to get, I think it was like 100 pounds on the one-to-one cable for 20 reps, because I didn't rest very much after doing those extensions. But again, I default to that overhead work most of the time, and then when I feel like my elbows and then my tricep tendon needs a break, this is when I deploy those two exercises. Did these seated curls. These are a heck of a lot harder when you do them both arms at the same time. And something that I really try to avoid doing is sinking my chest down and up, and essentially giving myself a boost at the bottom with my lower back or spinal erectors. It's actually a one-rep regression, I think. I think I did six or maybe even seven reps with 60 pounds. In my defense, I did not warm up at all. Do as I say, not as I do. Definitely do not get into a curl like this heavy and not warm up. But I was rushing. I was trying to get home to do something for my wife. But that five-rep set that I did, it felt really good. So low-key, I just rested like a minute, then picked up the 50s and did as many reps as I was going to get, and then moved on to my next exercise. I would rather do something like this, again, on like a light day, as opposed to like my other two sessions that are just heavier, more fatiguing in general. Ab work, I like to keep it simple, dude. And it's following that same loading scheme as the rest of my workouts do. So we have our heavy-weighted ab exercises in the early part of the week, where I have more energy and it's on a more fatiguing workout. And then here, I'm just relying on the lower rest intervals to be able to get a better workout out of bodyweight exercises. So I like to do the sit-ups, and then I'll do some leg raises. But yeah, dude, this is my most recent flat-pressing workout. Again, I have been keeping flat presses in for the past year or so. It just hasn't really been flat barbell pressing. But this was singles week. This is data to be able to project out the larger programming that I'm going to be using for the next six, seven, eight months with this particular variation. Here's some additional work that I did a week prior to this workout that you just saw for the majority of this video, wherein when I came in and I did this, 280 for five or six reps and then 320 for a single, and I felt shitty, I knew that next week when I came in and I felt more fatigued, or rather more recovered from my fatigue, I'd be able to hit probably 330, 340. So that's where we got that from. I also did some chest-supported Y to rear delt flies. Really good exercise. I made a full video about how I like to do them. You go ahead and check that out if you're interested, of course. I didn't do them on the session that I showed you before, just because, like I said, I was rushing a little bit. No exaggeration, no funny shit, bro. This is my favorite delt exercise, aside from, obviously, like the overhead press variations. And if you're not a believer, just try it out. That is all she wrote, fellas. The next video that I'm going to show you more than likely is going to be from my most recent overhead session, where I hit a PR on that as well. But for now, if you're headed over to the gym and you're interested in a workout that's structured somewhat like this, you can check out my Beef Slayer program for free on Boost Camp with the link in the description right now. You can run it right out of the box. You can customize it. It comes with two versions, an upper-lower full-body split and then a pure full-body split. If you enjoyed the video at any point in time, or if you even thought that the intro was hard, bro, go ahead and give me a like and a subscribe for more content like that, and I will see you on the next one. Have a good day.