 Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ Russ I always try to make those warm-up reps move as explosively as possible so that when I get to my working weights, they just feel smoother that way. Here I got plan 155 added for six reps. Last cycle, about two months ago or so, I hit 150 for five. Now, this 155 for six was done with better rep quality, more weight, and more reps, which is a really solid improvement for me, which I'm really happy with because when we look at it from the perspective of there's three levers you can pull, weight, reps, or rep quality, I pulled all three. I've been thinking about using that edit in a video since I watched that episode. I hope it played out in reality the same way it did in my brain. But no, I also hit a very satisfying PR with four plates added as well. For perspective, last block, 180 pounds added was like a top single. And it wasn't a maximal single because I also did 190 pounds. But here I am doing it for three comfortable reps, really good rep quality, pauses at the top and the bottom, and good control as well. So I'm pulling two of those three levers that I talked about, the rep quality, and then also the amount of reps I did. But as fun as those top sets are, what's really getting you to develop that strength is paradoxically the back offsets where you're going a little bit lighter. Because here's the thing. With the top sets, you're more so expressing strength so that you become good at being able to push low amount of reps with high amount of weight. However, when it comes to building your actual base with lower medium reps, those slightly lighter back offsets are way more important. So when it comes to your rep quality and everything of that nature, it's even more important that you perform at a high level there. I heard this once someone repeated to you guys. Training is a game of depositing pennies. And what I'm going to add to that is this. I want to take every opportunity that we can to deposit them pennies. So if we're only doing well on what amounts to 5% of our workout, the top set, you're never going to develop the way that you want. Here I'm doing some barbell curls. And these typically have like a touch and go type of relationship with people. Some people love them. Some people hate them. A lot of folks don't really favor them the most or they're not their favorite because there's a stability component to them. I don't think it takes a terrible amount of stability, but it is less stable than if we were to say do like a seated back supported curl. It's like an incline curl or something. Best advice I can give you though is just try to create as much internal stability from head to toe as you can. And then it'll feel pretty good, bro. I mean, a lot of times when people use excessive body anglers where they're moving back and forth like three feet to get the bar moving, that's purposeful. And that's not something that you have to do to get the bar moving. It's just because of a deficit of bicep strength, essentially. Now, why am I doing them as opposed to something like a meadows curl, an incline curl, or something that is a little bit easier to track in terms of rep quality, or at least easier to perform well? Well, pretty much I had a bicep tweak that got better. And I found that training the pure supination when it was like 90% better helped expedite that last 10% of the recovery process. And to me, the easiest thing you can do to train pure supination is a straight barbell curl. And I've had them in and I like them. I like the way they feel and the way they look. So I gave myself the short or medium term goal of hitting 135 on this for a good clean 8 to 10 reps. And then when I hit that goal, I'll probably still keep them in because honestly, they're fun. They look cool, like I said. But also, I'm able to do them and stay out of people's way with my camera because I hate setting the camera up and just feeling like people have to step over. And I just, I don't want to be a nuisance to people. So that's why I like these as well. I'll probably keep them in because they just make sense. Programming wise, people have a lot of questions about how to bias arms in their training. Here's how I'll talk about that because there's something that I wanted to mention with the way that I set up upper lower. The way that I've always talked about upper lower on my channel is that, look, setup is simple at a basic level. You take a press, then you do a pull or vice versa. You can take that even further if you want to put something earlier in your program, like a bicep or tricep exercise and say, hey, look, we'll do, say, dips. And then instead of doing a row, we'll do a bicep exercise. We're still doing an exercise, the curl, where you're not involving any musculature using your pressing exercise. So you'll be able to perform at a high level and then be able to do triceps after your arm exercise or a push if you wanted to. But here I'm showing off just a variety of back exercises that I happen to do on this day. I didn't do them all on the same day. I would only do two. So it'd be either a vertical pull and then the pullover or like the chest supported row and then the pullover. Pro tip with these super wide grip weighted pull-ups, if you're doing them on a station like this, you can do weighted dips on these. Typically, no problem without the weights hitting the peg thing that people use for assistance. But when you're doing pull-ups, the weight is going to hit the peg. It's annoying as fuck to me, but easy solution is just put the plates in the freaking backpack. And that's what I did here. I like the super wide pull-down motion. I think I like them better on a lat pull-down than I do on a just just doing super wide grip pull-ups, to be honest with you. But I'm doing them to target my lower lats because in this workout, I'll have had something in here that's hitting like the upper portion of my back. Does that make sense? Now I'm doing an upper chest press and we're adhering to that principle that I mentioned where we're alternating our exercises so that we're not working similar muscle groups twice in a row. It's the best way to program upper lower. So that can be, like I said, a press, then a curl, so on and so forth. We went from pull, now we're doing a press. I originally had the high incline Smith machine bench in here, which I really, really love. I think I like this one better just because it's just as stable. But because it has that neutral grip, I'm able to dig into the upper pec a little bit more. And you know, what brought me here was this. I was always curious why the reverse grip bench press, in studies anyway, worked the upper pecs better than even an incline bench press. And in my research, what I found is that this fella, he made a reel on Instagram explaining that, like, look, when you have your arm in tucked and then you raise it, you're able to work your upper pec a little bit better than if you were to have it flared out. And then intuitively, you can just raise your arm right now at its side and then lift it up. You're going to feel your upper pec contracting. So I found this machine and I was like, look, man, this is locking me into that exact range of motion. Let's do it. And I know enough to know that I know nothing. I'm always happy to learn something new when it comes to training because it just means it's another box that I can check off to continue to make progress and continue to have new and fun things to do when I work out, which is amazing to me. Here I'm demoing some chest supported rows. First on the dumbbells. Now I'm a new Omni bar. I really love this exercise in general, whether you want to set it up on a Smith machine, you got a nice chest supported T-bar row at your machine, whatever. A big problem with back exercises for most people is establishing a standard of form. In the past, I really loved seal rows, but they were kind of a pain in the ass to set up for me. And I had all the equipment I needed to do them. And for most people, it just wasn't practical for them to set them up at a commercial gym. But chest supported rows where you put the bench at the lowest incline you can while still getting a full range of motion. They're doing pretty much all the same things, except for it's easier to set up. I really like them for establishing a standard of form because you don't have to worry about your hips moving because you're fixed to the bench. The only thing form wise you have to worry about is one, keeping your chest glued to the bench for one, because a lot of people will peel it off and use their spinal erectors to get the bar going, which is not the worst thing in the world, but you have to be cognizant that you're doing that. And it's taking emphasis away from the upper back pulling muscles, basically. And then two, you have to ensure that you're touching the bottom or the base of the bench. You're getting close to it anyway. A chest supported row is really good because it eliminates that bottom lockout portion where the lats are not as strong anyway. So you're getting a movement where you have a great standard of form and you're working the lats in a really effective range of motion as well. And overall, like I said, the setup is easy. And for that reason, it's probably my favorite back exercise. Well, and we'll see who gets this reference, but I would say the chest supported row is probably my favorite back exercise in history. And this is the best back exercise of today because it's my new favorite. And the reason why I really like it is very simple. When you're doing a cable pullover or the equivalent would be a Nautilus pullover machine, you have a really stable exercise that you're able to isolate your lats on, which is something that you can't. It's a novelty. You don't really see that with any other pulling exercise. It spares elbow fatigue. It's not wrecking your bicep tendon. I made a quick five minute video putting in more detail into why I like it and how to use it. But outside of anything that I talk about there, the biggest reason why I love it and why I'm doing it on all three of my upper body workouts is that I'm able to just chuck it at the end of a workout. And for whatever reason, probably because the stimulus to fatigue ratio is very good on this, I can do a full workout and then launch these in and then just go ham on them still and then be able to still perform at a high level on them, which is a novelty in training. It's something that you don't really see with very many things. So it's offering all those hypertrophy benefits. It's also giving me a lot of leeway in terms of how I order things. I'm able to put different things in different slots that I otherwise wouldn't be able to. So, yeah, that was the weighted dip day. How are you? Got a few highlights from the overhead day. I adjusted my grip out a bit on the seated shoulder press and on the pull-ups just because it felt a little bit more comfortable. I had 210 for five on the seated shoulder press, which puts me on par to be able to get a good PR at the end of the block, which I was very happy with. Now, what you'll see is the shoulder day, the overhead press day is structured as an upper lower. So we'll go from the overhead press to the pull-ups. And what I do on the pull-ups is the same thing I do on the dips. As explosively as possible, except for here, I'm doing them chest-to-bar, basically. That's just to make the working weights feel even easier. It's like a 45 and then 70 pounds chest-to-bar. And then 90 was close, but only one side of my chest hit the bar. So it's like, and then it was sloppy too. So I'm only, I'm not even going to count that. My cope is one of my shoulders just naturally sits a little higher than the other one. But like, bro, I could have just pulled with more range of motion too. But anyway, I went on to do the 135 for one single and then some back-off volume with 90 pounds. I'm not taking any of this really close to failure at all just because I get that with all the rowing that I do throughout the week and then the pull-overs. And what I found is, is that if I take pull-ups close to failure, my performance just nose-dives, just completely obliterates itself. So for me, it's a lot more important to get the reps in. Now, yeah, buddy, this is the lift that I'm very proud of personally because I've always been very poor at shoulder exercises relative to chest exercises. And that's just as a result of doing less of it. I'd say for every 10 chest exercises I did, probably I did one shoulder press. I went from 95 pounds working weight for a lot of reps, but keep in mind, 95 pounds to 170 pounds. And I'm getting really close to my 185 for 8 to 10 goal, which to me would give me a very satisfying level of shoulder strength, to be honest with you. So I'm loving it and I can't wait to reach that goal. And I'm thinking I can get it within the next month or two. A lot of that shoulder day is just arms and biceps and shoulder isolation. So I'm not going to showcase all of it. Those are the high-level stuff I wanted to show. Here's some lower body highlights. Just an update on the lower back. No pain when I'm doing any hip hinging. However, just from having to baby it with lighter weight and a bunch of reps and not being able to do tertiary things like heavy barbell rows, my hinge strength has deteriorated. So I was very happy with, I think this was 285 for 6 or 7 or 8 reps on the back extension for some paused reps. It's not my best work, but I'm happy with how it looked and how it felt. I'm going to war on these deep leg presses, bro. I sound like the fucking thwomp off of Mario. You know, the dude that's like, But no, very pleased with these getting very close to the full stack, which is really good for me just because back when I was squatting pretty heavy, I wasn't able to get anywhere near this much weight on this leg press machine. This is very oppressive, very heavy out the bottom. Belt squats. These were pissing off my knee a little bit just because when you have a pendulum style belt squat or leg machine in general, where the leg is kind of going through a scooping motion and the weight isn't going straight up and down, it can kind of shear on your knee a little bit. So I've had to play around with the foot placement. And then I had to back off of them completely just to let the knee like not be pissed off. But getting back into these and with the new form and new setup, they feel really good. I'm doing this heel elevated plat style and then just allowing the legs to do as much work as I possibly can while using the support beam essentially for balance like I like to talk about. And then I'm pausing these lying hamstring curls just so I don't have to add a bunch of weight to the stack. Essentially, there's no special reason. I'm trying to get more out of less weight. What I'm going to spend a little bit of time talking about before we get to the leg extensions is just lower body training structure because these exercises are self-evident in what they do. You know, leg machines work your legs. Hamstring curls work your hamstrings. The structuring part of a leg workout is where more of the brain power has to come into play because a lot of folks will feel like they can't do a lot of exercises during a lower body day when really it's just a matter to me of we're not pacing out effectively. For me, if I'm doing a heavy hip hinge, I like to buffer that with calf exercises or abs or something like that. Then I'll move into my heavy quad exercise and you'll find that it feels a whole lot better and more doable week to week like that. These bad boys here. This is my favorite leg exercise, I think. And it might be controversial because it's a leg extension or whatever, but I really don't care. I mean, they work all four parts of your quad very effectively. They're easy to set up. You just get a yoga block, tie it to the leg thing, and then you just kick your leg forward. You do medium reps. You can go with a slow tempo, whatever you want. Just make sure you feel the quad working. And overall, you get stronger at these, your legs are going to get bigger. But yeah, structure-wise and order of operations-wise, once you cement where you put your two big building blocks, being the heavy hip hinge and heavy squat motion pattern, it really doesn't matter how you order everything else, provided that you're not working the same muscle group back-to-back. You can, but for best practice and best performance, I find that alternating between quad and ham is going to be the best way to go about it. But the specifics don't matter after that. I always work my abs at the end of every lower body workout, and my new favorite machine is an exercise that I saw this old lady using. She was going to war on this thing. So I was like, man, let me check this out. Just set up Pure Curiosity, and it's really nice. The only other thing that I have to demo are some overhead extensions that felt really, really good. I've been staying at this weight for a little while now, just mastering it. But this is the smoothest, easiest set of 12 that I've hit with this weight on this exercise, which I was very happy with. And I say that because it felt good from beginning to end. The pauses were all good from beginning to end, and the rep quality was really good. And this is probably my favorite long head of the tricep exercise, like a French press. I like doing them on a neutral grip tricep bar. I do them on my Omni bar because it's multipurpose. Just because it feels more locked in than doing it with a dumbbell, and you're able to load it heavier because your dumbbells are only going to go but so heavy. And then they're unwieldy to get into position, too, once they get to a certain amount of weight. So that felt pretty easy. And I thought that, hey, it's finally time to move up and wait. And lo and behold, I still hit a good amount of reps. I think this was seven reps moving up 15 pounds. So I finally unlocked that next benchmark of weight on this exercise, which I'm ecstatic about. If you couldn't tell by the change of clothes, this is a separate day, by the way. I'm not training triceps at the end of that lower body workout. But that's all she wrote, fellas. That's all I got to share with you today. I hope y'all were inspired to get after it. You learned something useful and ultimately just get you fired up from that freaking intro. Do me a favor right now if you've made it this far to the video. Subscribe and then like the video. And then let me know what your favorite exercise of the week was. I'm curious to hear. And then if you want to support the channel and you want to use the sick omnibars you saw me using for the rows and then the overhead extensions, you can check that out right now in the description and in the pinned comment. The first batch sold out very quickly, which I'm very excited and grateful for. And then the second batch is also selling out pretty fast. By the way, if you purchased in the first batch, you should have gotten your bar by now or you'll be getting it pretty soon. Anyway, that's all she wrote, fellas. New program coming soon. Stay tuned for more. See you later. Have a good day. Bye. Thank you.