 fitness, fitness is something that should always be accessible, and should also be fun too. It should also be fun too. It's a hobby for most of us at the end of the day. So three years ago, I released my most popular free program, Raider. Adapted from my Berserk Method training system and optimized for real world lifters, Raider is a program that people love for its ease of use, quick workouts, being workable around a nine to five schedule, and most importantly, how fun it is. Now as a thank you from me to you, the viewer, I've made three new updates, I've made three new updates, I've made three new updates, and I've made three new updates, I've been working on the 9 to five schedule, and most importantly, how fun it is. Updated versions of the updated versions of Raider for you to enjoy for its third anniversary, that you can find for free in the description right now. If you're new to the channel, or you've never ran Raider before, how you doing? I'm Bald Omni Man, and I'll be your host for today. And today, I'll be doing an overview of each of the three versions of Raider, so you can decide which one is the best fit for you. Also, I do want you to watch to the end for a special announcement, so grab your favorite drink, a snack, and I hope you enjoy. Starting off with the version of Raider that I'm going to recommend the most is going to be Raider, Raider 2025. This is a version of the program that includes quality of life updates, new fun gamifying features for those smaller exercises, along with adjustments to the volume, intensity, and exercise distribution so that you can have an overall better time running the program. You'll get a range of volume distribution to pick from instead of just the set amount. And then also in terms of the exercise ordering, I just swapped it around a little bit so that you could recover a bit better session to session. This was all decided for Raider 2025 based on construction. And then you'll get constructive feedback, and overall, this version is going to be the best fit for people that are brand new to the program. Now, I do dare say that this is an even better version than the original iteration of the program, but for folks that want that original program but just want it to be refreshed, I have something for you a little bit later in the video. Just keep watching. Now, one mistake to avoid with Raider 2025 is this. I want you to avoid selecting too much volume on a movement that you haven't really done before. So if you're brand new to a movement, it's better to err on the conservative side and then build up from there. Using myself as an example, even for me, if I haven't done barbell preacher curls in a while, I only decide to do one set because that's plenty to get my arms really sore. And if I did three or four sets, I might not have any bicep tendons to speak of, okay? The name of the game here is to pace yourself out, have fun with those exercise mini games like the cluster sets and rest pauses, and overall, focus on getting stronger at those main lifts. Overall, Raider 2025 is a boatload of fun. So if that at all sounds interesting to you, go ahead and check that out in the description after you finish this video. Transitioning from the first version made for the majority into a version made specifically for my intermediate and advanced lifters is Raider Plus. Let me tell you something, fellas. Good training at the end of the day is always going to be good training. And you're going to be doing some variation of the same exercises from now until the end of time. So you can basically run the same program for life with the biggest changes coming from how you pace it out and the types of novelty that you include for fun. In fact, the biggest things that I see preventing intermediate lifters from becoming advanced lifters and really getting an awesome physique is a lack of buy-in because they're not having fun, a lack of momentum from not pacing their training out properly, and sadly, in many cases, injury that comes from the fact that you're much stronger and you have a much greater capacity to actually injure yourself while you're working out. So Raider Plus was made for folks to bridge that gap between the base version not being paced out properly for them anymore. Raider Plus is still the same program at its core. It's just now including some advanced programming strategies so that you can continue to get stronger, have fun, and stay injury-free. I am a huge fan of gamifying my training. One, because hypertrophy is a very forgiving stimulus. You can do a lot of things and get jacked from it. And two, ultimately, that fun is going to increase buy-in, which is going to allow us to continue on with this hobby for as long as possible. With that being said, I did include some different training mini-games for you to have fun and stay engaged as well. Moving on to mistakes that I want you to avoid. The biggest mistake would be just getting ahead of yourself and increasing load past what's prescribed. When you're more advanced, your performance varies, for one, a lot more than when you're newer. So getting stronger is a lot more about building momentum over time. You need time to power up, so to speak. Man, there's nothing worse than when you go from doing some sets of 15 one week to doing a heavy set of five next week just because you felt good. More than not being great for growth or building training momentum, that also invites that injury risk that we just talked about. The key takeaway is this, fellas. As new lifters, you can pretty much brute force your way into becoming an intermediate lifter. You eat enough, you try hard enough, you will eventually become an intermediate lifter. However, to become an advanced lifter or to become more advanced in your training once you've already reached that level, it takes more discipline. This version of the program is going to teach that to you. So for folks that have been running Raider for a little while now, maybe consider checking out this version because it might be a better fit for you. Last but certainly not least, I want to talk quickly about Raider 1.5, which is for the OGs because this version is identical to the original iteration released three years ago, just with greater customization in terms of exercise selection for those that have always wanted that. So now you can run Raider with a full gym, a basic gym, just weighted calisthenics, just dumbbells. There's a lot more variety here for you to pick from. Raider 1.5 is best for those that have already ran and are loving Raider, but just want it to fit better for their space. Or for those that want to run it, but haven't because they physically can't because they don't have certain pieces of equipment. Wrapping up, the mistake to avoid with Raider 1.5 is simply just not crafting it to your liking and to your needs. You have a lot more framework to guide individualization. So swap it up, follow the progressions as written, and let's get jacked together. Thank you so much for your support, and thank you again for celebrating the third anniversary of Raider with me. If you're interested, I can also update Beast Slayer, my second most popular free program as well. Just let me know if you're interested. I do want to take a quick second to talk about users that came from Boost Cam. This is a Google Sheets version of the program, and I'm only addressing this because there's almost 8,000 of you guys running it on the app. All of this can be punched in manually on the app. You can go ahead and plug it in and run it that way. You can do that pretty easily with the program builder, but honestly, I want an official release on there as well. So let's go ahead and let them know that we want these updated versions of Raider by commenting. And heck, send them an email. Send Boost Camp an email, okay? But thanks again, fellas, and I hope you enjoy those updates. Moving on, though, from Raider to the surprise I mentioned at the start of the video, I'm excited to formally announce the launch of a brand new project. Enter the Omni Hypertrophy app. I never thought I'd have something as official-sounding as my own app. Thanks to your support, I was able to develop a coaching app with the help of the folks over at Boost Camp. My philosophy for things that I offer as paid services is that I want to make something for folks that want to be coached and need a little bit more direction than what a good program offers, but that's also affordable and doesn't price them out. So we took my programming style from the Berserk method and made something really valuable for your average guy at the gym. I always really loved that John Meadows approach where you better believe if you bought that Gamma Bomb program, you were going to be able to run that sucker for the rest of your life. Now let me tell you something, fellas. I've offered one-on-one coaching for a long time now, but that's a luxury service that, quite frankly, most people do not need. And I can tell you from experience that most folks just need a plan that's tailored to them, that changes when it needs to change, and offers some accountability. Maybe answer a simple question here and there. That's why most times when folks reach out for coaching, I either direct them to one of my free programs like Raider, my Berserk Method self-coaching guides, or if they really, really need more hands-on instruction, one of my premium programs. I try to make my programs as user-friendly as possible with a lot of coaching notes, but the new Omni Hypertrophy app does all that and more. So here's some more info on what it does specifically. It's the Berserk Method training system adapted to you specifically during the onboarding process. It's going to ask you how many days a week you can train, what type of gym you have access to, and what kind of equipment you have, what days of the week you want to train, what your goals are, what muscles you want to bias, and produces a Berserk Method program that you can run fresh out of the box, just like that. Now, if you want to, you can also make adjustments to the programming from there. But to be honest with you, these programs are based after Beast Slayer, Raider, and Golden Warrior, three of my most popular programs. And all three of those programs are well-suited for most people as is. But of course, you make your adjustments to make it best fit for you. The idea here basically was to take some familiar programming and make it adapt to you instantaneously as you interact with the programming. The biggest thing is going to be the accountability, and it'll give you some positive feedback if you're doing well, constructive feedback if you're going too hard or too light or you're not sleeping enough, not eating enough protein and things of that nature. So, Omnihypertrophy tends to check off a lot of those known training variable boxes that I've been screaming from the rooftops for years now. And again, all of this can be adjusted at any time. You just need to specify what you want to change and when. And you get all that for the price of some Uber Eats, a carryout order, a couple cups of coffee, 10 to 15 times less than what you'd spend on the average coach. And on top of not spending as much money, you're getting responses and you're getting your feedback implemented immediately instead of having to wait 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 days for a response. I'm also being told about a new feature and a brand new update where you can submit a freaking video for form review. Like I said, really exciting stuff because a lot of people are going to get a great deal of value out of this and be way better off with their training. We're going to keep prices low just so as many people can try it out as possible. And I'm no mathematician, but when I look at the price up front for a year, it's a huge percentage off compared to if you just paid every month. So definitely check that out. Go ahead and check out the Omnihypertrophy app in the description or the pinned comment. And once you're there, they'll show you how to download the app. And if you're interested in a free program, check out those third anniversary Raider updates. It's going to be a great fit for a lot of you guys. Thank you so much for helping me celebrate three years of Raider. And I hope y'all have an awesome day. Have a good one.