 Hey, wanna listen to some tunes? Hey, wanna listen to some tunes? Cable pullovers are a back exercise that works amazingly well for almost everyone, especially people that say they never feel anything in their back. They're the next best thing to the Nautilus pullover, which is universally loved and one of the best exercises for your back, and it's legendary within the lifting community for a reason, because anyone that does it, they get amazing results from it. But it's a very rare machine, so most people end up doing dumbbell pullovers instead, but in my opinion, if you like the dumbbell pullover, you'll love the cable version of the same movement, because it takes all the good parts of a dumbbell pullover and improves them substantially. The general benefits of a pullover, other than the fact that they look extremely cool, are one, they work your lats without stressing your biceps or your elbows. Two, they're a great exercise for improving thoracic mobility, so essentially your ability to extend and flex your spine. Three, they're a great accessory for exercise with regards to rowing and vertical pull, so that's your weighted pull-ups, your rows, your seal rows, things of that nature. The thing with the dumbbell pullover, though, is that it lacks tension in almost the entire range of motion, so although it does have a really nasty stretch at the bottom, pretty much only that very end range of the stretch portion is gonna be what you're actually feeling, and everything else other than that is weightless. You can also have a little bit of torso movement to help you complete the rep. That's smart, and you should do that because it smooths out the rep, but the cable pullover is automatically standardized, so you don't have to rely on standardizing how much you move your torso, pretty much. The way I look at that barbell row comparison is that you can row the same amount of weight for the same number of reps and have an entirely different looking back, just depending upon your form. But on something like a cable pullover, every rep and every weight increase will correlate better for most people, just because, like I said, it's easier to standardize. Now, that isn't a case against rowing motions. I probably like them more than most, but I also think it's a good idea to supplement our larger exercises with more precise ones, like the cable pullover or the chest supported row is another one that I like. Now, in terms of how you set up the cable pullover, there's a lot of ways to do this exercise. Traditionally, in the past, though, I've always done them standing, but recently I've experimented with doing them seated with a few different bench angles and a few different cable heights, and here's the one that I like the most personally. You set up the cable pullover really simple, set up a slight incline on your bench, and then raise the cable stack so that it's at a similar angle to your bench. I saw a few different angles when I researched the movement, but after trying them all, I like this one the most, and I got that one from the hypertrophy coach. He made a really good video on them. So for the form, though, it's really simple as well. You let your back stretch at the top. You want to imagine your shoulder blades pulling up, and then you pull your shoulder blades down to start the rep. And then with a little bend in your arm, you just put your arms to your side, rinse and repeat. It's super easy. Now, I like to keep my chest up as well since it makes the movement feel more stable for me, and I think it will for you too. Your arms are naturally going to stay at your sides as well, but just be cognizant that this should stay that way and try not to compromise your form to grind out those extra reps. Rest in peace to the greatest of all time, but I learned this from John Meadows years ago, but typically the closer you can keep your arms to your sides and kind of dig them into your hips, the better your lats will recruit. So that's why that's important. But like I said, by default, they're pretty much going to end up there anyway. One last cool benefit is that this is also simultaneously a really good tricep exercise, or at least it is for me. I feel the long head of my triceps, so the meatiest part of your tricep. I feel it light up when I do these in a really good way. That brings us in how to program them. It's also pretty simple. You just throw in two hard sets after you do your rowing or your pulling just to drive some extra volume into your lats. I like to do them after I've already done whatever main tricep press that I want to do. Like I said, they do work the longer your triceps a bit, so you may come in pre-fatigued if you put them before your tricep work. It's just something to keep in mind. It's not that way for everybody. Experiment for yourself and see how it works for you, but that's a good rule of thumb. But with regards to that extra volume for our back, sometimes our back can get in some more quality work, but our elbows or biceps are too tired to get it done. And cable pullovers are perfect there because they don't require you to use your biceps or any elbow fatigue at all. Last but not least, in terms of how I like to progress the movement session to session, just run a normal double progression to start off with. And if you want to, you can also incorporate a heavier top set and then a lighter, higher rep back offset. And then for stronger lifters that want to limit the load on their rowing and pulldowns, you can do the pullovers first to pre-fatigue your back. But give these a shot. Let me know what you think the next time you train your back. If you want to do a back exercise that complements the pullover very well and support the channel, check out my Omni bar. There's a link in the description. The second pre-sale is just restocked. The first one sold out super quick and this next one's selling really fast, so check it out if you're interested. Anyway, thanks for watching, fellas. Subscribe if you haven't already for more content like this and like the video. And I will see you in the next one. Have a good day. See ya.