 Have you ever felt that if your methods aren't perfect, then your programs couldn't get results? We're always being told that there's always one new or one perfect way to do something? I've personally always had the opposite experience. You just have to be good enough. Progress over perfection. And you can take what I'm about to say to the bank, but you can be sure that if what you do is fun, you can recover from it, and it's based on solid principles, that you'll have a recipe for some serious gains, baby. I'm your host, Bald Omni, and today, and today, and today, and today, and today, and today, I want to personally bring you a follow-up to my Berserk Method series with this list of helpful, generally useful exercises, tips, and principles that I apply in every training program that I make and that have helped thousands of lifters get better results. These are the Berserk Method staples, and I hope you enjoy. Our first staple brings us back in time to an era where we all honestly still draw a lot of inspiration from. Across decades of weight training history, weighted calisthenics have been a feature, and the very best programs. The reason being is that they just work. Almost everyone can do them. They're scalable, just as stimulating as the barbell lifts, less restrictive, and most of all, easier to recover from after an intense workout. The weighted dip, push-up, inverted row, and pull-up were all heavily used in the 50s by silver-era legend Marvin Eder, who I personally draw a lot of inspiration from. And of course, decades later, we're still using these bad boys. I made a video breaking down the best form and technique for weighted dips. Check that out after this one if you're interested, and let me know if you want to see videos for the weighted pull-up, weighted push-up, and weighted inverted row as well. But like Pokemon evolutions, things come in levels. And the first level of adding weighted calisthenics is to just simply replace an existing exercise that's similar with that one. For example, deficit-weighted push-ups instead of dumbbell press, dips instead of barbell bench, inverted rows instead of barbell rows, or pull-ups instead of lat pull-downs. Pretty easy stuff. You'll notice right away after a few weeks of substituting those in that your body feels more refreshed despite training the movements at an equal intensity. This alone leaves more room in the tank to push harder next time, or for you to add extra work to another movement pattern that you want to prioritize. If you want an example progression to use on these weighted calisthenics, check out my free tool I made in the description after you're done watching this video. Now on top of that, weighted calisthenics can also be used to create additional intensity in a workout, or over the course of the week if you want to. Intensity is a skill at the end of the day, and it ain't very picky. So for example, let's just say you wanted to do four sets of bench press in a workout to increase your bench strength. Who doesn't? But you find that you can't really recover from that very well. So you can instead do three sets of bench press, and then one to two sets of dips. This way you're getting in five sets of heart pressing instead of just three, and they'll be easier to recover from. On top of that, this is a fantastic tool for building your work capacity. Doing weighted calisthenics in addition to your barbell work will build up that ability to be able to do more benching later on in your journey as well, in case you did want to get more specific. Remember, this is all possible due to weighted calisthenics being easier to recover from than its barbell exercise counterpart. This is a strategy that you actually see a lot in high-level powerlifting. The same thing can apply to all barbell rows or any weighted calisthenics exercise in its counterpart. Our journey to implementing practical tips into our programs is going to bring us now to the land of leg days. This is the day of the week that most of us either loathe with a deep, indescribable hatred, or relish the very most out of any training day. Now, in my humble opinion, I think there's a primitive part of each of us that can enjoy a good old-fashioned leg workout. The problem is that most of us do exercises that we either hate or we aren't built well for. It doesn't matter if you know vegetables are good for you at the end of the day if you hate eating them because they're soggy, microwaved garbage. Check out my Berserk Method video if you want to learn how to cook. All jokes aside, though, fellas, I am a big believer in improving our general ability to squat and to hinge, but that only takes but so much training economy. To get the ball rolling, I like to fill in volume with more stable, generally applicable leg exercises so that we can do movements that feel better, we can push harder, and that work better with our own unique builds. Chief among these things being whatever leg machine you happen to have at your gym, whether it's a leg press, a hack squat, belt squat, pendulum squat, whatever your gym has. A simple way I like to implement these into people's programs is to just simply have one day where they squat, and then one day where they use all their machine work. Working on your ability to squat well for your build, keeping yourself more upright, keeping your hips out of the lift, and knees over your toes hones the skill of generally being able to get more out of leg exercises. We take all that and then apply it to our machine exercises, and bada-bing, bada-boom, we got a one plus one equals three. If you want a really simple teaching tool for forcing yourself to squat well for your particular build, heel elevated zombie squats are a great place to start. This combination of more efficient squat work along with more surgical machine squatting work is like the peanut butter and jelly of leg training. You'll feel way more confident. Your back will be fresher, which is pretty huge as well, but most importantly, you'll be able to just focus on pushing hard. Which brings us to our next way that we can implement this strategy. This next step, I dare say, is a crazy thing to consider if you love back squatting. But once you understand good squat mechanics for your build, unless there's a specific desire to either have a back squat in your program or train it for powerlifting, I'm actually a big fan of doing only stable leg machines on both days that you train legs. Because all things being equal, you can push your legs harder on a hack squat or a leg press than you can on a back squat because ultimately your back isn't getting recruited at all. Being able to push your legs as hard as possible without your lower back limiting you is a pretty good benefit that can stack up over years to grow your wheels that much more. I'm also a big believer in making leg day training as simple as possible. So the success is measured by applying some common sense progression along with a lot of hard work and not having to follow an intricate workout where we have a million cues that we need to keep in mind. That's my ideal. And lastly, a really big reason why I prefer to do this as well is because machine exercises are more forgiving if you redline them when compared to barbell exercises. For similar reasons, they don't recruit your back. Now, some of y'all might be wondering where hinging falls into play with this. And don't worry, there's nothing better than a good old fashioned Romanian deadlift or stiff leg deadlift for building up your lower back, glutes and hammies. The most common thing that I prescribe here is just a simple pause at the bottom. It makes every rep grow you a little bit better and helps you progress on a given weight for longer before adding more. The only other thing that I prescribe for hinges is actually a Smith RDL. And the reason being is that a lot of people have trouble keeping RDLs or stiff leg deadlifts in their hamstrings. If you use a Smith machine, the bar's fixed path will keep it exactly where it needs to be, which is close to your shins. That way you don't have to think about that particular cue and you can think more about keeping your legs straight and your hamstrings engaged. Try it out. Let me know what you think. For our final trek into the deepest, darkest pits of leg day land, we're going to talk about some isolations. And simply put, isolation exercises are like guts or Batman's utility belt. You never leave home without them. Simply put, just do your leg extensions, your sissy squats and your ham curls like normal. The only thing I suggest from here is just adding some simple yoga blocks to increase the range of motion a little bit. But other than that, this is just stuff you're already doing. Thank you so much for enduring that brutal trek through leg day land with me. Go ahead and like the video now if you're enjoying so far. But as we take our final steps through leg day land, we'll now begin our journey into unveiling far more taboo and forbidden knowledge obtained through the bro split scrolls. Moving away from exercises and getting more into meat and potatoes programming, something I want you to try is to take your existing workout and try to make it into something that biases a specific muscle group throughout. Bro splits are like the redheaded stepchild of training programs. There's thousands of videos calling them the worst thing ever and with good reason. But this black sheep of the family does something that it's big bros don't inherently do. They focus your workouts on working one particular muscle group really well. The easiest way to take this principle and apply it on an upper body workout, for instance, is to just make each of your biggest movements hit or bias the muscle that you want to work on. You want to make a push pull workout, slam your shoulders, do overhead press, behind the neck press, laterals and rear delts. Fill in the rest with your upper body day staples. Now that's a subtle addition that makes a big difference and is way simpler than just trying to find a special exercise that'll bring up your lag and muscle groups. Just make the whole ecosystem of the workout hit it from different angles and that sucker's going to grow. Finally, taking that point into consideration, last but certainly not least, I always make each of my upper body sessions focused around a unique pressing and pulling exercise. That means a day for dips, a day for presses, and a day for overhead presses, along with doing a pulling exercise and a unique plane of motion on each day as well. This type of setup gives you new challenges every training session, keeps you engaged, makes you more physically robust from getting strong at multiple angles, and overall keeps you fresher because you aren't doing the same repetitive motion over and over again. If you want a program that gives you an exact example of how to do all the things that we talked about today, be on the lookout for my upcoming video where I overview my new program, Conquest. And if you want a general workout to use as a base to implement these strategies instead, check out my programs on Boost Camp. You can run them right out of the box. They're purposely customizable for you to be able to make all the changes that we talked about today. But that is all she wrote, fellas. Thanks so much for watching. And if you haven't checked it out already, please check out my Berserk Method 2025 self-coaching guide. It's totally free, it's comprehensive, and goes through multiple training concepts that we didn't even cover today. I make that resource every year for folks that want to coach but can't pay for one or just simply want to be able to coach themselves well. Today's video was a list expanded from a topic taken from Berserk Method 2025. So if you want more good stuff like this, check out that video now. But if you do want to support the channel directly, please consider checking out my Omni Bar. We just had a restock, but get yours soon because they do sell out quick. Y'all have a good day, fellas. Thanks so much. Bye.