 If I could go back in time to when I was just a young lad with zero gains, I choose three exercise combos to add to my program for the rest of my life, and they would have allowed me to track my progress better, make that progress faster, make that progress faster, and overall have more fun. Ladies, gentlemen, I got a fun one for you today. A few years ago, I talked about 10 exercises that I would have done if I could start over in isolation, but today's list talks about some lifts working better together than they do apart. And in my opinion, talking about how they work, work together is a lot more helpful is a lot more helpful is a lot more helpful than just talking about how singular lifts are good or bad. My goal today is for you to obviously have some fun, but more so to walk away with something actionable. I'm Bald Omni-Man if you're new, and I'll be your host for today. I hope you enjoy. Chapter one and our first stop in our journey throughout time brings us to everyone's favorite day in history, Arm Day. Barbell Bicep Curls and Barbell Skull Crushers are a legendary duo and are weapons of choice for today that I love pairing on the same day, because the they're synergistic. You load them up on this same exact bar saving time and then blood flow generated from one makes the other feel a lot more comfortable, particularly when you start off with the barbell curls. And in a world of complexity, I also deeply admire the simplicity of just curling your heart out with a loaded barbell and then doing skull crushers with the same exact bar. You can hear me getting fired up now. Now that I got you bought in, let's talk execution, starting with barbell curls. Barbell curls get some flack for not being very targeted to the biceps if you don't do them well, but here's some tips to tackle that issue head on and get more out of the exercise. A basic tip for execution that I got from Jared Feather is to keep your elbows tucked in as you curl, and especially at the top, and then flex that shoulder a bit at the top as well. I find personally that this alone is going to recruit my biceps better and then keep them stricter as well. This will also make the weights that you're used to curling feel comparatively tougher, which means lowering your load a tad. Also increasing that stability too, since lighter loads are easier to keep pre or overall. Now, as for a cue that I found on my own, I like to angle my feet out a little bit and apply pressure evenly throughout my entire foot. This is more of an internal cue than an external cue, besides just pushing your feet out. You can only feel your pressure in your foot, and that's not really something I can show you. But once you do get a good feel for that, it's going to increase stability and leverages your body weight better, allowing for those heavier loads to be used when the time comes. So far, I've been able to crisply curl up to a plate per side with no stability issues at all using these two cues alone. Lastly, I have a weird tip for folks that want even more stability. Go ahead and squeeze your thighs between a bench, imagining that you're trying to crush a watermelon or crush someone's head between your thighs, I guess, if you're into that. Crazy imagery aside, this is going to artificially increase your body weight. So essentially, the weight of the bench is going to anchor you down. Most folks will be able to do just fine with those first two cues, but this last one is going to make the barbell curl as stable as possible. Pivoting from execution now to progression, I have a helpful strength progression that you can use in tandem with the form that I just outlined. It's really simple. You start with a 15 rep max, and then you do two sets of 8 to 12 with that same weight. And this lays the foundation of performance and volume that we're only going to build on from here. I have the next four steps thrown up on the screen, and we'll cycle to each of these weekly, so go ahead and jot these down. But for those that want a cheat sheet, check the link in the description. But the idea here is that you slowly increase the load, ending with a heavy PR set of 5. And then you cycle back to week 1, beat your performance there, same with when you go back to week 2, so on and so forth. This is really fun, fellas, keeps training momentum strong, and gives you easy data to go off of for long-term training progression. Triceps are not the red-headed stepchild, and any arm day is incomplete without them. And personally, I love barbell tricep extensions for similar reasons to barbell curls. The simplicity, the cool factor, and how it feels like you're tapping in with a really cool part of history when you do them. I wear striped parachute pants to the gym because Ronnie Coleman did, and I do tricep extensions because he did those too. Hell, I might even start wearing gardening gloves and overalls too. All jokes aside, fellas, I did get a few comments on the last video that call these JM presses. Some people call them skull crushers. I say that all of those exercises all lie on the same spectrum. You just go ahead and pick your touchpoint, whether that be the collarbone, chin, mouth, nose, or forehead, based on your personal comfort or preference. Just don't smooch the bar like I do. Now, what I will say is that there's absolutely a way to keep these targeted to the triceps, which will apply no matter what your touchpoint is. I keep these bad boys mostly in the triceps and minimally in the chest and shoulders by just aiming my elbows forward towards my hips. Another way that you can think about it is putting your elbows in your pockets. As for the elbow angle, again, go for comfort, but definitely lean towards pushing them more in as much as you comfortably can. And again, that's a spectrum. Some people are not going to feel great pushing them all the way in, but what you want to avoid is pushing them all the way out because that's not going to recruit your triceps the most, in my opinion. Moving from execution to the elephant in the room, tricep extensions have a notorious reputation for being not only extremely stimulating, but are often demonized by lifters because of their perceived inherent injury risk to our elbows. Even lifters who I greatly respect say this, but here's my challenge to that. And I say this with the utmost respect and with good faith, but extensions aren't any more or less injurious than your favorite squat pattern exercise or anything else for that matter. And if extensions do hurt your elbows, that's a very real thing that I'm not telling you to ignore, but I would rather you follow a protocol to make them feel better than to discard them entirely. We don't want to ignore our weaknesses, but instead relentlessly attack them until their strengths, or at least not weaknesses anymore. The good news is though, I have a proven protocol that you can use to beef up your elbow tendons, alleviate pain, and end off being able to do more tricep work pain-free. Your elbows hurt because your tendons and joints are not acclimated to the stress that you're subjecting them to, period. And the idea here is to gradually expose your elbows to greater and greater stimulus until it just doesn't hurt anymore. So for step one of the Berserk Method elbow health protocol, you're going to start with the basics, band press downs. Get a big old pump both before and after your workouts, and bada bing, bada boom, that's your tricep work for the day. You're going to go ahead and do that for three to four weeks. Next up, go ahead and include some rope press downs on a cable machine, but keep doing those band press downs both before and after your training. It's very important that you continue to do those. Rope press downs are one deviation more stimulating and slightly more challenging to our tendons and the elbows than the bands are. Go ahead and build your strength with those rope press downs for another three to four weeks. For our third and penultimate step, go ahead and swap out that rope for a straight bar on those press downs. Again, the idea here is that we're graduating the stimulus up one more step to make our elbows tougher. Keep doing those press downs both before and after. Very important. Do not forget. Go ahead and build your strength up with the straight bar press downs for three to four more weeks. And lastly, for our final step, swap in some form of extensions from the press downs. You can start with dumbbells or whatever type of extensions feel best or you want to try out. I'm recommending you do the barbell, but you do what feels best for you. You'll notice far less pain and far more strength, provided that you do every part of the protocol as it is prescribed. I personally went from being completely unable to do any tricep work at all to being able to comfortably do extensions with zero pain ever. Of course, this has to come with proper load selection, but this is a very popular protocol that I've been preaching for years that I want you to try out. We've made it to the end of chapter one. And to wrap up our first combo in terms of progression for the tricep extensions, you can go ahead and follow a similar progression model to the curls. I just start with the reps a little higher, say at 20 reps, and end a little higher as well, say at eight reps. Let me know what bicep and tricep combination you really like and join me as we head over to our next combination. Chapter two of our time machine journey brings us to the most helpful exercise combo that I personally would include, but also a big problem. Let's start with that combo first. Enter weighted dips and neutral grip chin-ups. Now on their own, we have one exercise that, in my humble opinion, blows standard barbell bench press out of the water, and another that works absolutely everyone's backs to their absolute limits. I picked them as a combo here because not only do they feed into each other and work well individually, they also synergize really well with our first bicep curl, tricep extension combo. This goes far beyond one plus one equals three territory into one plus one equals ten. The reason why all four of these exercises work so well together comes with one, their exercise order, two, stability, and three, longevity. The easiest one is the exercise order, so we'll go ahead and knock that one out first. It goes weighted dip, chin-up, tricep extension, barbell curl. The cool thing is with the neutral grip chin-ups is that they actually work your arms quite a bit, contrary to popular belief. So where, if we do them in isolation, you will want to do the barbell curl first to generate some blood flow to the elbows to help you warm up. We've already done that with the neutral grip chin-ups, so a lot of times we can jump right into just doing the extensions, naturally after warming up on that movement, of course. Deep dips also give you the slightest bicep pump as well, which will also get you ready for those chin-ups, which gets you ready for the extensions, which gets you ready for the curls. Now, in terms of the stability factor, for one, the more muscle you have in your arms, the more stable the bottom portion of the dip will be. I call this the crash pad effect. The crash pad effect referring to cushioning that is created by your muscles pushing into your joints. So your bicep pushing into your forearm creates stability, comfort, and strength at the bottom of the dip that will make you a lot better off overall. And then bigger triceps obviously makes your lockout stronger as well. And in terms of longevity, that crash pad effect is also going to promote that as well, reducing tweaks and injuries, which means longer and longer stretches of time that you can train hard and get stronger, which is going to make you bigger overall. All of this quietness is kept can also be said for the pull-ups as well. Bigger biceps is going to go ahead and make that lockout better on the chins, and then bigger triceps mean more stability and a slight bit of horsepower at the bottom of that pull. Now finally, dips and chins in and of themselves synergize with each other for all of the above. Moving on to technique, if you're interested, I made a video breaking down exactly how I like to perform weighted dips, so I won't dedicate much more time to that in particular. Now as a brother, the neutral grip chin-up is incredible, and I haven't talked about it a whole lot yet. So I'll be making a full video detailing how to get stronger on that lift specifically. Stay tuned and let me know if you're interested. But for now, in short, the neutral grip chin-up is best for most lifters because you won't ever be limited by grip strength since the neutral grip handles are a lot easier to hold onto. That means no straps, and heck, you might not even need to use chalk. Bada bing, bada boom, we took out the biggest limiting factor for back exercise, your grip. In terms of actually activating the lats, that neutral grip also aligns naturally with your lats to bias them automatically. It's a tip that I got from John Meadows, rest in peace. But in general, pulling with your arms more flush to your body, which again, the neutral grip facilitates, is going to smash them to smithereens. Another benefit, because they never stop coming with this exercise, is keeping your elbows slightly in front of the body also seems to crush your lats really well, which again, the neutral grip automatically facilitates. But most importantly, neutral grip chins are going to be the variation that's comfortable for the most amount of people because they feel great on the elbows, wrists, and shoulders. Now, if you can't do very many pull-ups yet, I do have some things for you to try that will improve that for you. But for now, until that neutral grip video drops, you can start off by just greasing the groove. Greasing the groove basically meaning you do a set number of pull-ups each session without taking any cluster of the reps you do to failure. That worked really well for me personally when I first started off working out. And lastly, in terms of the progression, I left a tool for you in the description, as well as a free program, ConQuest, for you to use if you're interested and if you're looking for a new program to run. That was the second exercise combo that I would do, but as I said, Houston, we have a problem. Not with the actual exercise combo, just with another good combo that's more of an honorable mention. Seated overhead press and chest-supported rows are also amazing for similar reasons to dips and chin-ups. The reason why they're only an honorable mention this time is that dips work your shoulders a ton, but overhead press hardly works your chest at all. And while rows hit the rear delts better than pull-ups, but mostly just in terms of vibes, dips plus chin-ups sounds better than dips plus chest-supported rows. But you let me know what you think. What's a better combo, seated overhead press and chest-supported rows, or dips and chin-ups? Let me know with a comment down below, or if you have another combo that you like even more, let me know that instead. Now, if you do like that shoulder press plus chest-supported row combo better, I did make a video breaking down the exact form that I like to do on chest-supported rows, because I still do them. Along with my road to a 315-pound seated overhead press playlist that drops a lot of golden tidbits for that lift as well. FYI, I'm at 260 pounds on the seated overhead press currently, so only 55 more pounds to go. Let's get back in the time machine, though, for our final combo. The last stop in our time machine journey brings us to Chapter 3, where, fortunately or unfortunately, depending upon who you ask, we have to train our legs. Womp womp. But we're going to do it in a way that gives us the best possible outcome for everyone. What if I told you that you could get big and strong legs without back squats or deadlifts, and that you could do it in a freaking planet fitness if you absolutely needed to? It's 100% the truth, fellas. My last combo that I would do would be a deep ass-to-ankles leg press and stiff leg deadlifts. Anyone can do them with very little equipment that they don't already have in their gym, and you're not sacrificing any gains or intensity, which, in my opinion, for the legs is the most important factor for growing them more than anything else. If you're doubting the intensity, just go ahead and Google Ronnie Coleman 1500-pound leg press or whatever ridiculous amount of weight that he's using and tell me that that's not intense. Or look up Dan Green ripping 600-pound stiff leg deadlifts and tell me that that's not intense. Fellas, listen, they work because they work well with everything else that we mentioned, and they work well with everything else because they allow you to localize the stimulus to only the muscles that you are trying to build. So you don't have to get a lot of back when you're trying to build your legs or worry about proper leverages or setup or working your quads a little bit when you're trying to work your hamstrings and your lower back. Doing more targeted lifts means lifting less overall weight, which also frees up more juice for you to be able to push your upper body stuff harder and makes your lower body workout shorter because you're not spending as much time warming up, quite honestly. We're making it more about checking in, getting the work done, and pushing to the proper intensity. Now, form-wise, in terms of the leg press, I happen to have one that automatically lets me elevate my heels. But if you don't, go ahead and throw some wedges in your shoes. This allows for more quad activation. In addition to that, the foot stance that you take leaves room for a lot of variation, hitting your legs slightly differently. Lately, I've been on a big, close stance leg press kick, but you can use shoulder width or slightly wider than that to hit your adductors a little bit more and to give you a different variation to use. Now, full disclosure, some folks will be concerned about injury in their lower backs from doing the leg press in the first place, which is legit because I've had that exact same thing happen to myself. You're going to keep that lower back safe by placing some padding behind your hips and then pulling yourself into the seat hard. That's why you see my arms going crazy when I do these. But leg press is pretty simple other than that. Lock in, push the sled. My program, Conquest, is going to cover a progression model for you to follow. But in short, you can go ahead and treat this lift like a serious strength movement, just like the back squat. You're going to get far better gains out of it when you think about it that way. Stiff leg deadlifts are similarly customizable. But let's start with the benefits of any variation that you choose to do. And I have a shocking statistic to share with you. 9 out of 10 natural or enhanced bodybuilders pick stiff legs or RDLs or something similar over conventional deadlifts when it comes to the hip hinge that they perform. These are the guys that make money from being jacked and likely have tried out a lot of different tactics. And I believe success leaves clues in this case. The reason being is multifactorial. So for one, stiff legs are going to work your hamstrings better than conventional. They're going to work your back way better due to putting your back at a bigger disadvantage mechanically. And they're also going to sacrifice a good bit of that leverage game that you need to play. And overall, you're going to be lifting a lot less weight, meaning that every set of stiff leg is going to work you better while wiping you out less. And the only tradeoff is that you're not working your quads at all because you're not bending at the knee and you're getting less traps because it's less overall weight stretching your traps, which is a pretty fair tradeoff considering that we're working the lower body better for the most part. Form wise, you can stick your feet out a little bit wider and overall have a slightly wider stance to work more adductors. Or you can bring your feet in a little closer than shoulder width and point those toes forward to work the hamstrings more and use less load overall than even the wider stance version that we just talked about. Regardless of what stance you choose, when it comes to working the hamstrings and adductors, I have found that focusing on the eccentric or the lowering phase, in other words, is more important than a lot of other muscle groups, almost more so than locking out all the way. In fact, when I cut my brain off and focus mostly on just feeling tension in the muscle and I watch back my footage, I discover funnily enough that I'm cutting out the top bit of the range of motion. But to conclude, deep ass to ankles leg press and stiff leg deadlifts alone are going to give you most of your leg mass by themselves. But there's a strong argument for deficit leg extensions and hamstring curls being an even better duo. To be honest though, I wouldn't be able to get fired up about doing those two as my main performance metrics at all. Maybe the hamstring curls, but the leg extensions, while effective, I don't think are as cool as a leg press. That's all she wrote though, fellas. Thank you so much for watching and I really hope you enjoyed. But what do you guys think? What are some of your favorite exercise combos? And if you liked the video, please let me know by liking the video and subscribing and make sure to check out my free programs on Boost Camp, which puts all of these exercises into an organized program for you to follow today. I hope you guys have a great day. See you later.