 This party's getting crazy, let's rock! Listen, it takes most of us a very long time to figure out how to train our backs effectively, but I'm going to show you an exercise that everyone gets great results from that you can do today. Enter the chest supported row done my style. If you're new to the channel, my name is Bald Omni-Man. And look, I love a good barbell row, but sometimes you want to work your lats without working your lats without working your lats. This is a good barbell row. If you're new to the channel, my name is Bald Omni-Man. And look, I love a good barbell row, but sometimes you want to work your lats without working your lats without working your lats. Listen, it takes most of us a very long time to figure out how to train your lats without working your lats without working your lats. And look, I love a good barbell row. And look, I love a good barbell row, but sometimes you want to work your lats without working your lower back. Or maybe you're just not great at keeping your barbell rows strict enough to make them effective. If you're interested, check out our chest supported row. The reason I love these bad boys is not only because they're easy to use, but they're easy to use. And I love a good barbell row, but sometimes you want to work your lats without working your lower back. Or maybe you're just not great at keeping your barbell rows strict enough to make them effective. If you're interested, check out this video on barbell rows for more info on that after you watch this one. But for today, I'm going to show you exactly how to set up chest supported rows at any gym, give you a few variations to try, and how I like to include them in my training program. The reason I love these bad boys is not only because they're easy to get down pat in terms of the form, but they also best align with your back's natural strength curve. And on top of that, they're loadable from five pounds all the way up to 500 pounds. They naturally cut out the range of motion right where you would need to kick in extra muscles to lock out on a normal row. So every rep works the back in isolation as intended. They're easier to set up than seal rows, which are similar, but they either take special equipment or some creative DIY hacks to set up. Speaking of setup, the easiest setup for the chest supported rows with dumbbells. You simply get yourself an adjustable bench and you set that bad boy down as low as you can while still getting a full stretch at the bottom. Then you just lay your dumbbells at the feet of the bench for easy access and bada bing, bada boom, you get to work. Form wise, like I said, it's super simple. The only cue that you need to follow is to keep the chest muscles glued to the bench and not use your lower back to get the weight started. The latter will help you lift more weight for sure, but it'll also take away focus from the upper back and the lats. If you don't have dumbbells, you can also just as easily do this with the barbell as well. With barbell chest supported rows, you can do them lying on a bench as well. You may just have to adjust the angle up a bit. Reason being is that plates are a bit thicker than dumbbells are. Another way to set up for people with bulkier benches is to just use the head of the bench while in a bent over position for chest support instead. The dumbbell and the barbell variations are two versions of the lift that 99% of you are going to be able to do because all you need is a bench, a barbell or some dumbbells. Those two variations are amazing. And quite frankly, I do dumbbell chest supported rows all the time. But these next two variations add a little bit of icing on the cake. You can also do these same chest supported rows on a Smith machine. But now you'll get that locked in machine stability feel. Lastly, and my personal favorite, is the camber bar chest supported row. With a neutral grip bar like this, you get that feel of being able to tuck into your sides and really dig into the lats, just like with a dumbbell. And on top of that, you get the loading and stability of a barbell. Overall, I've got access to some decent chest supported row machines at my gym. But I always vastly prefer free weights for one, their infinite loading potential. And two, the fact that I can reliably track my training if I happen to work out at home or if I happen to train at a different gym. Now let's talk the Kelso Shrug. Popularized by Paul Kelso, rest in peace. These bad boys are the peanut butter to the chest supported rows jelly. I say that partly jokingly, but also because I just see them as something that you should do naturally when you do a row. These will work the middle back and traps in a way that you can't with other motions. And honestly, the form is really easy as well. You just shrug your shoulders back. I love to do a set of rows and then directly after that, do a set of Kelso shrugs as what's called a mechanical drop set. And all that means is that you just do the rows and then right after that, you do the Kelso shrugs without putting the bar down. Prepare to develop some serious thickness, fellas. Now programming wise, start by pairing them with a press of some sort. After your bench workout, for instance, you can hit up some chest supported rows in a rep range that you like. I typically work between five and 12 reps, sometimes upwards of 15, 20 reps. The five to 10 range is usually where I stay most of the time, though. It's a good combination of loading up enough weight to strengthen my joints and my tendons, keep a good standard of form and grow muscle. And anything above 12 is mostly to drive blood flow to my tendons and joints for recovery while still getting a great muscle building effect. And quite frankly, sometimes I just think it's cool to be able to say I row a bunch of weight for a whole bunch of reps. But when you're working in your desired rep range, you just add some weight when that rep range gets too easy. That's called a double progression. You add reps and then you add weight. I'm also a big fan of programming it in a more strength specific context as well. It's a hallmark of my style of programming to take a movement like, say, the row, the pull up, the weighted dip, and then program it in a similar way that you would program the squat, bench and deadlift in a strength oriented program. That way requires a little bit more planning. But the reward for that is, is that on average, it's better at creating momentum in your training. Now, if you're interested, I have a program that's free that you can find in the description and in the pinned comment on Boost Camp called Beast Slayer. Thousands of people have ran it and it's highly reviewed. So check it out. Like I said, it's free. But that's all she wrote, fellas. Send this video to someone that needs a chest supported row tutorial and then like the video if you want to see more content like this. Thank you to all my supporters that have helped my new omnibore sell out completely for the second time. Stay tuned for that restock. If y'all are interested in supporting the channel, check out some of my other content and leave a like on this video. Subscribe for more. See you later. Have a great day.