 l risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks risks place. So it ain't no thing to download all the information from my brain with regards to training and then share it with you in this free forum, because I'm a big believer in all of us have received a piece of help just randomly, arbitrarily that vastly improved our circumstances in life. And I want this video to be that resource for you. Again, your support makes everything possible. And I want to say thank you to Kentaro Miura, Akira Toriyama, all these formative authors that gave me these works, Dragon Ball and Berserk, these stories about evolution, overcoming adversity, and overall just trying to become a more resilient human being that is a source of inspiration to those around them. I want to say thank you to them. And again, thank you to you. Now, the fifth edition highlights. There's going to be a lot of ground that we cover in this that we did not cover in previous editions. That does not mean that the previous editions are defunct or that they are wrong. It's just we're going into more detail with things. And I'm very proud of the breadth of topics that we're going to cover today. So we're going to give you a more complete guide with specific examples and prompts. This just comes down to questions that you can prompt yourself with specific examples and things of that nature. There's going to be a lot more specific self-coaching guidance. I have a new section that again, I'm very proud of dedicated to movement pattern mastery before I would cover like your basic squat bench deadlift leverages, limb lengths, and how those things interact with those movements for people in my experience. But I'm going to go through everything from curls to extensions to every major performance metric that you can think of. I go really in depth diet and everything in between. I want you guys to have some fun. Here's how I want you to use this guide. First and foremost, if you're an OG to the channel, like the video, subscribe so that this video can get pushed out and so that as many people can use it as possible. Because you remember the first time you watched one of these videos, people tell me all the time how useful it was to them. And I want that to be someone's experience coming into this one. Now, like I said, the previous editions are still valid. This is just an addition to the overall anthology of the Berserk Method. This works great consuming it as an audio book or a lecture of some sort from beginning to end. It also helps with the watch time, fellas, which again will help it get pushed out. So personally, when I finished recording this, I'm going to listen back to it while I get my steps in. It's fully timestamped. So ideally, you would just go to all jokes aside, if you don't want to listen to it as an audio book right now, just go to the timestamp. Everything's fully timestamped. And you'll be able to consume the specific topics that you need and then rewatch it as needed. Now, some specific portions are going to stand out more to you. And that's more what I want you to focus on first, if you're not going to listen to the full thing. Like I said, like and subscribe so that this can go out to as many people as possible. As you can see, this this has to be made entertaining for y'all because I'm going to be speaking for three or four hours. And I got to make it entertaining for people that are going to listen to this as an audio book. So I'm not going to read everything on the slides more so use it as a prompt to generate discussion between you and I. But we're going to go through the table of context really quickly. I'm not going to read this word for word, like I said, but we're going to go through the first chapter, which is coaching yourself outside of the gym. That's your diet. That's your building media literacy with regards to implementing advice that you get and how to avoid redundant or frankly, not useful advice. And then mindset pieces as well. And like I said, the diet. We'll go into the building movement mastery. And as you can see, that's every major, major movement pattern that we're going to go through. Coaching yourself at the gym, which is distinct from coaching yourself, obviously outside of the gym. This is good in the gym habits, good checklists that you can use to check yourself. I call it, you just call it the check yourself checklist. We go way more in depth with things that you could do that. And then more on blog booking. I feel that that's something that I didn't really talk about the way that I wanted to in past editions. But again, we'll give specific examples when we get there. We'll go to practical berserk method programming, things that really make my type of programming distinct, how I approach new programs with clients, whether it be through PT, online coaching, whatever the case may be. And then a masterclass on something that a good friend of mine, Sam and I talk about all the time, which is creating momentum in our training. And then last but not least, we'll go through some recommended programs. So strap in, get yourself a nice little drinky drink, a nice little snack, and then we're going to go ahead and get started. I'm going to start with just talking a little bit about the berserk method anthology, starting with what is the berserk method in general. Like I said, it's a free self coaching resource, but it has evolved with time. And at a high level, what every edition aims to do is to give you the best return on investment with the type of training that you use. So not everything has to be complicated. We want to give you a simple solution that gives you a great return on the type of effort that you put in. So I want to make things systemic in that you have a system that you can follow. But again, you could almost, I don't want to say not pay attention, but it's just easy to follow. I'm really big on outside of the gym variables because a lot of times it's not necessarily what you're doing in the gym and about 50% of the time. It is the other 50%, which is a huge swath of people. It's what you do outside of the gym. And overall, it's about adaptability because guts from berserk. He's a big, hoarsely, chatty guy that is built for whatever situation you put them into. And that's kind of the type of aura that I want to have with the berserk method. Now to talk a little bit about the first edition so that we can talk about where the fifth edition is at. Again, this is five years ago. I made this. I'm a really big believer and I always have been in upper lower. I used to say four days a week was the best. And I think that that's still great. We'll talk about that though. I used to do back work every session and I got that from Dan green. I really felt that back work in general, especially at the time that I made the first edition of the berserk method was something that people kind of paid lip service to. So in programming with the berserk method, I came up with ways to be able to do that without doing too much every session and getting people really good results. I had a big focus on training one upper body lift and one lower body lift as primary movements. And then having those be our primary performance metrics and not a variety of performance metrics. Like I tend to ascribe to today as well. We had the tier two movements. Like I talk about today, it's just less in depth with the first edition. My breadth of knowledge was not as wide as it is now because I know enough to know that I know nothing. And I know that every year I'm going to learn that much more than the year before. But the last distinctive part of the berserk method, which I kind of don't use anymore, just depending upon the client, I will, but year round submaximal singles. And the idea behind that was just for you to be able to demonstrate good physical fitness year round without having to spend a lot of time peaking. But here's the new berserk method starts with the golden age guts and then into guts in his current iteration for those that are berserk enjoyers with the, he has the berserker armor now and the dragon slayer, but the new berserk method, again, ascribes to that upper lower methodology. I do believe that for most people, this is going to be the best split in terms of just overall days in the gym versus recovery away from the gym. But I opened it up to three to five times a week, just depending upon what your split looks like and how much time you have to go with it. And there are going to be some sample programs at the end that give you examples of each of those. A change from back work every day is to working every muscle, not just your back as often as possible for it to be recovered and strong enough to reform, perform well. And what that means is not only are you should just recovered muscularly, but your joints and your tendons are recovered and you can put in a good performance. We'll talk more about that in a second. Like I said, we diversify out to multiple performance metrics and then upper body and lower body are trained very differently in terms of how we set things up and approach things mindset wise. And overall, something that I have really made it a point to do was marry traditional strength training practices with modern hypertrophy. But just to break the ice, I do this every edition. I used to have just a list of 10 lifts to do. I'll talk about these at a high level, but I have the new berserk method staple strategies instead of just only lifts. Those lifts come alongside strategies. We'll make a separate video talking about this specifically. This is just a little icebreaker. We're going to talk about it at a high level, but the video after this one is going to talk about these more specifically as a follow-up. In general, when I take someone new, whether I'm working with them in person or online, I'm going to fill in as much volume as possible with the upper body with weighted calisthenics without introducing any redundancy, meaning if they're already doing something similar, I'm not going to just add more. And what that'll look like is doing weighted dips, weighted pull-ups, weighted inverted rows. And the reason for that being is that these are heavy compound movements that we can train as heavy performance metrics, similar to a heavy bench press, similar to a heavy barbell row, but they're less fatiguing. Don't ask me why a lot of people talk about open versus closed chain. I just know experientially that weighted calisthenics are less fatiguing and I don't question the why. I just accept the truth for what it is. They're just less fatiguing. And that's why I like filling in volume with that because you can train at a high intensity for longer and do more effective work when you're able to recover from it better. I also like filling in as much volume as possible for the lower body with machines or just more stable variations in general. That could be, for example, any squat machine, leg extensions, ham curls, the adductor machine. And that's just because for a lot of people, they don't actually have the goal of having the biggest back squat possible. They have the goal of getting bigger legs and you can train movement proficiency without doing a free weighted movement. That's something that we'll talk more about in the movement mastery, but that's not to say that if you want to back squat, that you won't back squat. Obviously it's just that you will fill in as much volume as possible with the machine work, because again, you can recover better from it than just doing all free weighted motions. And a lot of times they let you work your muscles more specifically. Something that I got from Dan Green, and I always wanted to incorporate this, but I could never really figure out how until like the past year or so he used to have his split set up so that it essentially resembled a bro split without being a bro split. And what he did was, is he just biased each day on a specific muscle group. And it alluded to me how to do this, but I like biasing my, for example, my upper body day, my first upper body day of the week to be a shoulder day, but I'm still pulling and doing a little bit of arms. And then the same with my quad biased lower body day. Again, we'll talk about that more in the followup video, but it's something that I use to be able to bias things without throwing other things on the back burner and still have it fit within the upper lower framework. And then something else that I really love, the silver era banger, the splitting up the pressing on each individual day, if I can. So that's one day for vertical, one day for horizontal, and then one day for like a decline, whether that'd be like a dip, a dip machine or a decline bench. Now, why do I love upper lower? It's the most common split that I've seen get recommended by coaches who perform at a high level, whether that's in bodybuilding or in powerlifting. That's not to say that that other splits don't get used outside of that. I just saying that this is the most common that I've seen. And the reason is, like I said, it gives you a good balance of frequency days off. Every session isn't super long. So you'll be in and out the gym in an hour, hour and a half, and it can be adapted to work on many different goals. Like I said, bodybuilders use it. Powerlifters use it. People play sports, people who just want to go to the gym and work out. Grandmas do this. Your dog can do it, I guess, if they grew arms and became anthropomorphic. Okay. And you can use it in the offseason with sports as well. Now, upper lower frequency is something I want to talk about because a lot of people love push pull legs and splits that allow for more days in the gym because of the frequency that it can offer. I like to start with the four times per week frequency. That's the standard. That's two times upper, two times lower. Three times per week, on the other hand, is just good for if you want to work around a busy schedule. So in the past, I have only had the opportunity to work out three days per week, but I still wanted to work in that upper lower framework. I just did two upper body days, one lower body day. It's also really good for maintenance for the same reason. So if you're someone that has overdeveloped legs or you just don't care to grow them anymore and you want to buy us more recovery for your upper body, this is the easiest way to do that, right? The best way to grow your upper body sometimes is just to not train your legs. And then finally, if you want to maximize overall stimulus to the upper body, which is something we'll talk about in a second, I go five times per week currently. So it's three times upper, two times lower. And that's the best in a vacuum if you have the time for it. Muscle frequency. I use frequency not to just be able to say, well, I'm getting in more volume. It's to facilitate better performance. And the reason for that being is that if you only have to come in and do four, this is just, for example, this isn't an actual prescription. I'm just giving you numbers, by the way. But if you only have to come in and use four sets, you're going to do better on each of those four sets than if you came in and you had to do eight. That's the basic idea. So that's why I like to split it up into three days. Because at the end of the day, better performance means more gains in the long term. I would say in general, use the most frequency that's possible that facilitates better gains and better performance without impeding your recovery. Meaning if you can come in and you can, you can perform well three times or four times a week, and some power lifters even bench five times a week, that's one thing, but it's beside the point. The point is to do this without beating up your joints, beating up your tendons, because those don't recover at the same rate as your muscles do. It's really potent for the upper body since in general, it just recovers faster than in your legs. But for the lower body, I find that for if you're going to come in and do a hypertrophy workout, it's a good idea and usually to not surpass that by two times a week. And it's just for recovery purposes. Let's talk lower body frequency for hypertrophy a little bit more specifically. Now, hypertrophy, with it being the main goal, I have found throughout my years of experience, again, this is the fifth edition of this freaking thing. Two times per week is the best balance between growth and then just coming in and your back doesn't feel like it's going to explode and your knees and your tendons and ligaments are throbbing. Most lifts on a lower body program, like I said, are going to be highly stable. So they're either going to be machine work, or if you're using accessories to adjunct to squat, like you're doing a squat and then your accessories are like a leg press, they are going to be machines preferentially. Where upper body training is a little bit different than lower body training, the way that I like to teach it is the progression is made to be less about thinking what you need to do, like different muscles that you need to hit, the different angles. That's what the upper body is for because it's more complicated. There's more muscles in the upper body. I like to make lower body training more about just working hard, following a plan and sticking to it. Now that might be a little bit different for lifters that I work with that are advanced strength athletes, like they literally compete in powerlifting or something of that nature. Good buddy of mine is training for a 2000 pound powerlifting total, which regardless of your weight class, in my opinion, puts you in the beginning of the world class of strength, no matter what your body weight is. You know, even if you're 400, 500, 600 pounds, if you're totaling 2000 pounds, you're world class in terms of strength. But strength training specifically for the biggest squat deadlift possible, it can benefit from three times for advanced lifters with a caveat. That can only be two days of hypertrophy training. You can't come in and do three days of hypertrophy. That additional day is just going to be a combo of technique practice and then a variation. So if you're someone that's listening to this and you're interested in powerlifting, keep that in mind. Frequency, if you're an advanced lifter, is a dial that you can turn to be able to get in more skill practice. You're an advanced lifter. You're still able to build muscle, but the juice isn't always worth the squeeze to push hypertrophy on three days because you're not going to be able to recover from that the same way you would if you were lighter. I'm going to give you an example for each. Like I said, we're going to get more hands-on with the direct examples. Harry hypertrophy, the alliteration king, trains two times lower body per week. Okay. No accent. I just arbitrarily decided to do that because I said lower body king or whatever I said, but he does a squat machine, a leg curl, a quad isolation, a hinge, and then maybe some calves if he cares about that. Maybe. He does distinct variations on each day to avoid redundancy. Falls in line with what we just talked about. But Johnny Peach Boy, like I said, he wants to get that 2,000 pound or 900 kilogram powerlifting total. So he's going to train three times per week. That includes one day with his main squat and deadlift and maybe a little bit of prehab exercise, meaning he may do some leg extensions to mild discomfort to facilitate blood flow. And then same thing with hamstring curls and maybe some abs and he'll get out of there. One of those days, though, includes a paused SSB squat and a stiff-legged deadlift. This includes variations of the main lift that you don't have to work as heavy. Skill practice, basically. And then one day is his hypertrophy machine-only day. That's the day where he's pushing muscle growth. Now that was our icebreaker chapter. We're going to move into chapter two, which is coaching yourself outside the gym. But just to wrap up, the upper body has a lot of muscles, and that's why I like giving it the additional frequency. It can take more frequent beatdown. So there's just more time and complexity that's dedicated to it in general. And that's what I recommend if you're either editing your program or you are making your own. And then lower body is much simpler in comparison, especially in terms of exercise selection. But it's, again, more about following a basic planned progression, following that program to a T and working hard. The rest of that stuff programming-wise is going to get covered. I think it's in chapter five, practical programming. But like I said, for now, we're going to lay the base with coaching yourself outside the gym, which is really the base and the groundwork of everything. If you're not doing what you need to do outside of the gym, it's irrelevant what you do in the gym and vice versa. They're equal halves of each other. However, the gym stuff is given a lot more emphasis on social media because it's easy to sell. It's easy to sell. Fancy new bicep exercise and not you need to have good habits outside the gym. This is formerly known as this chapter anyway, everything you need to do outside of the gym. Like I said, it's the foundation of everything. And what this chapter is going to be about is teaching you great outside the gym habits, not only what you should do ideally, but how to build up to the standard and then maximize it so that you are a professional. I'm also going to talk about my 10,000 foot view philosophy, and that's how you parse good advice from bad advice on social media to avoid on fear of missing out. Bad advice that just keeps you spinning your wheels, pulling out that good old credit card and buying things you have no business buying when you just need to eat more, sleep more, whatever the case may be. I'm going to go really in depth with diet. Now, starting with the 10,000 foot view, I talked about this in the last edition. We're going to cover some specific examples after I go over a brief interview. Broad vantage point thinking allows us to parse information better. Reason being is that when you're looking at something from a wide scope of view or from like a bird's eye view from 10,000 feet in the air, you're able to see things that you don't when you're looking at it mechanistically. So what you see when you look at a reel with a guy that's doing a bicep exercise, he's angle maxing, he's got a crazy pump, he may or may not be baby oiled up to make his muscles look bigger. What you see is, is that he has arms and you do not have arms. This is just an example. I'm not saying some guys on this probably are pretty jacked. I'm not saying you, this is proverbial, but what you're seeing is what you want, not what they're saying. When you look at things from a 10,000 foot view, though, you're able to parse out, hey, he's just doing a bicep exercise and I'm doing three other bicep exercises in my program. This is cool, but I'm just going to scroll past it. Now there are pros and cons to mechanistic and then wide view holistic thinking. The pro to the mechanistic thinking is that you're able to see the nuts and bolts of something and what it does specifically. But again, the broad view tells you if it's even worth listening to to begin with. As a rule of thumb, though, what I could say to you is this, if it won't be valid in six months, it ain't valid now. So it's not something you need to incorporate. As a rule of thumb, though, you should first look at things broadly. Here's an example I could give you. If you're looking to find a restaurant that you want to go to, you're not going to walk in the direction of town that drostanolone is at and try to find it that way. You're going to pull up Google Maps. You're going to type in the name of drostanolone and then you're going to look at it from Google Maps and like, oh, it's here. And that's what you want to do with the type of advice that you implement on social media. I'm going to give you a few questions. I call it the self-confidence questions. And if you answer positively to objective questioning, it may be worthwhile advice, but you don't. If you don't, then it's then it's not worthwhile. Here's those golden self-confidence questions. Real simple. One, what is this saying? Two, what are they trying to do and what are they trying to get me get out of me, which is usually money, which is usually a subscribe, which is usually something that has nothing to do with helping you. That's not everybody, but sometimes stuff is made for that specific purpose. What is the real benefit? Am I doing this already? Does this actually attack my areas of opportunity or good lifters already doing something like this? If you answer negatively to those, then you don't need to listen to that advice. And we'll give you a few examples, a couple of prompts. Here's our first example. You follow a diet where you're getting in your adequate protein, you're eating enough calories for your goals and you enjoy your food. You're being presented with Johnny Instagram reel and he's barraging you with carnivore diet. It mogs yours. Your heart will be healthier if you eat meat and fat only. And they also say, Hey, I have a diet course, bro. Comment to get the link. What do you do? What's the, what's the, what's the outcome to this? The obvious answer is that you already enjoy your diet. You're hitting your goals. You feel good. It's just something you could laugh at and then swipe past or say, Oh, that's funny. He eats all meat. Here's our second example though. You aren't sure what to do with your training. You frequently try new workouts, but you haven't progressed in strength on anything in a meaningful way in six months. You think you eat well, but you don't really track what you do. And you're presented with reels from Johnny Instagram reel talking about new exercises for you to try. What do you do? The answer presents itself to you. You look at what you do outside of the gym, because although you think you eat well and you may very well do a lot of things. Well, there are boxes that you're not checking outside of the gym. And then inside of the gym, you haven't progressed in strength in a meaningful way in six months because you frequently try new workouts, meaning you haven't given enough time to it to be able to get the results that you want. And for our last example, you make great gains over the last four years, but you find that a few lifts in your program aren't progressing. Well, you keep meticulous track of all aspects of your training and diet. And then you're presented with Johnny Instagram reel talking about strategies that you can use for breaking plateaus. What do you do? This is an example of a piece of advice that not only is good and applicable, but it's applicable to you. So you can take his advice for what it is. This all comes down to what I like to call building a lifter's mindset. It's about having a strong inner voice and being invested in knowing, learning, and doing, which is knowing things, learning more, and then doing the damn thing. Knowing what to do makes you confident. I like to talk about the three C's, courage, competence, and confidence. Confidence is great. You want to have confidence in what you're doing and in your decision-making skills. Knowing that you can always learn more is going to keep you humble. That's going to leave you a better lifter because you'll be able to receive the advice that you read, that you're encounter from Johnny Instagram reel or Johnny YouTube video, like, like right now, for instance. And then learning as much as you can about your body is also something that you want to do as a lifter. Because if you're self-aware of how your body responds to things, you're able to qualify or disqualify certain things without even trying them. Doing the work in and out of the gym makes you accountable, which means if you don't get the type of results that you want to get, or if a piece of advice isn't working, you're able to say objectively, well, it's the advice or it's something that I am or am not doing. A good way to build the lifter's mindset, which is ultimately just falling in love with the process, is finding fun ways to to marry lifting with your other acts best of life. This comes into play with building outside of the gym habits, which is going to be the lion's share of what we talked about today. Our habits at the end of the day outside of the gym should do a few simple things, help us recover, and then optimize results. Overall, what this adds up to is a couple of simple things, dude. It's not a lot. You get as close to 10,000 steps a day as you can get that reduces all causes of mortality. It keeps your body composition down. And overall, it's good for your mental health. You want to have high protein to recover and build muscle, quality nutrition so that you don't feel like the base in a 1990s rap video. Dun, dun, dun. Like your stomach doesn't rumble after you eat stuff. You know what I mean? Your stomach doesn't hurt. You want to get restful sleep and then minimize stress while you're awake, which is just avoiding people and things that are not conducive to the type of life that you're trying to live, whether that's friends, family members, or anything in between. If they, again, if they're taken away more than they're given, you don't need to be around, but we'll talk more about that. No one wants to do a simple because there's not a lot to it, but let's talk about the best and most simple ways to accomplish those things, starting with the high activity level. Like I said, walking increases your caloric expenditure. It's great for body composition, blood flow. It makes you live longer. Jeff Nippert actually just made a, I think it was a reel talking about this, which was interesting because I've been saying this for years. Walking really is the best thing if you were to do nothing else that you can do to improve your overall health. Now, from just the physical aspect, like your heart health, your blood flow, cardiovascular system, but it's really good for your mental health as well. 10,000 steps is about four miles or six kilometers for the metric system enjoyers. Here's how we start this off. You're not going to just try to get 10,000 steps if you're not used to doing this because you're just not going to commit to it. Start by just walking, doing your breaks from work for about 15 minutes each. Most people are going to take two 15 minute breaks. Overall, it's going to help you mentally reset from your work, which comes into play with marrying this with your lifestyle, especially if you walk outside and you're able to see nature, smell the trees, hear the birds chirping. And then walking two miles per hour in terms of distance covered for 30 minutes is already going to knock out an entire mile. So what is that? 3,000 steps that we just got down by just walking during your breaks at work. Here's how we're going to build on the habit though. We're going to make it a point to walk around a little bit when you rest in between your sets at the gym. You're already going to work. You're already going to the gym. This isn't any additional time that you're going to be spending. That six, seven, eight, nine, 10 hours at work is already spoken for. That hour, hour and a half at the gym is already spoken for. We're just optimizing that time to improve our lives. You're not going to be walking for more than like three to five minutes per rest break. But if you do that over the course of a 20 set workout, that adds up and that can easily add another mile. So, so far we're at two miles. This is only two miles that we have to factor into our schedule that isn't already spoken for. Here's how we can maximize the habit though. You have to go to work in the morning. You have a commute. Maybe you can walk to get breakfast once you get to the office and to your job or walk to get lunch or walk after you train for 10 to 15 minutes each. Overall, you're going to make the conscious effort to get some steps in when it's reasonable. That is going to add up, especially if you just say, I'm going to walk for 15 minutes after I go to the gym. A lot of folks spend 10 to 15 minutes just yapping with people, not doing anything after they finish working out. So let's take that time and allocate it more wisely. Something that you can do if you're a, you have an office job or any type of job that allows for this is a walking desk. And for those of us that work from home, you can get a walking pad to get your steps in. I have one of those myself, or you can use that when you even watch TV. After one hour of Netflix, you get a ton of steps and all of us, or at least most of us take some time to scroll on our phones at night, watch Netflix, play a little bit of video games. When you take small gestures to walk often, 10,000 steps really isn't a lot. It's only a lot when you try to take on the whole shebang at once. It's like if you have a big cheeseburger in front of you, I'm like, bro, eat this cheeseburger. Are you going to take bites of the cheeseburger or are you going to eat the whole thing in one bite like Scooby-Doo? No, you're going to take bites. High protein consumption is another good habit. Overall, not only is that going to help our muscles recover, but almost more importantly, our tendons, our joints, if you get cuts, bruises, little scrapes and scripts here and there, it's also going to help those things recover faster. It'll also keep you full throughout the day. Now, our baseline is going to be one gram per pound of body weight. Slightly more is better though, because like I said, your tendons and your joints eat up a portion of the protein, proverbially speaking, that you consume. But like I said, you don't start there. You just start by consuming a complete protein in each meal. It doesn't matter how much it is, just that you're making the habit and the cognizant choice of frequently eating protein throughout the day. Here's how we're going to build on the habit though. Once you're beginning to eat some with each meal, you just make it a point to eat higher protein options. So my buddy Sam always talks about how Captain Kirst used to freaking eat hot dogs only or whatever. And then you can go from that to eating 80, 20 beef. And then from that to eating 90, 90, 10, and then really lean 97, three, or you can go from drinking just milk to eating a chicken breast instead. Doing those things alone can easily double your protein per meal. And if you eat three times a day, you can very easily get in a hundred grams of protein just from protein sources. And then your actual count is going to be higher because you get your non incidental or rather your incidental protein sources from your rice, your bread, your potatoes, your carb sources. Here's how we maximize it though. Protein supplements. They're very helpful. Don't buy anything full cost. Abuse those discount codes. You see A-50% discount code, use it. You see someone's protein freaking sold on another website for, for, for cheaper. Unfortunately, they're going to make less of a commission now because you're going to buy it where it's cheapest at. Make it a point to eat slightly more of your main protein source though, with each meal. If you don't want to buy a supplement, which means if you're used to eating just one chicken breast, you eat one and a half. And how you make this easy to do is to just cook your meats or your, your plant based protein sources. I like tofu. So I'll, um, pan sear it and then I'll, I'll stick it in the freezer after I already prepare so that I just have to microwave it because you're already getting in a lot of protein. Doing any one of these things is going to get you to the top end of your protein goals easily. Most people watching this are not going to have to eat more than 160 to 200 grams of protein and going from hot dogs to eating 200 grams of protein. Like I said, if you try to eat the proverbial burger in one bite, you're not Scooby-Doo, bro. You're not a snake. You can't unhinge your jaw and eat the whole thing, but just making those small actionable changes are going to make it a lot more manageable for most. Now, more importantly than just the protein though, is getting in quality nutrition because this is important for overall health, whether that's gut health, gut health ties into your mental health, according to science as well, apparently. And overall, just feeling good and feeling strong with the things you eat. Quality nutrition is, is eating enough carbs to perform well, simply put, and then eating enough veggies to support your health, like the micronutrients, and then having enough electrolytes, that's salt, magnesium, calcium, and potassium to be able to recover from your training and perform well during your training. Steps are pretty similar to increasing your protein. You just start with a small change. It adds up over time. The biggest thing about eating well is just cooking and cooking is just following directions. And we'll get into exactly some tips, some tips and strategies that you can use. But the age old question, should you bulk? Should you cut? Should you maintain? Here's the truth. Here's the honest truth. A calorie surplus at some point is needed for gains for 99% of people, unless you're someone that just doesn't need to eat in a calorie surplus because of your genetics, which means that you're on the right side of the bell curve all the way at the down, down at the bottom. That is not most people. That doesn't mean though, that you always need to be eating in a surplus to grow. Meaning if you've gained 10 pounds of fat alongside your muscle, you have 10 pounds worth of extra calories on your body to work with. Don't just get fat though, bro. Set a weight cap so that you don't get a gut so that you aren't unhappy with the way that you feel and the way that you look and the way that your clothes fit. But if you're really skinny and you've never eaten in a surplus at all, you just are not going to grow. That's subject to change, like I said, depending on if you ROID or what your genetics are like. Now, just to talk about the different types of boxes that you want to check with your meals. If it doesn't fall within pre-intra or post-workout nutrition, you're just filling in overall building blocks of calories, protein, and micronutrients just to overall fit a total. But these are the meals that you want to make sure that you are having if you do workout, ideally. That's going to be your pre-workout nutrition, your intra-workout, meaning during your workout, and then post-workout, meaning after. Pre-workout nutrition is easy. Some quick digestion carbs, sodium, water. That could be some honey with some salt, and then a bottle of water, some fruit and salt and coffee. Intra-workout is going to be pretty similar. We've lost water and salts through sweat. We want to rehydrate with some simple sugars and then some electrolytes. So that could be my favorite. They still haven't freaking sponsored me, man. Maybe I need to send them another email. But Body Armor is coconut water with sweetener in it, basically. So it's your potassium, magnesium, and if you get the kind with sugar in it, it gives you your sugars as well. You could do 100% fruit juice, not that fruit juice from concentrate crap, and then you can put some salt in it to give you a little bit more electrolytes. Or, if you got a little bit of money, is those Fair Life protein shakes. They actually have a good amount of sodium and electrolytes in them, alongside giving you some fats as well. Post-workout pretty much is going to be a normal balanced meal. Just make sure you salt your food and you're eating a lot of vegetables so that you get your electrolytes. Or fruits if you want to eat fruits. So kiwi has a lot of potassium, potatoes, bananas, things of that nature. Here's your meathead grocery list. Here are some things that are just helpful to have on hand. If you are unsure of boxes that you need to check, here's a good framework for you. You got to start with the spice and seasoning blend, dude. You got to make your food taste good. We're getting to some basic cooking stuff in a second. Just make sure you have your spice and seasoning blend. I'll give exact examples when we get there. You want to have 10 pounds of your preferred lean protein source. If you're doing beef, do your cheapest cuts of beef because if you, we'll get into it. You can cook cheap beef to make it tender and delicious. Eggs, your dry cereal, potatoes, and rice, along with your pasta. That is the holy quartet of carbohydrates, your honey, cooking oil, fruits and veggies. And then two major freaking keys with the price of eggs. Honestly, dude, I'm going to give you some egg recipes in a second. But with the way the economy is with the egg prices right now, string cheese is low in fat. It's got basically the same amount of protein as eggs. It doesn't have all the same vitamins and minerals. You can get those for veggies, but it's a lot cheaper. It's my secret egg replacement since it's like half the price. And then canned salmon also is a really good adjunct to protein. It's low in mercury or it doesn't have mercury at all depending upon the brand. And it gives all the basic nutrition that you get from fresh salmon. But here's the meathead cooking one-on-one. Master those basic food preparation skills, dude. It makes your food taste way better and it makes it so that you don't have to order out so much or just eat snacks and junk food all day. Dry brining for any type of meat is going to make it delicious and it's going to make it tender. And what that is, is you just cover it in salt on both sides, stick it in the fridge overnight, cover it and everything. And then you take it out. I don't know what it does scientifically, but it just makes your food taste better and it makes it a lot more tender. So you get your outside round steaks, which is very lean, very toothsome, I should say. And if you dry brine it, it'll be a lot tastier. Same with your skirt steaks. I do it with chicken breast to make it tender and delicious. Also get yourself a meat thermometer so that you don't overcook it. You can look up the basic temperatures that you need to cook meat to based upon your preference. Get your spice blend. It's your paprika, chili powder, garlic powder, onion powder, salt, pepper, dried herbs. The glazing technique is very important though as well. What you'll do is basically when you cook food, there's going to be some, some meat dripping stuck to the bottom of the pan. You put in a little broth or water even sometimes I use just to get that meat juice to start to sizzle up and turn back into a liquid. Then you add your honey. And what that does is it caramelizes and coats the meat that you're cooking. It makes it delicious. It takes on the spices that you cooked it in and gives it a sweet touch and a little bit more umami. It makes things very delicious and restaurant quality. But what you're going to do is you're going to make enough for a few days, freeze it, and then you just eat the rest. You portion out enough for a day or two, freeze the rest. You're also going to find some low calorie sauces that you like, whether that be your sriracha sauce, your regular, regular ass hot sauce, your spicy ketchup, and then a low calorie barbecue sauce is really good to have in the fridge as well. Now I'm not going to go through each of these recipes. You can go ahead and stop it here. You'll have enough time to pause to get through each recipe. Fit with cool names. Just example meals for you to have. But if all else fails and you need what I like to call, I got this term from my friend Sam, a panic meal. A panic meal is just something that's quick to throw together and quick to throw back. It's usually lacking in micronutrients, but it's not necessarily bad for you. It's just vegetables take more preparation than this. We're really just getting a good protein source, a good carb source, and then a sauce to make it more palatable. So for me, this is where the canned salmon comes into play. This canned salmon, some instant rice, some spicy mayo, and then we're good to go. You're going to make up for the lack of micronutrients later with either a multivitamin or actual food. They're a lot better than nothing, or they're a lot better than instead of eating canned salmon and rice. Do you think it's better to eat that or a pop tart? I rest my freaking case. And then lastly, eating takeout is a reality of life. We just do it, whether that is just because we want to or we have to. It's like a more expensive panic meal. And the only difference is that it should be more complete. Here are some different types of places that you can go for takeout that will give you all the protein, carbs, and micros that you need, while also being easy on the wallet usually and not really high in calories. So that's halal, that's your Greek gyro, that's your shawarma. If you have something like whole foods or any equivalent to that, you can go ahead and do that as well. There's Wegmans, anything like that, where they have like a food bar that you can scoop like chicken breast and just mashed potatoes with nothing else in it. That's a good one as well. But as a rule of thumb though, just avoid anything with sauces or anything that was cooked with a lot of fat. And then of course, max your veggies as well. Our fourth habit is going to be lowering stress and also making habits to sleep well in addition to this. Start with your common sense stuff. Put your phone down before bed, limit doom scrolling during the day. So we get a one-two punch, especially with current global events of we feel like crap during the day because we see all kinds of crazy shit happening all over the world. And then we get no sleep at night because we're still scrolling, but we're doing this to try to comfort our brains from not only our work day, but all the stuff we doom scroll during the day. Put your phone down before bed, bro. Turn on a fan, turn your TV off, create those boundaries in your relationships as well. Meaning if something is draining, like if you have a friend, the only time that you ever talk to them is when they want something or they're only ever calling you to complain about some shit, create some healthy boundaries. Don't be a jerk, but you got to take care of yourself as well. And don't try to be everyone's friend as well, because you can only extend yourself, but so far before overextend yourself. And that's where you start to feel like shit. Another thing that you can do is magnesium a few hours before bed. I don't know why this does this. I just accept the science for what it is. Again, I do not care about the mechanisms. I just care about what it does. It reduces stress and it makes you sleep more deeply. I also like to, when I go to bed, use the bathroom. And then after that, drink some water and something with some electrolytes in it, because hydration helps me sleep throughout the night. You ever get freaking dry mouth and just wake up in the middle of the night, like SpongeBob and Patrick under that lamp in the SpongeBob movie? Water! Worst feeling in the world. Activities before bed, before that hour or two that we're putting our phone down and turning the screen off. I'm talking about like after you're done with working and it's like 5 p.m., 6 p.m. Go with some activities that help you detach from your day and decompress. For me, I play Pokemon Realm Hacks. Right now I'm playing Pokemon Platinum Redux. Some people are normal when they just read books, but whatever helps you decompress. Here's some real talk though about habits. The very last thing that I want to suggest is just finding habits that are separate and distinct from training that also fulfill you. That could be volunteering. That could be painting. That could be drawing. That could be anything else besides working out because you want to have as many things in your life that fulfill you as possible. It all helps with your mental health. You don't want to end up like guts here in despair, but start with where you are and then build up those habits from there. Like I said, those small changes over a long period of time are going to add up until you are unrecognizably better off. Now creating an environment to do well is also important and there's just some few things that I want to share with you to help you do that. Find a piece of motivation whose training that you can rationalize, that makes sense to you. You can see why X does Y. For me, that's Dan Green, John Meadows, rest in peace. All the 3DMJ guys, natural bodybuilders that have been at it for longer than any of us or most of us rather that achieved elite results and have maintained and built upon those results for longer than a lot of us have been training. And then the OG Scooby, I remember his videos. This isn't a total endorsement of him because I haven't watched this stuff in a long time, but I remember watching his videos and it was just common sense, no nonsense. His workouts made sense and he was an older guy that was in shape and freaking jacks. And I just thought that was cool. But prompt yourself to maintain the excellence that you achieve. What I want you to think about is this. What would I do if I was stuck on an island and I could not leave unless I ate on my protein, slept well, trained how I was supposed to, drank my water and did all the stuff that we just talked about at a high level. That's the type of standard that you want to hold yourself to. And the type of standard that you want to hold yourself to with trying to improve where you are at. Meaning if you eat hot dogs only for protein, that's a lot better than nothing. Let's get committed to eating chicken breasts instead of hot dogs, if possible. Also developing lifter IQ. This comes into play with self-accountability in terms of not making progress or making progress. Are you not making progress because are you not making progress because of your plan or your process? Or is it because, well, I'm just not doing what I need to do outside the gym. You also want to try to create a flow state, meaning you get some buddies that are on the same path as you. You pay attention to what you guys are getting into and more specifically what you are doing at the gym. Music helps with that, but also just not looking at social media while you're working out. I want to talk a little bit about effective goal setting because it helps with all of those things. And my explanation for this is a little bit more grounded these days. If you start with this, you're going to find your way. Most of y'all should just start with just showing up and having a positive attitude. You're going to allow yourself to grow to like your routine of getting in there, training, eating, recovering. And you'll make those small decisions that optimize over time instead of trying to eat that hamburger all at once. Like I said, eating chicken instead of hot dogs. Once you enjoy it though, and you have a good relationship, then that's when you can decide what type of lifter do I want to be? What do I want to do? Because you can tell yourself better that. You can tell yourself that better than I can. Here's how you get your foot in the door though. In terms of overall broad thinking though, I do think that most should think in terms of medium term goals and then long term, like over the course of 10 and 20 years, desires that you have holistically. For example, a medium term goal would be, I want to increase my pull-ups. And then a long term desire for lifestyle would be, I just generally want to have a healthier body. You want to ask yourself though, when it comes to setting your goals, what can you accomplish with your current program if you stretched it out to its logical conclusion and progressed it on for six months? If you can accomplish amazing things with what you're doing already, there's no reason to really do anything else with your training. You also want to think about, and this comes into what I like to call the needs versus wants analysis. What do you want and what do you need to get there? What are you going to need to add or subtract to reach your goals? Like I said, if you followed that previous prompt and you can get that with what you're doing, you don't need to do anything else. You reassess those medium term goals every six months to a year, and you keep those long term desires in the back of your mind because that's going to help shape and guide your medium term decision making as well. So you don't get lost in the sauce. Overall though, self-coaching is pretty simple. You just make yourself a small checklist of things that you need to do. You should check all of those boxes each day, but just take note and keep it real when you don't. And those boxes are this. Did I get my protein in? Did I get my calories in? Did I eat vegetables with most of my meals? Did I get all my steps in? How was my hydration? What was sleep like last night? And what am I doing to reduce my stress? And how am I feeling lately? For most of y'all, a couple of those are going to come easy and one or two might be a little bit harder. And if progress is stalling outside of what you would expect with your program, you need to audit yourself with that list. Wrapping up chapter one, I think a great thematic close to this is the turtle hermit way. You move well, study well, play well, eat well, and rest well. That is the turtle master way. One of the first lessons that you get taught in Dragon Ball when you're a kid watching it or reading it for the first time. And really, like I said, it's a microcosm of everything we just talked about. Lifting should enhance your life outside of the gym. So find habits that are sustainable and just remember to have fun. And you can truly become amazing just by depositing those pennies every day. Overall, in terms of outside of the gym stuff, remember to enjoy your life holistically. Spend time with people in real life, your friends, and create your boundaries with work so that you can enjoy all this stuff, man. Chapter three, movement mastery featuring the hardest picture of the 1990s. This was the Z fighters right before the cell games. The most useful, that was a Freudian slip. I was thinking about useless advice. But the most useful part of fitness is the type of advice that you get from some guy that is just talking about what he does with you at the gym. Like, I like doing my tricep press downs this way. And the most useless advice is when people are selling you something proprietary. I was thinking about that before I talked about this. But we have a lot of movements to cover in terms of cues that I'm going to give you for everything. So we're going to move fast. Come back to this as needed. Specifically, I want to just give you some general tips that apply across the board. So the most amount of people possible, regardless of your leverages and what types of specific variations you like, I'm going to give you my favorite cues for each movement pattern so that you get extrapolated out to dumbbell bench if you like that or barbell bench if you like that. Here's some general guidelines that we want to keep in mind before we get into this. You want to create a standard of form. And what that means is your form is going to fall within a specific margin. And I'm a big believer in this because what you don't manage, you can't track and vice versa. You want to allow for some region, excuse me, reasonable margin of error with what you do. And what that means is when you record your sets, you're not going to get overly obsessed if one rep is a little better or a little worse than the other. You're going to get obsessed if one is significantly shittier than the other one. And here's how you're going to progress within that framework. You're going to add your weight, your reps and improve your rep quality within those parameters. A cool little tidbit that I like, just to give folks some catharsis if they obsess over this, is if you add reps and weights while lowering within the low end of your margin of error, meaning you let your rep get a little bit sloppy, but it's still good. You can just do better. Cleaning them up is a good way to unlock new gains for you. Try that out if you're scared to try that out. But overall, we want to maximize muscle consistency with our form, reduce injury risk, strengthen our joints, and then overall avoid aches and pains. That's the goal of these cues. Quick talk about leverages and then we'll get into what everyone's favorite is, the horizontal presses. Leverages. I talk about this in detail in the last edition if you would like after this video, reference that. But at a high level, some lifts are going to come easier to us because some of us have longer torso, shorter torsos, longer arms, shorter arms. Everybody though can improve their form and everyone can find lifts that hit their muscles well. All of these cues, like I said, are going to be generally applicable the most. So it's not something that I want you to think about right now. One last thing, high level talk here. Internal versus external cues are basically the difference between internal cues being what you can feel and think about that others can't necessarily see and external cues being what you can't actually see. So for example, an internal cue would be your bench pressing. You can feel that your hand is not pressured evenly on both sides, but it looks on the outside that you're gripping the bar evenly. That's something that you feel. Also, how you brace is something that you can really only feel, especially if you got a shirt on. How something feels in your joints with regards to how you're positioned is also internal. External is pushing your knees forward on squats, pausing longer on presses, things of that nature. Keeping track of both is key. It's not complicated. Just pay attention to your reps and take note of what you feel and what you see when you record your form. Now here's our boy Biscuit Oliva from Grappler Bakke bench pressing, I believe 500 kilograms. This is our horizontal press guideline. Again, we're going to move quick from here because we got a lot of ground to cover. This is going to include obviously your barbell bench, your dumbbell bench, machine chest press, anything where you're pushing horizontally. Got a few cues to try. This is t-shirt touching, which means you're bringing it down to the fabric of your t-shirt and then you're lightly touching it and you can either pause there or come back up from there. That's better than just catapulting the bar off of your chest. Try it out. Pause at the top for stability and consistency with your form. Big thing with stability in terms of your setup though, especially on a barbell bench, is depressing your shoulders, which is basically just like taking your shoulder blades and imagine putting them in your pocket. Use a bulldog grip, which means grabbing the bar a little bit diagonally so that you're holding it in the meat of your hand and not your fingertips. And then a little tidbit for fellows that are on the larger side or got bigger backs. You can lift your head on the eccentric to make room for your arms and shoulders to come down. And that's a tidbit that I got from 3DMJ. Here's some real talk about some common troubleshooting though. A few of those cues are going to come naturally to you, but there'll be one or two that you need to actively practice. So start with those. In general though, the biggest game changers are going to be the t-shirt touch and then depressing your shoulders. If you're doing a barbell bench press, one last little piece of information that I can give you that I see all the time is just take a grip with that lets you unracked with fully locked elbows. That prevents your pec minor and your elbows from taking on more stress than they otherwise would if you were fully locked out. Because weights were meant to be moved alongside our joints alongside all of our muscles and not in absence of those things. Here's some useful accompaniments to your horizontal presses. You're going to want to build scapular control, which means your ability to push up and down and deep pushups are great for that. Double paused weighted dips are good for that pause at the top cue. Long pause bench or tempo bench is going to give you more time to pay attention to cues in general because you're going slower. In general, as a rule of thumb, long arm pressers are going to enjoy more shoulder work. Shorter arm pressers like more extended range of motion work because the range of motion is shorter and thus the growth that they get is a little bit less. Back work, do all of it. The answer is yes. And then last but not least, non-back squat motions help free up elbow and shoulder fatigue. We'll talk more about that when we get to squats. Last but not least is leg drive. There's this big conversation of how to do it and if it's needed. Here's what I can say, man. It can be coached to throw more horsepower into the bar. You're going to imagine scooping your feet through the ground or kicking your feet out in front of you while keeping your heels dug in and that's how you facilitate it and then push into your upper back. You can also pulse it, meaning you do that on every rep, or you can do it throughout the duration of your set. But overall, bodybuilding leg drive, meaning just keep your legs planted firmly on the ground, is going to be best for most because it's not something additional that we have to think about. But if you did want to do it, incline benching is a really good teaching tool for leg drive because it's just simpler for a lot of people to get the tactile sensation with incline bench for whatever reason. Stiff legged deadlifts are the type of hip hinge that we're going to cover at a high level and then we'll get into conventional deadlift and sumo because I do think that most people who train recreationally should be doing stiff legged deadlifts because they're a better hip hinge for muscle growth than conventional and sumo deadlift in my experience and in the opinions of, like I said, a lot of coaches whose work I enjoy. But here are some general cues for the form. You're going to start with your foot position comfortable. For some, that's going to be shoulder width. For me, it's slightly outside. And then my toes are going to be pointed in the direction that feels best for me. I walk a little duck footed, meaning my feet stick out a little bit naturally. So that's the type of positioning that I take with my stiff legged deadlifts. But in general, the wider set feet is going to mean slightly more adductors and glutes, but everything from the hamstrings to the low back is going to get worked well. In addition, I like to keep a neutral head position, not only because when it looks cooler, but some people strain their necks. And I'm not saying that this invites that risk necessarily, but if you're not cognizant of what you're doing, you can crank your head back a little too much. Big cues for me though, extending the lower back. And then if we don't do that, if we keep it neutral, you just keep it wherever it started at, to begin with at the beginning of your rep. So I'm not necessarily of the opinion that rounding our backs is a bad thing in strength training. I'm of the opinion that our back position deviating is what invites injury risk. So just keep it wherever you started at and then drag the bar straight down your legs while keeping the hips high. A lot of folks will squat into their stiff legged deadlifts. You want to avoid that if you want to keep it in the hamstrings and adductors and not turn it into a glute exercise and a partial range of motion, conventional deadlift. And then lastly, I like to throw in a little pause at the bottom. Now here's some talk about hamstring mobility and overall range of motion. Most people do not have great hamstring mobility and that's why they squat into their RDLs and their stiff legged deadlifts. Squatting into it is pretty common to get that additional range of motion. That's not what I want you to do though. I want you to go as low as you can while keeping the hips high and the legs, like the knee is stationary, right? You don't want to squat into it. You're just going to gradually increase your range of motion starting with even just your warmups. You can get a few inches of range of motion just from pushing yourself a little bit during your warmups as you add weight gradually. And then in general, you're going to push for more over time, workout to workout, week to week. In terms of overall range of motion for not only just low back, but also hamstrings, parallel to the floor in terms of your torso angle is a good standard. And then below parallel, when you start to get into deficits and things of that nature, that's extra credit. And that's where you start to work more low back, still working your hamstrings and everything. And then there's your active hinging range for hamstrings. I feel that if you are doing a hinge just for hamstrings, I think this is totally fine, but I don't do hinges just for hamstrings. And that's not how I coach it. I like to use as much range of motion as our overall flexibility allows. And if it stops working the hamstrings at 45 degrees, well, great. We're going to start working the back below that. Here's some real talk on RDLs versus stiff legs versus good mornings. Which one should you do? A lot of people argue over this, but they're all the same basic movement pattern. What some call RDL, I understand to be a partial range of motion, conventional deadlift. Not that that's a bad thing, but that's usually what people say when they say an RDL. An RDL to me is just basically a stiff-legged deadlift where we don't let the bar rest on the floor. That's it. I think because of that, an RDL is better for hypertrophy just simply because the muscles remain under tension for longer, essentially. And then the stiff-legged deadlift is going to be better for contentric strength because we're dead stopping at the bottom. Good mornings are just a lower weight version of an RDL. So it's something that you can do if you prefer that. But I prefer that most lifters train RDLs because I feel that when they just look cool, they look cooler than good mornings in my opinion. But I'm also a big believer in using a heavy bar and hand hinge just for strength development. Here's some talk about bracing though when it comes to hinges. And this will also apply to every other lower body lift as well. You're going to take in a small breath. So right now, taking a small breath and then you press out from your gut, your belly button, your lower belly, and then you let the pressure radiate around your entire torso. So do it right now. Get a tiny breath, put it in your gut, put it in your belly button, and then feel it radiate all around your obliques and into your lower back. That's what cannonball bracing feels like. You don't need to take a huge breath. And what you certainly don't want to do is take a breath and build a ton of pressure in your head. Here's some talk about belt position though and how it can influence what your back does. My friend Sam made a video talking about this, and I don't know what he explained specifically, but there is, and this is more for advanced lifters, so Charlie Brown noise this if you're just not using a belt or using one for the first time. But a neutral belt is going to allow you to stay more neutral. It's just what I do because you can either extend or round your back and the belt is not going to influence that. If you incline your belt, meaning that the back of your belt is pointing down, that is going to facilitate more thoracic rounding. And then the opposite is going to be if your belt is declined. That just gets into play if you want to do a specific variation where you want to stay extended or you want to stay in a more rounded position and still have the support of the belt. But overall though, cannonball bracing at a high level is, like I said, going to be useful for every lower body lift. Here's some common things that I see with hip hinges. Hip hinges are simple, dude. A lot of these cues are going to come naturally. Really, most people are just going to struggle with keeping the bars close to their shins and then not with squatting into the bar. I would say in terms of keeping the bar to the shins, rowing and pulling the bar overall backwards into our shins is going to help a lot with keeping that bar where it needs to be at. And then the pausing as well. A lot of folks, and this even happens with me sometimes, even to this day, they'll think they'll pause for like a full one count. And then when you watch it back, it's like you just barely didn't pause. Count your pauses in your head starting from zero. That mental hyperbolic time chamber time, it moves faster in reality, right? So just count it starting from zero. And then keep it real with the stiffness of your legs, right? So if you're squatting into it, work on your mobility before you just chase range of motion arbitrarily. Here's some useful accompaniments for though for your hip hinges. Your back extensions of any kind, whether that's on a 45 degree hyper or on a GHD are going to help you build your extended lower back position strength, wherein we are better able to keep our low back extended and not have it round under load as we fatigued. They can also fill in volume for strong lifters, but we'll talk about that in the practical programming section more specifically. Your Smith machine stiff-legged deadlift is going to be good for showing you how it feels to keep the bar close to your shins, just simply because it's on a fixed track and you can't go anywhere with it other than up and down. In terms of your bracing, I'm a big believer in training the abs because it is an equal part of our core when compared to the spinal erectors, like our lower back muscles. And for that, I like any kind of weighted sit-up. I prefer GHD sit-ups because of how similar the brace feels at the bottom compared to how a brace feels on a squat or a deadlift. I also like ab wheel rollouts for the same reason, specifically if you are training anti-extension because that's how you should be doing your ab wheel rollouts. And then lastly, leg raises are going to help decompress our lower back, which is really therapeutic if you're pulling heavy. It helps to warm up and to cool down. Now here are those differences for conventional and sumo pulls. A lot of lacus are the same, and a lot of these I've learned in my journey to coaching a friend of mine to a 2,000 pound powerlifting total. He hasn't claimed that yet. We're going to test to see where we're at in I think a couple months from now. A couple months are left in our prep. But like I said, all the same bracing cues apply. And then for either of these, I like to coach a guided eccentric to ensure that your position is consistent rep to rep. You lose reps and you lose weight if you get thrown out of position, especially on conventional and sumo pulls. So we guide the bar down. You're not going slow, but you're not letting it free fall either. The bar will bounce down laterally back and forth if you just let it drop. And a lot of people will do that as a means of just saving strength to be able to eke out more reps and ego lifts basically, but it can have the opposite effect if you get out of position, which is going to happen if you do that. Sumo pullers, in my experience, just need to take more time to pull the slack out of the bar when compared to conventional. Probably having to do with more joints being used in a sumo pull when compared to a conventional deadlift, meaning your hips are getting spread outwards and there's more hip mobility that comes into play. Grip width is going to depend upon how large you are. Some guys, if they're really big, their grip can look like a snatch grip in terms of where they're grabbing it. But in general, a little wider than what you're used to usually puts you in a better position to pull from a good start position. It's a good rule of thumb. So take wherever you grab the go half of fingertips with or less wider. It's like the smallest adjustment and you're going to be able to get into a better start position. Try it out. You'll love it. Some other differences as a conventional puller, bad habits with rounding your back too much to get into a more advantageous position is only going to hinder you long term. There are people that pull with a more rounded back posture. There's nothing wrong with that. But if you allow that to deviate too much, it's not going to allow you to realize your full potential. And then as a sumo puller, you're going to want to build more volume with a stiff bar in general. The more you can do that, the better. And the reason for that is that you get more out of a deadlift bar as a sumo deadlifter if you're able to put more than like four or five plates on the bar. You get a proportional benefit to that. And a lot of folks will ego lift all bumper plates, deadlift bar straps to be able to load more weight on the sumo deadlift and not use it developmentally or even to get good skill practice for the sumo deadlift, right? So just use the stiff bar in your offseason if you can. Conventional pullers are usually going to only need to train variations most of the time that improve or enforce the good start position or overall good form. And then sumo pullers benefit a lot from muscular development. They get a lot out of stiff legs because the back doesn't get worked as well on a sumo deadlift as a conventional, as a stiff leg. And then lastly, this is just from my own experience, long arm conventional pullers should use a stiff for bar and or do deficit stiff legs because our active range of motion is different from someone with shorter arms. A good example of this would be if you look at the difference between say, I forget what his name is, but he was, he was 140 pounds and he was the first guy in that weight class to deadlift 660 pounds. Forget what his name was, but there's a difference between that really long arms, really short torso, and then say someone with T-Rex arms, you're going to be bent all the way forward on your conventional deadlift. So it's just different. Here are your basics for your squat hypertrophy, though. This is going to be squat motion patterns from leg press to hack squats to barbell back squats. Use as much knee flexion as is reasonable for you to do so. And that's not to say that you can't grow well with partials, but you're just going to need to use way more weight. And ain't nobody trying to load up 12 million freaking plates on the leg press just to get, I mean, maybe if that's your thing, but people need to use plates at the gym just as much as you do. And quite frankly, it's annoying loading up all those plates in general, though, for comfort, strength, and stability, this is basic stuff, but point your knees and your toes in the same direction. I say that because there are pretty strong people. I see them squat and then they don't do that and wonder why their knees hurt in general for hypertrophy. You're going to want to control your eccentric and try not to bounce off your knees. If you're doing this for strength, the answer is going to be a little bit different there, but for hypertrophy, you're going to want to control it and not bounce off your knees. Cool little tidbit though. This is something that I picked up from listening to Alberto Nunez talk about on his training logs. He was mentioning in regards to calves and it makes sense to me because it applies for quads as well, but the longer your tendons are, the more you need to have discipline with your pauses and maybe even pause a little bit longer under tension because your tendon being longer is going to create a stronger stretch reflex. And for you to dissipate that stretch reflex, because your tendon is longer, you just need to pause longer. Huge one for progress. Limit your rest pauses, meaning the breaths that you take at the top of the squat to be able to do more reps. Limit it to no more than one, ideally zero, because 20 reps with no rest pauses, just boom, boom, boom, boom, so you get to 20 is different from doing three reps, resting 10 seconds, doing three reps, resting 10 seconds. You've essentially done five or six separate sets of four or five reps and not a set of 20. So it's not going to carry over in your training the same way. And it's going to beat you into the ground. Not that that type of super squat and program is bad, but for long-term progress, just try to use less rest pauses. Now here's some back squat specific variations in terms of cues that I want you to keep in mind if you choose to use a barbell or a Smith machine squat as your main squat or your main performance metric for quads. Experiment with your bar placement. I know a lot of people are high bar purists. I think that it looks cooler as well, but lanky guys actually usually like to use a lower bar position. It doesn't have to be a full low bar, but just slightly lower than the bar being all the way up your traps puts the bar better in line with your center of gravity so that you can get into a good squat position at the bottom without having to hinge forward as much. In terms of stability, a lot of folks will pull into the bar, which is you want to create stability from the bar to your hands, to your shoulders, and just translates into your hips and your knees and your ankles and everything. But you don't want to pull with your arms more than you want to pull with your lats because people get bicep tendonitis from yanking down into the bar. But in general, in terms of elbow position, you're going to put your elbows in your pockets or break Batman's back off of your freaking neck, bro. You know how Bane broke Batman's back. Say that five times fast. Bane broke Batman's back. Bet you can't do it. In terms of your walkout though, I see this all the time. Not in really advanced squatters, but for people that are beginner, intermediate, maybe even like the beginning of advanced. They take too many steps on their walkout. It should be one step back, one step back, and then one step out to adjust. That's it. And then lastly, pre-tension into the bar before you walk it out. That's super helpful. In terms of squat discipline, when you're using a squat variation, it doesn't lock your back into position. Meaning if you're doing like a Smith squat, a free squat or something of that nature, it can be easy to hinge the weight up. A good teaching tool for this is a heel elevated front squat. And if you are really, really bad with the hinge and a heel elevated zombie squat, if you hinge, when you do this variation, you're going to either start to lose the bar or you're going to lose the bar. This was a tool that I used all the way back in 2021, 2022 to elevate my squat motion pattern, to be able to get more out of this kinds of stuff. And I got great gains out of it. So try that out. Single leg work is pretty simple as well. You're going to load more weights on your working leg than on your back leg. A lot of people will end up making it a bilateral exercise, basically, where it's supposed to be a single leg that you're working. In terms of your rep quality, you're going to want to go slower just to avoid balance issues. If you're not doing it on a Smith machine, use a deficit to get a bigger stretch on the glutes and adductors and quads, and then skip the lockout for Bulgarians. If you want to keep your balance a little bit better, I've just found that that, that works really well. And you're going to want to tie your shoes tight. Like I wear mine like slippers and dude, sometimes my shoes fall off when I do my split squats, powerlifting back squats are a different story though. And in general, squats are going to be your most fatiguing lift by far. They're more than just a squat with less range of motion. In fact, the heavy squat is going to warp your overall training economy. A squat with 500 pounds on your back is way different than a squat with 400 pounds in your back, which is different from 300, which is way different from even deadlifting the same amount. A good way to get into that top set while not hurting yourself and being best prepared to do it is what I like to call, or what is known as rather ascending sets. So you're doing sets of five with the bar, then the 95, then buck 35, so on and so forth, which is graduating amounts of weight until you get to your top set. And that's a great way to build technical efficiency in the warmup. Because like I said, fatigue scales linearly as the weight increases. Three reps in reserve with 700 pounds is in a completely different dimension than three reps in reserve with 405 pounds. And technical execution of your basic cues is going to be key to ensure that you have a good time with stuff like that if you are doing a powerlifting back squat and you are really strong. Heels versus flats before we get into just some differences between hip hinges and then some accompaniments and then finish off with the vertical presses. Heels are used to facilitate more forward knee travel or just to allow you to squat to depth with more upright body posture. But it does shift your center of gravity. And for some lifters like me, that's awesome. But for others, it can hinder stability and performance resulting in a net negative actually. So you're going to want to use the amount of heel elevation that lets you squat more upright or go deeper without hinging. And then there are a couple of differences for hip hinges shoulders compared to squats in terms of your bracing. The main one just being how big is your gut. If your gut is big, you have more support at the bottom. And if you have no gut, you have less support. But other than that, it's largely the same. Some useful accompaniments to squat motion patterns in the totality of a larger program. Safety bar squatting is useful if you do a lot of back squatting. Reason being is the elbows and shoulders can get chewed up on a back squat and safety squat bar alleviates that. Also, if you're doing a lot of back squatting, it'll chew up your shoulders and elbows for pressing. So it's a good variation to throw in for the same reason. You also want to do, like I said in the very beginning of the video, as much machine work as you reasonably can for your space, meaning what you have access to because there's more stable, you have less cues to follow, and you can push harder. They're easier to recover from. They also add variety and novelty to your training as well. All of the same ab work of your hip hinges you can include on a squat day. And in addition to this, we can include deficit leg extensions. Constant tension work is really good for getting more out of less weight. If we have a day where perhaps we want to include more squatting just for technique work, but we don't want to use our normal working weights. And then for the same reason, temple work can not only be good for that, but it can also, just like with the bench press, make our form deficits, meaning ways that we're jacking up our form, it can make it more obvious that we're able to work on it better. And then the best bang for your buck accessory for squats is hip adduction because the adductors tend to get neglected a lot of the time with regards to the way people squat. But if you isolate them, you're going to develop them maximally. And I've found that it has great carryover for everyone. I mean, I give those that freaking variation to everybody. I have our boy Julius from Kengen overhead pressing what appears to be, those got to be a hundred pound plates, man. Look the way that bar is bending. So I'm going to assume 800 pounds, but here's some basics for vertical presses. And here's a development that I'm very happy to share with you guys, because I've said in every edition of the berserk method, I wish I had a stronger overhead press. I wish I had a stronger good shot. I finally stopped freaking crying about it. And I just did the damn thing. More on that specifically later, because that comes into play with getting better at things that you're bad at. But basics for vertical presses, pausing under tension is a must, even when compared to horizontal presses. And that pausing discipline is going to be far more important for that very reason. Because for whatever reason, rep strength, when you don't pause, does not correlate to long term progress at all outside of that particular weight. Meaning if you do touch and go 135 on overhead press for 12 reps, and you go up to 145 thinking it's about to be easy work, you might only get like five reps, bro. Sometimes adherence to your plan progression is a lot more important as well, because you can't load it as heavily as say a bench press. So your overall margin for error is a lot smaller as well, since you have less room to grow. In terms of your grip width, it's more stable if you keep it close, shoulder width, a little bit outside of it, a little bit inside. You don't want to go super wide because it becomes less stable. And then in terms of bar path, just press as close to your face as possible, because we're either standing up or we're using an incline bench, and we're setting it up so that we're vertical, our center of gravity is going to be pretty much straight up and down. So we want to keep the bar as close to that as possible. Here's some differences between seated and standing press and real talk for you. Seated is better because it's more stable, it better aligns your shoulders for growth. But the standing looks cooler, and it challenges your bracing a lot more. And for most, that makes it an equally important and worthy endeavor. I personally just like seated because it's similar deadlift of overhead presses. Anyway, for standing presses, all of the same cues that we just talked about are going to apply. But in addition to that, bracing wise, you're going to flex your legs and your glutes from an out slightly outside of shoulder width position to just increase your stability. You're also going to avoid laying back into the spinal erectors as much as you can, because that one is going to recruit our spinal erectors and two, it can elevate your injury risk a little bit, especially if you're not wearing a belt. But then for your seated presses, just set your bench one notch away from being fully vertical. So if 90 degrees is fully vertical, you're going to go to like 80 degrees, and that allows you to better align with your shoulders. This is the king Chad of vertical presses, though, the behind the neck press. And the reason for this is simple. It's a completely strict, straight up and down vertical press. You can't lay back, you can't recruit the upper pecs, it's all shoulder strength. And it's vital for progress in the shoulder pressing program in my experience now at this point. It's best done with back support, and like I said, fully vertical. And honestly, do them in a Smith machine to avoid kicking the bar path back in front of you as you fatigue, like you would on a standing overhead press. Honestly, this is pretty common to see if you do it with a barbell for you to just kick it right back in front of you and turn it into a normal standing press. So do it in a Smith to keep the bar path pretty strict. Overall, though, this is seen as a lift that is potentially dangerous on your shoulders. There's nothing inherently dangerous about bringing your shoulder up and down in line with your center of gravity. So start low weight, and then build up sets of 12 or more, and then add load in that parameter until you can. Like I said, Smith machine is the absolute best if you have it. Dumbbells are a good second place. Some useful accompaniments to any vertical press program, like I said, is going to be a seated behind-the-neck press. That's the most important shoulder exercise on a shoulder pressing day. Almost more than the main shoulder press because it builds the most raw, pure, specific vertical pressing strength. A good exercise as well because it stretches the heck out of your front delts is a below-parallel weighted dip. Pause. Hit your shoulders really hard. It hurts in a good way, and it builds lockout strength. And then, just for housekeeping stuff, rear delt work to keep your rear delt strong. It offers stability at the bottom of the press. Gives you a little bit more horsepower out of the bottom as well. If you literally have bigger muscles, you have more of a crash pad effect going on. Pulling in general is going to be helpful for the same reason. And a favorite of mine for doing this is the chest-supported wire raise. I started doing this maybe a couple months ago, so it's not added a lot of growth because I've only been doing it for a couple months, but it works really well. It's easy to set up, and it feels good. You know, it knocks two birds out with one stone. Lastly, if you're doing standing presses, your leg raises are going to be good for decompressing that lower back because you are loading it a little bit. Here's some quick talk on how to hit the upper pecs with incline presses, and I got this one along with many, many jewels from the 3DMJ video archive. This is a foolproof cue, and I say foolproof, I annotated it here because foolproof sounds more dignified than saying dummy proof, like you fool versus you dummy. Anyway, all the same horizontal chest press cues are going to apply here. The only difference, and this is something again that I started experimenting with the past few months or so, take a closer grip, more tucked elbows, and go to a lower touch point as opposed to a higher one like we're taught a lot of the time with more flared elbows. Instead, you're going to keep your elbows tucked and closer in. That creates a bar path that presses us literally into our upper pecs more, and if you have a converging chest press or an incline press machine, those are going to be really good and for a lot the best. And if you aren't bought in, hear me out, humor me. Put one hand on your upper pecs just to feel it contract. Put your opposite arm down as if you're going to press at the bottom, then press up, maintaining your elbow angle. What's that other hand feeling? You're feeling your upper pecs working. Now, keep your elbow there and then just let your arm flare out. You're going to feel your upper pec completely not contract or like decontract. Now, I'm not saying that feeling the muscle is particularly important most of the time, but if you can literally feel it contract one way and you don't feel it contract the other way, I think that speaks for something. And my upper pecs have actually been getting sore because of doing this. So keep that in mind. Try it out. If you don't like it or if you don't believe in it after you try it, forget about it, but humor me and try it out. But here's the upper chest hierarchy in terms of exercise selections that I want you to go for if you have access to it. All of them are S tier effective. Don't get me wrong, but they're just listed mostly in ease of use basically to get that cue. Dumbbells are both easy to get the groove and they're accessible to most. Next up would be an incline press machine with neutral handles. So like that plate loaded joint that I told you about. Decline pushups are pretty decent as well. And then the incline Smith and incline barbell are going to top her off. Horizontal pulling, one of my favorite types of exercises to start off with. If the question is straps, the answer is yes. I like using chest support preferentially, and this is me coming full circle back to something I used to talk about all the time doing seal rows. It's evolved more to just using chest support in general because seal rows can kind of be a pain set up. But use chest support if possible since it's stricter. It cuts out the least stimulating part of the range of motion, which is the top. And it isolates the back the best for that very reason. Here's how the elbows and arm angles play into how the back is worked. Pulling into the belly means you get more lats, and then pulling higher starts to work more traps and more rear delts. Pausing discipline is going to be real important with this. This is something that I'm going to talk about time and time again, whether it's bench press, squats, anything. Pausing discipline is going to be really important just so that because the movement is most stimulating at the bottom, we are going to want to spend more time there. It's the same reason why you pause on the chest on a bench press because you get the most stimulation there. The weight feels the heaviest there. Cool little trick that you can do really easily, especially with chest support, is to just allow your upper back to round over at the bottom. That's going to smoke your lats. But here's some chest support specific advice for those of us that want to do chest supported rows. I just made a video talking about this. But you're going to want to avoid heaving your low back and your chest off of the bench to get the weight moving out the bottom. You're already cutting out the top. Why are we now cutting out the bottom? It doesn't make sense. But in terms of facilitating a good range of motion, like I said, round your upper back to reach into the eccentric and get that bigger stretch. Flex your pecs and brace your core. This is for folks that feel like they can't breathe or they feel like they're getting crushed when they do chest supported rows. Use them big old pecs that you built up and brace your core a little bit. It'll keep you protected. And then use the lowest incline on the bench that you can while still locking out the arms at the bottom. And for me, that's like setting the incline up about two notches. For most of y'all, it's going to be about that much too, because I have pretty long arms. End the set though when you can't touch the bottom of the bench anymore. And then for the freestanding row advice, we have the victor, Super Saiyan 3 Goku at the end of Wrath of the Dragon and one of the coolest poses of the 90s. A freestanding row is all about compressing many rolls into one because it's a hip hinge and a back exercise, meaning that you are getting some posterior chain growth and stimulation from it as well and stimulation in your lower back as well. So that's what compressing many rolls into one means. A lot of your same hip hinge cues are going to apply here. So it's a little bit more complicated of a lift because it has more moving parts. It's going to include the cannonball brace along with a cue that I love for smoothing out that lockout because with barbell rows, it's going to become quite literally impossible to lock the bar out once you get to a certain amount of weight, just because of our back's natural strength curve. Here's how you smooth the lockout out. I made a video about this called How to Do Barbell Rows, the final answer back in October, I believe. You row the weight up to about the mid-range without any torso movement whatsoever. And once you're at about the mid-range, you athletically just move the torso up a little bit. You're not yanking up and down, you're just moving it up a little bit. And that facilitates us to get into a better position to lockout. And what it does is it creates a movement where we're able to lockout and row all in one smooth motion. Now form discipline with that is everything. And I want you to check out that video after you watch this one. But if you can't do it well, or you're just not going to do it well, just do a chest supported row because this is more of an advanced exercise for you to do it right. It is any job or jabroni can, can load three plates on the bar and turn it into a power shrug. You know what I mean? But for you to do it well and row three plates with good form, you're going to have a big old back and you're going to be doing it really well. Now here's some useful accompaniments before we get into our vertical pulls and then finish up with our bicep isolation. But some useful accompaniments are going to be your single arm dumbbell rows with your strict form. It generally allows you to round your upper back and then it smooths the strength curve out because you're using your obliques to round out the top as opposed to just moving your torso up and down. Standardize how much you twist into that lockout. So for the same reason you want to have form discipline with the standing barbell row, discipline yourself with that. Seated cable rows to whatever touch point you want, whether that's your belly or higher up, or a good variation if you can't or you just don't want to use a chest supported row. All the same cues are going to apply. Instead of the stability coming from our chest being supported, our legs are supporting the lift. There's a little bit more form discipline because there's nothing stopping us from yanking forward and yanking back the same way gravity is stopping us from doing that on a bench. But overall it's a pretty similar exercise. And then lastly, if you're going to do a barbell row, a deficit row standing on some plates or using some smaller diameter plates, so using 25s instead of 45s, is going to allow you to round your upper back more and thus work the lats a little bit better. Vertical pulls though are most people's favorite. If you make an exercise tier list and you don't put pull-ups in the S tier, you lose the court of public opinion, brother. There's just something about them. They're magical. But all of the same form discipline from rows is going to apply here as well because you can do a vertical pull equally as it has the same areas of opportunity as a row, I should say. But since you don't have to brace in the same way as you do with rows or chest supported rows, I like to extend the sets. Meaning instead of ending the set when you can't touch the bar to the bench on a chest supported row or similar case with the standing barbell row, we're going to pull with the most range of motion that you can on a vertical pull, but then end the set when you can no longer get to the least range of motion that you want. And for most people, that's going to mean pull into the chest and then you pull to the bottom of the chin and then you pull to the nose and then you pull to the eyes and then you cut the set there. That is amazing. Now in terms of customizing the vertical pull, elbow path is going to influence what is biased just like with the rows. But there's a few classes of overall vertical pull that come into play starting with what I call the gangsta lean pulls. And I got that from Chris Jones. Just think a wide grip pull down where you lean back at the bottom. Then you do your rounded thoracic pulls, like your L-sit pull ups, your rack chins. Your diagonal pulls are like lat pull down sitting further back. Machine variation of a round back pull. And then lastly is your true vertical pull. And so think you're behind the neck pull downs. The gangsta lean is really good for load exposure. So I like working it because it's going to holistically work the upper back muscles and overall allow for you to pull a lot of weight. You can either start with a lean back position or lean back into an agreed upon level of leaned position, meaning you have some discipline with how far you go back. I really like doing a heavy top set like this and then a more surgical set. So like behind the neck pull downs for my volume. So that's for a lat pull down enjoyers. But like I said, the set stops when we can't pull to our nose or to our eyes anymore. Just like we said, we pull as low as possible. Now your rounded thoracic pulls are going to be more for lower lats. So they're more surgical. And that includes like L-sit pull ups and rack chins. And it's accompanied by a neutral grip and then a tight elbow path that allows us to dig into the lat. So elbows to pockets or elbows to hips is just a phrase to keep in mind. I do think between the two of these though, calisthenics wise, rack chins are better just because they're loadable, they're more stable, and they're, they're regressible. And the set ends when you can't reach your desired range of motion, just like with the pull downs. And when it comes to diagonal pull downs, like I said, they're just a machine version of the exact same type of movement. True vertical pulls, I think, are the coolest looking of the bunch and they come with some unique benefits. This is your behind the neck pull downs. The unique benefit is that it works your terries major a lot more than those other variations. It favors partial ranges of motion really well. They all do to an extent, but this one especially, but mostly it's really easy on the elbows and it's the lightest in terms of loading out of all of them, which contributes to that as well. I like using this on days where I've already gone really heavy on my biceps and we're doing a heavier lat pull down might over fatigue them a little bit. I like to come in with this because they're all so easy on the tendons. Here's some pull-up specific cues for you to use. If you like to use weighted pull ups as your main performance metric for best practice, I like to say, don't just pull up, but pull up and in because you pull up and in. It's going to decrease the difficulty of each rep as opposed to if you just pulled up. In addition to that, you want to pull slack into the bar just like you would on a deadlift. So you want to feel the weight in your hands before you just descend into the first rep. And then last but not least, stop the plates from swinging back and forth and messing up your stability. Point your toes straight up and then kick your heels into your plates. I got that from street lifting. Now here's our boy, Tokita Oma, preacher curling 495 freaking pounds. I wish I was this guy, bro. Not only because he's got that cool hair, but he's preacher curling 500 freaking pounds. And it looks like he's, he's, he's rowing it or curling it for cardio reps, bro. He's sweating. He's completely stoic, bro. Anyway, glaze aside, bicep curl basics. Here's some good rules of thumb. Flexing the triceps at the bottom to get a full stretch is a good default, but it's not always needed depending upon the variation. So like a standing barbell curl or dumbbell curl, you actually don't have any loading at the bottom. So it's good just to practice the overall cue for you to be able to transfer to other movements, but it's not always needed all the time. The same thing for like a spider curl for the same reason, because it's most loaded at the top in terms of the shoulders raising. Some people have preferences with regards to this. I don't think that that's wrong if you want to keep that particular standard of form, but it is true that the shoulders attach into the bicep. So raising the shoulders is just going to allow them to contract harder your biceps. So I think it's fine as long as you standardize what you're doing, right? So a curl where you're not flexing the shoulder is different from a curl where you are. It's just something to keep in mind. In terms of rep consistency, try to keep a neutral wrist position, especially if you have longer arms and or thinner wrists of which I have both. It just helps with the bars center of gravity, not shifting mid rep, which can throw you off when you're fatiguing. Overall, the good rule of thumb is pause where you have most of the tension. And this comes into play with our age old debate of stretchy curls versus squeezy curls. A lot of people argue or incline curls best or is it spider curls or is it your beijing curls or whatever? Here's the thing. You're going to do all of them more than likely. Too much of any of these is not good, right? It's not the best rather. It's fine. I mean, you do any curl, your biceps are going to get bigger if you get stronger at it. But using a little bit of each is going to come with the most maximal benefits because spider curls are good for facilitating blood flow and promoting elbow health on top of growing muscle. You don't get those same benefits and movements where it's not hardest at the top like it is for a spider curl. Your mid-range curls, like your standing dumbbell curl or your stricter variation of like a dumbbell curl where you're standing with your back to a wall and you're letting your arms drag behind your back. It's good for building up a surplus of strength, particularly in the mid-range, which is going to let you grind on all of these variations. And then lastly, your stretchy and your highly stable curls like your preachers are the best overall performance metric because they're the most stable. They are loaded at the stretch position, but all of those other curls are going to get used for the simple fact that they develop physical qualities that are not used in it like preacher curls and beige and curls and incline curls. Here's some benefits to doing your curls. If you happen to be a guy that just skips your curls generally, they drive blood flow to your elbows, which is a benefit for pressures and squatters in terms of recovery. A bigger bicep is going to mean more stable pressing in general. So if you like bench press or dips or anything of that nature, bigger bicep means more stability. A bigger bicep means more pulling strength on your rows and things of that nature. And lastly, but certainly not least, if you mix grip on deadlifts a lot, bigger, stronger bicep means less tears. So, you know, if you do Atlas stones and things of that nature, you're flipping tires and things like that. It will facilitate less bicep curls or rather bicep tears. So just do a couple of curls. You don't hate and it'll treat you well, dude. Just believe me. Okay. Now here is our boy Baki with Lee priest. It's a legendary photo. I believe that's Tom Platt's in the background yelling at him. I think he's cut off, but I recognize that blonde hair anywhere, but extensions versus press downs. A lot of people argue about what's better. There's freaking studies. Here's the deal. Like I said, you're going to do both. Both are going to hit all three parts of your triceps. There are Olympia level bodybuilders that have only done tricep press downs and their arms are bigger than yours. They're bigger than mine. And it ain't just the steroids. It's the fact that on top of the steroids, they just trained a lift and got strong as fuck at it. Okay. However, it is true that the extensions do a better job of hitting the long head of your triceps. So if you're in the interest of working a specific part of your triceps or bringing it up, this is where it starts to come into play or press downs have better carry over to like your bench press and your overhead press and things of that nature, which is another consideration. But from pure, like, I don't know which one to pick. If you pick one, you didn't pick wrong. It's just things to keep in mind. Your long head of your tricep is the biggest part of it though. So if you want to hit that preferentially, you're going to do your extensions, which is like your French press, your cable overhead extensions and things of that nature. So in general, they're going to be a larger performance metric for general size, but your press downs are going to be a great accompaniment to a pressing workout. Here's some press down basics though. Depress your shoulders, meaning like we talked about with the bench, put them in your pocket and bring them down and keep them there as much as possible. And then start with the handle low. So your abs don't have to crunch to get the weight to where it needs to go to start. And you don't have to work very hard to keep yourself braced throughout the set. Drag the bar up your body on the eccentric and pause, and then press straight down and pause. So you're pausing at the top and at the bottom. Those cues are going to make so that other muscles don't get kicked into the lift. And overall, it increases your consistency rep to rep as well. And then with extensions, you're just going to choose an overhead extension that you like. I personally like the cable overhead extension because I have this weird, it's like a V shape, but the V has like a horizontal handles that stick out on either end. So it feels almost like dumbbells or a neutral grip bar with the stability of an attachment. I'll maybe post a picture of it if I find one in post editing, but you're going to choose when you like, just keep your elbows locked into a position that's comfortable. It doesn't matter if they're really out or really in. I think 45 degrees is comfortable for most people, but if it's a little bit inside or outside, it don't really matter. What matters is pause discipline, meaning that you don't bounce out of the bottom. I find that because our forearm comes into contact with our bicep really easily on an extension, you're able to get more horsepower by bouncing down because that crash pad effect is really strong. And then for straight bar extensions, skipping just shy of the lockout feels better on the shoulders. And it also kicks the delts out of the movement, meaning you're not getting extra horsepower from the shoulders because of that. Here's a quick elbow health protocol for folks that get elbow pain when they try to do tricep isolation exercises. If you have elbow pain with your extensions, here's what we can do. Start by adding in a few weeks of band press downs before, after, and then during your training. And then that's the only tricep stuff that you're doing. After a few weeks of progressing the reps and sets on that with a band, you're then going to add in a cable rope press down, progressing load and weight, start at light, load it over time, work in a higher rep range, get good blood flow, and then keep doing the band press downs in addition to that. Then you're going to add in another day of press downs, but this time you're going to have one of them be a straight bar and you're going to keep doing the band press downs before, during, and after, just like how we started off with. Finally, you're going to add in rope extensions. And then from there, you'll have noticed that the pain is either completely subsided or it is vastly, vastly improved. Blood flow at the end of the day is going to be king and motion is lotion. And you need to relatively de-load and decompress and de-stress from whatever it is that is causing the pain, and then build up your body's capacity to move from there. Here's a quick rapid fire on the shoulder isolation and then the leg stuff before we wrap up the chapter and move on to how to coach yourself at the gym. But shoulder isolation, I'm going to keep it simple, man. Do it with back or chest support because it keeps it strict. It's stable. It's just fun to do that way. You look jacked and you look cool when you do it that way. And what you're going to focus on more than anything with your internal cueing is just focusing on feeling tension than moving the most weight or even using perfect form. Whatever form that you can use where you can feel your delts working is the form that you're going to want to use. And they're pretty straightforward other than that, bro. You're just moving your arm up and down or front to back if you're working your rear delts. But something that can be helpful for isolating your rear or side delts, depending upon, is again, just depressing your shoulder blades, putting them into your pockets. And that may be more useful for advanced lifters because, let's be honest, we're doing that to kick our traps out of the movement. And if you're just starting off with the gym, you don't have overdeveloped traps, bro. You want to get all the traps you can. So just do it however is most comfortable for you naturally. But in general, medium reps and medium weights are going to be used most effectively for this as opposed to overloading with weight and then swinging or going really dainty and light with the weights and going really high with the reps. Last but not least, some leg isolation basics and then some golden tidbits that we didn't cover. For leg extensions, use some yoga blocks to increase the range of motion. They're selling this new, I think it's called a HUSLA, H-U-S-L-A, leg extension pad, if you're curious to look it up after this, that extends the range of motion on your leg extensions. I'm not sure how much that costs, but gyms usually already have yoga blocks, so you can use that. It's going to give you a deeper stretch and allow you to work the quads on the leg extensions a lot better. The same thing goes with the lying leg curls. You can use some padding under your hips. I usually take a couple yoga mats, put them on top of like a bumper plate, like a 10 or 25 or something, just to make it so that the plate isn't smashing into my family jewels and my legs and whatnot to make it more comfortable just because it increases the end range of motion. And that's helpful specifically on your lying hamstring curls. Pausing in general at the top of your lying hamstring curls is going to allow you to feel them in a way that I guarantee you haven't before if you happen to not like that movement very much. Now, yoga blocks in general are going to help increase your hack squat range of motion as well. And this gets into the more of the miscellaneous tidbits and not leg isolation, but it's going to increase the range of motion for the same reason. If you have a belt squat machine, supinating your grip on the support handle is going to remove a lot of upper body assistance, which I'm very much someone that needs to do because otherwise I will absolutely use my big back to pull me up. You know what I'm saying? Dead stops on your leg press are going to be really effective. Not only just for overall rep consistency, but preventing you from bouncing out of the bottom, but also building a lot of strength and going through a full range of motion and knowing that you're getting the exact same range of motion each time because you're dead stopping. And then last but not least, a lot of folks don't do this, but it goes without saying, if you're going to do a leg press, use lower back padding. So like a couple yoga mats or a yoga block, and then pull your butt into the chair to keep your lower back protected, please. Wrapping up the chapter, that one was pretty substantive. I am thinking that that's every cue that I can possibly share with you. There might be a couple that I didn't fully download from my brain, but that's most of them. Come back to this section as needed, but overall keep in mind, you want to keep a good standard of form and then you're going to want to get as strong as possible. Which leads us into chapter four of five, how to coach yourself at the gym. All right, fellas, it's time for a one-on-one on self-coaching at the gym. It's all founded upon showing up outside of the gym. So go back to chapter two or chapter two for the outside of the gym habits if you need it. But I'm going to teach you how to have good expectations with your rate of progress that don't turn you into a doomer, but also give you confidence in your training. If you're not adding weight and not adding reps, there are other signs that your training is still doing what it needs to. I'll show you how to follow your plan closely, how to motivate yourself, how to log book effectively, and how to do housekeeping to maintain these things. Last but not least, there's some time management things that we all mess up on. I'll show you how to do that. And then I'll show you some, uh, some ways to time your stimulants. If you, if you like using caffeine, because there is a way that you should use those things. But the first step of any of those things is to find a good program, make your adjustments, and then just do the program. I recommend my radar program for most people who are beginner intermediate or one of my other programs on boost camp, but find a program and just do it, get to work. Here's something that I think is going to be helpful for most. And that being your rate of progress, accountability checklist, lifters tend to fixate on just one of these factors. And that's why I believe that a lot of us find that we are not making progress. And it's not because our program isn't working. It's only because we're only looking at just this one factor. Your surface level progress is going to be what's obvious, which is more, which is more reps, more weights, or more volume. Surface level progress is great, but it is not the end all be all. Refining technique, generally training hard at a high level. Those two things also produce growth. Put it to you this way. If you bench 315 once, have you unlocked all of the growth that you will ever get from benching 315? Or are you unable to grow from benching 315 ever again in your life? That's it. If you word it to yourself like that, yeah, I can grow more with 315. Training at a high level at that 315 level is going to grow you just as much as adding weight or adding reps or adding volume. Equally heavy work getting done in three minutes instead of five minutes means gains as well, meaning you're getting in the same work with less time to recover between sets. Track your good, your bad, and your normal strength levels. Any one of those things, including your bad days getting stronger on average, means that your program is doing exactly what it needs to, which means gains. Here's another checklist for you in terms of accountability and confidence. Should I deviate from my plan? This is just a simple series of self-guided questions to keep you on track. Am I progressing with the prescribed volume? See this slide? If you are, then that's good. Are the prescribed exercises hitting all the muscles that I want to train? So yes, for those people that want to work your, isolate your teres major, your chest supported row is hitting most muscles in your back. So there's, there's no need to add another one. If you're already working with something else on that day, did the program already work for someone else in the past? Did the program produce results for me already? Meaning a lot of folks will run a program once and then just think, Oh, you want this program won't work ever again. I'll just find the next new one. Logic shows that if it works the first time, it's going to work the second and third time with adjustments over time, but it's not going to just stop working. Is the program time efficient? And lastly, if I'm not recovering, am I doing my best outside the gym to facilitate that? And for, for that, you're just going to refer back to chapter two with your outside of the gym habits. Something that's really helpful in addition to those checklists is just identifying your greatest anxiety with training. And we all have one. You're going to want to rationalize it though, by referring back to your prior to checklists. A lot of training anxieties end up being the biggest thing, like our biggest hater, our biggest limiter of progress ends up being what we're most anxious about in terms of our, our training. And for a lot of us, it's expectations, expectations that we need to improve by this amount, or we're not good enough, or we need to improve by this amount, or it's just not working, or we need to improve by this amount, or we need to change something. Those insecurities are never not going to exist. But if you master your response to them, it's only going to make you stronger, not only mentally, but physically, as you continue to break through your limitations. Courage, confidence, and competence, the three C's. I mentioned it at the beginning, I'm mentioning it now. Those are your best weapons. Ultra Instinct Goku. I didn't mean to do this, but he, he moves and fights without, uh, relying on anything but instinct. And that's a good way to think of, uh, how you want to be like completely mashed to your body. Creating good in the gym habits is just as important as creating good outside of the gym habits. And just like with a lot of the stuff, some of it is going to come easy to you. Some good habits are recording your sets, especially on new exercises. You're going to log book your sets and reps, meaning you say what you did and how many you did. Log book how you felt, how things looked, and if you can improve something. Just generally staying on your feet, like an object at rest tends to stay at rest. The object in motion tends to stay in motion. That applies here as well. And that's helped me stay really engaged with my training, stay off my phone. Phone goes on DND in general, but it'll help you stay more engaged. Don't be a hero though, when you go to the gym. And by that meaning, if you are coming in and you're supposed to do 300 pounds for three sets of eight, don't do 315 pounds or try to for three sets of eight, just because you feel like you should load 315 instead of 300 load 300, do what your program says. Don't be a hero and know how to accept your outcomes, no matter what they are, win, lose or draw. And here's how you put that into perspective. You're good, you're bad, and just you're meh, your normal sessions, your everyday sessions. Most sessions should be meh. They should be normal. Some of them are going to be great and some of them are going to be bad. Knowing how to identify the cause of each is really important for helping you conceptualize and compartmentalize how you feel about each of them. Great sessions in general are always going to come after you've decayed fatigue. No matter what that may be, that is why you have sessions that feel amazing. Your stress might be lowered, you might be hyping yourself up more, there might be more food coming into play, less work, meaning less volume getting done, more sleep, so on and so forth. Normal sessions just mean your program is doing what it's supposed to and should be the norm if you're following your outside the gym habits. If you're having more bad than good, examine those outside of the gym habits. More bad than normal, rather. And lastly, bad sessions are always going to come when fatigue is heightened, no matter why that may be, whether that's less sleep, more stress, less food, going too heavy too often, being a hero, or just not following a good outside of the gym process, not being hydrated, things of that nature. Here's the champion mindset. And as of making this video, this is something that I've talked about time and time again, but Brock Lesnar put it really well to his daughter with regards to how you should feel about these type of things. So this is how I'm going to phrase it here, because I thought it was really brilliant how he voiced it. You want to take whatever your outcome is, sit with it, pack it up and move on. You shouldn't be upset that most sessions are just normal. You shouldn't get too cocky because you had an amazing session. And you shouldn't be upset if you lose sometimes. All those things are going to happen. You just accept them for what they are. Sitting with those things means knowing why they happened, what you can do to change it, what's in your control to change it, and then moving on. You just pack it up and move on to the next. You do your best next time. If that means you have three great sessions in a row, that's just what it is. If you have three normal sessions, a good session, and two bad sessions, it is what it is. But try to make sure that it's just consistent overall, and that you learn from those mistakes. They're just areas of opportunity. They are not necessarily bad sessions. Normal is just going to mean the plan is working as intended. Good means how can I make sure that this happens again? Like if I can just take a deload here, I can have a great workout again. And then lastly, if you have a bad session, what is the easiest way, the lowest hanging fruit that I can pick to prevent this from happening again? For a lot of folks, it's sleep, stress, eating, following those outside of the gym variables. Low hanging fruits in general, not even just with bad sessions, just with overall doing things to improve yourself in the easiest fashion are the most important thing next to creating momentum in general with your training because they create mental momentum. They give you new challenges to overcome increasing your interest in your program, your buy-in with your overall process and your training. And always doing the simplest and easiest thing to improve is going to make you a more complete lifter because you're going to have a lot less weak points if you're constantly evaluating how you can most easily improve yourself. Usually for a lot of us, our areas of opportunity are outside of the gym. So that's the guy that goes to the gym five days a week, does all the good compound movements, follows a decent program, but you talk to him and it's like, yeah, dude, I, you know, I worked all day. I did 20,000 steps at work in the sun all day and I ate 2,000 calories because I'm trying to be shredded. Dude, you need to eat. You need to drink some freaking water. That's why you're not bench pressing more. But in general, as a rule of thumb, you're always going to want to go for the easiest win because the idea is to snowball that win into another win, into another win, into another one. And that's what keeps us mentally bought into our training. Training log booking is a good way to evaluate all of this stuff with that 10,000 foot view. And it's your holy grail of gains. I have all of my recent training logs. I keep them all in my, um, my backpack with me so I can go back and most of the stuff I log, I can go back and tell you exactly what I did on each day, exactly how I felt. But at a general level, you're going to want to record your sets, your reps, your exercises, and your weights. That's the bare minimum. You're going to want to keep track of pain levels. If you have any tweaks or if something felt weird, how you connect with your movement, how your form felt, how it looked, and how you can improve upon it. How does one movement seem to affect the next? Meaning if you do bench press and then curls, it feels pretty good. But if you do bench press and then dips, it doesn't feel as good. So let's sandwich the curls between the dips and the bench press. You see what I'm saying? Lastly, how fatigued are you after the session? And what days are you most consistently fatigued on slash the least fatigued? Because that can infer where you place most of your efforts at. If you find that you're most fatigued on Sunday because you had work on Saturday because you worked 12 hours that day, you're not going to put your most important biggest session on Sunday. You may put it on Thursday where you had two days off. You see what I'm saying? But in terms of logbooking, with all those things being said, beating the books is an addictive process. Here's the limitation to that though. Adding reps and weight in a vacuum is fine. Don't get me wrong. I love writing in my logbook that yeah, I added eight reps. Fuck yeah. But your big win of the day sometimes is just going to be a repeat session, meaning you're training at the same intensity. Your big win of the day might just be improved form. Beating the books, adding reps and weight should never come at the expense of sacrificing training momentum. Meaning if you add a rep or three reps instead of one, but now you have no room and momentum to go forward compared to if you just added one and then you add one next week and then maybe add two the week after that and then you add two after that and one after that. You've now cumulatively, I'm no mathematician, but I think those numbers all add up to six. Six is more than three last I checked. Again, I'm no mathematician, okay, but six is more than three. Here's an example of an average logbooking. It's okay. It has some good stuff with some areas of opportunity. Barbell back squat. He has the sets, reps, weight. He notated that all reps went below parallel and the session felt good. It's okay. Like I said, you have the sets, reps, weight. It's a rough idea of the form and how the session went overall. It went good. But overall, that leaves a lot of potentially big information out of the equation. We can feel like there's no room for improvement if we don't see where we have room for improvement because we're not taking note of things, right? Here's a better example of that. The same reps, weight, sets. He wrote, all reps are below parallel. Bounced off of knees on last few reps each set. There was no rest pauses unlike last session. His reps looked fast, but the less felt tougher. And then next session, he's going to aim for sevens across without bouncing off of his knees. So he's going to do the same total number of reps. Just one less rep on the first set and one more on the last. He's not going to bounce off his knees. You know exactly how his form was. He audits the form and he gives himself a goal that's achievable to shoot for next time. That is far more coachable and that's a great log booking example. And that's the type of stuff you want to put in your log book. Here's the power of gamifying your training in your log book though. You're going to want to do this for mostly things that are low hanging fruits or things that quite frankly that you hate that you otherwise just would skip or not do in general. This is where you can have fun with what you do. So it's best employed when something like I said is new and anything will grow you from it. All of these things will are good long-term strategies. However, they're best employed when you're new and you're improving neurally faster. Rest pauses are really good. Cluster sets are really good. Doing like a total reps in X amount of time. Like how many total reps can I do before I fall beneath five? Basically, I like doing that for pull-ups. Drop sets are also really good, but all of these things should still fall in line with the framework of your program. Those are just a few examples that I like, but any way to add mini games to your training also increases buy-in and it's something that you can log book as well. Outside of the gym, log booking is very simple, but it's also comprehensive and again, helps us audit what we're doing better so that we can't just say, well, yeah, I'm doing everything I need to outside of the gym. What did you log book it? How many steps did you get in? I don't know. I get my steps in every day. You asked me that for it. Well, how many did you get in? I don't know. And it turns out you only did 6,000 instead of 10. You think you drank three liters of water and you drank one and a half. You think you ate 3,000 calories instead of 2,000. You think you ate 200 grams of protein and you ate 150. You think you're getting good quality meals on average because you had a meal with vegetables in it, but you see you're eating pop tarts most of the time. You see what I'm saying? So it's step count, hydration, calories, protein, and did you eat well? Those are simple things to just check yes or no to. Did I hit my goals or did I not? Did I get 10,000 or did I not? I want to talk a little bit about fear of missing out because it's a silent but deadly aspect of the fitness community. Taking advice is great, but like I said, it should always come with that 10,000 foot view. We should be looking at it broadly and in what context we consume the information is very important. So we want to ask ourselves a couple simple questions. In what context are we seeing someone do this? Does this apply in a way for me that is redundant? Meaning that secret bicep exercise that this guy is doing with his BB oiled, roided up muscles, and when you're already doing two good curls is redundant. If you're already doing the two good curls and you're getting stronger and you're doing everything you need to outside the gym, at best is just something that you can do later on down the line, but you have no sense of urgency to do it now. Another example, if you include this, why end up just doing too much? And usually, if you're following a well-written program, the answer is usually yes, because most well-written programs are crafted in such a way where you can customize within the framework. But if you start throwing in underground pools and gazebos and barns and little add-ons to your proverbial house, you're going to start doing too much, man, and it's going to be hard or impossible to recover from. And then lastly, when it comes to fear of missing out, is this thing that I'm being presented with, is it one of my low-hanging fruits? If the answer is no, why are we doing it? Just something to keep in mind. Lastly, accept what you can't change. This comes down to our leverages. We talked a little bit about it in the exercise mastery chapter. We'll talk about it a little bit here. But a lot of things that people think they're cursed with are actually huge benefits. So chief among them being long arms and short tendons, you're going to be a slow starter. You're going to be skinny and rarely when you start freaking going to the weight room. But you have massive potential for growth because you have full muscle bellies and your limbs are long. When you fill out, dude, you're going to be massive. This is where you have dudes with freaking 20-inch arms easily. But if you're short and stocky, that's a good thing too because you're going to fill out quicker. You'll get bigger and stronger faster. Some guys, they start out frail and skinny. But then when they get developed, they find that they can stay really lean and build muscle with a leaner body composition than other people can. There's a lot of genetic advantages to things that people perceive as curses. I made an entire video about it. Maybe I'll make another one. But there are advantages, whether aesthetic or performance-based for things that most people think that they're cursed with overall, just to leave it at that. But here's a quick housekeeping checklist to tie it off before we get into the mindset stuff and then the time management. This is going to keep your fire burning. And every so often when you go through this checklist, it's going to keep you accountable. So one, how is training going? You just review your logbooks. I'm increasing in reps. It's going good. Everything's looking good with the form, injuries, looking good. What were my biggest challenges? This is going to infer what you can do in the future to improve and what you can do better. What did I succeed at the most? So you want to give yourself credit on things that you did really well or things that just overall you're finding that you're good at versus other things. What are some new things that have caught my eye? This is where those pieces of advice that where we used our 10,000 foot view to go and say that we don't need it now, but maybe we can do it in the future. We'll go ahead and maybe incorporate that into the next cycle of our, of our training program. Lastly, what low hanging fruits have you missed? What low hanging fruits did you either ignore because you didn't want to be seen lifting quote unquote lightweights, or just did you ignore because you didn't want to work on something you were bad at? Learn how to train without caffeine first so that you can enhance your training with caffeine. Proper hydration and sleep are going to beat caffeine nine, 10 times out of 10, unless you just use a lot of it. And it's like for a specific heavy session, then it can add a super maximal benefit. And that's really what we should be using it for. Caffeine is most useful when you, you have sessions that are particularly difficult that you need to potentiate this performance with. Don't drink it on your off days, take a week off after each training block. And then, like I said, a week off, if you find that you just are too reliant on it. And then keep in mind that late night caffeine is usually a net negative. So for example, I'll give you an example. Let's just say you have a five day training split, and you have two heavy sessions. On those heavy sessions, you'll use caffeine, and then the other three, you just don't or you use less. It's as simple as that. You just time your stimulant intake. And then when you have sections of your program where everything is heavy, you use it a little bit more. But then after that, you pull back on it, basically. Here's a mindset golden tidbit that I like to use to keep myself invested in my training. Give yourself a little training arc, like the kids like to say. Stay humble in the beginning. Meaning, I like to say that, you know, I'm just staying out the way and getting deposited in my pennies, bro. I'm just chipping away. I'm just stacking my bricks. That's all. I have that mindset while I'm building up in my program, while I'm building up volume. This keeps the hype low, and it keeps you focused on the work in front of you, the rep in front of you. I don't even listen to music at the beginning of a training program, bro. I'm just going to be honest with you. You don't have to take it that far, but it's an idea to keep in mind. Where you want to extend is towards the ends of the program, where you've already laid the foundation. You've already proved to yourself that you can do the work. Let's prove it to yourself that you can finish strong. Hype helps us push hard despite building fatigue, so it almost makes more sense to employ it when we need it most. All of that helps you put up your best performance. In the beginning, focus on the work in front of you, and towards the end, then that's when you can start to hype yourself up. Here's something that I've learned in building up my weak overhead press to being a strong shoulder press and having strong shoulders. Approaching something that you're bad at mentally in an appropriate manner is very important. The first run of your program should be completely devoid and divorced of expectations, meaning you're focusing more on laying a foundation of performance, following the program to a T, following it well, and then laying something that you can look back on and improve upon. The next run of your program is where you should base it more around improving each corresponding session from your round one of the program in some form or fashion, meaning doing more reps, more weight, hitting the weight easier with better form, hitting weights heavier earlier in the program while still maintaining your momentum. And overall, this is how I improved my shoulder press and it's no longer a weak point. So for example, what that'll look like is if on week one you hit three by 10 with 135, on week one of the second run of your program, so you've rerunning the program and you're using 140 pounds, then that's when you want to improve your total reps or your form and things of that nature. And then you correspond that from week two to week two, week three to week three, so on and so forth. Some time efficiency strategies that everybody can benefit from. So this is very important. Keep your warmups fast paced and specific to whatever you're doing. So like for example, I've talked about this before, but if you're doing a bench press workout or any pressing workout, doing your higher rep dumbbell presses before that will warm you up, but it'll also over prepare your tissues for being able to work because you're going through more range of motion than you're going to be working with. So you're super prepared for what you're about to do. And it's also specific. Keep your rest times moderate and then increase it as needed within the parameters that you're given. So if you're given two to five or two to four or whatever range of minutes to take for rest, take the least amount of time as often as possible. That adds up. So if you have 20 sets in a workout, that adds up. So let's just say you take five on every set instead of three. What's two minutes times 20? That's 40 minutes difference, bro. Start reviewing your form if you're recording it after you've already started your timer, because what you don't want to do is think you're spending a few seconds to review your form and you spend three minutes and then you start your three, five minute timer. Now you've spent eight minutes resting when you should have had three. That adds up over the course of 20 sets where some people can end up in the gym for hours. Also, you're going to want to begin to prepare mentally for your next set 30 seconds before your timer even goes off because again, setup time is also time that we're spending at the gym that seems small, but again, over a 20 set workout, it adds up and all of that stuff adds up. Where even if it's one minute of time saved on a 20 set workout, that's 20 minutes. That's the difference between being in the gym for an hour and a half and being in the gym for an hour 10. Just to wrap up chapter 10 before we get into the practical programming and then giving you the recommended programs at the very end. Thanks for hanging in there with me, guys. This one's been really fun to present to y'all. Self-coaching at the end of the day is a systemic, but more so an internal endeavor where we are keeping ourselves accountable. It is not hard to just find a program that a lot of people have ran and just do what the program says. The hard part is doing our best to get the most out of that program and then doing our best both inside in the gym, but also outside of the gym holistically to get the best results possible. But the more you stick to your resources, your checklists, the better. The more you logbook, the better. And remember to just do the dang thing and have fun. Practical Berserk Method Programming featuring our boy Zod and his apostle form and guts. Here's what I think beginners should do in the year 2025. Just get a better diet and in general. Just have better outside of the gym habits first and foremost, because a lot of people need to learn how to live the lifestyle and not necessarily do things just for the results, which is common for a lot of new lifters. They just want the results. Run a concise beginner program. Do it multiple times. Run it to the wheels fall off like my Raider program. It's great for beginners. You run it with your modifications and I give you parameters for the modifications. You'll do great with that. Start by adding in those hard exercises early on. So that stuff that you're good at, you're going to do it regardless. But there's going to be a couple of things that you're bad at. Do those things that you're bad at. Those are going to make you better over the long term. And don't hyper specialize on those things that you're good at, because it's going to leave you wishing that you did the stuff that you were bad at later on down the line. You're going to want to grow off a reasonable amount of volume, meaning if you can grow with three sets, you do three and you don't do five just because you think more is better. You also learn how to ask good questions when you're seeking advice from the big guy in the gym or you're consuming content to get advice. Learn how to evaluate what you actually need and then how to ask questions to get that. Build up your 10,000 foot view. I've talked about it time and time again, but that's a very useful skill for being able to do the previous asking good questions part. And then last but not least, don't be afraid to work hard, man. You need to do as many reps as possible to figure out what a couple in reserve feels like. Many programs will pace you out by saying, leave a couple of reps here, reps in the tank here, leave a couple of reps in the tank here, and then go all out here. If you don't know what going to failure feels like, you don't know what leaving two in the tank feels like. So don't be afraid to work hard. There's some common things that I see as a coach when I take new clients on, whether that's in person or mostly online. Most things are super common, meaning things that I see over and over and over again. And they also have a straightforward action plan. So it's not anything where if this is you, you need to get all doomer about it because ultimately a lot of this is just simple stuff that we could fix. But the first step is just examining their existing training. So if you're doing this with yourself, examine what you're doing already. A lot of it though, is just observation and then listening to folks. So for you, be keeping it real with yourself. Like, what am I doing? Why am I doing it? A lot of people are just folks that know what they're doing for the most part, but they're just missing their low hanging fruits. And that's because they don't have a 10,000 foot view of their situation. They look at things very mechanistically or they're just very outcome driven to a fault. Always because it's limiting them at the end of the day, their finer details are getting missed. The, the weak portions of their process where they're, maybe they're not eating enough or sleeping enough, or they're staying up till three in the morning. They're just getting glossed over because they do generally work hard. And a lot of people feel like if, if they work hard and they are doing a lot of things, right. Then that means that they should just get the results that they want. Well, that might not necessarily be the case if you're not doing everything that you need to do well to get the results. And if you don't see it, you just don't see it. So I just end up asking questions that are similar to the checklist that we covered accountability questions. Where are you doing this? What does this feel like? And a lot of times it's very simple, actionable goals that snowball them over time to getting really great results where they didn't before. I have the CEO of potential man go on at the focal point of this picture, but folks that are really talented at the gym and have a great response to training, but they just don't follow any structure. They can't seem to find something that they can stick with. The most common solutions to it is this. First and foremost, pragmatic, find out your volume needs, figure out your volume needs, design a meat and potatoes program. So some basic good old fashioned training. Folks like this are typically overachievers or they, they love to achieve rather. You're going to give them very distinct goals. So give yourself various distinct goals, but the biggest thing to keeping them bought in is just making the process fun for them. Whether that's getting them fired up about hitting a PR or getting them fired up about doing a lift that they don't like by gamifying their training and making it fun for them. Overall, the process being fun is going to keep someone like this achieving at a high level. And the main challenge is just staying engaged with whatever your short and medium term goals are. So reevaluate that frequently. If you find that, yeah, you're one of those freaking guys that squatted 500 pounds in your first year of training, you're good. Like you have a great response to training, but keep yourself engaged by doing these things. Another example is the chronic overdoer. These are just people that have a great work ethic. There are no stranger to working hard. If you tell them to do three sets, they are darn sure going to do three sets. You tell them to do this, these exercises, they're going to do it, but they often ruin momentum. They injure themselves or they're constantly looking for the next fun thing. And my main course of action is to just maintain a level of extra credit in the program to allow that itch to be scratched because I don't want you to not train within your strengths. Your strength is your hard work. So let's placate that. But your larger exercises are going to have to be more conservative with their volumes and more systematic. Your smaller ones are typically when we get to do things like volume density and do fun gamifying things and use intensity techniques to allow you to feel like you're working really, really hard without derailing your progress. So for example, someone that loves working hard, that's a chronic overdoer that just needs to leave the gym with a pump, your bench work, your dips, your squats, your stiff legs, those are going to be measured. But when it comes to the curls and the press downs, dude, go nuts, do cluster sets, do whatever you need to do to get a massive freaking pump. And because those things are far less fatiguing than our compound movements, it ends up being okay. I usually just give them the freedom to do fun stuff with their training as well, as long as it falls within the parameters of the program and it doesn't interfere with the things that we want to improve. So it's like conditioning, training cool movements like power cleans is a big one. Just fun stuff in general. Like I said, as long as it doesn't interfere with your training. The opposite of that almost is the chronic accessory skipper. And it's not because they're lazy. It's just because they come from typically a different type of background, which is like a power listing background. They just have a hard time buying into things that are different from the things that they're interested in preferentially. Usually I find that that's just because that their technique and their progression lends to those things feeling meh, like not feeling amazing. So then they don't want to do them. Like if you do curls and you're just doing them haphazardly, there's no progression, your form is shit. You're not going to get a bicep pump. You're not going to see yourself getting stronger. So you're not really going to want to do it. And it's just a negative feedback loop. So the way that I help to fix that is just help them be more surgical with these things and then help find variations that they enjoy, that they like doing. And I also give them well-defined goals to follow with those new exercises as well. So for example, if I'm working with someone that's a power lifter and they're a chronic accessory skipper, give them weighted dips. For some reason, power lifters love freaking weighted dips. They see SSJ Bob hit a freaking weighted dip PR. Everybody want to start doing weighted dips again. Give them weighted dips. Give them like a cool curl that makes their arm look big because it's flattening out their arm and making their arm look all jacked. Yeah. Give them, give them that curl and then show them how to do it. I also, also, we always leave room to experiments as well on top of that, on top of all of those things. So we need to leave some form of freedom for them to be able to find things that they like on top of the things that I suggest and, and help them improve it. The chronic overthinker is the most challenging one. If you are also someone that feels like you need to be right. Me personally, dude, at the end of the day, you're paying me to help you. I don't care about being right. I care about you getting your results. So let's just get to it. They're very knowledgeable, which means that they know exactly what they need to do, but they may lack the experience to solve the problems in a simple way. Meaning, you know, that dude, they just freaking, they make two plus two fish. They just make it complicated. They say, well, why two plus two and, and why not three plus one? You know, Jordan Peterson freaking, he, he literally asked this dude, what do you mean by what? What do you mean by do? What do you mean by like, bro, just answer the question. Anyway, I tend to express simple solutions, not authoritatively, but in a manner of fact, way of speaking to where there isn't room for interpretation. And then you just extend the willingness to accept their feedback. Now, how you can apply this to yourself is, is that if you read, if you pause your benches and increases stimulation on your pecs, you just do it. And then you accept the fact that it is either going to do that, or it's not going to do that, regardless of how you feel about it. You're just willing to accept the feedback and take it accordingly. If that's you as well, fall back on your checklist. A lot of this overthinking stuff comes into play with anxiety. I need to do the best thing possible. I need to be perfect. I need to get great results. We need to be objective as possible and fall back on those checklists that we mentioned all the way back in the last chapter. Very rarely is the answer to your problem at the end of the day going to be super complicated unless you're injured or you're like a world-class athlete. And then finally, before we get to the momentum masterclass on training momentum and how to build it, preserve it, save it. If you squander it, the chronic tinkerer, this is someone that just, then they've been at it for a long time. To an extent, I feel like I'm a chronic tinkerer. If I'm just left to my own devices with my training, this is someone that knows exactly what they're doing, has actually done it at a good level, has obtained great results, but their rate of progress on something is slower because they just change things around too often. Now, this year, I've gotten out of that a lot. I'm not really changing my program unless I absolutely need to. How I tend to do this is that I just tend to lay out training with clearly defined phases and borders, meaning this shall be that. It ain't going to be nothing else besides that. But I also make it very clear that we're going to do this in phases to where that thing that you're interested in trying, that you think might have a benefit. We're going to do that at a later date here. But for right now, we need to work on this. And that is so effective for keeping people that love changing things that are otherwise great at what they do on the ball and on point. At the head of everything is just the expectation, like I said, that if you are told to do freaking this exercise, bro, you do that. But also to temper that, I'm very open feedback and collaboration. Meaning if something genuinely does not feel good or you genuinely have gotten great results of doing this thing and not that thing, yet I'm suggesting that you do the thing that you know you don't get good results with, give me the feedback. We'll do that. But don't ask me to change it again. You see what I mean? Okay. Training momentum. And we have a great piece of Dragon Ball Super Broly fighting Vegeta and Goku in the Antarctic Wasteland, the manga version. Training momentum. I'm giving this an entire portion in this chapter. Like it's getting its own title card because it's close to everything. Being able to observe room for progression in your next session is basically what I mean by observing training momentum. And every program ever takes this into consideration or uses a method that inherently does this, even if you're not cognizant of it. So like if you're running a program by Johnny Bodybuilder, he more than likely copy-pasted it from someone that copy-pasted it from someone that took into consideration training momentum at some point. You see what I'm saying? And the way that I want to explain why this is important is this the difference between using a battering ram to smash through a door, like you're pulling back and it's you and 30 other dudes and you're smashing through a castle wall. And the difference between that and just you pushing against the wall with statically with no momentum, which do you think is going to get through the wall, bro. You're not the Incredible Hulk. It's going to be the battering ram. Heavier lifts in general, I find are more sensitive to momentum, but it's going to go both ways. And that's observing forward momentum if you're doing what you need to and noticing that you're not going anywhere if you're not doing what you need to. And it's not as noticeable on lighter lifts. How I like to make this simple as with everything is with a systemic approach. Here's how new lifters can can focus on training momentum. You're going to grow relatively faster than someone who's more advanced. That's just the truth. And the best way to have the fastest process is to just follow your fucking program. I'm not swearing at you. I'm enunciating that you follow your freaking program. You don't have to worry so much about complexity of what you're doing more so how well you're doing it. So approach your outside of the gym variables like a pro bodybuilder, like a professional athlete, like anyone that you could imagine would approach them. So if you like Olympic weightlifting, Lu Zhao Jun, how do you think he approaches outside of the gym variables? This dude was icing his freaking back literally before a lift because he had an injury, because he was doing what he needed to do to facilitate his performance. And that's a very extreme case. If you have an injury, don't ice it and then go work out. Don't go to the gym or go to the freaking doctor. But I'm just saying like, approach it like a pro give a crap about what you're how you're doing it. You see what I'm saying? And what that means is with regards to your training intensity, as many reps as possible does not mean stop when you want to it means do as many reps as possible. Leaving two reps in the tank doesn't mean do as many reps as possible, because you want to feel like you're working hard. You want to feel like you're strong. You want to feel like you're doing this. You do what it says because you understand that that's how the program was written thousands before you did it just like that. And that you're not going to be the super saying for Gogeta genetic freak to just be able to go as hard as they can every workout and progress for the rest of your life. You need to pace yourself and just follow the program. The best thing that you can do is just take great notes in your logbook. That's all that you need to do besides adhering to the program as flawlessly as you can. But here's the truth of the matter. New lifters are going to end up ruining their momentum or halting it in some manner. First and foremost, ensure that you are actually pushing against the proverbial wall. And you're not just being impatient. Because as I said, there are lots of ways to progress. And some folks, I shit you not, someone, and you know, I don't get mad when people say these things. It's just something that I feel needs to be stated time and time again. And it will never not be good for people to hear. A fellow came to me maybe last year or a few months ago, but it stood out to me because of what was said. He came to me saying that he wasn't making progress in his training program. What could I do to help him? So I asked him a couple of questions. I said, yeah, sure. No problem, dude. What's up? What's going on? What are you doing already? How are you liking it? You know, things of that nature. And I got to the topic of, you know, how many reps did you add to this or how much weight did you add to this? Well, I added three reps over the last couple of workouts and overall I've added 25 pounds to it. And I'm like, dude, you're making progress. What do you mean? A lot of times it's not that we're not making progress. It's that we're not making the type of progress that we should be making. So just ensure that you're actually not making progress and that you're not just being impatient. And what you're going to want to do is examine your adherence to all your non-training variables to ensure that if there is an actual lack of progress, that it's because of the program, in which case you need to perhaps move on to an intermediate program, or is it something that you're doing outside the gym or how you are interacting with the program? Also examine your form. All of the proximity to failure can be in place. All of the outside of the gym variables, the sleep and everything can be in place. But if your form is not to standard to facilitate performance, it's going to impede your growth. That's just the truth of it. So examine your form. Are you treating all your lifts with due diligence? Meaning just because you're doing a good job here doesn't mean that you can afford not to do a job there later in the workout. Again, examine your intensity and your adherence to the program. If it says leave two reps in the tank, you leave two. If it says go to as many reps as possible, you do that. Find where you have an area of opportunity and attack it. Meaning one of these things is something that you're not doing or multiple of them, you do that. And then last but not least, just have the understanding that nobody, even me right now as I'm speaking, as we're speaking, no one does all of these things right and doesn't make any progress. So just keep that in mind. That's not to say that it's your fault. Suck it up and do something about it. That's to say that it's always within your control to evaluate and get yourself out of the situation where you're not making gains. Good teaching tool, triple progressions. This is the very first thing. I even teach regular PT clients this like regular ass people like your grandma, your dog. It's good for your cousin that hasn't worked out since high school. It's good for everybody because it teaches you forward momentum in a way that just arbitrarily makes sense. You push forward, you pull back. It's a microcosm of what we're talking about. It's great for beginners on most lifts and it's real simple. You just progress in reps, rep quality, then wait, you rinse and repeat. Here's an example. I'm not going to read it, but if you want a specific example, all my programs use this system. It's even great for advanced lifters on things like curls and smaller lifts. We'll use other progression models for bigger lifts when you're more advanced. But in general, a triple progression is the foundation of everything. You are always going to use it. Here's what momentum can look like in terms of facilitating it for intermediate lifters. You're an intermediate lifter when you need time in between when you go heavy. Basically, you need to pace yourself out because you'll injure yourself or you just won't make, you genuinely will not make progress. You need to follow an intermediate program exactly as it is written. That has not stopped. There are more than enough intermediate programs out here that work well that use basic foundational principles. It's not about the new best thing that you need to do. It's about doing the thing well. And you'll need to learn how to more consciously pace yourself. So where you could get away with being more lackadaisical with maybe going a little too hard here or there because you're progressing so much faster in general as a new lifter, you can't do that as an intermediate lifter because your rate of progress has slowed down overall. The cool thing though is that you're going to know exactly what you're good at and what you're bad at. So hitting those weaknesses hard is exactly how we not only create that mental momentum, but also the physical momentum by shoring up our weak points. Also, having form discipline is going to be more important just because it's going to be easier to hurt yourself. So using good form, maintaining that good standard of form is going to allow you to make better gains and not reach plateaus in your training. But if you do, here's how you salvage your last momentum. This is almost always going to be due to you overextending and not pacing yourself out because it's a skill that you genuinely need to learn and you need to express at a higher and higher level. So if you're used to expressing it at a low level and you're now expected to express it at a medium level, it makes sense. It's going to happen. A lot of times people think that their form is super specific to them. So they get into this weird circle jerk where, you know, there's because their form is so specific to them, them having really shit form is justifiable and things of that nature. You need to use form that is good for what you're trying to do. So don't sniff your farts too much. Just do what you need to do. Also, some intermediate lifters are also just genuinely beginning their first weight cuts and they don't know how to do so properly. So a lot of folks will train for a year, two, three years, gain a lot of muscle, but gain some body fat. And then for the first time, want to strip it down to see that muscle a little bit better, but you don't know really how to do it because it's your first weight cut. If you track back to the dietary aspect of things with regards to cutting, bulking, maintaining, the elements of a good meal all apply. I like to think of it like this. You eat as much protein as possible. You eat good meals. You don't go from eating balanced meals to drinking protein shakes and eating pop tarts and then throw a calorie deficit on top of that. You eat good meals and you lower your calories a little bit. You increase activity a little bit. So maybe you go from doing 10,000 steps to 12,000 steps and you subtract three, four or 500 calories and the weight's just going to fall off and you're going to keep your muscle. That's how you cut properly. And the exact deficit is going to be different depending upon the person and what your activity level is, but that's the high level breakdown. Also, newer lifters, like I said, are going to have a greater margin of error with their habit discipline. All of it's going to come back down to finding back or finding ways to fall back on your outside of the gym habits and finding new ways to pace yourself and make it fun. Here's an example of how you could do that in an easy training system that will facilitate great gains. And I used this in 2018 to make some really amazing gains specifically for my upper body. This is really amazing for the compound lifts. So the lifts that are going to fatigue the intermediate lifter a little bit more at a high level. Step loading is a great teaching tool because it teaches you how to space things out as an intermediate lifter. You're going to start with high reps at a fixed weight and then follow a triple progression. So for example, you start with a three by 10, you add reps to that for three to four weeks. So for example, you go to three by 10 week one, three by 11 week two, three by 12 week three, and you do that all at your estimated one rep max of 67%. And you can use a calculator to determine that you don't even need to know your one rep max. You can know what your 10 rep max is, put it into a calculator, and it will tell you what your estimated one rep max is and what 67% of that is. So you don't need to do any math. It's super simple. But every four weeks after you've built that volume, you're going to drop the rep range and then add some weight. So what this can look like is going from 10s to eights to sixes. So 67%, 72%, 75%. This is super simple. And you're going to build a lot of strength and a lot of muscle just running through this over and over again. And when you get to the end, you just run the same progression again, but just try to beat the books. Now momentum for the advanced lifter is all about executing the system as professionally as possible. Meaning you've now had the experience to know that if you don't do X or you choose to do Y instead of X, you're not going to make progress. So you're just executing the system as flawlessly as possible. I almost always use linear periodization for advanced lifters because it's easy. It gives them exact numbers to hits and it sets clear expectations. It breaks the training into clear phases. It gives them exact numbers to hit exact reps to hit. And overall that alleviates a lot of the mental fatigue that can come into play as an advanced lifter, like coming in and trying to determine what you need to do to do well. The truth of the matter is, is that you also don't have many true weak points, but something that I can definitively say that will help create momentum in your training as an advanced lifter is to keep your strong point strong. Meaning just because you're good at something doesn't mean that you put it on the back burner to the extent to where now it becomes another weak point. And now it's something to where you're behind the curve instead of ahead of the curve. Knowing how to get more out of less with your strong points is a really key aspect of being an advanced lifter and being able to allocate training resources that are now even more limited because you're even stronger. That's really important. So for me specifically, I do less bicep volume than tricep volume because relatively speaking, my curls are stronger than my triceps. Now my triceps are stronger than my, like I move more weight on them, but relatively speaking, my biceps are more developed than my triceps are not by a lot. So I do two sets here instead of three sets there, but the difference is there. And also just understand that YOLO doesn't exist for you. That's how you maintain your momentum. Now here's how you salvage your momentum as an advanced lifter. You're going to want to create better fatigue management methods and protocols. This is where we starting to get into people using more out of less weight variations, self-limiting variations, things of that nature. In general, using those lighter variations to fill in volume is going to leave you fresher for the things that are heavier. So for example, back extensions on a secondary deadlift day, instead of more deadlifts, you can use pause safety bar squats instead of more back squatting because the load is going to be 10, 15% lower. So that might be a plate, plate and a half lower sometimes, depending upon how much weight you're squatting. But generally speaking, I feel that high protein is a must unless you're just in a substantial calorie surplus, meaning you're not just eating 500 above maintenance. You're eating like 2000 above maintenance. So you can get away with only eating 80 grams of protein. You see what I'm saying, dude? You can do so much damage to your joints and your tendons and your ligaments that your muscles can be totally recovered, but those things cannot be. And the high protein helps those things recover better on top of just including good blood flow work in your program, warming up well, things of that nature. Also fix whatever compensations you have with your form. Despite your best efforts, we all have one or two bad habits that we have developed over the course of our training career becoming advanced lifters that if we solved them, that would mitigate fatigue and overall help us maintain and salvage momentum. Like I said, linear periodization is going to be best for most because it gives us exact numbers to work with, takes out all the guesswork compared to just trying to guess what you need to do based upon RPE. So this will work really well for folks that can do that. And I absolutely use this as well, but telling someone to do, you know, what 67% of your one rep max is, dude, I have it already calculated out for you. You're going to do that. And you're going to do these many reps. That's different from saying work up to a set, a top set with, with two reps in reserve. A lot of people don't know what the fuck to do with that. It also paces you out automatically because you have a defined weight. Like I said, that goes up, the weights go down or rather the reps go down. And then you end at something that's relatively heavier and less reps than where you started at. But it also allows you to work hard even with those lighter weights, because I always tend to include higher exertion sets when we're using lighter weights. Meaning if you do three sets, leave a couple in the tank on the first two, but then go as many as you can on the last one. That's good work. And you're just going to get used to lifting a lightweight for a lot of reps, but you're still working hard. You don't even also need to know your one rep max. Like I said, like it's super easy to put in your 12 rep max into a one rep max calculator. And I wouldn't go any higher than that. Just because you go much above that, it's not going to be accurate, especially if you're rest pausing. Gives you an estimated one or on RM and ERM. And then you just use that to calculate your program out. I have a free tool in the description or really it's in all my programs as well. That'll show you how to make a custom linear program. It'll actually just calculate it for you, type in the number, and then it shoots out all the percentages. You know what I'm saying? But my beef slayer program uses this specifically. Here's what to do after you've run a linear periodization once. This is also super simple. Your first run of the program, you hit three by 10 at 315. It's on your first week. On your second run of the program, you aim to improve the three by 10. You can do that with more weight, better form or reps. We covered that. And you just rinse and repeat it. Meaning on week two to week two, you just aim to improve it under those parameters. Week three to week three, you aim to improve it under those parameters. What it'll look like is session to session, you improve, and then run to run of the program, you're adding some reps here. You're adding five pounds there. And over the course of a year, it gives really, really good results for advanced lifters that otherwise, if they just come in and they train like an intermediate lifter, this is where they, bro, I might add a rep to my squat this year, or I might add a rep to this. No, we are adding reps to everything every eight weeks. That's great progress as an advanced lifter. But as I said, this is the simple, easiest, and most repeatable training periodization. Hence the name is linear. So straightforward. Here's how to get the most out of it though. I don't make anybody I work with do any math. Anybody that's ever ran any of my programs ever has not to do, had to do any math. I do it for them. Just use the free tool that's provided. Use the tools that are provided in the programs that I make. Be Slayer. We'll show you how to do it. I have another one coming out called Conquest that does the same thing. It's a weighted calisthenics hybrid program. You're going to focus mostly on applying the appropriate amount of effort that it asks for. So if it says, do two sets, leave a rep in the tank, take the last set to failure. You don't take all three to failure just to do more reps than you did last time. You do what it is asking you to do. If you can't add the reps and you know that in the midst of a set, you're not going to be able to add reps. You just do them better. Or you just do the same amount of reps, but now you're just using more weight. That's still progress. The biggest downfall of those that run this program is making two plus two and making it fish instead of just doing what the linear program is telling them to do and not respecting the momentum. Here's what we're going to do to wrap up before we go into exercise selection and then finish it up. There are a lot of ways to create momentum. Momentum is mostly about making the biggest boom possible, smashing down the biggest wall possible. Focus on preserving it by following the guidelines of your program. And if you lose momentum, you don't keep pushing forward. Like if you, if one of your guys trips while you're running your battering ram and it just stops or it slows down, you don't say, keep moving. No, pull back and then go forward again. And how you salvage that is with the checklist that I've provided. And that goes for beginner, intermediate and advanced lifters. And then you fall back on your checklist outside of the gym as well, as always. Now we're going to get into some practical tidbits on exercise selection, rep ranges in volume. You can start generally, everybody listened to this now with a common sense amount of volume. Meaning if you've done three sets here, three sets there, you're going to grow from that, especially if you're getting stronger. I know there are studies that say you linearly benefit from doing more, but a lot of those studies examine people that disclude other movement patterns from the volume that they're, that they're measuring. So like the, the 52 sets or however many sets of quad volume study, you can't derive from the conclusions of that study that it's optimal to do 52 sets. All that they showed is that if you do more, you're going to get more of a benefit, but you're not going to be able to do 52 sets. If you're doing 10 sets of back here, 10 sets of chest here, you're going to be in the gym for five hours, first and foremost, and you're not going to be able to do all those things at a high level. It's just the truth. You could probably, evidently you can do that many leg sets in one workout, but you're not going to be able to do that. And then everything else that you need to grow. And the truth of the matter is that programs are formulated in a way for you to be able to get the min max, the results from the amount of volume that they're given you. Meaning, yeah, you could benefit from adding 10 more sets, but each one of those sets is going to give half of a percent benefit, which technically means, yes, you are getting more of a benefit, but is it worth it? A lot of the times the answer is no. That's just the practical truth. It's up to interpretation of how far you want to take that logical conclusion, but that's what's been my experience. If you're not progressing with your prescribed volumes, though, your first solution based upon that isn't just to pile on more. And for that, we can just refer back to the prior checklist that we went through in chapters two and three, but you're going to end up doing more generally overall with time. But most do too much too soon because of those studies that say, do 52 sets of legs. So you'll increase linearly. And the people that publish those studies don't even actually tell you to do that. They're just saying what they measured. And then they give prescriptions based upon that. And they'll tell you, yeah, you can't do 52 sets of legs in a workout, dude. All this is saying that is we tested up to 52 sets in a workout and he got more out of it. But that doesn't mean that it's practical for you to do more in the totality of your program is what they say. But add a set when you've checked all of those other boxes, basically. Another thing that we're talking about a lot in the fitness community right now is rep ranges. Everybody's talking about four to eight reps on everything only. Here's the truth of the matter. You're going to end up using everything from one rep to 15 reps, not even just more than likely. You're going to end up doing that. A lot of the folks that say do four to eight reps only or whatever is the hot commodity right now, they didn't build the base of their physique doing that. That's not to say that you can't change and evolve over time, but they didn't even do that. You see what I'm saying? So four to eight reps on everything has some distinct pros and some distinct cons. I just think using a more medium rep range is good and it makes sense in general, but there are some limitations. One, it's going to challenge your cardio less, which can be a good or bad thing depending upon your perspective. It's also easier to gauge the reps in reserve. So the honest truth is that four reps, two reps in reserve, and 15 reps, two reps in reserve is going to grow you probably about the same. But it's harder to gauge 15 reps, two reps in reserve because you're just tired, you're breathing hard and shit like that. It's easier to automate those things with lower or medium reps. And they also build strength better because of that, because they're closer to your theoretical one rep max and more specific. They also come with increased injury risk. And that's probably due to the lack of blood flow to your tendons because you're not doing that many total cumulative reps compared to if you're doing a higher rep range. Eight reps is actually like, fine. Like once you get to like six, seven, eight, yeah, you're getting decent blood flow. But when you're doing four or five, some people even do sets of two and three, you're not getting a whole lot of blood flow with, with each particular set. Now, higher reps, meaning sets of eight or more, they're still going to grow you. They're less fatiguing in an absolute load sense because the intensity is lower. They're going to challenge your cardio, which like I said, depending on your perspective is going to be a good or bad thing, but they also promote blood flow, which is very important for recovery. And not everything is just about building muscle. We need to facilitate recovery as well. And some things just don't make sense to do low reps on. And they're also less stressful on the tendons because of that as well. Lower reps will also build tendon strength, but they're not going to facilitate an environment for them to recover from the stimulus that we're suggesting them to. So it's something that needs to come like peanut butter and jelly. So don't get carried away doing one or the other of those. My programs end up using both and you're not going to lose any gains. If you end up doing a set above eight, not to say it's bad if you do sets of four to eight, but there is a use case for using higher reps to adjunct and vice versa. Here's how I like to deload on the berserk method. You're either going to take time off for your holidays, your birthdays or whatever automatically. So I don't really believe in taking full weeks off from the gym unless you just want to mentally, that's upon you. But instead I like to truncate or shorten my workouts. So that means less sets, less exercises, less training intensity, less reps, so on and so forth. And just taking a set off of everything is going to do wonders in terms of just mitigating fatigue. And that's already pre-programmed in a lot of my programs, by the way. Take any additional deloads as needed. But like I said, just doing those things alone is going to help you lower your fatigue a ton and facilitate those great gym days that we talked about earlier. One of the last things that we're going to cover today is performance metrics and more specifically how to pick them. So performance metrics are going to be key lifts that you use to track your progress, but you're going to want to pick them as is appropriate for your space. Meaning don't decide that it's, you're going to do hack squats. If your hack squat is always in use all day, every day, maybe you pick the Smith machine squat, but the pragmatic approach to this is just to pick the most stable versions of the type of exercise that you want to pick. So if you have a squat pattern motion, you would pick like a hack squat or leg press. Those things also have low learning curves, which is why we do that as well. So it's easier to maintain a standard of form on top of just learning how to do it well. But the berserk method approach is to fit in as much weighted calisthenics as you can, and then just pick between whatever you want after that. But overall, just make sure that they're enjoyable, highly loadable, and that they fit within a larger system. And you pick at least one thing and all of the movement patterns that we covered in the movement mastery chapter. Now, here's how we want to conceptualize performance metrics when it comes to heavy compounds versus lighter exercises. Bench press and barbell curls are equal performance metrics. Meaning if you don't do something like a curl, your biceps are not going to grow. It's just as important relatively to growing the chest as a bench press is. Programming might look different, but the emphasis is going to be the same. So for example, for something like the barbell curl, it should be placed early in the program to facilitate performance. You're going to want to take intro workout as needed to facilitate that performance if you've already done it after something like a barbell bench press, but you're overall doing what you can to facilitate being able to do well at that performance metric. And you're not just not taking it seriously for lack of a better term, because it's a lighter exercise and isn't a heavy compound. The berserk method tier system is how I like to simplify program design. And for that's for any goal, I got this from John Meadows and I've applied it and modified it in a way that really allows me to make programs really easily, not only for myself, but others. It's a four tier system. We're going to start with tier one and then work your way down because that's what helps it work. Synergistically the best, but tier one is basically going to be your heaviest lift or your main lift of the day. You might have one or two of those if they're like antagonists, like opposite of each other. It's like a bench and then a row. Then for your tier two, you're going to find the lift that works a physical quality that you didn't already hit with your tier one. So for instance, a tier two lift to a tier one bench press could be an overhead press or a deep dumbbell bench press at an incline. Your tier three is going to be your tertiary movements that are often just isolating the muscles that you're using in your tier one and your tier two. And then tier four last but not least is your blood flow work. The stuff that promotes recovery, what promotes tendon health, joint health. That is very important. It's not something that you can skip out on. I'm going to give you a couple examples using just general upper body stuff and then a few of my own, and then we're going to wrap it up on this final chapter here. So an upper body pressing example using the berserk method tier system is going to be close grip bench in the tier one. We'll use linear periodization to load that out. Tier two is going to be your incline smith machine press where you step load it. Tier three is going to be preacher curls, french press, chest supported lateral raises, all using a triple progression. And then our blood flow work is going to be band press downs, face pulls, and then like a light dumbbell presses and warm up like we talked about earlier. You'd also would put in some pulling work, but I didn't want to bloat this up by putting that in there, but you would do that usually in the form of a double progression in tier three. An upper body pulling example, if you wanted to say make a strength program or a program based around a bent over barbell row, it's going to start with the bent over barbell row obviously as the tier one. You work the rack chins to work the lower lats a little bit more specifically. Then you're going to do your strict dumbbell curls, which obviously your biceps contribute to pulls. And last but not least, kettlebell swings are really good for warming up the posterior chain and the lower back. And then your light dumbbell curls to get your elbows nice and greased up. And then like I said, you would also do some amount of pressing as well in addition to that. Then last but not least, we have a lower body squat pattern example. Keep it real simple. Barbell squat, split squats, leg isolation, calves, abs. And then the tier four, this is something that people strangely do not do most of the time, which is warm up their lower body and just jump right into it. Stationary bike is one of the best exercises that you can use to warm up your knees specific for squats. If you've ever done like a Spanish squat or just squat it with the bar, you can get in literally hundreds of reps within the span of five minutes doing a stationary bike and get so much blood and synovial fluid pumped through your knees that it's ridiculous. It's really the best thing that you can do to warm up your knees specifically. You can also warm up your hips for squats really well by doing leg raises and then just some weighted hip flexion. And then of course, some form of hip hinging and whatnot would also go into that. But a few specific examples using myself using my latest personal upper body workout that I did as of just a couple of days ago. I did weighted dips as my tier one, seated behind the neck press, and then I did my barbell curls, cable overhead extensions. Cable press downs, I did some dumbbell rows with chest support and then some lat pull downs. And then for the warm up stuff, I did some assisted dips, forearm curls to get my elbows feeling good and wrists as well. And then some light cable press downs and curls to further facilitate elbow warmth. And then my latest lower body workout was pretty simple as well. A deficit Romanian deadlift, some deep dead stop leg press, some deficit leg extensions, hip adduction, deficit hamstring curls, calves, and abs, and then some stationary bike, like I said, to warm up my knees. And then here's my vertical pressing workout. I made plenty training vlogs, but here's an example for you to refer to if you need it. Seated shoulder press is my main performance metric of the day on my tier one, but then I also do weighted pull ups as a tier one on that day as well. Behind the neck press, you know, like I said, it's the most important exercise in a shoulder pressing workout, but categorically it's a tier two movement. And then I do chest to bar weighted pull ups as another tier two movement as well. In addition to that, to top it off, I do some cable rows, rear delt work, some side delt work, some triceps and biceps. And then for the blood flow, I do IYT raises, which are extremely underrated. But here's some closing thoughts on our final chapter. First of all, thank you so much for listening. If you have not liked the video yet, please like the video, please subscribe so that this guide can get pushed out to as many people as possible. A lot of self-coaching is about taking personal accountability. You're going to systemize everything from your approach in the gym, outside of the gym, diet wise, all that is going to be important for making progress. And it's the best and easiest way to go about it. Come back to this guide multiple times over and over again for further input. This is not a watch it once and then leave it alone. This is, I watched it, I went out and did stuff. I'm coming back to it for accountability and to help myself self-coach. Here's a few recommended programs. I usually do this by training goals at the end, but I thought it would be a lot more applicable to most people to just recommend them based upon time allotment that you have. So we'll start with most to least time allotment and then people with physical limitations, like maybe people that have prior injuries or maybe they just can't do certain things. Beast Slayer is going to be the best for people with the most time allotment because it has up to five days in the gym that you can do. You can do a three day version, but it has the option of doing up to five. Decent time allotment is going to go with Golden Warrior and my upcoming program, Conquest, that I'm going to make a video about after this. For low time allotment lifters, Dragon Fist is going to be really good because it does use lower training volumes, but it uses intensity techniques to get more out of that for someone that doesn't have the time to just do 10 sets a week instead of like six or seven, sometimes even a little bit lower than that if you so choose to do so. And then also Raider is really good for that as well because it does use a more moderate training volume. But I just find that when you're a beginner lifter, you're not lifting weights that facilitate you warming up as much to heavier loads, meaning you're spending less time warming up basically. And then lifters with physical limitations. I'm also going to recommend Raider just with some modifications to exercise selection. So if you can't squat due to your knee, you can do something where you're working your quads that doesn't aggravate your knee. That's just the basic idea, but it's also low intensity enough with regards to some of the things that are in the program for you to be able to still train effectively and allow that injury to get better. I always like to top this off with what the perfect lifter is to me and what I think that you should try to aspire to be. Before in the past, that's been just be jacked and be good at everything. That's cool. And that's all valid. And I'm not taking that back. But here's some things mindset wise that I want you to think about. The perfect lifter to me is someone that is always willing to accept that they have more to learn. Someone that's committed to their process, someone that's committed to having fun with their process and what they do. Someone that's willing to deposit those pennies and make that small progress. Someone that's always willing to take on new challenges and accept when something is hard or they've lost at something. Someone that lives a full life. And at the end of the day, like I said, someone that is good at what they do. Here's some final thoughts I want to leave y'all with. Like I said, thank you so much for watching up until now. Please like and subscribe to the video. I hate asking for that, but really it just helps this stuff get out to more people so that they can use the resources that I apply. And I want to thank you again for sticking along with me and allowing me to have the great honor of being able to put this together every year and do something like this for the community. That's really what this is for. And if you have any questions, please refer back to the timestamps and the things that we've talked about and watch this video over and over again. Like I said, it's not something that you watch once and just set it and forget it. You come back to it. You allow it to be your resource to coach yourself.