, stealsl, steals, steals, steals, steals, steals, steals, Fudge form on exercises that most of you fellas at home are probably already doing, which can lead to muscular weaknesses at best and getting zero gains at worst. So instead, I'm going to ask you to try something different alongside me. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm Bald Omni Man, and I'll be your host for today. And for the next year, I'm going to specialize in three slept on exercises that are impossible to fudge, foolproof for gains, and a unique type of fun. If you follow alongside me, this plan is simple and repeatable, improving not only your strength and size, but more importantly, keeping things healthy and fun. So load up the microwave with a nice plate of food, sit back and relax. And I hope you enjoy it. When it comes to getting big old muscles, the most important thing is observing strength progression. And there's a reason why the strict curl is filling the role of hero in my party over other options. In a muscular sense, strength gains are like your attack stat. So it doesn't matter how high your health or defense go. If you want to do more damage, then you got to pump up that strength stat, fellas. Unless you want your attacks to just bounce off the enemy's skin. Training wise, let's put that into perspective using the second most popular beach muscle, the pecs, as an example. At the beginning of the year, doing full depth weighted dips with three plates for five to six was pretty tough. But after a year of training, I can do 180 pounds for the same rep range with equal range of motion and even better rep control. So although my body weight stayed the same, more or less, the watermelons are heavily striated in a way that they weren't before, meaning I gained muscle. But it wouldn't have been that way if the work that I did wasn't high quality. A few years ago, I could also rep out 180 pounds on the dips, but the form was significantly worse, to say the least. So on top of adding a lot of weight to my baseline, I also ensured that every single rep, starting from my 135 pounds onwards to 180 pounds, was good quality by being diligent with my form. Rushing to puff up your numbers in spite of everything else is like leveling up strength only and then not realizing that technique and speed are key as well. That'll also still get your ass kicked. Back to the biceps. Curls can absolutely be performed diligently, but they're a lot like barbell rows in that they take a little bit of extra care to do well and not just power clean your way to doing more reps. So I started thinking to myself, why not remove the ability to fudge the form altogether so that I can focus mostly on pushing hard? So you see, that's why strict curls are my main weapon of choice, because they leave very little room for error. For one, you can't sway at all, and every rep comes to a dead stop at the bottom. And when those reps get tough, you have no choice but to grind through them using only the biceps, which I love. Those are three things that are absolutely amazing for strength gains correlating well to muscle mass. And you get all that automatically just by plopping your tuchus against the wall, so you don't have to really think of any cues at all. But it is true that no weapon is perfect, though. They do miss out on a loaded stretch at the bottom compared to some other variations. And if we're talking just stability, machines basically do the same thing. Here's the thing, though, fellas. Stability and strictness only make up a small piece of the pie. Fun, buy-in, and practicality are all arguably just as important to me. Starting with the practicality. Simply put, they're an accessible way to train a movement that has that small margin of error that I'm looking for. Let me ask you a question. What use is a sword that's slightly stronger than what you have already if you have to go out of your way to use it? I can do strict curls anywhere, and as long as there's an easy curl bar and some plates and a wall to plop up against, I'll always have access to that type of exercise that I'm looking for. Additionally, I can also load them up heavy enough to train in a strength training program, which we'll cover the specifics on later, meaning they also have a huge ceiling for progress and loading over time. More important than practicality, I also said that there was going to be a fun side of things. Quite frankly, I love a good old-fashioned standing barbell curl, and I love it so much that I made a video saying it was half of one of the best exercise combos that you could possibly do. But it's also a fact that that pesky lower body and back can contribute a decent amount to each rep as well, which means less work done by the biceps if you don't follow some of the cues that I covered in that video. So instead of abandoning something you love, just make it work. Which lastly brings me to the most important aspect, buy-in. Because I'm so bought into blasting big bulbous bicep curls, I don't want to ever not have these puppies in my program. I always ask myself this question, as with anything, if I had to do it for the rest of my life, could I get fired up about getting better at this? And the answer is yes. They look and feel epic to me. And doing things in any hobby that feel epic, purely for the love of the game, is very important. You see, training is a lot like tending to a garden at the end of the day. If you water it gingerly, you'll watch it grow. And part of growth is evolution. It's like watching a skill tree on an RPG. You start with one skill, and you end up with something really freaking cool by the end of it. And much the same, it started with me doing regular barbell curls, which led to me doing easy bar curls, which then led me to doing them trick style. And bada bing, bada boom, here we are. We got our bicep blaster, baby. To wrap it all up before we move into the strength training practical application, there's a reason why I spend so much extra time just talking about things that I love, because there's something that I want to stick for you today. Buy-in, consistency, and continual fun. If you max out in those three stats, you'll end up with something extraordinary. And that, my friends, is very important. But that does bring us to the end of the preparation for our journey and our initial trek into the next part of our quest. We've approached the dungeon. The strength training that we need to do to get bigger biceps. I'll see you there. A well-designed map like the one you see in Metroid or Castlevania is like a massive, sprawling puzzle. One that you can solve pretty much however you like. Strength progression is the same way. And in that regard, most fellas learn your basic double progressions and then just stop there. There's nothing wrong with that, but personally, I prefer to take the stereotypical bodybuilder lifts, like the Strict Girl, and treat the progression like a squat, bench, or deadlift. Double progressions work fine for most lifts, but for those exercises where the weights can get pretty objectively high, relative to that muscle group anyway, I've always observed plateaus. For example, if I was to just run a normal double progression for my bench press, the intensity would get way too high, and then my rep ranges would also get stale as well. And while it is true that you can't reasonably expect to add weight in reps every session, I also think that it's not the best way to go if you're repeating the same weight and same reps and same volume for two or three months at a time. Sometimes you even backslide a little bit. That's why I really love stereotypical strength training periodization, because no matter what you do on a strength training program, at some point in order to make progress, you have to go up and down in weight, hit a variety of rep ranges, and attack movements at multiple angles. When we're doing that for a heavy curl, or a barbell row, or some heavy tricep extensions, I call it performance-based bodybuilding, and it's simply the most consistent and effective way to get stronger overall for me. And how that system breaks down is super simple, fellas. One, you have your main movement, then you have a variation of that main movement, and then finally, an accessory to hit your weak points. In terms of the main movement, in this case, the strict curl, progression is so simple, a caveman could do it. And I know that because yours truly can. I program everything off of training max, which in this case is 160 pounds as of recording this video. And each week, I'm lifting some portion of that weight for a bunch of reps, jumping up to a different rep range, and slightly heavier weight each week. You linearly hit the weights in rep ranges, so it's referred to as a linear program. See, I told you, it's super simple. The advantages to programming your main lift with this, as opposed to a double progression, are almost innumerable, but there's a few big ones. First and foremost, you never get stale doing this because the weight and rep ranges are always changing. You're also building a lot of work capacity because those starting weeks have you doing a good amount of volume. You also drive a lot of blood into your muscles in those intro weeks as well, since the reps are higher, which is great for recovering your joints and tendons. On the flip side, by the end of a linear program, you also hit those medium and lower reps, which are distinctly good at strengthening your tendons and joints. Don't argue over what set and rep range to use. Just use them all. They all have their benefits. But lastly, each session is also its own unique mini game because you get around six to eight different rep and volume PRs that you can individually progress as their own goals. And fellas, I've never had more fun with my training as a result of that. And I flat out just get worse results when I don't do it. For example, I'm not going to lie. I went oonga boonga with most of my pressing and it's feeling a little crunchy. I'm not going to lie. Whereas my shoulder pressing is progressing pretty well still since I'm still following my linear periodized setup. So if you're interested, I have a free tool in the description that lays out the exact progression at length with a built-in calculator for you to use as well. Check that out after you watch this video. But with that, friends, our ride to chapter two has just arrived. I've prepared us first class tickets aboard the gains train. So enjoy your ride and let's meet up at the station for chapter two. I'll see you there. How'd you find your seat, fellas? I hope you're enjoying the ride. For a quick little update before chapter two, I'm still in the process of remastering all my old free programs, including Beast Slayer. So keep your eyes peeled. And if you're interested in coaching, my Omni Hypertrophy app did just undergo a cool new update that includes a new rest timer and easier ways to edit your split. So check that out in the description alongside a free demo if you're interested. Thanks again, fellas. And I'll see you at the station for chapter two. Sometimes, even if you absolutely love playing with your favorite character, you still need a little variation to keep having fun and also to stop the game from getting stale. Exercise selection is the same way and strict curls are only one tool in the toolbox that I'll need. So ladies, gentlemen, let's cover how I pick the variations that I'm going to use, but more importantly, why so that you can pick yours as well if your tastes happen to be different from mine. I have three upper body days, so including strict curls that I'll do one to two times per week, I'll be doing one of these on each day, starting off with the variation of the strict curl that I'll be doing as my main assistance exercise. Every Goku needs their Vegeta, and my first weapon of choice will be strict hammer curls, which, like I said, are a close variation of the strict curl. The standard hammer curl is classic and time-tested, emphasizing the brachialis or that middle portion of your arm a little bit more alongside your forearms. I'm going to be doing them strict instead for a simple reason. In a strength training program, it's a good idea to have a close variation of the main lift to drive extra volume into. Think about what a close grip bench press is for a regular bench press. You want to practice your skill as often as you can do so productively, and training close variations are a fantastic way to do that without overstressing your tendons and your joints through repetitive motion in an identical movement pattern. Lastly, you also get to train additional physical qualities that you don't get in the main lift, and strengthening your weakest links just makes you better overall. Aside from that, hammer curls are probably one of the top five easiest exercises to fudge, and I ain't got time for that. That aside, I'm spotty in terms of how I include hammer grip curls in my program, so this would be an awesome way to be consistent with it for a change. But now that we have the weapon in our hands, how do we use the dang thing? I want to keep things simple. So I'm just going to follow a normal double progression while I milk the neurological gains from it being a relatively new movement. Since, like I said, I ain't had it in my program consistently for a while. And that's where double progressions shine in my opinion, one of the ways anyway. So they're really good for those low and medium tier movements where you can't really load them that heavily, but they're also good for exercises where you're just trying to get to a baseline. Say you haven't trained for a while, or it's a movement that you haven't really done before. The way double progressions are set up, you get to your baseline performance pretty quickly. Once I'm there, I'm going to progress them similarly to my strict curls. Now, form wise, you're literally just bending your arm. Since you got the wall behind you, you can't do a standing dumbbell row to get the weight up. But the only thing that I'm going to be cognizant of is to avoid shrugging my shoulders up to get the weight started. But other than that, it's pretty simple. Something that I am doing for funsies that maybe you fellas at home can try as well. I'm just ripping partial reps after my full range of motion reps on my last set until I literally can't move my elbow anymore. I don't know if there's anything particularly special or beneficial about doing it that way, but it's fun. It's going to keep me fired up to do these bad boys week after week. Someone who works hard at the end of the day can never beat someone who enjoys themselves, which brings us nicely from execution to motivation. For one more bonus, I'm actually much weaker at hammer curling than I am at curling with my palms up, which quite frankly is diabolical because both of the muscles involved in those respective exercises are supposed to be roughly the same size. Now, I am training it obviously with the strict hammer curls, but our next movement is going to nip that in the bud completely. Enter the reverse preacher curl. When you really love doing something or you really love someone, finding an aspect of that that you really suck at can be an amazing and exciting experience because it's an area of opportunity to do a lot better. Reverse preacher curls in that regard are one of my new favorite exercises because I'm absolutely horrible at them. I have never curled and visibly struggled in front of people with so little weight in my entire life. Oh my goodness. But as I mentioned, I have a pretty bad strength imbalance between my brachialis and my biceps, which is shocking because honestly, my brachialis bulges out pretty noticeably. Relative to my training level, I've always enjoyed a pretty fast rate of progress because I'm always looking for that lowest hanging fruit. If I find what I'm the worst at and I get better at that thing, that's going to give me a better rate of progress than getting better at something that I'm already good at. I'm curious, fellas. What's your ratio between regular preacher curls and reverse preacher curls? I can't be the only one that sucks at these, man. If you're not great at these, let's all collectively pledge to increase our strength on it by 30% in the next three or four months. Form wise, I'm going to allow for some pauses at the top to re-grip the bar, but other than that, I'm just bending the elbows, baby. The theme up until now has been assistance exercise and then accessories, but there's always that one party member that doesn't usually get to fight, but is always there just in case. Lastly, before we wrap up and move into chapter three, there's one more main curling variation that I'll use if I feel like I need it. Put your hands together for the piccolo of all curling exercises, cable curls. Despite them being a standing curl variation that doesn't have back support, I actually feel pretty stable when doing them and it's easy not to fudge my reps. I don't think they'll be super necessary with all the strict curl volume that I'll be doing, but if I feel like I need more, I'll get them from this movement because I like it. The lesson here is that sometimes beyond just having an option B, you want to add in more volume in a particular movement pattern, but you also want to avoid redundancy. And a great way to do that, in my experience, is just to pick something with a different feel. This don't just apply for curling the arms, baby. You also got some biceps on your legs. You want to work the hamstrings more, but avoid doing it just the same way every time? Do seated curls one day, prone curls the necks. Or if you wanted them in the same workout, you could do a few sets of prone curls at the beginning and then a few sets of seated curls near the end. That goes categorically for every muscle, and if you're interested, I'll make some content about it. But with that being said, our first class flight for chapter three has arrived, where among other things, we'll cover something absolutely legendary. I'll see you there. Have you ever spent two hours making the perfect player character to just turn the game off afterwards? I've done that a lot on Skyrim, I'm not gonna lie. And if I had to put my finger on it, I think it's because the process of making your own unique player character is uniquely fascinating. You mix and match the parts that you want to craft the perfect gameplay experience. Customizing your training is pretty much the same thing. And training-wise, some of y'all watching may want to try out one or two of these movements that we talked about today. But not do all of them all in the same way that I am, which is awesome and what most of y'all should be doing. Don't get me wrong, I definitely want you to try them out, but I think understanding the principle is just as important as understanding the method. Let's finish off strong by quickly talking about how to easily incorporate each of the four movements that we covered today into your existing program. Starting off with strict curls, because those are easy. You can simply just replace whatever palms-up curl you're currently doing, including the exact rep range that you're currently doing it in. That's just the one-to-one substitution, which is easy enough. But if you're someone that doesn't want to replace anything, but instead wants some extra work to do on top, here's what I like to do. Take away one set of whatever curl you're currently doing, and then add two sets of strict hammer curls or preacher reverse curls. That's going to lead to a net increase in volume, but it's more diverse as well. And you may even notice that your first curl feels stronger and fresher because you're doing one less set of it so you can lock into it better. Over time, you can add a set back to that exercise where you removed it or add a set to the new curls that you added in. Whichever sounds more fun to you or is more appropriate for your program. The idea here overall is to balance working harder with just adding junk volume, and this is a dummy-proof way to do that. As for selecting entirely different movements, here's what I would do. Like you saw in chapter two, the structure of my bicep program breaks down really simply. You got a main movement, a variation of that main movement, and then lastly, an accessory. For our main movement, we want to keep up with the theme of picking one that's hard to fudge. And there's one that I haven't talked about that fits the bill just as well as strict curls does. And that would be the Meadows curl. I got them from an old John Meadows bicep training video where he talked about his seven favorite curls. And they're basically like if an incline curl and a strict curl did the fusion dance. You get the aesthetics and the automatic strictness of the strict curl, and then the tension at the bottom of each rep just like an incline curl. They're that freaking good. And in terms of the setup, just like the strict curl, it's super simple. You just find something that you can sit on that also supports the back of your arms, and then you curl your arms, baby. You can amplify the tension at the bottom and make the top easier by leaning further in your seat. But that's not super important, honestly, beyond just sitting in a way that's comfortable. More than just trying to find the best angle for a huge stretch, you want to treat them mostly like an extended range of motion strict curl because that's essentially what it is. Meadows curls are legendary, so I gotta give them their flowers. And I've done them as my main curl in the past for a reason. Not only are they optimal, they're fun, accessible, and you also tap into a piece of bodybuilding history every time you do them. I can't recommend them enough. In terms of why I'm not doing them, personally right now, I just think getting a bodyweight strict curl would be a lot more fulfilling goal, and honestly, they just look really cool. But if you're gonna pick a curl that wasn't a strict curl as your main exercise, this is the one. Following the logic of the template that I laid out, your variation could be a meadows hammer curl or maybe a meadows curl with a pause in the middle. Whatever helps you reasonably differentiate from that main lift a little bit while still being pretty similar and also letting you work on some cool new physical qualities. And finally, your accessories can be whatever you feel attacks your weakest points. You know that better than I do, but whenever you pick your accessory, just make sure that it's not the same as the first two movements that you picked. That's all you gotta do. And after that, the sky's the limit. Just make sure you do what sounds the most fun to you. Everything that we talked about in chapter three are just examples for you to try that I think are really cool. To wrap it all up, when I buy action figures, sometimes I don't want to use it as is, but I'll combine pieces from different figures to make something that I love. Fellas, that's all she wrote. Thank you so much for watching. If you liked the video, I'd appreciate it if you liked it, and then leave me a comment down below. And if you learned anything new, share it with a friend. If you're interested in supporting the channel further or you want coaching, make sure you check out my Omni Hypertrophy app in the description or the pinned comment alongside the free demo to see if it's a good fit for you. You have a great day, fellas. Bye-bye.