 One of the One of my favorite parts of training is sharing something fun I tried, not to be optimal, but for a profound sense of adventure and joy that I want to share. Most people will say that there's really nothing new to try. We haven't learned anything new since the 60s. But in reality, training is a lot like playing an old RPG. You can find some crazy things in that seemingly beaten path if you play for long enough. Now when it comes to beating up monsters or gripping and ripping weight, we learn the ropes the best when those things are laid out in simple, fun, easy to implement steps. To my new, returning and regular viewers. To my new, returning and regular viewers, I'm Bald Omni-Man and I'll be your host for today. I have five really cool and simple things that most of the folks at home watching will get jacked and stacked from that also think outside the box. They take the essentials that we're all already doing and make the process more realistic, efficient and fun. We'll fit in a ton of variety and add some new items to your training inventory. So grab something nice to drink or a snack and I hope you enjoy. When we enter the Iron Paradise known as the gym, we oftentimes like trying out new ways of lifting heavy circles. So let's break the ice by shattering the chains on your creativity with something super fun to try if you've been running your favorite program for a while. There's a cool way to attack more of your goals in your training and still make great progress, which a lot of us are worried about when we tinker with things. I've been using something called A-B workouts in some form or fashion for years now, and I've intentionally made it a point to include them more regularly recently. You see, personally, when I play a game, for example, I like to experiment with different builds and I love side quests. Those are the glue that holds an adventure together for me personally. But as with anything, there's a fun way and a not so fun way to go about doing that when you're training. You wouldn't be shocked to hear that the bad way to go about doing this is super common. People program hop, meaning they do completely different workouts every time they go to the gym. Here's what it is in show business. Because the honest truth is we do need variety and novelty. A-B workouts are a way to incentivize the fun that we all want to have and make it easy to follow. A-B workouts have you swap in between two similar workouts weekly, and they're a much better alternative for the majority of folks that enjoy variety because, unlike program hopping, the structure and progression models between your A and B workouts is pretty much the same, and so are most of the exercises, with the catch being that there's one or few exercises that rotate. Usually, this is where we select for movements that hit distinct goals, and that's where we start adding to our training inventory. For example, in a lower body workout where you might do stiff legs, leg press, and some lower body accessories, you may do some different lower body accessories between your A and B days, and then keep the stiffs and leg press the same. Now, here's the thing. You don't actually need to do anything to your program that often to make progress. You can switch some exercises around every eight weeks or so, and you can just call it a day there. But, my friends, we are not robots, and mostly everyone switches something up more often than eight weeks in their program. I, myself, do not repeat the same exact workout every time. So, for example, I'm a big believer in single leg exercises. I think they're pretty cool when they make you distinctly strong and stout, but I'm not always trying to do a single leg exercise after my normal ones. So, on one of my lower body days, I just swap between normal leg press and single leg press weekly. I also regularly switch up the type of overhead tricep work that I do, and even recently, I'm experimenting with switching between good mornings and bar and hand hinges, like RDLs and back extensions. As with everything, most people value simplicity when it comes to their exercise, and my favorite part of A-B workouts is how simple they are to follow. Time and time again, people talk about the 80-20 rule, and by that, you know that 80% of this is just your regular old workout. The 20% is what we're swapping, and there's just three things that we need to keep in mind. First and foremost, whatever you swap to on workout B, just make sure it also hits the same muscles as workout A. We're only aiming to hit them in a different way or get stronger at an exercise that we're interested in doing, that we can't just include in addition without overstuffing our training day. Next, and most importantly honestly, you still need to be diligent with progression on each of those exercises as well. And lastly, the A-B method works best for movements that aren't the main performance metrics that we need to keep in to develop over a long period of time as skills. For example, I'm trying to get a three-plate seated overhead press, so I wouldn't be switching around the seated overhead press weekly. It's just not going to work well. I more along the lines would just change the type of lateral raises or delt isolation that I would do, and then some tricep stuff. That means taking a look at your isolations, your machine exercises, and your second-tier movements first. But overall, A-B training is accessible to everyone from every training background, so give it a try and let me know what you think. Now I don't know about you, but that sounds like a job well done on our first stop, and I'm getting hungry, so let's head on over to our second stop on the quest to getting large muscles. I'll see you there. Imagine embarking on a journey, and you don't stock up on supplies or hit the tavern before you go. You get your ass handed to you, at best. With that being said, we broke the ice by sharing something cool to do with your overall program, so let's now talk about something to do outside the gym that sets us up for success, and how to make that seamless every time. And what better way to kick off a bro talk about getting ready for the gym than to talk about the pre-workout meal? Known as the breakfast of champions by some, we all know that the pre-workout meal is one of the biggest things that you can have before the gym to train like a rock star. Now, we all know that eating something before going to the gym is probably a good idea. I'm not here to state the obvious, but through years of making content, coaching, and honestly just talking to people casually about it, a lot of folks just eat whatever and call it a day. So here's what a good pre-workout meal actually does. One, it swells up your muscles. Two, it hydrates you, or in other words, helps you to retain water. And last but not least, take up a small amount of space in your belly, unless you want to puke when you work out. In other words, we need to eat good stuff that pumps us up, and you get that through a combination of carbs and electrolytes. My go-to is to take the Costco taco seasoning and add that to my cup of rice for my first meal, along with a little bit of egg or tofu. And then for potassium, I wet my whistle with a little bit of coconut water or a body armor. Then lastly, I throw in a little bit of dried fruit for some extra carbs. Dried mangoes are my favorite these days because they're toothsome, and I still feel like I'm eating a big meal when I have them because they take forever to eat. This is a variation of the Stan Efferding Quick Breakfast that I love because it checks all those boxes that we talked about. Now, that's a pretty easy tip that you can sub in any food of your choice with, but now I realize that I have to make a case for why the pump and why fullness is important. There's a misconception that these things are purely aesthetic. You might have heard someone say that the pump doesn't matter, but I'm here to make the case that it does. Here's the thing. All that a pump signifies is that you have good hydration and blood flow, but it does a lot more for you physically than just that. Now, of course, a cool part of your muscles being full and eventually pumping up is that it makes you look big as hell. But a cooler thing is that that extra blood flow helps you recover better in the long term because it flushes blood into your joints and tendons, which don't usually get great blood flow unlike your muscles. Now, the coolest thing is that because your muscles are pumped up and physically larger, you also protect your joints during heavy lifting as well. This phenomenon, ladies and gentlemen, is something that I call the crash pad effect. For example, doing bench press, dips, or any press when your biceps and forearms are swollen and they smush together, that physically cushions and protects your tendons and joints. That cushion with your biceps and forearms also makes your reps springier out of the bottom for the same reason. You ever hear someone say that you're stronger when you're bulked up? That's because you generally pump up easier when you're bulked and you also have that extra layer of fat that adds to that crash pad too. So overall, while chasing the pump arbitrarily is probably stupid, ensuring that you're setting yourself up to get what at some point during a session is some genuinely galaxy brain level chess play. But moving out of the kitchen and onto the program drawing board, I want to share something that I absolutely love with you next. We're about halfway done, so let's save our progress and I'll see you there. For the midpoint stop in our journey, let's now turn to something very near and dear to my heart. Upper lower training and calisthenics exercises. Both of which are cornerstones in my training system, the berserk method, which you can check out after you watch this video if you're interested. Lately though, I am a huge fan of higher frequency upper body training. I try not to blanketly recommend things for general use unless I feel very strongly about it. But after using higher frequency upper body training for about a year with myself and folks that I coach from a multitude of experience levels, I genuinely think it's a good idea for most people. Aside from older folks or people that otherwise don't have great joint intended integrity. Now the main point and benefit of higher frequency upper body training is to spread a normal amount of volume out over more days so that you can focus more on performance across a multitude of movements. It's not necessarily only a way to do more volume because to be honest, some people do the same amount of volume just over more days like I said. Folks seem to argue about what's better between high or low volume, but to me, I place much higher of a priority on how much productive training we can do. Not how much total volume we can. Productive meaning the more that you can train a muscle at a high capacity and recover from it, the more you can grow, baby. And my thought process is pretty simple. Doing dumbbell press as the first exercise on its own day with 120 pounds for 3x10 is better than including it after barbell bench and then only using 90s or the 100s for 3x10. Now, of course, I think doing extra exercises after your main one on the same day is obviously effective. I just wanted to spread that out a bit differently and then see what happens. The end result being for everybody that I tried this with that we ended up stronger at a variety of things and overall have more muscle at the same body weight. For me personally, I train five days a week with three of those days being upper body training. Not everybody can make it to the gym that many days per week, though, which is where the calisthenics come into play. You can do pull-ups, dips, push-ups, and some arm exercises almost anywhere. And it doesn't take a lot of creativity to add load to these exercises at home either. If I couldn't make it to the gym for my third upper body day, I'd just do some weighted ring push-ups, pull-ups, some ring curls, and some tricep extensions. Then I'd throw some books in a backpack and do some lateral raises and call it a day. And if you superset these bad boys, ladies and gentlemen, that only takes like 30 minutes to do. It takes some people that long just to commute to the gym. But for folks that can make it to the gym that many times, this is where you can design an upper body day based around a distinct press and pull that's unique from your other days, which is what I do personally. The only considerations that I suggest are that you want to make sure that you're already doing a good job on your normal upper-lower four times a week split. And that anything that you do on your third day is something that you can recover from and isn't redundant from what you already did in that week already. So if you want an example, check out some of my training in my Road to Three Plate Overhead Press Series if you're interested. Now, we've talked a lot about the show muscles in this segment. Let's move on to their alter ego. Their bigger, beefier, broader brother. I'll see you there. So as you likely know, the bread and butter of what I enjoy to train the most will always be back, baby. There's something magical about gripping and ripping weights that most of us love, actually, I think. Now, I'm going to cut the cheese and cut to the chase. We all train vertical and horizontal pulls in our training. But I want to share a tip that will help make your back more well-rounded. And this addresses something pretty common to most people. A lot of folks notice a big difference in their pulling exercises in terms of performance. Now, I think this boils down to people doing what they're better at naturally and then just allowing those differences in performance to permeate throughout their training career. However, it's very possible to build all your back exercises to a very similar performance in terms of total load. Whether we're talking chin-up grip pulldown, neutral grip pull-ups, rows, whatever. I want you to try hitting a lot of pulls at a very high priority. That means a variety, not just ensuring that you're hitting a vertical and horizontal pull. Now, there's something to be said about doing one thing as often as you can to get better at it because you're treating it like a skill. But honestly, pulls don't need to be treated that way, in my opinion. Where spamming bench over and over with high frequency gets you skilled. I actually just think instead of two days of doing chins, you get stronger faster if you do a different pull on that second day instead. That can look like doing chin-ups one day and then neutral grip pull-ups on the other day. Because pulling strength more than any other movement benefits from muscle. Because while there is a skill component, it is pretty low-tech compared to most other exercises. And a great way to just generally build muscle is to hit it from different angles in a lot of different ways. This is a paradigm shift for most people and what that ends up teaching you is to pick back exercises based on how they hit the muscle rather than what's hard or easy. What I like to do is to just pick a different combo of vertical and horizontal pulls to push on each training day. So I end up pushing six different pulls in my program. For example, the other day I did chin-up grip lat pull-downs and then after that I did chest-supported rows with my Omnibar. My other two upper body sessions have their own combos that follow that same line of logic. The name of the game in chapter four is Variety and that happens to be Back's favorite food. So feed that puppy well with their strategy and let me know what you think. Let's save up and then head to the final dungeon. I'll see you there. Fellas, we're plunging the Master Sword through Ganondorf's Coconut with this one. Last but certainly not least, let's cap off today's quest for myostat and deficiency with something cool in the spirit of pacing out our training a little bit better. Top sets and back offsets are time-tested, legendary, and passed down for generations and they're spectacular for most people. This refers to doing a heavy top set first, then stripping back some weight to do a lighter, higher rep back offset to a good level of effort. And we do this to pace ourselves out physically but also mentally. There's something nice about hitting a heavy top set at a high intensity and then stripping back some weight. It's like two separate goals and top sets and back offsets are fantastic for movements where you don't want to or you can't do multiple sets at a given weight without gassing out. There's a way to take that even further beyond, which like most things in this video, includes some extra variety and weak point training into the mix. So for the back offs, I like to sometimes switch my exercises to something higher stimulus and lower fatigue. For example, instead of doing three sets of RDLs, I'll do one good set and then I'll do some back extensions to fill in the extra volume. Something folks will try instead of this is to just do one set of that thing. So like they'll do one set of RDLs. And if you're at that point, before you just do less volume, just go ahead and do your one good top set and then fill in the rest with an exercise that works similar muscles but doesn't gas you out as much. And let me know what you think. Something you can also consider on top of this is to select a movement to also attack weak points that aren't addressed in your top set exercise. So for a conventional deadlifter, they might fill in volume with a couple sets of stiff leg deads because it's super common for folks who do a lot of conventional to have weaker hamstrings, relatively speaking. And stiff legs pump those up specifically. All in all, try this out if you're a pretty strong lifter that isn't necessarily a power lifter but you want to streamline your workout a bit and add some extra exercises. But that's all she wrote, fellas. Thank you so much for watching and I hope you enjoyed too. If you did, leave me a like and tell me what you think with a comment and subscribe for more. If you're interested in supporting the channel, I made a sick multipurpose barbell called the Omnibar that I used throughout the video. Bells of Steel helped me a lot with making it and I'd love if you grabbed one for the new year. Anyway, have a great day, fellas. Bye-bye.