 That intro was to simulate how fired up I am that I hit a freakin PR, and I wanted you to feel exactly how I'm feeling I had to hit a PR, or the wife was going to divorce me she told me if you don't hit this freakin PR, it's It's over. So you know me. I had to make it look nonchalant. I had to make it look easy. All jokes aside, fellas, I got some practical advice for you, okay? First and foremost, with regards to what you're watching now, pause your overhead presses at the bottom, okay? That can be the number one thing that differentiates you between hitting a PR and not hitting a PR because the thing with overhead presses is that rep strength tends to not correlate well to higher intensity strength, meaning if you can do 10 reps with 70%, that may not correlate how you would think to a one rep max if you were to have paused it, more so than a bench press. That alone will help you if you've hit a plateau in your shoulder press training. Pause your shoulder presses at the bottom for a solid one count, if not for a little bit longer in your head. So count starting from zero. So if you're doing a one count, go zero, one. Another piece of advice that I could give you is to hold tension at the bottom. I've talked a little bit about this in prior training vlogs, but one thing that I want to do to expand upon that is, is that I find that a lot of people, especially when they're doing higher rep sets, what a lot of folks will do is what I like to call a dip and go or a smash and dash. And what that refers to is this. When you unrack overhead press, your bar is going to be at about the bottom of your chin at rest. And a really cool technique that you can do is instead of pressing from your chin, pretty much from where the bar is at rest, you can dip the bar down to your collarbone and then use that momentum to explode back up to lift more weight or hit more reps. What that does is create a stretch reflex. And that's a gigabrain way of saying, look, we're going to create some momentum so that we can move the weight without using our muscular strength. And that's really good for getting your reps up, like I said. But when it comes to training your true strength, that weakness will start to expose itself as the weights get heavier and heavier. And what it does, unfortunately, is it creates a false sense of confidence. So you're looking at your training, you're saying, hey, I can do 200 pounds for 10 reps. I'm going to be able to do 250 pounds for three reps. Easy peasy. And your expectations aren't met because your foundation wasn't laid effectively. I was feeling pretty juiced today because that threat of imminent divorce made me like, man, I have to just boost my strength by 20% from sheer willpower alone. I just have to make some gains appear out of nowhere. So I did, instead of the 140 that Sam had programmed for me, I did 155. I said, hey, look, man, I did 140 and it just felt a little easy. I'm going to move up. And I still got about a set of 10, I think that was. And then a set of eight afterwards. I also superset the behind the neck press with some behind the neck pull-ups. Usually this would be behind the neck pull-downs, but there was a rotation of like five different dudes using the lat pull-down. And where usually I would just be like, hey, bro, you mind if I work in? Instead, what I have here is just this rotation of five sweaty dudes that are just freaking going to war on that pull-down for some reason, just leaving all kinds of sweat stains on the seat. I don't know if I'm going to get swamp ass if I sit down in this chair. I don't know if this will create some sort of mutant virus that will infect everybody, bro. And on top of that, like five different dudes, I'm not going to be able to work into this rotation and not be waiting like six minutes between sets. So the alternative was to do some behind the neck pull-ups. It's not a big deal. I'll go back to doing the behind the neck pull-downs next week, hopefully. One other change that I made to this day in the middle of the training cycle was instead of doing all shoulders and then all back and then all triceps and then hitting some dips at the end, which is what Sam laid out for me originally, I started staggering my exercise order so that I would be doing press, pull, press, pull, and I would superset my second press and my second pull. There's a couple of reasons for that. First and foremost, I just find from a shoulder health perspective, it felt fine to just do all shoulders and then all back because I'm doing all the same work anyway. You're getting that benefit of, hey, do X amount of pulling for X amount of pressing. But what I found is that that benefit is significantly magnified if you stagger the exercises instead. And then from a performance perspective, I'm getting rest on my pressing muscles while I'm doing my pulls and I'm getting rest with my pulls while I'm doing my presses. And all things being equal, that rest is going to create an environment for more performance. And more performance means, again, all things being equal, more strength, more size development. This was a more significant consideration to make with my shoulders just because they are relatively behind the curve. So like my front and my side delts. But when it comes to my back, it's relatively ahead of the curve, which I wanted to keep that way. I think that if you have a relatively ahead of the curve back compared to your pressing muscles, it's going to create a better environment for shoulder health. And all things being equal, it's going to leave you a stronger lifter. What I'm really fired up about is that I was able to increase my shoulder press without putting on any body fat, which is what I set out to do from the beginning because how my physique looks is important to me. You want to look good. That's half the reason why any of us are even lifting weights in the first place. A goal that I have for myself this year on top of like my strength goals is to just see how much muscle and strength I can put on on my key performance metrics to like my main lifts while staying at a lean body fat percentage. Because I'll tell you what, one of my genetic advantages is that I'm able to build muscle at a relatively leaner body fat percentage than most people can at my level of training advancement. Finishing up the best rear delt exercise known to man, the reverse pec deck. We're going to roll right into triceps. I did a form and weight reset on my overhead extensions using my Omni bar just because I felt like I wasn't getting as much out of the movement as I did at first when I first started doing them. I first noticed this when I was watching an old animal pack video where Dan Green was working out. It was ironically a shoulders and triceps workout and he moved into his French presses and we were using the same weight. And I'm like, bro, I know I'm getting stronger and I know like I'm, I'm good at what I do, but I'm not as good at lifting weights as fucking Dan Green. So what the fuck is going on here? So I'm like, let's do a form reset. Let's look at what we're doing. How can we get more out of the movement with our triceps and not have to load as much weight? Because one thing that Dan Green is really good at besides being fucking strong at everything that he does is he's good at getting a good workout out of every exercise that he has in his program. So I just pulled my elbows in a little bit more, paused at the bottom with more tension and stopped trampolining out of the bottom as much. Kind of like hair loss, bro. You don't notice it until you're too far gone. I'm gonna leave y'all with one last power play that I used to avoid the divorce. My wife just got home, so I know she can hear me. I'm the boss, right? Okay. Ain't no divorce happening. I hit the 60 pounds. Don't make me sleep on the fucking couch, lady, please. I hit 60 pounds for 12 reps on the alternating dumbbell curls. Those that have been following along with my training vlogs for a while know that I've been suffering from some bicep tendonitis, and it's about 99% better. How I overcame that was with humbleness. I just accepted where I was currently at certain things I couldn't do anymore. And if I continue to do those things, that tweak was going to turn into a snap, and I ain't trying to snap my shit up. So I did things that I could do to work my biceps with zero pain or like one out of 10 discomfort. Like, oh, I feel the affliction that I have, but it doesn't hurt. I also did a lot of ramping sets, meaning I start with really lightweight, do 10 reps, bump up a little weight, do 10 reps, created a lot of blood flow, and more importantly, found a good groove that felt pain free. All that being said, I'm still a little bit trepidatious, so I'm just not going to go with reckless abandon. So that's why, although I find the forearm work to be boring, I'm not fired up about doing that. I'm doing it heavy and hard and often because I did that in the journey to getting better, and I'm not going to stop doing it just because I feel okay now. Bro, and while the work to get bigger forearms is boring, the side quest in of itself is pretty fucking cool. But that's all she wrote, fellas. Have y'all hit any PRs recently? I hope so. What are the PRs y'all hit recently? Let me know with a comment down below. And if you want to support the channel, check out the Omnibar. Y'all saw me use it for the extensions, but you can also use it for bench press, rows. You can use it as a cable attachment for cable rows, lat pulldowns. You can use it for hammer curls. So you'll be able to get a lot of good use out of it. And I'm very happy and fortunate to be able to say that the last time that I talked about the Omnibar, there was 19 left available for the presale. And now there's only seven, which is incredible. Thank you for the support, guys. If you're interested in getting one to donate to your commercial gym or using your home gym, go ahead and check that out in the pinned comment or in the description. Thanks for the support again. I'll see you later.