 ordoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutoutout It's a coaching resource. And overall, I'm going to be delivering some old school practical advice, but we're putting it in the fun tier list format because who doesn't love tier lists? Everybody loves tier lists. If you don't love them, that's cool, but it don't make you cool if you don't like them. All jokes aside, let's start with the tier list explanations, okay? It's very self-evident, but we'll give a quick explanation. S is going to be the worst. D is going to be, like, not relevant, obviously. The most interesting one, in my opinion, would be B, where they're mild and they add up over time. And then the gut check ones as well. And then S and A are more so, like, different deviations of bad. Let's get right into it with what can be the worst one, in my opinion, which is lack of a good sleep schedule. A lack of sleep, you can do absolutely everything else right in your training program. You can have the best optimal training programs. You can eat 3 million grams of protein. Meaning you can take all the steroids in the world, but if you're not sleeping or your sleep isn't effective or you don't have a consistent sleep schedule, it's all for nothing. You're going to recover from everything that you're doing, ultimately. The best way to solve this is to just check your low-hanging fruits. Screen time before bed. Reduce it by a lot if you can. Meaning a few hours before bed, stop looking at your phone or have, like, a blue light blocking thing that, when it hits your eyes, it makes you not want to go to sleep. Also, magnesium supplemented. A lot of people are deficient in it. You take it before bed, it'll reduce your stress, and it's an electrolyte that a lot of people are deficient in. Go with the cheapest brand. There's not a particular one that I'm going to endorse. I endorse the one that is the easiest on your wallets, because with the price of eggs, bro, it's ridiculous. You shouldn't be buying some expensive-ass magnesium, because it's not necessary. Which leads us into our next topic, the cost of overall going to the gym, gym membership, diet. It could be the gas money, things of that nature. This one's pretty bad as well. I'm only going to put it in A tier, though, because there are low-barrier-of-entry things that you can do to become more fit when it comes to the programming and training side of things. You can do weighted calisthenics with, like, a backpack and books in it, or rocks. A lot of people do stuff like that. You can do pull-ups, dips, push-ups, lunges, things of that nature, and get a really fantastic physique. There are plenty of folks who don't do any barbell exercises that only do, like, calisthenics, ring work, and then isolations with water jugs and rocks and, you know, toolboxes to weigh them down. You don't need a whole lot in terms of equipment to get jacked, is what I'm saying. So that'll mitigate the gym membership and then the commute to the gym. You don't even need a whole lot of space if you have, like, an apartment that's small, a pull-up bar, and then you can do weighted push-ups. You can do, there's a lot of things that you can do. You can get rings, things of that nature. The trickier part is the dietary aspect of it. It can be expensive if you're having a high-protein diet to get in a gram per pound of body weight or over a gram per pound of body weight like a lot of folks do because you do get benefits from that, in my opinion. But it can also be said that there are plenty of people that don't even eat half a gram per pound of body weight of protein, and they still get substantial, exceptional gains because everything else in their non-training variables is on point. So what you can do is that you can, if you find that you're spending a whole lot of money on protein, you can reduce your protein intake, but make sure that your sleep is on point, your training is on point, and you're still eating protein with every meal. It might just add up to like 0.7 grams per pound of body weight instead of a gram per pound of body weight. Protein every meal, I hate to say it for people to say that you need to have an X amount of protein to make gains. More is helpful, but you don't need to have a specific amount to make any gains at all, and that ain't why you're not adding plus ones to your training program more than likely. It's a bunch of other confounding factors. We're going to go a little quicker on these other ones because those two are pretty huge and very common. Cooking skills. If they suck, that's pretty bad, man, because if your cooking skills suck, you're not going to want to eat your food at the end of the day. The best thing that you can do is just Google the recipe. Cooking is something that has an artistic part to it, an artistic component to it. However, learning basic things like how to season your food, how to add a flavor profile to something. Google a recipe and just literally do what they say. It's just following directions. Plenty of good recipes on Google. That's pretty bad. It could even be S tier if your cooking is complete shit. But for most people, I would just put that in A. Another big one is time commitments with regards to school or work. I think that this can be a big rate limiter. But I find that it's not that most people who have this hang up can't train at all. It's that they're trying to take a circle and fit it into a square peg, meaning they're taking a program that is realistically going to require them to train an hour and a half per week, four or five, six times per week. Which is not realistic for them. Say if they only have 45 minutes, two or three times a week, you just follow a different program. I think that a lot of people do way too much volume and they think they need to do more than what is actually necessary to make progress. If you're relatively new or even intermediate in the gym, there's no reason why you should be doing, in my opinion, more than 10 to 12 sets per week on anything. You know, you can get plenty of good, high quality work in with just that. Now, will some people benefit from more or maybe even need a little less? Yeah, but those are opposite ends of the bell curve. Most people are going to fall within that even 8 to 12 sets per week range. And they're instead doing 20, 25, 30 sets per week because they just feel like they need to do more. The next one is going to be protein, not high enough. I think that that's pretty mild, but it can add up with other things, obviously. I'm going to put it in B tier. Like I said, my younger brother doesn't even count protein, bro. I'm pretty sure he doesn't even get 100 grams of protein per pound of body weight. Or that would be like 2,000 grams. He doesn't get 100 grams of protein per day, yet he benched 235 for some sets of 8 to 12, you know, after like a year of training. Obviously, if he ate more protein, he probably would have got that faster or benched more in the same time period. But, I mean, provided that you're getting it with every meal, you're doing all right, bro. Let's see. Now, if you are legitimately not just getting even some protein with every meal, protein powders, if you get them wholesale, are actually pretty cheap. There's not a specific one I'm going to endorse just because everybody lives in different parts of the world. But go with the lowest price per like 25 grams of protein. It's actually as cheap or even cheaper than like the cheapest cuts of meat. So like your chicken breast and things like that. Especially if you use discount codes and things of that nature. Injuries can either be horrible or a gut check. Meaning you just have to evaluate what you're doing. Obviously, if you break your fucking leg, you're not going to be able to squat. That's horrible. That's even worse than not getting sleep at that point because now you can't train at all. You know, you're not going to be able to do legs at all. However, if you just have quad tendinitis or your knee hurt a little bit when you squat for a couple of reps, but otherwise you're not in any serious pain. That's just a tweak or you're not interacting with the exercise properly for your build. In which case, you just evaluate what you're doing and adjust from there. A pretty common thing that I would say with tendinitis, for instance, and this isn't medical advice. This is just me rattling off my own personal experience. So, of course, consult a medical professional with any injury or tweak that you have or any exercise that you undergo. However, I find that for me with tendinitis, just attacking it with low scale blood flow, meaning just ramming it with volume that doesn't hurt and just getting a big pump. It helps expedite the healing process, whether that's elbow, quad, any sort of tendinitis. Pec tendinitis, you name it, I've had it, I've alleviated it. So, I'm going to put it in S just because I'm not going to have a dude with his glowing, radiating knee and C-tier. But just know that it's just going to depend upon if you're legitimately injured or you're just having a tweak. If you ignore the tweak and you fit a circle or a square peg, it'll go into something mild. It'll add up if you're not sleeping enough and not eating enough protein. Then it'll be bad if you're just walking around in pain and then it'll become, oh, my leg snaps. Okay. I would say that this next one being the cravings, I think it can be a gut check. However, if you have like an eating disorder or something of that nature, obviously this is something horrible. In which case, my advice to you would be to just consult a medical professional with regards to why you're having these cravings. What you can do to alleviate these cravings from a dietary aspect and things of that nature. But if you're just a dude that like me, that you just like certain things like brownies or burgers. You know, things that people typically like because they're palatable. Pizza, sushi. Try to look to include these things in your diet. And part of this comes into play with knowing how to cook. Just because you eat a burger doesn't mean that it has to have 2,000 calories in it. You can eat a 400 calorie burger that still tastes good if you just season your food. And don't cook it in mass butter and oil and shit. Likewise, you can have french fries. Just cut them up and air fry them. You don't have to deep fry them and cover them in cheese. You know what I'm saying? So if you're having a craving, look to just find some lower calorie and more sustainable way to include it into your eating regimen and into your overall training programming. Again, if you're someone that eats one brownie and you have no sense of moderation through no fault of your own. It's more of a mental health thing. Don't try to include brownies in your freaking diet, man. I mean, I'm no doctor, but that's just common sense. You don't give a crackhead crack. Well, actually, some people say that that's therapeutic if you slowly wean the individual that has the addiction off of that. I don't know how y'all feel about that. I don't want to get into that topic of discussion, but consult a medical professional. We'll put it overall, and I'll put it in the middle between the two extremes. I'll put it in B tier. Next would be balancing lifting with sports. I think this is more of a gut check just because the solution to this is pretty simple. If you're in season, you just train less. You train one or two times per week, lower volume. And if you are doing a high volume program before that, you may even still make gains. But you're going to be practicing your sport or being in season at the intensity that you are for a limited amount of time. So you just train less. That's how you periodize your training. A lot of folks, when they say that periodization isn't important for hypertrophy, that's something that's a little pet peeve to me, man, because it's like 3 by 10 is periodization. If you're doing 3 sets of 10 and you're adding weight and maybe adding reps over time, you are periodizing your training. Now, does it have to be a percentage-based back-off sets type of periodization? Not necessarily, but you're going to have periods of the year where you do more, where you do less, and even workout to workout where you do more and more less. So, again, just a pet peeve of mine. I don't mean to ramble about that, but periodization is important for hypertrophy. And it's something that you can dismantle very easily, I would say, with logic. This next one, I would just say, can again just depend upon how much you have to travel or how much you are traveling. If you're traveling 5, 6, 7, 8 times per month for work, it can be bad to mild, just depending upon how much to be quite honest with you. So, if you train 5 days a week and your normal schedule is something like one of my boost camp programs, like Golden Warrior, for instance. And one of these weeks, you've got to travel for work for a couple days and you have to get in a pump workout in the hotel gym. Just resume the program as normal next week, bro. It's not the end of the world. I'm going to put it in B tier as mild. The next one would be stress. I'm going to put this in S tier. This was one of the most common answers on the Instagram poll that I put up to get people's opinions on this. But being stressed out versus not being stressed out, it can make a night and day difference in your gains. Overall, there are obviously a lot of different levers that you can pull to reduce your stress. Stress can come from a fear of missing out. Stress can come from people stressing you out. Stress can come from things around you, responsibilities, your training not going well, creating a negative feedback loop. I would just take a list of the three things that are stressing you out the worst that you have input in. Not necessarily that you can totally mitigate by changing your input, but your input affects it. And then just attack those things. Reduce your stress as much as possible just by taking an itemized approach to it. And then just accepting that there are certain things that you're not going to be able to completely mitigate. Not everybody is some gym shark millionaire influencer that has no financial struggles, no social struggles and things of that nature. You have real life shit that you need to deal with. But just attack what you can attack and accept what you can't necessarily change right now. And get therapy if it's come to the point of mental health crises. Especially if you're a man. Obviously if you're a woman, get therapy too. But there's a stigma for males getting therapy that I think is honestly quite soy. Get your therapy, bro. It's not going to be the end of the world. You're still a man at the end of the day. Not tracking your program is pretty bad. I'm going to put it in A tier. There are plenty of people who don't follow any program at all that still gain muscle. However, if you find that you are not gaining muscle because you're not tracking your workouts, something like Boost Camp or even if you don't want to use that, you can just literally track your workout in a notebook will be a lot better and will leave you a lot better off. I have a lot of free programs on Boost Camp that thousands of people have run now at this point. Raider is my most popular one. It's good for all experience levels. It's not a big time commitment per workout. And it's like four days a week, I believe. Now, if you want five or six days a week, there are programs on there as well. And my new self-coaching, self-guided program, Golden Warrior, is honestly my best program that I have on there. It's going to have you fully equipped with coaching notes, how to approach your exercises, how to customize the program if you want to have it like weighted calisthenics or power lifting or pure hypertrophy with only machines. Or if you want to have more of this volume, more of that, less of that, there's instructions pretty much. You name it, it shows you how to do it. That's going to be on Boost Camp and that's what I'm going to endorse here. But like, again, if you don't want to use that, just use a freaking notebook, bro. I mean, even that would be a lot better than nothing. Now, I named a lot of cool programs that you might fear on missing out of. I think that a fear of missing out, I'm going to answer this from the perspective of someone that suffers from it, not from my own perspective. For me, a fear of missing out is like not relevant because it's not something that I personally experience. However, I think that this is one of the bigger things that can make you not make gains because if you're constantly switching your program around because you don't want to miss out on the new optimal exercise that everybody's talking about, you're never going to get truly skilled in any one thing that you're doing. And that's ultimately how you get gains. You know, you can get good at something the first two or three weeks, but that's not muscle being grown. That's neural adaptation, meaning your brain is getting better at doing the thing that you're newer at. With literally any physical activity, you're going to get good at it rapidly and any accumulation of gains is going to have to come from you actually getting better at it with skill or strength adaptations. The next one, you know, I'm famous for using the cigarette emoji with the stone tiki. Lately, I've been using the cigarette emoji with the rooster emoji. I think that they look cool. However, I don't actually smoke cigarettes myself. And if you're someone that finds that your appetite is blunted by them, they could be bad for that. It's not the end of the world. Plenty of jacked chads just rip cigs, packs of cigs, and then they're still jacked and they live to be 100 years old. However, they're not good for you. It's just like alcohol. It's the same thing. Plenty of jacked chads drink beer. They rip beer every day. Something that you don't want to do ideally. But if you're smoking cigarettes and you're fucking drinking a fifth of Henny every day. And you're not eating a lot of protein. And you're eating brownies every day. And you're traveling a lot for work. And you're not tracking your program. And you cook like shit. And now you're stressed out. Now you got tendinitis. And now your sleep is terrible. Now I can understand why you're not making gains. But if like you have a couple beers a week, bro. That's not going to do anything. Same thing with like if you smoke a cig. I'm not saying it's good for you. It's horrible for you. But these things in absence of all these other things are not going to be the reason why you're not making gains. However, if you're getting drunk every day. It's going to impede your gains. Nine times out of ten. This can even honestly go in A tier. Honestly. Alcohol is worse than cigarettes in that regard. In terms of the deleterious effects it will have on you. Getting sick often. Depends on how often you mean. Like if you're getting sick once a month for a couple days. That's pretty bad. It can even go in B tier just depending upon if it's like one or two days out of the month you're sick. Like if you get the cold or something. That might even be B tier. But if you have like a chronic illness obviously that's that's going to be something that's going to impact your gains a lot. I cannot give a medical diagnosis nor am I going to talk about a specific chronic illness because I am not a doctor and I didn't get any specific. Things that people were suffering from but I'm just going to assume that you're getting the cold. I would say that from a diet aspect you just want to make sure that you're drinking a lot of water. You're eating a lot of vegetables. You're eating protein with every meal and you're staying physically active. Those things will keep your body strong which will keep your immune system stronger. Choking on my coffee here. That's S tier horrible. Kills your gains if you choke to death on the coffee. And overall if you have a strong immune system it'll help mitigate getting sick to the biggest extent possible. Overall though man I'm going to put it in the middle of those two things and put it put it in B tier. I mean it's mild but if you're you know you're not smoking cigarettes and all that other shit it's not going to be the end of the world. I get the chatty fat dude kicking the alligator to signify not bulking correctly. Usually I use the clucking bell icon but I want to do something a little different. I think not knowing how to bulk effectively is S tier. I think that it can be one of the bigger things that prevents you from not gaining muscle. My stance on this is nuanced. Meaning that I don't think that you need to be in a massive calorie surplus. Nor do I think that you necessarily have to be eating in a surplus of calories to gain muscle. But you have needed to be in a calorie surplus for a prolonged period of time to facilitate making gains. Now what does that mean? If you're at the tail end of a bulk or you're someone like myself where you can be in caloric maintenance at a leaner body composition and still progressing your training. That's fine. But if you're someone that is you know you're pretty lean and you're you've never eaten in a calorie surplus before you're in an energy deficit or an energy maintenance when you don't have a surplus of resources that you accumulated at some point in time. You're not going to be able to make progress. And this is where bulking effectively comes into play. You have your gaining phases where you either start with the calorie surplus and then go on to like calorie maintenance and then train that way. Or you have an extended calorie surplus if you're someone that would just benefit from something like that. But if you're someone that takes that surplus too far and you're now 25, 30, 35, 40% body fat. That's where it can start to mitigate your gains in my opinion because you don't really know how much muscle you're gaining for one. You don't know if your strength increases aren't just coming due to your leverages being different. I mean like your fat is literally just allowing you to bounce the weight around and leverage it around better. And then a lot of different things with regards to your health that's just horrible for your gains. And it's easier to do that than you think. You know a lot of folks think that they're like 20% body fat and then they're really like 35% body fat and they took the bulk way too far. The easiest way to bulk effectively is to just take a minimum effective dose approach. What that means is that you're just eating to support your training. If you are eating X amount of calories, even if you're not gaining a pound per week, if over the course of a month your weight has gone from say 170 to 171 or 172 and you made progress throughout the month, you're eating in an energy surplus and you don't need to add or subtract calories. Just eat what you're eating. Now if you stop making progress and your sleep is on point and all your other known training factors such as your stress levels, your hydration, your electrolytes, things of that nature, your training program itself, then you can look to add a little bit more calories. But it's really something that takes practice and is where a lot of people need to hire a coach if they're not an objective person. Laziness. Laziness. We're going to put that in an S tier. Laziness. Um, I think that if you are overall lazy with your approach to anything that you do, you're not going to get good results in it unless you're just so exceptionally good at it that you don't need to even try to get results. But that's not most people. Most people need to try if they want to gain muscle, bro. Like you're not Ronnie Coleman. Even Ronnie Coleman had to try to gain muscle. If he just sat on the couch and just slammed potato chips and beer and whiskey all day, he wouldn't be who he is and who he was competitively. I have Machoke from Pokemon to signify paralysis by analysis. I think that, again, I'm going to answer this from the scope of someone that's suffering from it. I think that it is bad. But I don't think that it's horrible because a lot of these things, in my opinion, are worse. It's bad because a lot of these folks who have paralysis by analysis, it's not that they're still going to the gym. They're not going to stop going to the gym just because they don't know what to do. They might not just make obvious changes to their program or do things like not changing certain variables in their program repeatedly. But they're still going to the gym and they're still trying hard enough. These types of individuals that suffer from this, they know that effort is important. They know that sleep and diet are important, things like that. But their paralysis by analysis is making them blind to something obvious, which I don't find is the end of the world. It can be horrible depending upon what it is, but on average, I'd actually say that it's A-tier. A couple folks said not being able to train that much due to a new kid. Honestly, man, your kids are way more important than muscles, bro. I mean, I'm going to put that in detail. Now, if you want some advice, I don't have any kids. I do have younger brothers, though. And when it came to needing to watch them or cook for them or anything like that, even that wouldn't be equivalent to needing to freaking nurse a newborn baby or watch them or anything like that. Because babies wake up in the middle of the night during weird times. Overall, I would just say do what you can do. In all seriousness, we're going to put it in C-tier. If you're able to train 30 minutes twice a week and you're used to training two hours a day, five days a week, you can still maintain your muscle mass and then just be realistic for how long that that's going to last. I don't think that you have to do zero exercise and just eat like complete shit. I don't think that that's true at all. But just accept that you're not going to be at the at the top of your game potentially, just depending upon your situation. Someone said not getting any girls and I'm going to assume that's that's that's stressing them out. I mean, I'm going to infer this as you don't you don't have any companionship wherein I think that companionship is something that's important. Now, does that necessarily have to be romantic companionship? Again, that's something that's important for most people. But I find that you'll be a lot less disappointed with your interactions with people if you don't attach expectations to it and you just generally try to be a pleasant person to people for the sake of being a pleasant individual. You leave an impact on people that way. And overall, you feel better about yourself. You become more personable when you don't attach expectations to talking to people, you know, and it just comes down to practice. Now, if your desire is to get a good girlfriend and be in a good relationship or a boyfriend or whatever, whatever the case may be. Again, it just comes down to practice. You need to have some level of gift of gab to be able to interact with someone and connect to them on that level. So I would just say start with trying to create meaningful interactions with people and meaningful connections that don't necessarily have the goal of being romantic. You know, you have to walk before you run. The next one, the price of eggs. I'm going to make a whole video about this one, bro. I'm going to put this in S tier. Non-lifters just dictating the price of eggs and making them 200% more freaking costly is ridiculous, bro. Come on. Mental health issues. I think that if you're someone that's chronically anxious or you have depression, that's something that you should definitely seek medical advice for. I think the problem with and I'm speaking to men mostly because that's who watches my channel mostly. And any individual that is afraid to get medical help for any issue that they have or problem that they have. If you're able to and you have the resources to be able to do so, it's definitely something that you should do because it is something that will impact everything in your life. Just fuck the gems. Everything in your life is going to suffer as a result of that. You know, take it from me. One that I think is a hot topic is the genetics thing. And interestingly enough, when I googled genetics not good enough to get an image for this. Funnily enough, bro, it was only fitness industry related shit that came up. The fitness industry got to be the only thing where people are obsessed with genetics. I mean, maybe sports too, but I didn't see any sports shit. I saw TikToks and broccoli boys with their shirts off. I think that obviously your genetics are relevant to your own specific rate of progress. Genetics are going to determine your heights, how strong you can get per workout and things of that nature. But your genetics are not more than likely the reason why you're not making progress. Even someone with slightly below average genetics, progressive overload still applies to you. The properties of recovery and sound training principles still apply to you. Your rate of progress is just going to be different. And your minimum effective dose is going to be different. And overall, I find that people that complain about their genetics not being good enough, oftentimes are not doing a lot of these things up here in the S, the A tier, the B tier. They're not doing those things at all or they're doing them shittily, to be honest with you. And that's not to rag on you if that's you. It's to say that it can create a negative feedback loop. If you do one of these poorly, you're going to do another one poorly, which will make you do another one poorly, which will make you just want to blame it on something, which is your genetics a lot of the time. Genetics are important, though, for determining if you're going to look like Ronnie Coleman or have his level of muscularity. But that's not the way that a lot of people talk about it. So it's a little nuanced, but I don't think that it's something that you should evaluate before any of this other shit. You can't change your genetics. Well, currently now you can, unless you mutate. Like you go to the space station and just mutate yourself. But if you're doing that to gain muscle, bro, come on, bro. I think that the next one, which was not tracking your food, I think that it's a gut check. It can be mild and it can add up if it's something that's legitimately like you're getting such an inconsistent amount of food that you're just your energy balances all over the place. It can be bad, but for most people, if you just have similar meals every day, no, you won't eat exactly the same thing every day. But on average, it'll it'll average out. But if it's something that's impacting your process, just start tracking small stuff. You don't even have to track your protein. You can start with just tracking your carb sources, your fat sources or both of those. You know, those are pretty easy because they go hand in hand. A lack of motivation. We got a fellow carrying a battery at one percent. I think that this is pretty bad, but it has a simple solution and it's not necessarily easy depending upon where your head is at. I like to look at it like this. And a lot of things in life, you attack your lowest hanging fruit first, meaning if you have a 100 page history paper, you got to type. And a laundry list of other things to do. Don't think about the most time intensive task. Think about the quickest one that you can accomplish first. So if you need to hang up your laundry, hang up your laundry first. That's the easiest thing to do. Even if it's not related to your training goals and things of that nature, you more than likely have some non training goals that are easier than the thing that you're struggling with. Attack that one first and we'll give you a mindset boost, which will create a positive feedback loop. I got the good old pink dumbbells to signify a lack of effort in the gym. I want to put that in S tier, man. You can have the best program in the world if you're not interacting with it properly. And effort doesn't mean like you're taking every set to failure. It can certainly mean that. But it can mean if your program says that you pause for two seconds and you're bouncing the reps off of your chest. You're bouncing out of the hole on the leg exercise or you're doing shitty range of motion when it's telling you to do something. Your effort with that program is not where it needs to be at. You're not following the program. You're following your program. And then you can't blame the program on your lack of results because you're following your show. And your show is not doing what it needs to do if that's the case. So I would just say that this is something that's bad, but it can be a gut check level thing in terms of fixing it. Meaning, do an honest analysis of what your interaction and input with this program is. And then if it's something simple like you're not pausing, just start pausing. And you'll start getting really good gains as a result of that. Social commitments. Everybody needs a social life outside of their hobbies, no matter what their hobbies are. It's not just a gem for people. It's video games, sports, anything. Yu-Gi-Oh cards. I don't know what, you know, I don't know what card games y'all are into, but I was really into Yu-Gi-Oh. That was my game of choice. I think that this is something that is, it's a gut check. I think that you can have a social life on top of having your hobbies. It's just, again, evaluating how much time you spend on these things per week. And then knowing how to say no to certain things. You don't have to hang out with your group of friends as an obligation every single time. Being able to say no to certain things is going to allow you more time to do things that you want to do solo. You know, just not to say that, like, see your friends once a year. But if your friends want to go out every Friday, maybe you go out every other Friday or something like that. Or if you're someone that finds yourself unable to say no to people when they ask you to do things. This comes in more into people pleasing, which we'll talk about in a little bit later. But, again, have a bandwidth and then respect it. It helps to anchor yourself in certain things that, like, you're going to do. Like, I'm going to go to the gym at least three times a week, for example. I'm going to cook my food every Saturday or Sunday for the week and then freeze it for the month. I'm going to do that. You know, I'm going to play video games for an hour a couple times a week. And if I'm not doing those things, my mental health, my mental acuity, my motivation will start to go down. And I'll start to run myself in. And I ain't going to do that. You know, so center yourself in some things that some things that are selfless and some things that are selfish as well, meaning you're attending to your own needs. We're about halfway through. We're going to go a little rapid fire with these next few. Outside of the gym variables not being on point. S tier in terms of implication, but C tier in terms of fixing. Meaning, if you are not drinking enough water, drink enough water. Start the day with a bottle of water and then you drink the same amount of water every day. It's easy. Drink three or four bottles of water a day. What is that, like 60, 70 ounces of water? If you're not eating vegetables, eat vegetables. If you are chronically stressing yourself out being a people pleaser, start saying no. Things like that. Excess screen time. Pretty mild. Just put your phone down a couple hours before bed and don't doom scroll. Meaning, like, reels are designed to be effective. There was a study that I read that said that your attention span can deteriorate by some extreme percentage just from using TikTok, bro. And it's not so unfounded to me. It's crazy. Like, even me, if I'm not paying attention to what I'm doing, like, I can end up scrolling reels for five minutes and be like, I don't remember anything that I just watched. It's like digital cocaine. Okay? This next one is sleeping but still waking up tired. I think that this is, I think that it's mild. It comes into play with your sleep routine, though. Like, is your actual sleep hygiene good? Are you taking your magnesium, getting the daily recommended amount of magnesium? Or you, do you have sleep apnea? Is it just you're snoring and you're waking up a bunch in the middle of the night as a result of that? Or do you sleep in a cold room? Things like that. You can sleep eight hours, but if they're eight shitty hours, it's not as bad as not sleeping at all, but it's not nearly as good as eight restful hours. If you're dreaming, though, like you're sleeping and you're dreaming, that means your sleep quality is pretty good in my experience. So I would just say do those things to improve your sleep hygiene and then audit if you're dreaming or not. I know that sounds systematized and kind of weird, but it's really just that simple. Some guy said his girlfriend was killing his games. That's not relevant, bro. I mean, okay, I'm not going to, if you have like a situation where she's like legitimately like harming you in some way or she's disrespecting you constantly and things of that nature, just break up with her as soon as possible, bro. You know, don't break any hearts, but you know, you deserve better than that. But if it's just as simple as like your girlfriend wants to hang out with you and you'd rather go to the gym, there has to be some level of balance, in which case that's just a gut check. Then center yourself in some needs and wants and then allocate from there. Be a little selfish and then be selfless, meaning think about someone other than yourself. I'm pretty sure that was just a joke, though. But I answered it pretty seriously because I'm sure that there are people that are on either end of the spectrum. Over-eagerness. Over-eagerness is, on average for most people, I think that it's something that's mild, but if you're not doing a bunch of other things wrong, it can become something that where you're, now you're not making progress as a result of all these things. And over-eagerness can mean just going too heavy too soon. It can mean adding too much to your program. It can overall just mean biting off more than you can chew. And it comes from highly motivated people that will do extremely well with their training and will make great results with their training when they know how to delay their gratification a little bit. And all that that comes into play with is you either hire a coach that comes with the car facts, meaning you know that they do good work, they give good information, and they work well with people. Or you just follow a program to a T. You don't make any fucking changes to it, and you just run it as is. And then after you run it as is a couple of times, then you can evaluate, like, I legitimately just constantly felt like I needed to do more hamstrings. So I'm going to add a set of hamstring curls. So instead of doing two sets, now I'll do three pro workout. Things like that. But overall, over-eager people, I would much rather you be chronically crackhead mode in terms of your training than you just be Sammy Sloth and just not want to do anything. Procrastination. Procrastination, I think, is something that I'm going to answer this in the capacity of just outside of the online fitness community. Procrastination is the reason why most people in general who want to go to the gym do not go to the gym. Plenty of people sign up for gym memberships, pay for the fucking things, and then never go to the gym because they're like, well, I'll go to the gym tomorrow. Or I'll start the new program next week. Or I'll start my diet next month or whatever the case may be. Procrastination can be the reason why you don't do anything in life because you'll feel like there's always a tomorrow until there ain't. I'd hate to be morbid, but that's why the average person just doesn't go to the gym. What I'll say in terms of fixing that is this. A lot of folks don't go to the gym or put things off because they put more ahead of them than they can realistically do with the resources that they have at that moment. For both from a mental perspective and a physical perspective. If you're a couch potato, like you've never gone to the gym before, or maybe you're coming back from an injury and you want to just jump into a five days per week program, a fully loaded diet where you're tracking everything. Some people can't handle that. You're not less of a person for being one of those people. That's the average person, you know, and just because you are someone that can do that doesn't make you better than them because they might be better than you at something else, you know. But if you are that person that put more ahead of you than you can handle, start with something smaller. If you have the goal overall of looking like a Chippendales guy, gas station ready with a thick bulldog neck, but you can get results from just doing push-ups, do the push-ups a couple of times a week, bro. Make a habit out of that. Make a habit out of something small like I'm going to instead of, you're at school even, at school lunch, you're in high school. So instead of eating whatever cakes or honey buns or whatever the fuck y'all are eating, drink the milk instead. That's protein. That's not a lot of protein, but it is protein. It's better than the honey BUN, which has nothing in it but sugar and fat and tastes delicious, but no protein, okay? Start with the small stuff and let that small stuff compound over time. Existential dread. Again, it just depends upon is it a mental health concern where obviously it's existential dread, but a lot of folks don't mean that literally. They just mean like shit sucks and it's kind of making me sad. But other people are just, they literally can't get up and do anything, you know, that type of thing. In which case, again, seek medical advice. Seek professional advice with regards to how to work through those feelings that you have. Overall, though, I'm going to put it between both of those things and just put it, put it in bad, you know. If you have legit existential dread, though, go see a doctor. People who overcomplicate shit. This is more just annoying on the coaching side. But I don't, I don't find that it's the worst thing in the world. It's just a gut check. Like if you're someone that constantly is trying to be on the cutting edge of, you know, obviously you want to learn. You know, you never want to stop learning. But a lot of learning to me is taking what you know and just expanding that skill tree as opposed to trying to have a million different skill trees. For example, it's like the difference between, okay, say you learn how to ride a bike, right? It's the difference between learning how to ride that bike better and then finding a different locomotive automobile solution to get to the grocery store. Just ride your bike. It's an hour away. You don't need to purchase a plane on something that requires a bike ride. You don't need to build a state-of-the-art teleporter to teleport you to the fucking grocery store when you can just get better at riding your bike. And if you're a chronic galaxy brain, giga brain, again, a simple solution is to just take a program that's proven that a lot of people have run, run it as is, don't tinker with it, and then change things as a result of your experience with it. Not what you think it should do, but your experience with it. A lot of folks, they'll look at a program that, let's just say they want to grow their back, and they're like, okay, I want to grow my back. I'm going to do 25 sets of back a week. What the fuck? No, don't do that. Just run the program as is. If you're making progress with your back exercises, ultimately that is what's going to grow you more than anything. Are you getting stronger on the exercise year over year? That is going to be an indicator of are you actually growing muscle or not. But yeah, that's a pretty simple solution. Just take a program where it is. Trying to stay lean all the time. So there are two camps of people. There are people that can make gains while they're lean, in which case it's not relevant. There are people that are on the average side of things, meaning they need to be in a positive energy balance and a calorie surplus to make gains. Yet, they are wanting to get lean or stay lean while putting on muscle. That's like, that's hustling in reverse. That's bad. And you need to eat more food. Now, do you need to get fat? No. However, you need to get more food and staying lean is not going to be conducive to that. And then there are people that absolutely need to be in a calorie surplus or they're just not going to make gains, in which case that's also horrible. Do a needs versus wants analysis. Be realistic with what you're working with in terms of, you know, are you someone, regardless of your training experience, that can make gains at a lighter body fat percentage? Or are you someone that you need to be in a calorie surplus? Or are you someone that is maybe you're at the end of a bulk and you don't need to be in a calorie surplus? You can eat at maintenance and things of that nature. It just depends. But for most people, that is going to be pretty bad. We're down to the last few. We're going to do a rapid fire. The first one being fellas that don't train their legs and as a result of that have a poor body composition. Just training your legs and getting them more muscular is going to improve your body composition because you're literally just going to have more muscle on your frame, which is going to make you overall leaner as a result of that. So I think I think that this is it's bad. But the solution is a gut check. Just train your legs. It doesn't don't do something that you hate. Like if you hate barbell squatting and that's why you don't squat or rather you don't train your legs, but you like doing leg extensions. Do you think it's better to do leg extensions or it's better to do nothing? It's obviously better to do the leg extensions and I take if you're if you have a machine where you can get a big stretch on them. Leg extensions are it's not what I wouldn't only do leg extensions, but it would get you some pretty jacked legs if that's all you did and you got strong at it and you treated it seriously. You're enjoying it. You're fired up about it. You get a big stretch at the bottom. Maybe you put like a pad on your your shin to get more range of motion. That's what I do on mine. And now maybe you enjoy the leg extensions and maybe you start doing split squats as well. See about a big about a boom. Now you like training legs. Not willing to train at a commercial gym. That's a gut check, man. The answer is obvious. It's weighted calisthenics. If you don't want to go to a commercial gym, you either a buy home gym equipment like my Omni bar. There's a link in the description for that. Or if you don't even want to go high tech, you can get a barbell, some plates. And even if you don't want to do that, you can get some adjustable dumbbells like some, you know, like some new bells. There's the true lap dumbbells. They adjust them all the way up to 90. Get you a pull up bar. Something to do dips on. That's all you need. You can grow most of the muscle that you're ever going to grow, probably aside from your legs, with that alone. You know, you got your weighted calisthenics for the chest, the back, the dumbbells up to 90. Most people are not curling the 90s with good form is going to be a lifelong goal for most people. You know, Ramadan, I think that first and foremost, and a reflective period of fasting. I don't share your religious beliefs. However, I do respect them greatly. So now that there are a lot of people that are currently fasting. I think that this is something that can be bad. However, I would just look at it as fasting on any other protocol. There are plenty of folks that do this, the 16, 8 or even 24, meaning 20 hours fasting, four hours feeding period fasting. And they do that and they make great gains. Well, I think his name was the guy that Keno Body copied off of Mark, Mark Birkins. I think his name was the jacked dude that popularized fasting and then doing weighted chin ups and stuff. He fasted for years and years. And the guy was jacked that lifted over 500 pounds, was pretty strong on every lift. I think the biggest thing is just making sure that your nutrition is high quality. And then when you're able to eat and drink water and stuff, you get your electrolytes in as well. Meaning you have something like no salt, which is basically a seasoning that's potassium. And you're going to want to get your potassium, your salts, your magnesium supplementation, and then calcium. So something with calcium in it. An easy one is almond milk, for me anyway. Or anything that has calcium in it. And then you're getting all your protein and carbs and everything that you need in there. And if you're someone that you find that if during that restricted eating period you can't eat a lot of food or you get full, eat stuff that's less filling with regards to your carb sources. You know? And then more so just focus on the protein in terms of getting your meat in that way. Mom's cooking is too good, therefore I'm getting fat. I mean if you live with your mom, bro, like the best that you can say is like, hey look, if it won't hurt to get this at the grocery store and cook it this way, would you be able to do that? It's just a conversation you got to have with your mom, bro. Or if it's a situation where they're like, nah, we're not going to be able to do that. Get you a part-time job. You don't got to work 40 hours a week. 10 hours a week you're going to be able to accumulate enough money to go to a grocery store and get one meal a day. Say if it's just dinner that's just cooking you, bro. Like she's making chicken biryani, which is delicious, but it is very high in calories. Or a big one for me, my father used to always make freaking, he used to fry fish every Friday. It would be hush puppies. It would be fried cod. It would be like seafood boil type shit with the sausages and whatnot. Butter mashed potatoes. All kinds of delicious shit. Cornbread. And the plates would be massive either. And he was the type of dude where he would get pissed if you didn't finish your food, he would get pissed. So you ate your food anyway. But yeah, I just eventually said to him one day, I'm like, dude, I'm trying to get, I'm trying to like lose some weight and get jacked, bro. I'm just going to, can you start cooking it this way? And he did what he could and then anything else I needed to supplement with without getting my own food. And I've been doing that since I was 15 years old. 14 or 15. Someone said not, a couple of people said not taking roids. Bro, there are plenty of people that, that roid, that don't even, you can't tell that they go to the gym at all. You're not, not making games because you're taking steroids, bro. Get the fuck out of here. Being a know-it-all slash mental, mental aster nation. I can't say, it rhymes with what I just said. I can't, I can't say it without getting demonetized probably. But people that feel like they know it all, I think that this, it can make you insufferable. So I'm going to just put it in S tier. I don't know how much that'll have on your gains because it just depends. Are you following the quality process? If yes, it just makes you insufferable, but it's not going to impact your gains. But if it leads to you just changing things all the time because you think you know better, which comes into information overload, which I think also goes in S tier, then it'd be pretty bad as well. I think yo-yo dieting is pretty bad. We'll talk a little bit about mental overload as well. We'll know how to, how to solve that before we talk about the yo-yo dieting. I think in terms of information overload, the easiest thing that you could do to mitigate that is to just find one or two sources of information that have a consistent theme in messaging. Take what you can learn from that and apply it. And a lot of people will get far just from doing that alone. Like if you took Brian Ulzeru and you just only watched him and then maybe listen to 3DMJ when it comes to like hypertrophy stuff, you would get most of the results you're ever going to get in life when you apply your own effort and individualization to that. That's all. You don't need to watch a million people. Now, don't want you to watch my shit? Absolutely. Like I do want you to be that person that you watch. But if you find that like you're watching too much fitness community shit, bro, just dial it down to like one or two people. That's all. You know, one for information, one or two for information, and then one for entertainment. You know what I'm saying? Lack of patience. This is more annoying from the coaching side. And I think that it can be pretty bad in practice for people who aren't patient with regards to their process or their rate of progress. The easiest thing that you can do, like I said, you either outsource it to somebody else or you just take the program, you follow it as written. And then you also try to look at things from a 10,000 foot view. Don't look at it mechanistically like I'm not. I put in a heart workout, yet I don't have a six pack or I'm not Ronnie Coleman. Therefore, I'm not making progress. Look at the fact that you added 12 reps to your one rep max. That's enormous progress, bro. But there are people who have legitimately just asked them like, bro. So if you put 35 pounds on the lift in a few months, is that good progress to you? And they said, no, that's shit progress. I'm like, bro, I hate to tell you, but but no, seriously, just follow a program as written and look at things from a 10,000 foot view. Someone said adult entertainment. Again, if this is if this is crossing into the realm of you, you legitimately have an addiction, I'm not even going to address that because I don't think that that's appropriate. I think that's something that you should talk about with a qualified medical professional. However, adult entertainment is not stopping you from slamming donuts. It's not causing you to slam donuts in your face. It's not causing you to when you go to the gym, not train hard. Overall, bro, I'm going to put it in like. If I'll just put it in S tier and just answer it in the capacity of saying, like, if you have like a legit issue, just go to a doctor. But like for most people, it's like. Bro, just it's not stopping you from doing a lot of this stuff. Come on. People pleasing. I think people pleasing can be pretty bad. And this comes into play with like your your social responsibilities in terms of you not you always hanging out with your friends, even when you there's something that you want to do. And it's impacting what you want to do. I think that learning how to say no is a very powerful skill. And it just starts with, like I said, centering yourself in certain things. You have your things that you're absolutely going to do. You have your things that you're not going to do. And then you have your allocation that you can give to other people. And if you're over capacity, you don't have to say yes to everybody. A lot of people aren't going to like that, but you don't have to be friends with everybody. You know, I'm not saying be a social pariah. But if someone can't understand that you have your own needs that you need to attend to as well, then I don't think that they have your best interest at heart. Some people said that nothing was was killing their gains, in which case that didn't just that infers to me. Arrogance, you know, I'm gonna put that in a tier as in bad. I know they didn't look at it like that. Like they're saying, like, I do a pretty good job at everything. But I'm going to speak to what the reality of it is, is that although you are more than likely people that answered this doing everything pretty well, you're able to improve in something. Or there's something that you could be doing a lot better. That's absolutely everybody. Whether you're an advanced lifter. I don't care if you're more jacked than I am. I coach plenty of people that are bigger and stronger than me. Yet, if they're not doing something, I'm gonna tell them, look, man, like, you're fucking up. Like, why aren't we doing this? Like, what's going on? What is the deal? You know, everybody has something that they can improve on. That's a gut check solution, though. And it comes with with humbling yourself. Like, am I willing to say to myself that I suck at something or I can do better at something without it hurting my ego or or making me feel like I'm bad at it? Bad at what I'm doing overall, just because there's one or two things that I could be doing better. I think not being intentional with your process. I think it's it can be bad. It can be bad or mild, just depending upon what it is. Intentional with your process, meaning you're not paying attention to the types of foods you're eating. You're not following a good program. You're not interacting with the program optimally on everything, meaning you may be skipping exercises. You're not doing the exercises like, you know, you should be things of that nature. And it just comes again down to just doing a gut check. Like, what am I not? What am I fucking up on? Let's just start with the easiest thing that I can improve now and then attack that from there. And then overall, we'll perfect our process from there. And that's a continual process. Last but not least, program hopping, program hopping. For most people, it's going to be horrible. For some people, it'll be mild because they'll have an overall sense of how to get in a good workout. But I would say that's more people with more experience that can do that, like not follow a consistent program week to week, but still make gains because they know how to get in good workouts. Overall, I'm putting it in the middle. I just say that it's bad. But you've got to stick to a program, bro. You've got to stick to a program, especially if you're new to something and you're not really that good at it or accustomed to doing it yet. You stick to a program. You find out what you like, what you don't like, what you're good at, what you're bad at, what you need to improve in. And then you evolve it from there. A fellow tagged me in something on his story where he said that he's been following my Raider program for over a year now. And that's insane to me because a lot of people don't do that. They run it a few times, they get good results from it, and then they just run something else when they don't need to yet. But yeah, dude, that's the tier list. It's full of practical advice. I want you to read or rather watch this over and over again. It attacks all the common things that people struggle with. And overall, like I said, easy solutions to a lot of this stuff. If you have any questions about what we talked about today, please let me know. If you want to help support the channel, you can check out my Omnibar, which is linked in the description. Our second pre-sale is live, meaning our first one sold out completely and sold out fast. So if you're interested in getting one, just make sure you get one now because they're selling like hotcakes. Anyway, I appreciate you for watching.