 Rd, and slowly building our bodies and our strength is a lot like our favorite video game and when we were kids we beat the games we played with our favorite characters not because they were the best but because we thought they looked cool provided of course you know the basics and then you repeat them over a really long period of time and that feeling is absolutely freeing that I think we all need to be reminded of from time to time I'm your host Bald Omni Man and today I'll show you exactly how to do this using real down to earth and why this doesn't just mean only doing basic barbell exercises. So settle in, grab your favorite drink or a snack, and I hope you enjoy. Let's kick off Chapter 1 with a little tough love about what it means to keep it basic and how to pick your favorite character, proverbially speaking, of course, when it comes to training at the gym. It's no secret that I personally enjoy weighted calisthenics, basic barbell movements, and simple machines that are available at most gyms. And it's that mystique that classical movements have that keeps me coming back in for more every time. In video game terms, these puppies are what makes up the skill tree of my character at the gym. And in gym bro terms, my identity as a lifter. So with that being said, before anything else, just like picking your favorite character, you want to decide the theme of your program and stick to it beyond anything else. That, my friend, is the name of this iron game. So dumbbells, TikTok exercises, or even really unique stuff like expander springs, you name it, it's all fair game, ladies and gentlemen. Now listen, I do love to share my favorites with you guys at home because I have a lot of experience with them and I absolutely love what I do. And I think many of you guys will too. But at the same time, it's also really important to prioritize a solid structure, identity, and frankly, a shitload of time. That's what keeping it simple really means to me. You do whatever exercises you love within that framework. And you can take everything that I talk about in chapter two and apply that same logic to your program, no matter what you personally love to do at the gym. Hopefully, you've cured a lot of your fear of missing out. That's an ugly, primal feeling that, quite frankly, even advanced lifters can get. They can make this hobby stressful instead of fun, which is what it should be. Now that we've taken that step together, all aboard the airship, let's move on to chapter two. I hope you had a pleasant ride in the airship. Our first stop is going to bring us to a study on why and how simple training concepts are so effective. Now that we understand that you can pick whatever exercises you like and still be following a classic program, it's time to use my own training as an example of how to do this practically. To give you a very exciting update about my weighted dip journey, my personal aesthetic and standard with dips is to go very deep and pause most of my reps. And I'm very happy to share that I've hit four plates or 180 pounds on dips for not only a rep, but five reps and not only five reps, but for volume. In addition to that, I've also hit three plates for a good amount of volume as well. I'm not sharing those numbers to brag because they could be pumped up if I use less range of motion or just didn't pause. I'm just excited to share some big difference makers in my programming that I know that'll help you out as well. Before we get into anything granular, I'm a big believer in following a proven roadmap. Before anything else, before any changes or adjustments, I just follow a common sense order with my exercises. Push, pull, arms, in that order. You don't follow up a push with a tricep exercise. You don't follow up a pull with a bicep exercise, typically. And in this way, a big strength to keeping your structure basic like this is that millions of people have done this before you and they've done it well and gotten great success from it. And like I said, when that basic roadmap is laid out, you can optimize the specific steps that you take a whole lot more effectively. Let me put it to you like this. Imagine if you were tasked with building the fastest car in the universe, but every time you tried to make the car go faster, you tried to reinvent the wheel. You'd never get anywhere. I wasn't reinventing my proverbial wheel, so I could focus on something that was actually an area of opportunity, which was setting up a good pattern of recovery. This is something basic that I teach to everyone that I work with. I was feeling slightly underprepared every time that I would come into dip day. And so I just evaluated how my upper body sessions were spaced out between one another. Before, my upper body split was Sunday shoulders, Wednesday dips, and Friday camber bar bench. But now it's Sunday, Tuesday, and Thursday instead. That's one full day of rest in between each upper session with a full two days to completely reset after all three sessions are completed. Which was a much better pattern of recovery for me and my circumstances for a very simple reason. I was getting too much rest between Sunday and Tuesday. I don't work my pecs at all on the Sunday shoulder day. Because I don't work my pecs at all on Sunday, and shoulders don't take too long to recover on their own. All I'm waiting for realistically is for my arms to recover, which didn't take me longer than a day. Going every other day just worked better for me. Because while all three sessions were fairly intense, they tended to emphasize the muscles very differently and with different ranges of motion and different movement patterns. Too much rest in the middle of the week was leaving me feeling weirdly underprepared for work in the middle. And awkwardly overly fatigued at the beginning. Like add a debuff or something in a video game. This can be a very individual thing, setting up a pattern of recovery. It's going to depend on how strong you are, how lean you are, how many calories you're eating, injuries that you have, so on and so forth. But implementing it practically is really easy once you've been running a program for a little while. And personally, resigning myself to working the pressing muscles more frequently and taking more well-timed rest has been paying off dividends. Moving from recovery now to synergy. In any good game, every choice you make creates an echo. If you choose to steal bread from a villager, pisses off their son, makes you their enemy. So you fight them and maybe you do kick their butt. But now because you kicked their butt, you just missed out on an item that you can't get ever again. Training is the same way. It's not just the obvious structure within a workout that's important, but the overall synergy and flow of your program. There's nothing more simple than that. You don't rob Peter to pay Paul or Paul is going to get pissed and split your coconut. And in my case, while not immediately obvious, I needed to change some of the things in my lower body days that affected my upper body days in a real way. Specifically, since I'm working my upper body more frequently, anything involving a pulling a pressing muscle needs to be completely rested when I'm not training my upper body, namely my back and my tricep tendons. And my preferred hip hinging exercise, the stiff legged deadlift was beating the crap out of both of those things. Now, I love stiff legged deadlifts. In fact, I just featured them in my last upload in a back training video. Go ahead and check that out if you're interested after you finish this one. They work the back a ton. That's no secret. But even with including them once a week, they're still stressful enough on my lats and tricep tendons that both of those puppies are left more sore than I'd like them to be on average. So I've been doing more back extensions, which use a fraction of the load that stiff leg deadlifts do and good mornings. But I like the back extensions a little bit better. I'm not going to lie. But both of those are going to eliminate the demand to our lats and our triceps pretty much all together. I still do the stiff leg deadlifts, just placing them at a more opportune time in my training split. But in the video that I referenced just a little bit earlier, I talk about depth and tempo being huge for stimulus on stiff leg deadlifts. And the same things apply here for back extensions and good mornings. So for you folks at home, this might be something for you to consider, even if your split isn't exactly like mine. And you try out that cue that I just gave you as well. Overall, though, with these first two changes, I learned how to better optimize my personal recovery without changing my exercises very much. But back extensions and stiff leg deadlifts are different exercises. I already hear someone saying it. Let's head back in the airship because this question is going to be our call to action for chapter three. When you have a great basic build and any good video game, you really only need to switch up your equipment when it's absolutely necessary to defeat the boss. Paralysis by analysis can have you tinkering with your character aimlessly, though. So let's run through a quick example to show you how simple it actually is. For me specifically, I set up my sessions, weirdly enough, based on what arm exercises I'm doing. A really simple thing that I do is thinking of exercises as things that fit in slots, and I make those slots fit in with one another. Thinking of your exercises as, this is my bicep slot, or this is my pressing slot, narrows down your choices quite a bit, which is honestly the easy part. Nonetheless, people ask me every single day what they should do to build whatever muscle group they're interested in building. The truth is this, how your exercises synergize with one another is a lot more important because at a high level, most good exercises build muscle about as well as the next one. In my case specifically, I needed to account for maximum recovery between my sessions because my upper body days are happening a lot more frequently. I've already accounted for chest, back, and shoulders being recovered. All that's left is the beef cannons, the arms, baby. Which has not been a big consideration to make. I just try to sandwich those easier to recover from arm exercises where it makes sense and to maximize blood flow for recovery. First heard that from John Meadows, and it's been super simple to incorporate. That looks like doing long rope press downs where I can extend the range of motion a little bit and drive some extra blood flow where I would normally do extensions on my dip day, and sometimes even on my bench day if I feel like I need it. And then those heavy loaded extensions, those just get sent to whatever day I feel like I can best perform with them on. Because at the end of the day, if you're not getting stronger, you're not getting bigger. Speaking of strength, that was an example of changing due to necessity. What about changing to just optimize our player character, make them as strong as possible? If you remember my video that I made on exercise combos, I said that barbell curls and barbell extensions are a match made in heaven. Easy bar curls and easy bar extensions feel even better. And my gym just got a sweet new easy bar, so bada bing bada boom, I'm using it now. My wrists feel more stacked, and I'm able to grab the bar with sort of a bulldog grip, which helps me connect with the movements even better. And I get a better mind muscle connection as a result of that. Now, as you can see, these are small changes, and the additions are just common sense exercises that we're all doing already. The only reason that I added these in the way that I did is because the actual structure of the program was tweaked. I'm not changing things for no reason. That's the lesson that I'm giving y'all here. And those structural changes in and themselves were not very complicated, very simple. And that ease of adjustment is only possible when you keep things simple to begin with. With that being said, I hope you've prepared yourself because we're jumping back in the airship to approach the final boss. I'll see y'all there. Big Bad's Castle Our very last chapter brings us to Big Bad's Castle, my most fatiguing session, and by far my favorite, my shoulder-pressing day, which is really just a glorified shoulder day with some rows and arms attached to it that you'd see on a regular-ass bro split. This Big Bad Mamma Jamma is also my first session of the week. And the simple thing that I like to keep in mind is to just make sure that that first training day feels the strongest consistently. I'm a big believer in momentum. And I think if the very first session of your week feels strong consistently, from a mindset perspective, your other sessions are going to benefit from that. Now, speaking of strength, I'm happy to report that I slayed 185 when behind-the-neck presses to the traps for 7 reps, which is way more range of motion than I used the last time I hit this kind of weight. Also, I hit 200 pounds for 4 reps. I've set myself up pretty nicely to chip my 260-pound shoulder-press PR, either hitting it again but easier or hitting more weight. In addition to that super satisfying behind-the-neck press PR, I also hit 315 pounds for 5 on the chest-supported rows. Both of those things were short-term goals of mine that I'm really happy to share with you. Of course, I'm documenting my training history, but mostly it's just because I have something that I want to share with you to help you increase your shoulder strength and back strength as well. Now, full disclosure, I've made almost zero changes to the actual program that I've shared recently. But instead, I'm massively benefiting from a better overall weekly structure that I outlined in the previous chapters. That's the first part. The main change that I have made is to the first few weeks of the program. I just press off of pins when I'm working with lighter weights. The reasoning behind this is that it's just a way to make the lighter weight more effective at building strength. I find personally that when I'm working with lighter weights, I have a tendency to fudge the form a little bit more. So those intro weeks are not as effective as they might be as compared to pressing off of pins where you're coming from a dead stop every rep. You're pretty much forced to have good rep quality. And on top of that, pressing off of pins is a bit harder in general in the first place. And being that those intro weeks with the lighter weight are over half the program almost, the way Sam has it set up for me, makes sense that I'm stronger than usual. And then on top of that, pin pressing in general is going to build a surplus of strength at the bottom because you're pressing from a dead stop. So try that one out at home, fellas. Take it to the bank. Make sure that the beginning of your program is really high quality through whatever means that you can do. And then try out pin presses, whether you're doing shoulder presses or bench. Other than that, I made a small change to the shoulder isolation that I do by just adding in the mythical upright row back into my program. It's been a long time since I did them. And that's just because Dr. Mike said that he hit 155 for 20 reps. So I thought it would be cool to see how close I could get to that over the next seven, eight weeks or so. There's a couple of key benefits to outline. The last big foundational benefit here is that because these particular sessions don't ever change very much in massive ways. I'm able to focus much more on execution, mastery and refinement of these lifts as skills. On top of the movements, plain old just feeling better. Your workouts move a lot quicker. And most importantly for me, I have a better appreciation for what my body is doing and how I'm improving when I'm thinking about mastery as opposed to the results. In other words, if you're just focusing on how to do a better and better job and you trust that the results will follow from that, get better results as opposed to if you're just obsessed with getting more jacked. Does that make sense? When the time does come, minimal brainpower goes into making these changes because I know exactly what needs to be changed because that overall basic foundation, that roadmap, those steps that millions have taken before me, those things were already in place. And when you're doing your homework, like I outlined with the upright rows, there's a little bit of room for some novelty in there. A little bit of fun when you're doing everything else the way that you're supposed to. And that's going to apply no matter what you do, even if the specific exercises that you enjoy doing don't look like mine at all. My last piece of advice is just pick your favorites, stay in your lane and stay the course till you reach your goals. That's all she wrote, fellas. I really hope you enjoyed. Thank you so much for watching. And if you're interested in supporting the channel, go ahead and check out my Omni Hypertrophy app. It's linked in the description and the pinned comment right now. I accompanied that with a free demo so you could see its full functionalities before you buy it. Thanks so much, guys. I'll see y'all later. Have a good day. Bye.