 R Всеil practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice practice Thanks to the folks that gave feedback during the beta test. You helped me round out the edges and make this the perfect program. So I appreciate y'all immensely. As for everybody else, thanks for stopping by. For your viewing pleasure, I'll be doing a fun overview, tips, and troubleshooting episode today using my own training on Beast Slayer 2.0 as an example for you to refer to when you run it yourself. And I insist, please do get comfy and watch to the end and come back to this video when you need it. Because although Beast Slayer 2.0 is a custom training template, it addresses the common problems people had when running the first Beast Slayer program. So sit back, relax, pour yourself a warm holiday drink, and I hope you enjoy. Now folks, this may surprise you, but my favorite builds are strength builds. Shocking, I know. And my favorite part of the strength build physique is those massive shoulders that you need to swing around giant weapons. So when I had to select an opening press on this day, I picked the classic seated shoulder press. Not only one of the best shoulder builders, but best upper bodybuilders in general. I've got some other bangers for you to select from, so you pick your favorite. Now fellas, I literally just made a video about shoulders, so I'm not going to talk about the seated press too much again here. You can check that out if you want to. But I do want to talk more about the progression that I'm using here, since fellas always have questions about it. As you know, you gotta get stronger to get bigger. Provided your technique is good, that's a huge indicator of gains. And there's two main ways to pace yourself out to get stronger. A double progression, or a basic linear strength progression. You have the option of using both or either on Beast Slayer 2.0, but I picked the basic linear progression here, so we'll cover that one first. And it's super effective. The proof is in the pudding, fellas. I hit a very satisfying 265 pounds seated press PR, by the way, baby. So listen up. I've used the basic linear periodization setup on my road to getting eventually a three-plate seated overhead press. And I've taken the liberty of including an easy-to-use calculator within the program for you guys to use that spits out 10 weeks of progression, so you can learn and train at the same damn time. The basic idea here is that to build strength well, you need to train with weights and rep totals that are tough enough to get a good workout, but leave you with enough energy tanks to have momentum for the next workout. You add a little weight here, do a few less reps there every session, every week, until, boom, you get to a PR set of 1 to 5. I love this type of setup for your big barbell movements, or movements that you want to use as your main performance metrics. Some folks even use it for weighted pull-ups, and I personally use it for weighted dips. But here's the bigger and honestly the next natural question that most people have. Why use this instead of a normal double progression? And the answer is straightforward. First of all, newer lifters using Beast Slayer 2.0 should use a double progression instead. I give you the option of what to use on Beast Slayer 2.0, depending on your experience level, because this program is not only meant to be accessible, but you're able to use it as a newer lifter to become an intermediate and eventually an advanced lifter. And when you're a newer lifter, a double progression works pretty well on those big exercises, because you can't create very much stimulus with an exercise to prevent you from making momentum, if you can't use that much weight. And for that same reason, even when you're a more advanced lifter, double progressions can work on exercises that you have as second-tier movements, or accessories, or even isolation exercises. Once you're stronger, though, a linear strength progression works better to keep that strength gains gravy train rolling on your big performance metrics. But that is all she wrote for the first exercise and the biggest question most folks at home will have. Moving on from upper to lower body, let's now talk about a way to include work that most of us honestly skip, but in a way that's automatic and magnifies the effectiveness of the workout. I'd love to introduce to you the idea of sandwiching your big opening movement on a full body workout with calf work, or really anything surgical and easy to recover from. It's a great way of recuperating some stamina without lollygagging at the gym. And trust me, partner, you'll need all the pizzazz you can get on a full body workout. Now, personally, I did three sets of calves after my pressing and before my leg press. But if you want, you can do two sets here and one set sandwich somewhere else to help you recuperate stamina there. It's up to you. Before we quickly move on, here's a form tip that I got for the calves from Alberto Nunez. Try pausing for a really long time at the bottom. You see, most of us don't have very full muscle bellies in our calves, and so our tendons are longer. And the longer your tendon, the bigger bounce you get out the bottom, and the longer you have to pause to dissipate it. So try that out, let me know what you think. But honestly, fellas, calves are boring. If you want legs strong enough to bust out some Metroid-style wall jumps, you need to hit some quads. And I picked the leg press, but what you choose here is up to you. That said, there are two prescriptions within the exercise that I want to quickly explain. No rest pausing and no lockouts. Rest pausing refers to the habit that most of us have of resting at the top to grind out more reps, instead of just taking a quick breath at the top to brace our cores if we need it. Now, folks, rest pausing on squats or leg press puts some real hair on your chest. It's fun, it's tough, and it helps you bang out more reps. But it also nukes your stamina, so we're just going to not do that. Remember, we do have a full workout we need to get through. And as for the no lockouts, this just helps to enforce a more even rep tempo, since you can't rest at the top if you don't get there. You still want to go through most of the range of motion? Just skip the last little bit. So try that out and let me know what you think. Lastly, very quickly, I want to talk about troubleshooting a double progression if you happen to mess it up. It's super common, so don't worry. It even happens to me sometimes. I went a little too heavy on my first set, and if that happens to you, just rest your normal amount and strip the weight down. It isn't the end of the world, and I still got in a great workout, and so will you. Just start off your next workout with that weight, and you're good to go. Now, fellas, you know how gym leaders spam full heals to heal their Pokemon when they're just about to lose? Next, I want you to have an intro workout to recover. That's mandatory, especially after those heavy hitters. Just down anything with some simple carbs and some electrolytes, meaning some sodium and some potassium. And after you resurrect yourself with some of that sweet carby nectar, it's time to channel the muscularity of the Indian gower and crush your hamstrings. I picked some hamstring curls, but you also have the option of hip hinges if they make sense for your customized program. But for the form on the curls, something I want you to try is pausing at the top and the bottom. This is to get the most out of the weight that you're using and to prevent swinging your way through the set, which is pretty common. Let's talk about another common troubleshooting technique for double progressions while I got you. So, for example, let's say you got an 8 to 12 rep range, and on that first set, you barely hit 8 reps. Here's what you do. Just like with the leg press, drop down the weight a little bit, rest, and keep it moving. Use that reduced weight next time and then build from there. Double progressions and really anything that I teach on these videos is super simple, but the troubleshooting comes with just accepting that it's okay to make mistakes, and then it's easy to fix them. Now, I've had enough of a lower body. The rest of the workout is going to be some meat and potatoes upper body work, starting off with a barnyard back builder. I personally chose to do weighted inverted rows next. I don't have any big form cues here that I haven't talked about before, aside from keeping those wrists and elbows stacked to attack that upper back. That and a hearty pause at the top, fellas. One thing I will say is that I picked this because it's a bang for your buck exercise, and that's something that I want you to keep in mind. Think about the total training economy of your program when you customize Beast Slayer 2.0. And if you have access to some gymnastics rings, it gives you a litany of exercises that you can pick from. Finishing up strong with the arms, because no day is really complete, unless you get an arm pump, I'm just being honest with you. Starting with the triceps. My favorite tricep overhead extension is the neutral grip overhead extension. The neutral grip feels really natural on your shoulders and keeps the elbows in a position that works really well to blast the triceps. I'm using my Omni Bar, which is really useful because it's rackable and has an angled grip for comfort. But you can always use dumbbells or a tricep bar. Dan Green used to blast those, and they look sick. Whatever you do choose, just draw the weights all the way down, low and slow, or a farming style like Trunks sheathing his sword after chopping Frieza in half, or Link from Zelda. One last little tip with double progressions is to always just prioritize hitting your rep targets on each set when you're kicking off a fresh double progression. Meaning if you have to drain all of your energy tanks to hit like 10 reps out of your 8 to 12 on a double progression, maybe just do 8 or 9 on the first set so that you could do 8 or 9 on the second, and 8 or 9 on the last instead of doing 10, 6, and then like 4, which is what happens to a lot of people when they do that. Lastly, we're going to hit the biceps, fellas, and all the same things apply here as well in terms of your double progression. And in terms of the form, it's a curl, so just bend your arm. What I will recommend is just picking a strict curling movement so it's easier to bias your biceps. I did strict hammer curls today, but you could also do meadows curls or strict curls. That does conclude our workout, and we're close to the last stop on our Beast Slayer 2.0 train. I just want to quickly direct you to read the FAQ fully for any additional questions that you have, including common stuff like how to add more volume, new exercises, and much, much more. There's some good stuff in there, folks, and it'll be your cheat sheet for running and rerunning Beast Slayer 2.0. Fellas, thank you so much for watching. I hope you enjoyed this holiday special, and I hope that you liked your gift. You can find Beast Slayer 2.0 for free in the description and pinned comment. Don't worry, it will come to Boost Camp as well as the new Raider update. If you wanted to get me something, check out my Omnibar, which I designed myself as a multi-purpose barbell along with Bells of Steel. But anyway, have a great day, fellas. Happy Holidays. Buh-bye.