 s Well, friends, if you're new, I'm bald, uhm, your host for today's very first episode of a new series called the Save Points Series, and our very first topic of discussion will be none other than the underrated and frankly overrated weighted inverted rows done in a special style that everyone can benefit from. You see, in the era of games that had save rooms, Save Points were all about taking a brief stop to transition and plan for the next stretch of your adventure. Much the same. And the Save Points series between longer uploads will cover cool, quick things that you can try in your training. And the goal is to give regular viewers a follow-up to a previous episode and give new viewers something cool to try for the very first time. So sit back, kick your feet up, and relax. I hope you enjoy. Let's kick things off on the road to mogging the demon back by talking about the benefits before we get into the setup, some cool workouts you can try, and then finally, mistakes to avoid. First and foremost, special thanks to Nick Nielsen on Instagram. He's where I got the setup from. But first and foremost, in terms of belt-loaded inverted rows, they're easily loadable, quick and easy to set up. And then lastly, home gym-friendly, which is huge, meaning you can do them almost anywhere. And for one more bonus, because you have the plates on a belt instead of on your chest, there's no risk of the weight smashing you in the face or slipping off, both of which have happened to me. Moving on to muscular benefits, just like a chest-supported row or a fancy row machine, belt-loaded inverted rows spare your lower back, which I see as more of an excuse to do some extra RDLs or back extensions instead, since they're more efficient at working your lower back muscles, glutes, and hamstrings. It's also easy to rack up effective volume with these bad boys, chiefly because they're a calisthenics exercise. In general, calisthenics exercises are less restrictive and easier to recover from than barbells or machines. For reference, I can do four or five sets of these puppies in one workout and be good to go, as opposed to only being able to do three sets of other rows, like chest-supported rows, for instance. That extra hard work gets you more jacked, but it also gets you in shape. Your work capacity will be better, and if you did want to do more volume in those other exercises, you're in the perfect position to do so. I love this benefit personally, and I leverage it a lot in my coaching and in my programs. Lastly, it's easy to line up your upper back to work in a straight line directly against the load. By that, I mean, with mostly every other row, you're hitting the upper back at an angle. That's not bad. It's just better to hit the muscle directly against the load, usually. Transitioning from benefits to setup, that part is also satisfyingly easy to do. First, set up a bar to slightly above waist height. Two, set up a box or bench that's about that same height. I prefer the bench since it's more solid. Three, load up the plates. And four, row, row, row your boat gently down the stream. Like Nick says in his post, it is helpful to use bumper plates because you can sit on them easily, which helps you get in the position better. But normal plates work just fine, too. I've done it both ways. Now, moving on to form, there is a common problem that I've personally encountered and also seen in others that I want to talk about first. It's easy to feel your arms in this exercise more than your back. We don't want to eliminate our arms from the equation. That defeats the purpose of a compound movement. But to bias the upper back, start the reps with retracting your upper back first instead of pulling with your arms first. It's really easy just to do partials by pulling your arms and really only work your brachialis and biceps. Other than that, form cues are simple and just the same as any other row. Just pinch your back as hard as you can at the top and pull kind of high on your torso to bias your upper back in traps. And just like with my other favorite back exercise, the chest-supported dumbbell row, you can superset these bad boys with Kelso shrugs once you don't have the strength to fully row anymore. Now, that's all well and good, but let's answer a question a lot of y'all probably haven't. Why not just barbell row or chest-supported row? Well, simple reason. Barbell rows seem simple, but they have an advanced learning curve. Two people can row two plates and get a totally different workout out of it. And I've only ever seen advanced lifters do them and not fudge their technique a lot to get more weight. Now, I made a 30-minute video talking about the full program I'd run to row 315 with a great form that you can check out after this one if you're interested. But as you'll see, it's a journey. It ain't a quick fix. As for chest-supported rows, I just see belt-loaded inverted rows as an equal substitute to throwing your program to avoid overuse. So I personally do them both in the same week. With that out of the way, let's quickly talk about a few mistakes to avoid before we finish up with some cool workouts you can try. Other than avoiding pulling into your arms, there's three quick things that you can keep in mind as well. Just don't set the bar or the box too low. That's just to give yourself clearance to go through a full range of motion. And for the same reason, don't set your weight plates too low either. Now, for a bigger golden tidbit, this is just an observation that I've had for doing inverted rows for many years now. But don't try to make this into a lat exercise. I just don't find it lends itself well to biasing the lats. That's not to say that these bad boys won't hit them and that you won't get wide, but it's just better to bias the upper back because they're better at hitting the upper back. But let's finish up with a couple workouts that you can try. One beginner, one advanced, and then one for fun. Now, of course, first and foremost, you have your basic double progression. You can do three sets of 8 to 12 to start off with. But once you hit the top of your rep range, just milk that rep total for a couple weeks, improving your control and technique before you move up. You may even have a few weeks where your rep totals oscillate a little bit, but just stick with that weight for a little longer than you might think you need to, and you'll get much more growth from it. If you want more information on that strategy, check out this video after you're done with this one. Now, if you want to drive more maximal strength to your upper back for better performance and retracting and depressing your shoulders in, say, a bench press, or for upper back stability and a hip hinge like the deadlift or an RDL, then give this second workout a try. Try doing a top set of 3 to 5, then strip some weight down, rest, and hit some higher rep sets to drive a little bit of extra volume. You'd progress otherwise the same way as in the first method. Last but certainly not least, if you're trying to save on time, you can do drop sets by doing body weight reps directly after your weighted sets. This will drive a lot of blood flow, which can aid in recovery or prepare your joints for a more stressful exercise. But that's all she wrote, folks. Thank you so much for watching. If you enjoyed this video, make sure to like, comment, and subscribe if you're new. And if you want to support the channel, check out my Omni Hypertrophy app. It's my personal coaching app with programming design based around my Berserk Method programming style with both guidance in and out of the gym. There's also dietary coaching baked in that accounts for your activity level, your current training advancement, and then how much you weigh. And that's even accurate for me. If you tried it out in the past, give it a second go. It's been updated with even sharper programming and exercise demos. You can find the Omni Hypertrophy app both in the description and pinned comment. But either way, have a great day, fellas. Bye-bye.