 We need to train. We need to train. But Tien, the doctor said if your shoulders get any bigger. That's why we don't see him anymore. Does your doctor want you to get big juicy delts? If they don't, show them this video. And you'll never look at basic lateral raises the same after watching this video. Basic laterals are good, but I've been spamming an exercise that I like even better. Enter the chest supported Y-raise, and we're gonna superset these bad boys with rear delt flies. I'm your host, Bald Omni-Man, and this is the newest installment in the series where I'm going to be the best. I'm gonna show you how to elevate classic movements that I show you how to elevate classic movements that you're already doing anyway. To have more fun, standardized technique, and overall just get better results. I'm gonna show you exactly why I like chest supported Y-raises better, how to use them, set them up, and most importantly, like I said, have some fun. Now without any further ado, let's get some planetary delts together. Please enjoy. The journey of a thousand steps to getting balloon sized delts starts with the setup. Because honestly, that's the easiest part. You just set your bench up, about yay high, and you smush your chest into it. In terms of form, raise your arms in a Y pattern within your own personal comfort, and then just control them on the way up, and on the way down. You work on your scapular plane automatically this way, which is just a gigabrain way of saying you're moving in a plane of motion where you can work your delts without hurting your joints. Nothing too crazy. This is not rocket science, fellas. My buddy Sam put me onto this simple change, and honestly, I haven't looked back since. Here's what you want to do in order to find your personal pain-free range of motion. Make sure you start with lighter dumbbells. Reason being is that you'll feel if anything is wrong, even with the five pounders. If you do happen to experience any pain when you're doing the chest supported Y-raise, make some slight adjustments by just adjusting the path that you pull your arms into. Everybody's going to be a little bit different, and as long as you feel your side delts getting destroyed, you don't have to worry about the way that it looks to others. Now the reason why I like these bad boys better than normal lateral raises is because the setup is more stable, and it also minimizes cheating. Now some level of momentum is fine, but recruiting your hips via standing lateral raises can just skew the movement too much in my opinion. Chest supported Y-raises, on the other hand, let you get just enough momentum to smooth out the movement, which is what we want. Most importantly, I find that the traps are minimally recruited here, which can be a game changer for folks that feel more traps than delts on lateral raises. So try it out. When you do these bad boys, we're eliminating all the weaknesses of the standing lateral raise and then isolating all of its strengths, and you can't go wrong with that. In terms of how to wield this weapon of interplanetary delt destruction, I like to place them at the end of a workout because I find that they don't take a lot of gusto to push hard. So there's no sense in placing them earlier in the workout and then take away from energy that you could use on a larger movement like, say, weighted dips, chest supported rows, weighted pull-ups, and things of that nature. I recommend practicing this movement with sets of 8, upwards of 15, or if you're feeling nasty, even 20 rep sets are awesome. I really like this movement in the higher rep ranges particularly because it promotes shoulder health from all that extra blood flow it generates to the delts. Who knew getting a pump was good for you? When you want to make progress on this movement, you want to follow a double progression, which I teach you how to do in all of my free programs if you're interested. Check those out in the description and in the pinned comment. Just take where you do normal lateral raises and just simply make the replacement. It's that simple. Lastly, like peanut butter and jelly, we got to superset these Y-raises with some rear delt flies. Nothing magic here, just a superset that I like doing that'll drive some extra volume to those rear delts to give you that really round look. Try adding these at the end of your upper body sessions and let me know what you think. As a bonus for you fellas that happen to be on the niche quest of increasing your overhead press, chest supported Y-raises and exercises like them are extremely helpful for that goal as well. Movements like this where we can increase the size of our entire shoulder without moving in a repetitive pressing pattern can be that difference between getting that 5-pound PR that we oh so want or getting crushed under the weight of the heavens like the Titan Atlas trying to hold up the sky. The rep range won't change when you incorporate them into an overhead press program, but I do want you to think of them more like mandatory extra credit. Like, yeah, it's extra credit, but you better do it. This is the best delt isolation that you can do to prevent getting crushed like Atlas did. But what do you think is the best delt exercise? Do you think I'm wrong about the chest supported Y-raises though? Do they suck? Let me know with a comment down below. And if you want more videos like this that are shorter, single topic and information dense, let me know by liking, subscribing and sharing this video with a buddy. Watch these other videos in the series now that you've watched this one and check out my Berserk Method 2025 self-coaching guide. Thanks so much for watching, fellas. Have a great day. Bye.