 z argucesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscesscess on to our main event, the thalamus, which is also sometimes referred to as the dorsal thalamus. And it is a paired or bilateral structure forming the largest part of the diencephalon. To refresh your memory, the diencephalon is formed from the thalamus, the epithalamus, the hypothalamus, and the pre-thalamus. The thalamus is elongated along the anteroposterior axis and is often described as roughly egg-shaped, but it's a little bit smaller than your breakfast boiled egg, measuring approximately 4 centimetres in length. The medial surfaces of the thalamus are usually connected by an interthalamic adhesion. It is not known whether any fibres cross over to the other side, so that's why we don't call it a commissure. From a functional point of view, the thalamus is of utmost importance for the integration of sensory information in the central nervous system and for the regulation of motor activity and consciousness. In order to play all these roles harmoniously, the thalamus is located between the cerebral cortex and the brainstem. And you could say that the thalamus is the central gateway to the cerebral cortex since the majority of sensory information that comes into the brain passes through the thalamus. If you found this quick anatomy or physiology video helpful, you'll enjoy our video tutorials even more. Click on the button and you'll see what I mean. We have hundreds of videos available to our premium members, not to mention all the fun quizzes, complete articles and atlas sections to solidify your knowledge. Click on the button in the middle to watch the full length video and master anatomy and physiology.