 anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat anat second one. This is a true rib and this is the 11th rib. Although there are some exceptions, most ribs have the same bony landmarks. Let's go over some of the landmarks you would see on a typical rib and then we'll look at some special features seen only on a couple of ribs. To start, the head of the rib is the part closest to the spine. All ribs have a head with a surface to articulate or form a joint with a vertebral body next to it. If we move a little further out, we reach this part here which is the neck of the rib. It is a slightly longer region between the head and angle of the rib. In this image we have highlighted it in green. The neck has more surfaces for attaching the vertebrae to the ribs which we call articular tubercles. The tubercles of the ribs are small, rough bumps that attach the neck of the rib to the thoracic vertebra. If you look closely at the tubercles, you will notice a smooth surface in the middle of the articular tubercle called the articular facet. This is where the tubercle of the rib articulates with the transverse process of a thoracic vertebra. Let's take a closer look at how these surfaces fit together. This is what the joint between the ribs and spinal column looks like from above. This is the body and transverse process of the vertebra. You can see here that there are two articulations involved. This is the joint between the head of the rib and the vertebral body and here is the joint between the articular facet of the tubercle and the transverse process of the vertebra. To reorient ourselves, these are four ribs from different levels of the thoracic cage. This is the first rib. This one here is the second one. This is a typical rib near the middle of the thoracic cage and this is the 11th rib. The uppermost part of the neck of the rib is referred to as the crest of the rib. In this image, it is the green line between the head of the rib and the tubercle of the neck. We just looked at the head and neck of the ribs and if we move a little further away from the spine, the bone curves. This is the angle of the rib. At this point, the rib begins to course around the lung towards the sternum. The rest of the rib from the angle to the joint with the sternum is called the body or shaft of the rib. The body of the rib has a small groove at the bottom on the inside of the rib cage. This is the costal groove. Nerves and arteries that supply the ribs and muscles follow this groove. Now that we know the basic structure of the ribs, let's look at some of the features of atypical ribs. Remember, atypical ribs include ribs 1, 2, and 10 through 12. In this section, we will look at the scalene tubercle, the attachment for the subclavius, the groove for the subclavian vein, and also the groove for the subclavian artery. And lastly, we will look at the serratus anterior tuberosity. Now this is the first rib. Like a typical rib, it has a head, neck, shaft, and articular tubercles. But it is much shorter than other ribs and has a few extra bony landmarks made by muscle attachments and blood vessels passing across it. The landmark highlighted in this picture is called the scalene tubercle, and it is the attachment point for the anterior scalene muscle. This is another bony landmark created by a muscle attachment. The subclavius muscle attaches to the clavicle and first rib. When this muscle is tensed, it pulls the clavicle closer to the first rib. Now the subclavian vein is a large vein draining blood from the upper limb, and it passes over the first rib on its way to the heart. The subclavian vein is large enough to create a small depression on the rib. This is what we call the groove for the subclavian vein, and it is highlighted in green on the image right now. The subclavian artery passes over the first rib next to the subclavian vein and also creates a groove. Blood pressure is higher in arteries than veins, so the groove created by the subclavian artery is larger than the groove from the subclavian vein. The groove for the subclavian artery is highlighted in green here next to the groove for the subclavian vein. Like the scalene muscles, the serratus anterior muscle also creates a unique bony landmark where it attaches to the ribs. This is the serratus anterior tuberosity of the second rib. If you found this quick anatomy or physiology video helpful, you'll enjoy our video tutorials even more. Click on the button and you'll see what I mean. We have hundreds of videos available to our premium members, not to mention all the fun quizzes, complete articles, and atlas sections to solidify your knowledge. Click on the button in the middle to watch the full length video and master anatomy and physiology. Click on the button in the middle to watch the full length video and master anatomy.