 N direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct direct to look at some of our atlas images. I'm going to hit this magnifying glass icon. It's just going to make it easier to see everything and there is a lot to see here. Just to kind of orient you, we've cut a portion of the liver and then we are reflecting it upwards and what that allows us to see is the underside of the liver. You can see like the gallbladder here. The stomach has been cut as has the spleen a little bit. You can see the small intestine has even been cut right here. This is what's called the duodenum. This is where we're getting into the horizontal and ascending part of it. The transverse colon. We can't see the descending colon because that goes back here. My point is there's a lot that has been cut here but the thing that is probably catching your eye the most is going to be the small intestine which are being folded and reflected outside of the body. So you can see there's ribs here. You can see there's muscle tissue. You can see the integumentary system. All of that has been opened up right. We are looking at the abdominal cavity and what this allows us to see is all of the viscera in here and we are just reflecting those intestines to the side so then we can see the deeper blood vessels because all of this is going to be extraordinarily important to what we're going to call the hepatic portal vein. So the thing that it's highlighting right here is something called the superior mesenteric vein but to understand what that is we really need to understand this right here which is called the mesentery. One of the most common misunderstandings I see inside of media is like you see this in zombie movies if someone's abdomen gets cut like their intestines are just falling out of their body and that's just not true. The small intestine and the large intestine they have to be firmly anchored to your body otherwise like you do a cartwheel and everything would get like twisted and turned it would just be madness. The small intestine are anchored to your body via this tissue called the mesentery. The mesentery is going to be like a peritoneum it's like folded in on itself but then you also have a lot of blood vessels inside of it. As you can see there are red and blue lines here that is representing the arteries and veins and so we just kind of have to ask ourselves so what is the purpose of the small intestine? In fact what is the purpose of the large intestine as well and that's going to be absorption. So absorption of nutrients is the primary function for the small intestine and then absorption of water is a function of the large intestine. Large intestine is obviously going to move feces as well but you have to ask yourself well where does it go once you've absorbed it? Well it is going to drain into the mesenteric veins right? So these blue veins you can see here which by the way the red is going to be delivering nutrient less blood to the intestines. So basically it's like you're sending blood to the intestines to then pick up that actual nutrients and then you're going to start draining it via the veins and that is going to start draining into that superior mesenteric vein. Now there's also an inferior mesenteric vein which is going to be connecting up here but we're just going to disregard that for the time being and just say the superior mesenteric vein is where basically everything from your small intestine and a good amount of your large intestine is going to be draining into. But then we also have this over here called the splenic vein and that is coming from the spleen. Now the spleen is essentially like a gigantic lymph node. It's in the upper left quadrant of your abdomen just like nestled to the side of the stomach and this is where red blood cells are actually going to be ripped apart and red blood cells only last for about 120 days. This is going to help filter blood. This is a gigantic site for lymphatic functioning. So we have blood that is going to be coming from the spleen and it is going to be converging with that superior mesenteric vein. So if we actually look back here here's the superior mesenteric vein and then here is going to be that splenic vein and what they are converging into is this right here which is the hepatic portal vein. Anytime you see hep that prefix hep that is going to be all about the liver. So hepatic is just saying like it pertains to the liver itself and so what's happening is we are bringing blood from the spleen and from the intestines now to the liver. Now it's going to join with several other vessels. We'll kind of like go through the same space right like your bile ducts and then other arteries and in fact this hepatic portal vein is even going to split and to a left and then to a right and then it's going to go into the liver here but it's going to go through something called the hepatic triad. This is just where that the artery the vein and then the bile duct are all going to be coming out of but my point is the hepatic portal vein is going to bring that nutrient rich blood that is coming from the intestines and it's then going to send it into the liver into what are called hepatic sinusoids. We're not going to really get into the deep functions of the liver in this video but just understand it is bringing blood to the liver in order to be filtered right because when you eat something or you consume something and it gets absorbed through your digestive tract that doesn't mean everything is good and your liver is going to decide which is good and which is bad for the most part or at least you know if it's able to do that and so what's interesting is technically the hepatic portal vein here isn't really a vein in the classic sense because if you remember arteries take blood away from the heart and veins bring it back to the heart but this isn't really bringing blood to the heart it's bringing blood to the liver and what's even more interesting is that there's obviously we can see that there's an artery going in here too remember arteries is what's typically delivering blood to something well yes this is sending blood to the liver to be cleansed but the liver is going to take advantage while it can and also utilize some of the nutrients coming from the intestines which means inside of these little like sinusoids these little like functional areas inside of the liver basically as the blood is being cleaned it's also going to be mixing a bit with some of the arterial blood so you have venous blood and arterial blood and the liver is just going to kind of mix it together and utilize it while it's cleaning it to kind of just give it everything it needs it is then going to drain that and send it towards the inferior vena cava which is this giant blood vessel back here it's going to keep on going up and basically on the back side of the liver you're going to drop the through the hepatic veins into the inferior vena cava and then that's going to go up to the heart and basically you've cleaned your blood right that is what is happening at the liver the liver does a lot of really interesting things producing bile is one of them as well as like storing glycogen is another but one of the primary if not i guess you could say the primary function would be to cleanse the blood right it's there to take that blood from the intestines and make sure there's nothing nefarious in it and so this is really i think gonna help us understand the second part of our video right we now understand that this is the hepatic portal vein but it's getting blood from the splenic vein and the superior mesenteric vein so the question here is why is it that colon cancer very commonly not always but very commonly is going to metastasize or spread to the liver and the reason for that is because of this right so let's say like remember a good amount of the colon not the entire large intestine right so like the rectum for example isn't going to come through the superior mesenteric vein but everything is going to eventually make its way to the hepatic portal vein coming from here so let's imagine you have colorectal cancer inside of the ascending or transverse descending even into the rectum in the sigmoid what's going to happen is it is that cancer when you start to get to like stage three and stage four cancer that is where it is going to have the ability to spread and it very commonly goes to the liver and then it can cause liver cancer liver failure and that can be the end stage of that if treatment hasn't been successful and so you know when you understand your anatomy you can start to understand why things happen the way they do right we have a term for this it's called clinical anatomy and it's a really you know honestly it's typically very simple once you understand the parts right a lot of like that confusing stuff gets kind of just taken away and you're just like oh of course that makes sense right because the liver cleans it cleans blood it cleanses blood coming from the intestines if you have cancer of the intestines and it invades the bloodstream it makes sense that the next logical stop would indeed be that liver and you know that's just going to that just again it just makes a whole lot of sense so reminder this is a 100% free KenHub article we're going to go ahead and leave a link down the description below again now there are premium features in here like at the very top our videos are a premium feature as our scroll down real quick our quiz modes but I strongly encourage you to play around with these because especially our quiz mode this in my opinion is the single best way to learn your anatomy because we have two different types a study session and an exam quiz the study session quizzes are literally built literally built to teach you as it quizzes you which is such a powerful way to learn your anatomy again we're going to go ahead and leave that link down in the description below but thanks for hanging out with me I really appreciate it hope you learned something in today's video if you did please go ahead and hit that like button little things like that go a long way head on down to the comment section let us know what you thought about the video maybe what you want us to talk about in future videos but again I appreciate you hanging out with me and I will see you next time yeah