 et Claud Claudio-5-doo, Claudio-goo-doo, Claudio-goo-doo, Claudio-goo-doo, Intramemminous ossification is the formation of bone through the clustering and differentiation of mesenchymal stem cells around highly vascularized connective tissue. And these cells gradually differentiate into more mature and specialized cells, which we'll talk about in more detail in just a little bit. So if we look closely at our image, we can identify several distinguishing histological features unique to this type of ossification. But first let's orientate ourselves. Our histology slide here is taken from a section of fetal skullcap. First of all, we can clearly see several blood vessels, which indicate the highly vascularized nature of the connective tissue just here. And this border of blue stain is known as osteoid, which is the unmineralized portion of the bone matrix and which we'll talk a little bit more about later. And these areas of deep red are our final product of intramemminous ossification, which is mineralized bone. Another distinguishing feature, which is very prominent in our histological slide, is tightly packed collagen. And this can be expected, of course, in connective tissue. This collagen forms structures known as trabeculae, which we'll also discuss a little bit later. But for now, let's focus on the specific cells involved in the intramembranous ossification. So remember that we talked about mesenchymal cells differentiating into other cells. We're now seeing the product of this differentiation. These cells are known as osteoblasts and they originate from mesenchymal stem cells. You can see that they cover these collagenous structures we previously presented, but their role in bone formation is much more complex than that. These cells basically synthesize and secrete different substances, each with their own importance, in the process of bone formation. First of all, they produce all the collagen which organizes into the collagenous structures we presented, specifically type 1 collagen. And an easy way to remember this is that type 1 collagen is contained within bone. Another substance produced by osteoblasts is proteoglycan. Type 1 collagen together with the proteoglycan constitute a matrix for the newly formed bone, which is known as osteoid. And finally, osteoblasts produce and secrete alkaline phosphatase. This is an enzyme which promotes the calcification of the osteoid matrix. Let's now look a little bit more closely at the osteoid matrix, which if you remember, is composed of type 1 collagen and proteoglycan and is calcified by alkaline phosphatase. New osteoid forms on pre-existing mineralized osteoid, so osteoid is laid down layer by layer. This process results in the formation of a matrix, which is initially soft and pliable, and hardens once it calcifies. This matrix initially calcifies into small bony islets, which later grow to form the bony trabeculae. And eventually the bony trabeculae thicken and connect to each other to form what is later known as trabecular bone. The space between the trabeculae accommodates the highly vascularized hematopoietic tissue, which is known as the bone marrow. And as you can see, many osteoblasts become trapped in small cavities within the calcifying osteoid. And these cavities are known as lacunae, which is the Latin name for pit. The osteoblasts differentiate one step further to become osteocytes. And these cells sense mechanical stress on bone and can secrete growth factors that stimulate osteoblasts in response to that stress. They're also believed to transfer minerals from the interior of bone to the growth surfaces. Our next cell type is formed by the fusion of macrophages, making it multinucleated. These are known as osteoclasts, and we can see some in our histology slide just here. Do take a note of their foamy appearance, as this is a good way to identify them. The cytoplasm of osteoclasts contains a high concentration of vesicles and vacuoles. And these vacuoles include lysosomes filled with acid phosphatase. Osteoclasts move along the surface of the bone and seal themselves to the bone through integrins binding to fibronectins on the bone surface. And by emptying their lysosomal contents of acid phosphatase on the bare mineralized osteoid permitting bone resorption. Osteoclasts are not located just anywhere on the osteoid matrix of bone. They can be found specifically in pits in the bone surface, which are called resorption bays, or Halship's lacunae. And bear in mind that not every osteoclast in these lacunae participates in active bone resorption. If we look a little bit more closely at our image, we'll see a large orange cell, and this is the osteoclast near the surface of the bone. We can see that the connective tissue near the bone has been thinned out, as is the osteoid underlying it. At another site of active bone resorption, we can see the osteoclast forming what is known as the ruffled border, which is a specialized cell membrane that opposes the surface of the bone tissue. This extensively folded or ruffled border facilitates bone removal by dramatically increasing the cell surface for secretion and uptake of the resorption compartment contents. If you found this quick anatomy or physiology video helpful, you'll enjoy our video tutorials even more. Click on the button and you'll see what I mean. We have hundreds of videos available to our premium members, not to mention all the fun quizzes, complete articles, and atlas sections to solidify your knowledge. Click on the button in the middle to watch the full length video and master anatomy and physiology.