 naringin, plainscincin, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains, plains plains, the epiphyses of long bones. Although there are some fat cells present, red bone marrow is mostly made up of red and white blood cells at various stages of development, and a network of supportive fibres. Let's take a look at some of these features. The hematopoietic cells reside in small clusters called hematopoietic cords. Hematopoietic cords are made up of developing blood cells supported by a network of branched reticular cells. Some mast cells and plasma cells may also be present among the reticular cells. Erythropoiesis, thrombopoiesis and leukopoiesis occur here. A list of long words that might not mean that much to you. Let me explain. Erythropoiesis is the formation of red blood cells. Thrombopoiesis is the formation of platelets. And leukopoiesis is the formation of white blood cells. Specifically, erythropoiesis occurs in erythroid islands, also known as erythroblastic islands. Here are the precursors to red blood cells, develop, proliferate and lose their nuclei. These pink cells here are mature red blood cells, and the purple cells in the erythroid island are precursor cells that have not yet lost their nuclei. Along with the spongy bone drabeculae, hematopoietic cells have another supporting structure, reticular cells. In this micrograph, you can see the cells are adjacent to large adipocytes. Reticular cells produce a special kind of type 3 collagen fibre called reticular fibres. The reticular fibres look like small curved lines within the bone marrow. They are very tiny and it takes a powerful microscope to see them in detail. Reticular fibres intersperse within the connective tissue of bone marrow and form a network to support the cells. If you found this quick anatomy or physiology video helpful, you'll enjoy our video tutorials even more. Click on the button and you'll see what I mean. We have hundreds of videos available to our premium members, not to mention all the fun quizzes, complete articles and atlas sections to solidify your knowledge. Click on the button in the middle to watch the full length video and master anatomy and physiology.