 insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, ins and do this. I want you to take a moment and just try to figure out what view you are looking at like right now, because this is one of the most important things you can do whenever you're looking at a cadaveric image, because that's exactly what you're seeing. This is a real image and try to figure out what, what on earth you're looking at, because at first glance, this is a very strange image, but I mean, I think very quickly, you're going to notice that it says lungs covered by the parietal pluri, and then you're like, oh, okay, like I'm looking at the lungs, but why don't they look like the lungs? Well, that's because of the plura, but I mean, let's just kind of walk through what this image is, because this is an anterior view. It's like you're looking at me, but what's happened is the ribs all the way down to the abdominal muscles have been cut away, and then we see this reflecting of all these different tissues, like the pectoralis major, pectoralis minor, the serratus anterior. There's several muscles that are all being reflected back, and that allows us to see inside of the thoracic cavity, and we are met with this tissue that not a lot of people know exists. It's called the parietal plura, or let's just kind of say it's the plura, and the plura is going to be an essential component to understanding how breathing works, because without it, honestly, breathing would not occur. And I can tell you right now, there are some really, I mean, they're interesting, but they're unfortunate consequences of plural problems, where, you know, like you could have, say, like, if you've heard of pneumothorax, hemothorax, plural effusion, pleurisy, right? Like, these are conditions where something is compromising this tissue. Now, before we kind of break down what the plura is, I think we should probably be starting with how breathing works. I'm going to kind of scan up here, and by the way, I'm using a one, that's a really cool image, by the way. You can see some real lungs there. I'm using a 100% free article here on KenUp, and we'll go ahead and leave the link down in the description below. You are welcome to follow along. And what I want to do is not so much focus on all of the terms here you're going to see on the sides. Instead, I just want to look at the image, because what you're seeing is an anterior and a sagittal view of the body, right? So you're looking at an anterior view of the chest, but you're looking at a sagittal view of the head. And so you can kind of have this turned position here. And we just want to kind of like walk through the pathway that air is going to take. So, I mean, we're not going to focus on every single structure here. We're more concerned just on the exact pathway, because you can breathe in through your nose, or you can breathe in through your mouth. And what those are, and where it's going to go from there, is into this open space called the nasal cavity, or the oral cavity. And you look at the oral cavity, the tongue is massive, so it doesn't seem like it's an open space, but it actually is. And then from there, the air is going to go into the pharynx. And the pharynx can be divided into the nasopharynx, oropharynx, and laryngopharynx. But this is just your throat. And then what happens is it's actually going to have to make a choice, as does everything that's in this area. Am I going to go in the digestive tract through the esophagus, or am I going to go through the respiratory tract through the larynx? And that's exactly what it's going to do. It's going to go through the larynx, down the trachea, and then it's going to split into the bronchial tree and enter into the lungs. And I think it's important to really understand what the lungs do, or really what they are. Because in my mind, when I was very, I guess for most of my life, honestly, I assumed the lungs were kind of like these hollow bags. And then what happened is they would inflate, and then they deflate, inflate, and deflate. And that's not exactly how it works, because the lungs themselves are really connective tissues that surround the bronchial tree. So if you're looking in here, you can see that there are these tubes. And these tubes just keep on branching, branching, branching. We're talking 33 generations of branching. So to think about it like a generation is so we can see the trachea here. And then there's this bifurcation that happens. The trachea splits into the right and left primary bronchi. That is one generation of splitting. There are 33 generations of splitting. So like the bronchial tree in my mind isn't really a great name. I've always thought of it as more of like a bronchial bush. And what it does is it permeates the entirety of the lungs. The lungs are really the soft tissue that surrounds all of these hollow tubes that are part of the bronchial system. And they're made of this elastic connective tissue that is really good at stretching and recoiling. So like I want you to take a breath with me right now. So let's go ahead and inflate our lungs. Now what I want you to do is just let go. Like you didn't have to force that. What happened is the lungs naturally want to rebound, and that is going to help to exhale. And then air is going to take the opposite path out of your body. So the lungs are not these hollow things as much as they are supporting and connective tissues that are surrounding the hollow tubes of the respiratory tract. And that is going to be an essential component because then if we go back down right here, what we have is the pleura, which is also going to be connective tissue that is surrounding those lungs. And it's actually a double layer, right? So you have like, you have this parietal pleura, and then you also have this visceral pleura. It doesn't really matter as to which is which. The point is you have this double layer and one side of this pleura is going to be connected to the inside of the rib cage. And then the other side is going to be connected to the lungs. It'll connect to the diaphragm. And what happens is there's a fluid in between. There's this space with a fluid that helps to kind keep it all lubricated because you don't, I want you to think about how many breaths you take. That's a lot of friction. And that would be encountered in this area. You're going to need to lubricate it. And so the pleura right here is going to actually do that, right? That's the purpose of the pleura is to actually help lubricate, but also attach the lungs to the diaphragm here, right? That's, that's what this muscle is. This muscle is the diaphragm muscle. And so what I want to do is I want to actually then scan up here. So again, show you how navigatable, if that's even a word, these Kenhub articles are. Again, just another reminder, it's going to be down in the description below for you to go check out. You know, this is an encyclopedia, basically what we've done here. And what happened is, is you're reading through these. You can see that there are going to be links that are going to take you to different things. So let's go ahead and click on the diaphragm. And as we do that, we can start to meet this muscle here. So I'm going to go ahead and hit these arrows and that is going to enlarge the image. And what we can see here in green is part of the diaphragm. You can also see the top part of it. This is called the central tendon of the diaphragm. Let's go ahead and move to this other image. And you can see, this is a superior view of it. Actually, no, this is an inferior view. Now look at it. You can see here's the ribs. Here's the xiphoid process. So you are indeed looking at an inferior view of the diaphragm. We'll go over and then we can even see through a medical image, the diaphragm as well highlighted here in green. And then you can also see it right here again, highlighted in green. And it looks like we have one more image. And then we can even see like this actual cadaveric slide where you can see that diaphragm as it kind of goes around. And the point I'm trying to make here and illustrate, and I think this is a great image to focus in on is the diaphragm helps also connect to the wall of the body, right? We call this the body wall. And so what happens is the diaphragm is basically the most essential and important of the actual respiration muscles, because this is the one that's going to be involved no matter what. It's involved with restful breathing. It's involved with forced breathing. The diaphragm is going to be essential. And what it does is it basically anchors itself to the wall of the ribs, right? So basically it like traverses this whole portion where you can feel your ribs. Just imagine the diaphragm is going to be attached to it. And what's happening is the pleura is connecting itself to it. So let's actually go back here. Let's see. As we go back down, I want to show you, we're going to go back to that pleura. And I want to show you, ha, I want to show you what I'm talking about here, because look at this thing. What's happening is you can see the pleura is connecting to the diaphragm. And what that does, or what that means is that when the diaphragm contracts, which it goes down, that is actually going to pull on this pleura. And when it pulls on the pleura, then that's going to have to have some impact on, on the actual lungs underneath. Because remember, there are two layers to the pleura. One of them is connected directly to the lungs and the other is connected to the body wall. And so what's happening here is the pleura is going to move and the lungs are going to start moving with it. But you have to imagine the diaphragm is all about pulling down, right? You're doing a restful breathing. Your, your rib cage isn't really expanding all that much. There is expansion, but it's not that much expansion. And that's because most of that force is going to be a downward force coming from the diaphragm. And so the, basically again, the pleura is essential to this process. If you didn't have the pleura, this would not work because then the lungs themselves, they don't have a muscle inside of them to say, Hey, get bigger, right? That's, that's not how it works. What's happening is the diaphragm contracts. It's actually creating this negative air space, right? What's happening is you're like, literally as you're pulling in kind of yanks on the lungs and inside of the lungs, they're going to start to open. And as they start to open air is naturally going to go down because of physics, right? There's basically, you think about it, there's like an atmospheric pressure out here. And then there's going to be a different pressure inside of the lungs. And when you open up the lungs, you create this space, but the air wants to equalize. And so what happens is air, it just naturally flows into the lungs. And that is all a product of the pleura and being able to be attached to the diaphragm. However, again, this is, this is restful, normal breathing, relaxed breathing. And so we want to think about this for a second. Well then how on earth, and I'm sure you might be able to be starting to be able to piece this together. How on earth do you do this really barrel chested, deep breath? Like how, what, what's actually happening there? So in order to figure that out, what I want to do is I want to see something else that's going to be in between here. And you can kind of actually see, if you look closely, like you can see the ribs here in between them are going to be some really interesting muscles called the intercostals. So if you just break down the name intercostals, it means between the ribs, right? Inter between costals and ribs. And you can see the intercostals here in this image. Well, the one that's highlighted is what's called the external intercostal. And that's because there are three layers to your intercostals and not to try to make this, you know, I don't know, grotesque is the right word here, but if you are a meat eater, I want you to think to when you're eating ribs, right? If you actually look at those, those fiber, the fiber orientation of those muscles, you can see that they're actually crisscrossing. If you flip the rib over humans are very, are the exact same because what we have just like all the other mammals are going to be these crisscrossing muscle fibers that are going to yank on the ribs in particular directions. And so what we see here is the outermost. Well, it's not really the outermost layer, but it's the external intercostal because the outermost layer is another muscle called the serratus anterior, which we've done a video on that as well. But the, basically the external intercostal is going to be the outside layer of the ribs. And what's important to understand is this muscle is going to be involved in forced inspiration, right? Or inhalation, that forced breathing in. And what I want you to do is I want you to think about what would happen as these muscle fibers would contract, right? It's going to pull on the ribs and it's going to kind of pull them in this downward position, right? But also lifting them up at the same time, right? Kind of depends on which angle it's going with. Like you could get it to, but you could also get it to lift up. And that's exactly what's happening here is these external intercostals are going to help to lift up the ribs. And that's going to be essential for when you are breathing in. This is going to be an inspiration muscle. But if we go deep to it, that's when we see what's called the internal intercostal. So we have an external, then we have an internal, and this is going to be the middle layer of our intercostals. And what this and this other one here, which I love this view, and we're going to break this down a little bit more in a second, is called the innermost intercostal. These two muscles, so the innermost and the internal intercostal, they do the opposite. What they're going to do is they're going to help to bring the ribs back and kind of compress the lungs to forcefully expire, right? So to breathe out, that is an essential component of that barrel chest. It is lift, right? And then break and then pull down in order to do that. So you can almost think of these things like, I don't know, like this handle just moving back and forth. That is going to be the movement that the ribs are going to be taking during breathing in and breathing out. So what I want to do is just look at this view here, because we can see the sternum, you can see a thoracic vertebra, another thoracic vertebra, you can see a rib coming over, you can see a rib here that's cut, and you can see if you look closely that there are three layers here. And these three layers belong to the three layers of the intercostals. But the reason I want to bring and highlight, bring your attention to and highlight this innermost intercostal is because the muscle we just discussed, the diaphragm, is an actual continuation of this muscle. So what you could picture is this going all the way down. So imagine like if you could look inside of the rib cage, the innermost intercostals are going to be the most internal of them all. And what's going to happen is eventually they're just going to poof and turn into the diaphragm. That's right. The innermost intercostal turns into the diaphragm muscle and they belong to the same, you know, body wall muscle pattern, which all comes from embryological development. And it just kind of all plays into each other, which is really interesting to think about. But what I'm going to do is I want to actually scan down here and show you all three of these muscles. So here you can see the external intercostal. Again, if we look our, or focus our attention here, you can see external, then there's going to be that internal and then an innermost. You can see the fiber orientation here, but what's cool is it's going around. You can see that it's not highlighted. Again, if you look at it, you're going to see that there's a switch in this fiber orientation, right? So we have like this oblique angle, but if you look at the innermost intercostal straight up and down, right? So that's really interesting to consider as well, right? The innermost. So basically you have just, just changing fiber orientations in order to be able to yank on the ribs in the correct direction in order to manipulate the pleura in order to be able to breathe. And I think that's the big takeaway here. And I'm going to actually scan down and I want to show you what the internal intercostal fiber orientation is going to look like. You can see, look closely, we have it going this way and then we have it going the opposite way. They're perpendicular to each other, which is how that needs to be. And then again, if we go back down here, you can see the innermost intercostal is going to be going straight up and down. So we have perpendicular fibers and then we have the one going straight up and down being innermost, but that's how breathing works, right? Breathing is this process of yanking on the ribs as well as just kind of the diaphragm going down. And what's, and what happens is they pull on the pleura. And when they pull on the pleura, that kind of provides a space for the lungs to expand into because then they're kind of gently pulled. Air just naturally goes down due to the laws of physics and fills up the lungs. And so you have this expansion. And then when you relax, what's going to happen is the natural recoil in the lungs is just going to kind of snap back. But if you really need to, you can also use your innermost and internal intercostal to forcefully exhale and push it out. It's really, really interesting to see how all of this goes, right? Breathing is a dynamic process. It's not just the lungs fill up and then they empty. There's a lot going on. So my hope is that you understand this process a whole lot better than you did just a few minutes ago. But I just want you to let you know, again, this is a 100% free Kenhub article and kind of just show you what else we have to offer here, kind of scan back up. You can see that like, if you become a premium subscriber, I can kind of like zoom out here. If you become a premium subscriber, you can also get access to videos that we embed inside of these free articles. We have quizzes. Let me kind of scan down here and find we have quizzes that are belonging or study sessions, exam quizzes, you name it, all of it we offer. That is going to be part of the premium subscription. But at the same time, if you're just looking to learn, we have plenty to offer for free as well. But if you enjoyed this video, what I would really appreciate if you did is just head on down and hit the like button and then also leave us a comment and let us know what else you'd like us to discuss in the future. And it's all, you know, there's a lot to discuss in the body and I'm sure we can just kind of go through it, you know, piece by piece, but we always want to do our best to give you what you're actually interested in learning and not just kind of like hope that we're doing it the way that we think is going to be, is going to work. But anyways, I really appreciate you hanging out with me. I hope you learned something and I will see you next time.