 underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm underm given time. Now, granted, depending on the position, like the actual surfaces that are touching are going to be different, but this is kind of weird. Like normally, like you want to have as much of the bones coming into contact with each other as you possibly can, because that's going to make the joint more stable. Where here it's like, do we not want a stable joint? Or this seems like you want to have a stable joint, especially for something that is so important, right? Because your knee has to be able to swing every single step that you possibly take. You're constantly standing on it. That's kind of an odd thing. And so we're going to see there's supporting structures. In fact, pretty much everything you see here is really a supporting structure, but it also does highlight the fact that knee injuries are extraordinarily common in human beings. And just the anatomy is a real easy reason to understand why. Now, the other thing I want to bring to your attention is this thing right here. This is called the patella, right? The patella or your kneecap. This is a sesamoid bone, which means it's just a bone that developed inside of a tendon. So that means when you were developing back inside of your mom, when you were in her uterus, what would happen is you had just one massive connective tissue going from your quadriceps down to your tibial tuberosity, which is this bump right here on the anterior part of your tibia. But then what happened is this little cartilaginous growth occurred that ossified and then became the patella, right? Like sesamoid bones are actually very common, right? You yourself have sesamoid bones throughout your body. They're extraordinarily small. And unless someone knows where they're like, that they're looking for it specifically, like, let's say you, this is a horrifying scenario, but let's say you're getting dissected, right? The, the dissector, unless they know to specifically look for them, they probably aren't going to find them because they're so small. So my point is saying that like sesamoid bones aren't inherently uncommon, but when you look at different synovial joints, all these mobile joints of the body, you don't see sesamoid bones, right? They're not very typical, but here's the knee. Hey, I got my own little different bone here. Kind of strange, kind of strange. And so what we're going to do in today's video is we're going to use one of KenHub's premium features. This is a study unit, which you could think of as a very detailed and thorough lesson on structures. And what we're going to do is explore the different anatomy or the different structures in the anatomy of the knee. Now we're also going to leave down the description below a 100% free KenHub article that I strongly encourage you to read through because it is going to blow your mind with how many different things are inside of the knee and goes into explicit detail around the ligaments and all sorts of things that I'm just not going to be able to have the time to discuss today. Because I mean, if this image does not show you how complicated the knee is, I don't know what would. So with that said, let's go ahead and look at this. And so the first thing we're going to see here is what is going to be called the patellofemoral joint. So the patellofemoral joint is highlighting the fact that there's actually the knee rather is what's called a compound joint. It is two different joints. You have the patellofemoral joint, which is where the patella is meeting the femur. And by the way, this is going to be moving because I want you to kind of picture, you know, as the knee is kind of going back and forth, these two are going to be sliding against each other in slightly different ways. But what I don't have highlighted here is what is going to be called the tibiofemoral joint or the some, it's kind of depends on how you want to do it. You can kind of mix them back and forth. So like tibiofemoral or femoral tibial, femoral tibial joint, basically it's where the femur is meeting the tibia. This would be our second joint. So we have where the patella is meeting the femur and where the femur is meeting the tibia. You kind of put all those together to create the compound joint that we call the knee joint, right? So kind of interesting there again, just highlighting some of the uniqueness of the knee. But this is one of the most unique things about the knee. And it's something that not a lot of people know exists. And it's, this is called the articularis genus muscle. And so what we're seeing in the circles, we've zoomed in right here. So we're going to meet this in just a moment, but this is trying to represent the quadriceps and then the quadriceps tendon just deep to it. And by the way, some texts actually include this muscle as belonging to the quadriceps femoris muscle itself. But it kind of, again, it really just depends on the text you're reading, but there's this muscle here. And if we look at it, it is reaching down and it's attached to this thing that we haven't met yet, but I'm going to go ahead and spoil it. This is a bursa. It's called the suprapatellar bursa. And what it's going to do is this muscle will contract and pull that bursa out of the way during knee extension. So it's kind of like you're kicking a ball because otherwise this bursa could get pinched between the patella and the femur or the other tissues might agitate it. So this muscle doesn't actually move the joint. What it's going to do is it's going to move this suprapatellar bursa that we will meet in just a moment. Kind of cool muscle, but not a lot of people know about it. Articularis genus. Genus just means knee, by the way, and articularis is going to be articulate. So then right here, what we have is called the articular cartilage of the knee. And so articular cartilage is made of hyaline cartilage and hyaline cartilage is intentionally slippery, right? You see, so if we're looking at this, we have, you know, it makes sense that you would have cartilage, very slippery cartilage on these joint surfaces, because that's what they're going to do is just sliding against each other and you want to reduce that friction. So this type of cartilage has a high amount of water in it, and that's going to just allow for it to reduce friction. But what's interesting is if you look at this on the patella, this part of the articular cartilage, this is the thickest amount of cartilage or articular cartilage in the human body. Meaning of all the joints everywhere in your body, this is the thickest amount that we find on that articular surface, which makes sense because the patella is just going to be sliding back and forth every single step. This thing is just going to be grinding away on the femur. You want to make sure that that thing is going to have not as little friction as possible, because otherwise, if this starts to break down, you are going to have some real serious knee problems. Okay. So then what we find is what's called the, well, one name for it, it would be articular capsule. You could say fibrous membrane, you could say capsule or ligament. I think there's only the three things that you would typically say. It's one of the most frustrating things whenever I'm teaching my students is sometimes I'll be like, hey, just so you know, there's three to five names for a practically every structure in the body. It kind of just depends on how we want to describe it. But regardless, this is the posterior side of what's known as the articular capsule. There is an anterior side. The anterior side is actually going to be different though, because the anterior side, you can't really see it from this particular view is going to incorporate a whole bunch of different tissues on the front of the knee. That includes like the quadriceps tendon, it includes the patella itself. But my point here is on the back of your knee, you have this gigantic mass of tissue that is just kind of like securing the entire posterior side. And we call this the articular capsule or fibrous membrane or capsule or ligament. It's just going to be extending from that backside of the femur all the way down to the backside of the knee, just kind of closing off that entire internal environment. And then we have the synovial membrane of the knee joint. And so when we're building, when you're building a synovial joint, right, the outside is always going to have that fibrous membrane, that capsular ligament or the articular capsule. But then just deep to it, you're going to have what's called the synovial membrane. This is loose connective tissue. And what it does is it secretes a very lubricating fluid called synovial fluid. And so that would make a lot of sense to us, right? Like what we have, we need to have a fluid in here. You don't want to just depend on the articular cartilage. Instead, what you want is to actually provide a fluid for that articular cartilage to also slip and slide on. It's just going to make things easier, right? It's going to be very, very helpful. But there's something really interesting about this. And I want you to look at this and pay attention really closely because the, actually to show this, I want to go back, right? If we look at that articular capsule, right? The articular capsule starts up here and it's one continuous thing. It's going to go down all the way here. You can see it actually attaching to the meniscus here. Now watch this. As I go to this next image and we look at this actual synovial membrane, what you're going to see is it starts a little bit lower and then it ends. It ends right here. There's a little fat pad and it's ending at the meniscus. And then if you look down here, there's just this little tiny loop right here connecting the tibia to the meniscus. And then if we look on the anterior side, you can see from this meniscus, it's going over and attaching to the patella. And then if we come up here, you can see that it's attaching to the top of the patella coming around and ooh, it's attaching to the articular genus coming back around and then coming back to the femur. And so this is one continuous cavity, but the synovial membrane itself is segmented, right? It's segmented in just a little bit unique ways. It's interrupted basically by those menisci. So that is another interesting thing about this joint is, you know, it's, it kind of makes it seem like there's, there's two separate areas or possibly even three depending on how you want to count it. But I mean, if you really look at this, it's essentially one continuous network, but still, right? So again, this is loose connective tissue and it's just going to be secreting synovial fluid. Now what it secretes the fluid into is what's known as the articular cavity. And so this is where we get to see that continuous network. And so the articular cavity, this is just the space that all the fluid is going to be in. So obviously this would be bordered by the synovial membrane, but it's also bordered by the articular cartilage. And so you can just imagine there's going to be a whole bunch of fluid just in here, making sure everything is nice and lubricated. All of that is going to be in the articular cavity. And then if we come to the next one, now we can actually see the medial meniscus. And that just goes to show that this is not quite in the exact center of the knee. It's a little bit parasagital, which just means off center. And that allows us to see this medial meniscus. Now, if you remember, menisci are made of fibrocartilage. Fibrocartilage, as its name suggests, has a lot of fibers in it, and that's going to make it really good at absorbing shock. And that is really important. And this is, in my opinion, uh, I don't know if it's really an opinion. It's just kind of how the body works. You know, this is why we only have such a small amount of space for articulating, because imagine this, like the amount of, you know, a shock that is going to be going through the knee. Um, if you, you want to actually have that range of motion, right? The range of motion is really important to have that hinge like nature. What you really also need though, is, well, to pull that off is just, you can't have too much of the surfaces articulating, right? Your hip as stable as it is, is not very mobile compared to the knee. And so you had to make a compromise in order to have the necessary mobility to, to land with your feet as you're walking and running. You had to minimize the stability, but you still need to have support because otherwise, can you imagine if you're running and you didn't have a shock absorbing meniscus, the knees would just, the joints, the bones would just slam into each other and you'd break your knees. And that's all she wrote, right? There's, there's nothing else to it. You'd have extraordinarily bad knees. So this is great. This is awesome. This is a very good thing. This right here is the medial meniscus, right? So I mentioned this earlier. This is what is called the tibial tuberosity. This is just some bumps on the anterior side of the knee. You can go ahead and feel your own on the front of your tibia or your shin. This is where the patellar ligament is going to insert and the patellar ligament would then again, go to patella, go to the quadriceps femoris. So all four heads of the quadriceps femoris muscle are all going to insert here, technically at the tibial tuberosity. Although we could also technically say it's just the patellar ligament, but it's just a bump on the front of the tip, um, on the front of the tibia. So then that leads us to show you the quadriceps tendon, right? So this is the quadriceps tendon and this image makes it seem a little smaller, but that's just the nature of the cross section. If you look at this from an anterior view, you'd see this is more broad. There's even retinaculi. So like you have the quadriceps retinaculum on either side that are kind of like fanning out. And that's going to just basically help attach the quadriceps to that, um, uh, to that patella or more so the, the patella just kind of, again, developing inside of that tendon. And then sure enough, we see the patellar ligament that I've been talking about. You can see it kind of extending from the inferior part of the patella and then coming down to the tibial tuberosity. All right. So now we're going to talk about bursae. And so this is really important. We're going to probably have to refresh you on this. Like what is a bursa, right? A lot of times people have heard of bursitis, um, a bursa, which we are zooming in on this thing right here. So this is the, this is the patella. We are on the anterior surface of the, of the patella. And so as we zoom in here, we can get this really good look at it. You can see like it's a closed system, right? Cause this is a cross section. Um, but you can see like it's looping in on itself. It's just going around. This is made of the exact same stuff as a synovial joint. It has a fibrous membrane on the outside, which is just made of dense, irregular connective tissue. And then it has a synovial membrane on the inside. And then it secretes synovial fluid into that space, right? So what happens here, this is a fluid filled circle of sorts, right? Um, this is, and that's what we call a bursa. This one is what we call the prepatellar bursa. So the prepatellar bursa is just going to be on that anterior surface of the patella. So you could actually feel this if, I mean, these things are so thin. It's not, I don't want you to think like there's this thing that you can just slide around and move and you're going to know, um, they're very, very, very thin, but you could actually feel this just by sliding your fingers around the skin on the anterior part of your knee. So that again is the prepatellar bursa. So now we're going to meet the bursa that we discussed earlier. This is called the suprapatellar bursa. So the suprapatellar bursa, this is going to, you can see attaching to more or less to this top portion of the patella coming around, and then it's going to be attaching to the articularis genus and then coming back around and going to the femur. Now, remember a bursa, like I just said, is made of the exact same stuff as a synovial joint. Because if we went back, you could actually see that we already highlighted this as being part of the articular cavity, as well as the synovial membrane, because they are the same thing, right? This bursa is kind of like this little inlet, this little Island of sorts of just a synovial joint of the articular cavity that we just happened to call the suprapatellar bursa. And what this thing is doing, you can just picture this, like imagine again, this is pulling or it's attached to the patella. The thing that's actually doing the pulling is the articularis genus, but I mean, it's going to be there to reduce friction as the patella is just kind of rounding around during extension and flexion of the knee. All right. So then we have these fat pads. So these are the suprapatellar fat pads. We're going to have, we can see right here, an anterior suprapatellar fat pad. So this is a fat pad, let me get that actually out of the way, between the quadriceps femoris tendon and quadriceps femoris muscle and the articularis genus. And then that suprapatellar bursa. So this is just a fat pad. I always tell everybody, like, look, I say this with love. I say this with respect. You are really, really good at gaining weight. Like you're really good at it. You gain so much weight that your body is like hoarding fat wherever it can. And there's actually dual purposes to it though, right? Because fat can help to be insulate. It can help insulate. It can help to, it can help cushion a little bit. It's not meant to be a shock absorber like fibrocartilage, but it actually can do that. But it can also just provide a little bit of distance and separation. So by putting a fat pad here, then these two tissues aren't just slamming against each other. So this is going to be that anterior fat pad or the anterior suprapatellar fat pad. And then we have a posterior one and we can zoom in on this and you can see that it's between the femur and that suprapatellar bursa. So this would just be that posterior suprapatellar fat pad. All right. So then what we have is the infrapatellar fat pad. So again, we're just going to be on the anterior part of the knee. You can see the patella and you can see just this massive fatty tissue that is going to be right here. And since it's below the patella, we call that the infrapatellar fat pad. All right. So then we're going to get the subcutaneous infrapatellar bursa. So we're going to see that there's two different infrapatellar bursae. The reason why we call this one. So again, we are looking at the patellar ligament. Let's get that out of the way. And we're looking at the patellar ligament, but you can see there's two bursae here. And if we zoom in, you can more clearly see these. The reason why this one is called the subcutaneous infrapatellar bursa is because what we're missing from this image would be the integumentary system. The epidermis, the dermis, the hypodermis would all be on top of this. And this one is just below that. Well, it's kind of like surrounded by the subcutaneous tissue or that hypodermis. So we call this the subcutaneous infrapatellar bursa. Whereas this one right here, we're going to call the deep infrapatellar bursa. It's called that because, well, it's deep to that patellar ligament. This is also going to be surrounded in adipose tissue, right? In that infrapatellar fat pad. But this is going to be deep to that patellar ligament. So therefore, we call this the deep infrapatellar bursa. And then the last image we have to go over. There's a lot here. And you can tell, I want you to know, we have barely scratched the surface of everything that's going on in the knee. This is a highly, highly complicated joint. This is where we meet the lateral subtendinous bursa of the gastrocnemius. So basically this bursa, which we are zooming in here, exists to reduce friction between the gastrocnemius, specifically the lateral head of the gastrocnemius and the femur. So gastrocnemius being that really characteristic calf muscle that we all understand and know. Well, there is a bursa that is just below that and is making sure as that muscle is contracting and moving the knee, that there is not going to be as much friction as there could be between them. And that is what we call that lateral subtendinous bursa. So there is a lot here. There's a lot here. And again, I just want to show you real quick what else we have here. I'm going to kind of scan up. You can see we have other Atlas images to choose from. We have other ones that are labeled like this, which goes over everything I just discussed is going to be right here labeled for you. We can even see an anterior view here. So you can start to see the different ligaments. Again, like we, I didn't talk about any of this because there's so much to the knee. We also in our, we have quizzes that are embedded inside of our study units. Again, the quizzes, these, this is all part of a premium subscription to Kenhub. You can see, we even have videos for you to watch and observe if you're really wanting to just deep dive into it. And then at the very end of all of our study units, we always have an exam. That way you can test yourself and make sure you are understanding everything correctly. So by the way, again, there is also going to be a 100% free Kenhub article attached in the description below, all about the knee. So you can kind of explore everything. You can see it's going to be this one right here. Just kind of click on it. You can see that this one is going to, it's built encyclopedic so that you can just read and understand has plenty of 100% free Kenhub Atlas images. I feel like I'm yapping a lot. My point here is we are here to support you and give you as much value as we possibly can. But I just want to say thank you for hanging out with me. I really, really hope you learned something good today. If you did, please be sure to hit the like button, little things like that go a really long way. And we endlessly appreciate that. But again, thanks for spending some time with me and I will see you in the next video.