 biberine, ventricles are roughly C-shaped. They have a central body and three horns projecting into the lobes of the brain, namely the anterior horn, the posterior horn and the inferior horn. The area we can now see highlighted in green is the central part of the lateral ventricle, which is located in the region of the parietal lobe. Its roof is formed by the corpus callosum and it's floored by the superior surface of the thalamus and the tail of the caudate nucleus. Now you may have noticed that our image has changed slightly, so let's familiarise ourselves with it. We're still viewing the ventricles from the left-hand side of the body, however we can now see the surrounding cerebrum. Let's move on to the three horns of the lateral ventricle, starting with the one we can see here, which is the anterior horn. The anterior horn of the lateral ventricle is essentially an extension of the lateral ventricle into the frontal lobe, which is why it's also known as the frontal horn. The frontal horns of each lateral ventricle are separated medially from each other by the septum plucidum. The roof of these horns is formed by the corpus callosum, while the floor is formed by the head of the caudate nucleus. Next we'll take a look at the inferior horn of the lateral ventricle, which extends into the temporal lobe and is therefore also referred to as the temporal horn. It contains part of the limbic system and is adjacent to the caudate nucleus. The floor of the inferior horn is formed partially by the hippocampus. Moving posteriorly, we can see the posterior horn of the lateral ventricle highlighted in green. It extends variably as a finger-like projection into the occipital lobe, which is why it's also known as the occipital horn. Its floor contains the calcaevis. The meeting point of the body and the occipital and temporal horns of the lateral ventricles is this area which is highlighted in green, which is called the atrium of the ventricles. Now that we've discussed the central part and the three horns of the two lateral ventricles, we'll look at this small channel located at the floor of the anterior horn. This channel is called the interventricular foramen and links the lateral ventricles with the third ventricle at the midline of the brain. The interventricular foramen is also well known as the foramen of Monroe. If you found this quick anatomy or physiology video helpful, you'll enjoy our video tutorials even more. Click on the button and you'll see what I mean. We have hundreds of videos available to our premium members, not to mention all the fun quizzes, complete articles and atlas sections to solidify your knowledge. Click on the button in the middle to watch the full length video and master anatomy and physiology.