

=== FILE: Duodenum： Anatomy and function ｜ Kenhub [iEPXb8dme_o].txt ===

 nindustrieXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX amazing atlas images, which I'm going to be real with you. I think they're the best on the entire internet or just in the entire world in general. And that's a biased statement, but I'm willing to fight you in the comments if I need to, because it is true. Again, you can see more atlas images. In fact, these are the ones we're going to be using today, but then there's even more just going beyond it. We have key facts and points. We even have exams with this study unit. And then at the very bottom, you can see we have articles. Now these articles are 100% free. And in fact, I'm going to go ahead and leave a link down the description below to this very article here on the duodenum. So you can kind of read through that at home and see just how awesome those articles are. But let's go ahead and scroll on up. And we are going to be focusing here. Now I'm going to click this little magnifying glass icon. And as I do that, that is going to enlarge the image. And what we're going to do is just kind of go through the anatomy of the duodenum and give you some basic facts about each one of the structures, substructures, and things of that nature. Now, quickly, I just want to orient you so you can understand what you are looking at. So this like bumpy thing right here, this is the pancreas. The pancreas is both an endocrine and an exocrine gland. And in this case, we're going to be more focused on its exocrine function, which basically is what it's secreting into this tube right here, which is the duodenum. Now we can also see blood vessels like the hepatic portal vein. But our focus is going to be on this, in my mind, kind of looks like a elbow noodle, like a macaroni noodle. This right here is the duodenum. And in fact, the duodenum, which stands for 12 fingers wide or 12 finger breadth. So that's like four fingers, four fingers, four fingers. That's how long the duodenum is. This is the very first part of the small intestine. And so what you are seeing here, and we don't really highlight it, is the end of the stomach. This is the pylorus of the stomach and pylorus means gatekeeper. But the first thing we can see is what is highlighted here in green, and that is the pyloric sphincter. Now what's cool in these study units, when you use the magnifying glass, you can see all of the structures are going to be listed on the sides. And you can even see their little, you know, volume. What's the icons? You click on it, can kind of say the name in case you're wondering, like, how do I say pyloric sphincter, that type of thing. Really, really cool. But this pyloric sphincter is the strongest sphincter in the body. And again, pylorus means gatekeeper, which I think is a fantastic name, because it is holding back hydrochloric acid or stomach acid that exists in the stomach. But what I want us to think about is, let's say the stomach has done its job, right? Whatever you ate, whatever you consumed has been bathed in hydrochloric acid, ripped apart as much as the stomach acid possibly could. And now it is slowly going to be let into the duodenum. It is the pyloric sphincter's job to do that. So this sphincter will release. And as it releases, we then start emptying into the duodenum. So the very first part of the duodenum is going to be what's called the superior part. And that's as much as we can say right here. So what's going to happen is that the, the, we call it chyme. We should probably say that, right? Once you've kind of like started the digestive process between the mouth and the stomach, added the hydrochloric acid, we now call that chyme. Chyme is going to first empty into that superior part, but then it's immediately going to then start traveling down into the descending part. We call it descending because this is the direction of travel, right? We're going this way and it's going to go down. And from there, it's then going to go to the horizontal part, which you can probably guess as to why it's called the horizontal part, which then will lead to the ascending or ascending part. And then we get to the very first part of, um, I guess like, well, the second part, I should say of the small intestine called the jejunum. So jejunum actually translates to empty, which is a really interesting name. And it's just trying to, uh, like illustrate the fact that chyme moves so quickly through this entire tube that, uh, this is pretty much always empty even when you're performing dissections. But our goal is not this. It's not really the stomach. Our goal is between these sections. And so the next thing we're going to be looking at is what's called the superior duodenal flexure. And all that really means is just where it's bending, right? Where it's turning. So we had that superior part, we had the descending part and where it's just starting to make that turn is going to be that superior duodenal flexure. We then have where it's now turning and going towards the horizontal part. Remember that's that flat part at the base of the duodenum. And we call this the inferior duodenal flexure. Nothing really fancy or exciting with those. Again, this is just like things to look at and identify. All right. From there, we then have the duodenal jejunal flexure, which is a mouthful to say duodenal jejunal, because all we're really doing here is saying the flexure is the turn, right? It's the curve. And then you're just adding what part, what parts are there that it's curving between. And so again, this is the jejunum. This is going to be the ascending part. And so we're just going to kind of mix those together. All right. So now we got to focus on what you're looking at as like a step dissection. Like imagine like you are a dissector and you are just slowly removing away the layers of the duodenum. What you'd find is that there are going to be multiple layers, right? And the layer we're seeing here in green, if you look at the fiber orientation, you can see that the fibers are running lengthwise this way. Again, it's, we kind of cut into it a bit, but you can see it right there. This is what's called the longitudinal layer. Now the longitudinal layer is not only found in the small intestine. In fact, it's found in the entire digestive tract. The longitudinal layer is when it contracts, I want you to kind of picture this. It's going to shorten the tube because the point is when chyme comes in here, it makes sense. Okay. You kind of push it through here through the muscle of the stomach. Once it gets in here, it makes sense that it can kind of fall. But once we like, you have to imagine like, how are you going to start propelling it through the tube? Well, that is where the longitudinal layer comes in and it's going to shorten the length of the tube, right? We're getting into this term that people are usually familiar with called peristalsis. Peristalsis is that natural wave-like movement that is going to propel substances through tubes. And in the digestive tract, that is going to be primarily performed by the longitudinal layer. Although the circular layer, which is this one right here, is also going to help. The circular layer is what's going to perform what's called segmentation. So not only do you want to shorten the length of the tube, you also kind of want to start like closing it off. And what you're going to do is you're going to start chunking out the digested material, that chyme into discrete chunks. And then imagine this, because if you're like shortening the tube and moving it lengthwise, you got to close up behind it. So then as it's propelling it, like it's the chyme is stopped up against it and then pushed. And that's exactly what's going to happen. So peristalsis is that natural wave-like movement. And it's kind of performed with a combination of the longitudinal and the circular layer. But then deep to that, that's where you get the submucosa. The submucosa is just where you're going to find, you know, blood vessels and supporting structures and connective tissues and things like that. And then outside of that, or deeper to that, I really should say, which is, by the way, technically outside. I should also say, this is all technically outside your body. This is kind of a weird fact, but if you had a long enough hand, you could take your hand and you could go all the way from the oral cavity, all the way down to the anus, which is, would be an adventure, would be an adventure. But technically that is all outside of the body because inside the body would be deep to that. Regardless, deeper to this, that's where you're getting into the lumen. You're getting into the mucosal layer, but the submucosa is going to be the supporting area. So then when we get to that mucosal, the mucosal layer, the mucosa, that's where we start to meet the circular folds. And the circular folds, these look like little ridge lines. It's kind of like an accordion. You can picture like, imagine you grab the tube and you can kind of like stretch it out and fold it up like this. What these do is two things. First, it increases dramatically the surface area for absorption inside of the small intestine. So, you know, imagine if this was just a completely flat surface and even if you had absorptive capacity here, you know, I mean, it's like you're not going to have nearly as much as imagine if you just created little folds. Because by folding it, you're fitting more stuff into the same space. So circular folds are going to dramatically increase the surface area inside of the digestive tract and specifically circular folds are in the small intestine. The next thing that the circular folds do is that chyme, as it's propelled through, it's going to help it corkscrew. It like literally is going to spin like a torpedo as it's actually moving through here, which is kind of like just a cool effect that it has. All right. So then we meet what's called the major duodenal papilla. So papilla just means nipple. And so someone looked at this a long time ago and was like, that looks like a nipple and it's a bigger nipple. So if they took the time to say major duodenal papilla, well, we're going to see there is a minor, but this, so this is, but this right here is the entry point where we're going to see bile and pancreatic enzymes enter into the duodenum. So like you can see these tubes here and we'll highlight these in just a moment, but you can see like, or picture that this is where they're going to drop the substances into the duodenum. And that's where we're going to be able to discuss a really important function of the duodenum, which is going to be digestion. So moving along, here we go. So here's, you can see the bile duct, right? So the bile duct, this is what is going to be transporting bile. Now bile is produced by the liver. It is stored and concentrated in the gallbladder. And then what happens is that bile is dropped down and then inserted through the bile ducts in through that major duodenal papilla. And then it's going to insert into the duodenum. And when it does that, bile is able to help emulsify fats, right? Help to break it down. And this is now again, where we start to see digestion is occurring. And a lot of times when people think of digestion, they're really only thinking of the stomach, which again would be right here. We've just cut it. You can see the pancreas behind it. Digestion is the breaking down of substances. And digestion happens in the mouth. It happens in the stomach, but it is also happening. And in fact, a significant amount is happening here in just the duodenum, right? That 12 fingers, wide, long space, there is a significant amount of digestion occurring. And that's because hydrochloric acid just isn't powerful enough to break down a lot of the things that we need it to. And so bile coming from that liver and gallbladder are going to enter through that major duodenal papilla through the bile duct, and then it's going to help emulsify and break down fats. But then we also have the pancreatic enzymes. So pancreatic enzymes, again, this is produced by the pancreas, which is right here. Like I mentioned, the pancreas is both an endocrine and an exocrine gland. And in this instance, its exocrine function is that pancreatic enzymes. And these enzymes are, you know, filled with various things that are going to break down a lot of stuff, you know, proteins and fats and carbs. And what's going to happen is it's going to also enter into the duodenum at that major duodenal papilla. And so now you're breaking down fats. And also, by the way, bile is going to be essential at neutralizing the acidity of the hydrochloric acid. That's also a really important function. And so you're going to see both of those tubes are going to just empty into the duodenum at that major duodenal papilla. But then there's also, like I mentioned, the minor duodenal papilla. So this one, if we look really closely, is there's this little offshoot coming up right here. So again, this was the pancreatic duct. Now we have what's called the accessory pancreatic duct. And then that will insert and drop pancreatic enzymes into the minor duodenal papilla. So we'll go back here. This is that minor duodenal papilla. This isn't present in everyone, but it's present enough that we can say and teach it as though it is. As long as you though have this going, your pancreas is depositing what it needs to through the major duodenal papilla. It's not a big deal if you don't actually have the accessory duct and that minor duodenal papilla. And that is it. We just went through here. Let me kind of click out. And this is what's kind of cool. You can see 18 different images all about the duodenum, right? So this is a, like the, all of this is, you know, really interesting. I should also say like a good, a good amount of this is what we call retroperitoneal, meaning it's kind of like hidden behind this connective tissue flap that's draping over it. There's so much more we could say, but I just want to show you the power of our study units. And again, when we come here, you can see in this image, you know, the liver being reflected back and you can see the gallbladder and you can see, um, the pancreas, the duodenum, you can see the transverse colon. There's a lot of things you can see in our study units. There's an additional 15 images here. And again, I, as I mentioned, as I scroll back up, we even have a video in this video is 23 minutes long, breaking down everything I said. And in way more detail, all of this is part of our study units. But again, if I go ahead and scroll all the way to the bottom, we can even click on this article on the duodenum. This is 100% free. Although I will say that the videos embedded at the top, aren't a, uh, those are a premium feature, but look at the rest of this. This is basically a medical encyclopedia. I shouldn't say basically, it is a medical encyclopedia that is going to break down everything you were really going to want to see here. And like, look at this image. I mean, come on, it is just giving you everything. This is going to be linked down in the description below. So I strongly, strongly encourage you to check that out. And while you're down there, go ahead and hit that like button. Small things like that actually go a long way. Um, and also leave us a comment. Let us know how, what you thought about this video, what you'd like us to discuss in future videos, you name it. We want to hear it, but, um, thanks for hanging out with me and I will see you in the next video.

=== FILE: How breathing ACTUALLY  works [ocj8C8yAg2E].txt ===

 insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, insurgh, ins and do this. I want you to take a moment and just try to figure out what view you are looking at like right now, because this is one of the most important things you can do whenever you're looking at a cadaveric image, because that's exactly what you're seeing. This is a real image and try to figure out what, what on earth you're looking at, because at first glance, this is a very strange image, but I mean, I think very quickly, you're going to notice that it says lungs covered by the parietal pluri, and then you're like, oh, okay, like I'm looking at the lungs, but why don't they look like the lungs? Well, that's because of the plura, but I mean, let's just kind of walk through what this image is, because this is an anterior view. It's like you're looking at me, but what's happened is the ribs all the way down to the abdominal muscles have been cut away, and then we see this reflecting of all these different tissues, like the pectoralis major, pectoralis minor, the serratus anterior. There's several muscles that are all being reflected back, and that allows us to see inside of the thoracic cavity, and we are met with this tissue that not a lot of people know exists. It's called the parietal plura, or let's just kind of say it's the plura, and the plura is going to be an essential component to understanding how breathing works, because without it, honestly, breathing would not occur. And I can tell you right now, there are some really, I mean, they're interesting, but they're unfortunate consequences of plural problems, where, you know, like you could have, say, like, if you've heard of pneumothorax, hemothorax, plural effusion, pleurisy, right? Like, these are conditions where something is compromising this tissue. Now, before we kind of break down what the plura is, I think we should probably be starting with how breathing works. I'm going to kind of scan up here, and by the way, I'm using a one, that's a really cool image, by the way. You can see some real lungs there. I'm using a 100% free article here on KenUp, and we'll go ahead and leave the link down in the description below. You are welcome to follow along. And what I want to do is not so much focus on all of the terms here you're going to see on the sides. Instead, I just want to look at the image, because what you're seeing is an anterior and a sagittal view of the body, right? So you're looking at an anterior view of the chest, but you're looking at a sagittal view of the head. And so you can kind of have this turned position here. And we just want to kind of like walk through the pathway that air is going to take. So, I mean, we're not going to focus on every single structure here. We're more concerned just on the exact pathway, because you can breathe in through your nose, or you can breathe in through your mouth. And what those are, and where it's going to go from there, is into this open space called the nasal cavity, or the oral cavity. And you look at the oral cavity, the tongue is massive, so it doesn't seem like it's an open space, but it actually is. And then from there, the air is going to go into the pharynx. And the pharynx can be divided into the nasopharynx, oropharynx, and laryngopharynx. But this is just your throat. And then what happens is it's actually going to have to make a choice, as does everything that's in this area. Am I going to go in the digestive tract through the esophagus, or am I going to go through the respiratory tract through the larynx? And that's exactly what it's going to do. It's going to go through the larynx, down the trachea, and then it's going to split into the bronchial tree and enter into the lungs. And I think it's important to really understand what the lungs do, or really what they are. Because in my mind, when I was very, I guess for most of my life, honestly, I assumed the lungs were kind of like these hollow bags. And then what happened is they would inflate, and then they deflate, inflate, and deflate. And that's not exactly how it works, because the lungs themselves are really connective tissues that surround the bronchial tree. So if you're looking in here, you can see that there are these tubes. And these tubes just keep on branching, branching, branching. We're talking 33 generations of branching. So to think about it like a generation is so we can see the trachea here. And then there's this bifurcation that happens. The trachea splits into the right and left primary bronchi. That is one generation of splitting. There are 33 generations of splitting. So like the bronchial tree in my mind isn't really a great name. I've always thought of it as more of like a bronchial bush. And what it does is it permeates the entirety of the lungs. The lungs are really the soft tissue that surrounds all of these hollow tubes that are part of the bronchial system. And they're made of this elastic connective tissue that is really good at stretching and recoiling. So like I want you to take a breath with me right now. So let's go ahead and inflate our lungs. Now what I want you to do is just let go. Like you didn't have to force that. What happened is the lungs naturally want to rebound, and that is going to help to exhale. And then air is going to take the opposite path out of your body. So the lungs are not these hollow things as much as they are supporting and connective tissues that are surrounding the hollow tubes of the respiratory tract. And that is going to be an essential component because then if we go back down right here, what we have is the pleura, which is also going to be connective tissue that is surrounding those lungs. And it's actually a double layer, right? So you have like, you have this parietal pleura, and then you also have this visceral pleura. It doesn't really matter as to which is which. The point is you have this double layer and one side of this pleura is going to be connected to the inside of the rib cage. And then the other side is going to be connected to the lungs. It'll connect to the diaphragm. And what happens is there's a fluid in between. There's this space with a fluid that helps to kind keep it all lubricated because you don't, I want you to think about how many breaths you take. That's a lot of friction. And that would be encountered in this area. You're going to need to lubricate it. And so the pleura right here is going to actually do that, right? That's the purpose of the pleura is to actually help lubricate, but also attach the lungs to the diaphragm here, right? That's, that's what this muscle is. This muscle is the diaphragm muscle. And so what I want to do is I want to actually then scan up here. So again, show you how navigatable, if that's even a word, these Kenhub articles are. Again, just another reminder, it's going to be down in the description below for you to go check out. You know, this is an encyclopedia, basically what we've done here. And what happened is, is you're reading through these. You can see that there are going to be links that are going to take you to different things. So let's go ahead and click on the diaphragm. And as we do that, we can start to meet this muscle here. So I'm going to go ahead and hit these arrows and that is going to enlarge the image. And what we can see here in green is part of the diaphragm. You can also see the top part of it. This is called the central tendon of the diaphragm. Let's go ahead and move to this other image. And you can see, this is a superior view of it. Actually, no, this is an inferior view. Now look at it. You can see here's the ribs. Here's the xiphoid process. So you are indeed looking at an inferior view of the diaphragm. We'll go over and then we can even see through a medical image, the diaphragm as well highlighted here in green. And then you can also see it right here again, highlighted in green. And it looks like we have one more image. And then we can even see like this actual cadaveric slide where you can see that diaphragm as it kind of goes around. And the point I'm trying to make here and illustrate, and I think this is a great image to focus in on is the diaphragm helps also connect to the wall of the body, right? We call this the body wall. And so what happens is the diaphragm is basically the most essential and important of the actual respiration muscles, because this is the one that's going to be involved no matter what. It's involved with restful breathing. It's involved with forced breathing. The diaphragm is going to be essential. And what it does is it basically anchors itself to the wall of the ribs, right? So basically it like traverses this whole portion where you can feel your ribs. Just imagine the diaphragm is going to be attached to it. And what's happening is the pleura is connecting itself to it. So let's actually go back here. Let's see. As we go back down, I want to show you, we're going to go back to that pleura. And I want to show you, ha, I want to show you what I'm talking about here, because look at this thing. What's happening is you can see the pleura is connecting to the diaphragm. And what that does, or what that means is that when the diaphragm contracts, which it goes down, that is actually going to pull on this pleura. And when it pulls on the pleura, then that's going to have to have some impact on, on the actual lungs underneath. Because remember, there are two layers to the pleura. One of them is connected directly to the lungs and the other is connected to the body wall. And so what's happening here is the pleura is going to move and the lungs are going to start moving with it. But you have to imagine the diaphragm is all about pulling down, right? You're doing a restful breathing. Your, your rib cage isn't really expanding all that much. There is expansion, but it's not that much expansion. And that's because most of that force is going to be a downward force coming from the diaphragm. And so the, basically again, the pleura is essential to this process. If you didn't have the pleura, this would not work because then the lungs themselves, they don't have a muscle inside of them to say, Hey, get bigger, right? That's, that's not how it works. What's happening is the diaphragm contracts. It's actually creating this negative air space, right? What's happening is you're like, literally as you're pulling in kind of yanks on the lungs and inside of the lungs, they're going to start to open. And as they start to open air is naturally going to go down because of physics, right? There's basically, you think about it, there's like an atmospheric pressure out here. And then there's going to be a different pressure inside of the lungs. And when you open up the lungs, you create this space, but the air wants to equalize. And so what happens is air, it just naturally flows into the lungs. And that is all a product of the pleura and being able to be attached to the diaphragm. However, again, this is, this is restful, normal breathing, relaxed breathing. And so we want to think about this for a second. Well then how on earth, and I'm sure you might be able to be starting to be able to piece this together. How on earth do you do this really barrel chested, deep breath? Like how, what, what's actually happening there? So in order to figure that out, what I want to do is I want to see something else that's going to be in between here. And you can kind of actually see, if you look closely, like you can see the ribs here in between them are going to be some really interesting muscles called the intercostals. So if you just break down the name intercostals, it means between the ribs, right? Inter between costals and ribs. And you can see the intercostals here in this image. Well, the one that's highlighted is what's called the external intercostal. And that's because there are three layers to your intercostals and not to try to make this, you know, I don't know, grotesque is the right word here, but if you are a meat eater, I want you to think to when you're eating ribs, right? If you actually look at those, those fiber, the fiber orientation of those muscles, you can see that they're actually crisscrossing. If you flip the rib over humans are very, are the exact same because what we have just like all the other mammals are going to be these crisscrossing muscle fibers that are going to yank on the ribs in particular directions. And so what we see here is the outermost. Well, it's not really the outermost layer, but it's the external intercostal because the outermost layer is another muscle called the serratus anterior, which we've done a video on that as well. But the, basically the external intercostal is going to be the outside layer of the ribs. And what's important to understand is this muscle is going to be involved in forced inspiration, right? Or inhalation, that forced breathing in. And what I want you to do is I want you to think about what would happen as these muscle fibers would contract, right? It's going to pull on the ribs and it's going to kind of pull them in this downward position, right? But also lifting them up at the same time, right? Kind of depends on which angle it's going with. Like you could get it to, but you could also get it to lift up. And that's exactly what's happening here is these external intercostals are going to help to lift up the ribs. And that's going to be essential for when you are breathing in. This is going to be an inspiration muscle. But if we go deep to it, that's when we see what's called the internal intercostal. So we have an external, then we have an internal, and this is going to be the middle layer of our intercostals. And what this and this other one here, which I love this view, and we're going to break this down a little bit more in a second, is called the innermost intercostal. These two muscles, so the innermost and the internal intercostal, they do the opposite. What they're going to do is they're going to help to bring the ribs back and kind of compress the lungs to forcefully expire, right? So to breathe out, that is an essential component of that barrel chest. It is lift, right? And then break and then pull down in order to do that. So you can almost think of these things like, I don't know, like this handle just moving back and forth. That is going to be the movement that the ribs are going to be taking during breathing in and breathing out. So what I want to do is just look at this view here, because we can see the sternum, you can see a thoracic vertebra, another thoracic vertebra, you can see a rib coming over, you can see a rib here that's cut, and you can see if you look closely that there are three layers here. And these three layers belong to the three layers of the intercostals. But the reason I want to bring and highlight, bring your attention to and highlight this innermost intercostal is because the muscle we just discussed, the diaphragm, is an actual continuation of this muscle. So what you could picture is this going all the way down. So imagine like if you could look inside of the rib cage, the innermost intercostals are going to be the most internal of them all. And what's going to happen is eventually they're just going to poof and turn into the diaphragm. That's right. The innermost intercostal turns into the diaphragm muscle and they belong to the same, you know, body wall muscle pattern, which all comes from embryological development. And it just kind of all plays into each other, which is really interesting to think about. But what I'm going to do is I want to actually scan down here and show you all three of these muscles. So here you can see the external intercostal. Again, if we look our, or focus our attention here, you can see external, then there's going to be that internal and then an innermost. You can see the fiber orientation here, but what's cool is it's going around. You can see that it's not highlighted. Again, if you look at it, you're going to see that there's a switch in this fiber orientation, right? So we have like this oblique angle, but if you look at the innermost intercostal straight up and down, right? So that's really interesting to consider as well, right? The innermost. So basically you have just, just changing fiber orientations in order to be able to yank on the ribs in the correct direction in order to manipulate the pleura in order to be able to breathe. And I think that's the big takeaway here. And I'm going to actually scan down and I want to show you what the internal intercostal fiber orientation is going to look like. You can see, look closely, we have it going this way and then we have it going the opposite way. They're perpendicular to each other, which is how that needs to be. And then again, if we go back down here, you can see the innermost intercostal is going to be going straight up and down. So we have perpendicular fibers and then we have the one going straight up and down being innermost, but that's how breathing works, right? Breathing is this process of yanking on the ribs as well as just kind of the diaphragm going down. And what's, and what happens is they pull on the pleura. And when they pull on the pleura, that kind of provides a space for the lungs to expand into because then they're kind of gently pulled. Air just naturally goes down due to the laws of physics and fills up the lungs. And so you have this expansion. And then when you relax, what's going to happen is the natural recoil in the lungs is just going to kind of snap back. But if you really need to, you can also use your innermost and internal intercostal to forcefully exhale and push it out. It's really, really interesting to see how all of this goes, right? Breathing is a dynamic process. It's not just the lungs fill up and then they empty. There's a lot going on. So my hope is that you understand this process a whole lot better than you did just a few minutes ago. But I just want you to let you know, again, this is a 100% free Kenhub article and kind of just show you what else we have to offer here, kind of scan back up. You can see that like, if you become a premium subscriber, I can kind of like zoom out here. If you become a premium subscriber, you can also get access to videos that we embed inside of these free articles. We have quizzes. Let me kind of scan down here and find we have quizzes that are belonging or study sessions, exam quizzes, you name it, all of it we offer. That is going to be part of the premium subscription. But at the same time, if you're just looking to learn, we have plenty to offer for free as well. But if you enjoyed this video, what I would really appreciate if you did is just head on down and hit the like button and then also leave us a comment and let us know what else you'd like us to discuss in the future. And it's all, you know, there's a lot to discuss in the body and I'm sure we can just kind of go through it, you know, piece by piece, but we always want to do our best to give you what you're actually interested in learning and not just kind of like hope that we're doing it the way that we think is going to be, is going to work. But anyways, I really appreciate you hanging out with me. I hope you learned something and I will see you next time.

=== FILE: How to get rid of test anxiety [osEQHlitnQg].txt ===

 In 2011, researchers at the University of Chicago ran an experiment. They took students who were about to sit for a high-stakes biology exam and gave half of them a very simple instruction. For 10 minutes before the test, write about your fears. That's it. Just write down what you're anxious about. Now, the anxious students who did the writing exercise scored nearly a full letter grade higher than the anxious students who didn't. 10 minutes. One letter grade. But here's what makes this finding remarkable, because after the writing exercise, the anxious students performed just as well as the students who weren't anxious at all. It didn't just help, it completely closed the gap. So what's actually happening here? How can 10 minutes of writing undo the damage that anxiety does to exam performance? And more importantly, if anxiety is costing students letter grades on exams, what else can we do about it? Because, let's be honest, telling someone to just relax before a final has never worked in the history of telling people to relax. Today, we're going to break down exactly what anxiety does to your brain and the specific techniques that are all backed by research that can neutralize it. To understand why anxiety destroys exam performance, you need to understand working memory. You can think of it as your brain's mental workspace, that place where you hold information while you're actively thinking about it. Working memory has a limited capacity. Most people can only juggle about four to seven chunks of information at once, and during an exam, you really desperately need that workspace in order to reason through the questions. Anxiety generates intrusive thoughts. What if I fail? I should have studied more. Everyone else looks calm. What's wrong with me? Those thoughts aren't just unpleasant, they're actually taking up space. They're occupying slots in your working memory that you need for the actual exam. So the more you worry, the less cognitive capacity you have left for thinking. You see, this is why anxious students will often say things like, I knew the information. I just couldn't find it during the exam, because they actually probably did know it. And the problem is that the worry was just occupying their working memory. And so then they didn't have enough bandwidth to actually retrieve that information. So the question isn't, how do I stop being anxious? That's like saying, stop thinking about a sandwich, right? As soon as I say it, you're going to think about a sandwich. The real question we want to ask ourselves is, how do we free up that working memory that is possessed by the anxiety? And this is where the writing intervention comes in. When you write about your worries before an exam, you're doing something counterintuitive. You're not pushing the anxiety away, you're giving it somewhere else. To live. Researchers call this cognitive offloading. By externalizing the worries, you're getting them out of your head and onto paper, you free up the mental bandwidth that they were consuming. The fears don't disappear, but they stop competing for space in your working memory. Now, if this sounds too simple to work, I get it. Because at first glance, this sounds like something you'd find in a cheesy self-help book and not a peer-reviewed study. But the research here is surprisingly robust. The original study was published in Science, which is one of the most prestigious journals in the world. And it's been replicated in classrooms with standardized testing environments all across different subjects. And the effect is consistent. Expressive writing before high-stakes exams improves performance, especially for anxious students. So this is actually really easy to do. About 10 minutes before the exam, you're just going to sit down and write down everything. Now, you could do this the night before, if you don't have the time, but the goal here is to get as close to the test as possible. But just write everything. All your feelings, all your worries, all your fears about that exam, you just want to go ahead and write that down. You don't want to censor yourself. So don't worry about grammar or spelling. This is just to write about what you're afraid of. Like, what's at stake? Like, what's the worst case scenario? The more specific you are, the better. And that's because vague worry is still going to stay lodged in your working memory, but specific externalized thoughts. That's going to vacate your working memory. Now, this is something I've been doing for a long time with my students, if I ever have, say, a review day. What I'll do is I'll have everyone pull out a piece of paper, and then they go through the exercise. And then immediately after, I will then put on one of Ken Hub's quizzes, and we will just go through it as a class. And so as we're going through, what I notice, and I get that this is anecdotal, but what I notice is these same students, who I have been teaching for weeks, sometimes months at this point, are performing better. And the whole idea behind this is to give them a confidence boost. That way, they can go into the actual exam, feeling like, you know what, maybe I actually do know this. So just think, you know, if that's useful in this little testing in microcosm environment that I've generated, how much more useful can it be right before an exam? But cognitive offloading is just one piece of the puzzle. And that's because anxiety doesn't only affect what happens during the exam. It can sabotage everything that comes before it. A few years back, I made an observation when I was sitting there in class, and that was the most anxious students that I had were the ones who were studying the most. All right, like they were the ones who were just like compulsively studying every opportunity they had. When we're going through their stressors and everything, they're telling me just like, I'm studying, I'm studying, I'm studying. And I'm just realizing like, they are the most frantic studyers out of all of the students, and yet they're the ones who are also performing the worst. Which is tragic because they're putting in the hours, but they're not really learning and they understand that. They feel, they can sense that they aren't learning, and it creates a vicious cycle. There's more fear, more frantic studying, and there's less actual retention, and at least more fear. To break this cycle, you want to do something that is going to sound very counterintuitive, but I can assure you it works. What you want to do is give yourself scheduled worry time. I'm talking, say like you're at the end of a study session, you close your book, and then you sit there, and you allow yourself to be as stressed as you need to be in that moment. We all have this idea that you're supposed to feel really good after a study session. You're supposed to feel like you're getting all of it. And maybe you are, and maybe you will, but if you are allowing yourself to be stressed, then you're not fighting, you know, the anxiety. Instead, what you're doing is you are offloading it from the working memory in that moment. And I can tell you, I've seen this so many times with students, the ones who do that are going to consistently get better at managing their anxiety. But there's another factor that most anxious students completely overlook. And this is one that can either amplify or diminish every other thing we've talked about already. I need you to look me in the eyeballs as I say this. You need to get more sleep. And I know you're going to be like, hey, I'm already doing it, or hey, I got a t- No, no more excuses. You need to get more and even better quality sleep, right? It's not just the amount you need to get better quality sleep. And that's because lack of sleep and anxiety are not two separate problems. They amplify each other. So what you need to do is really make this a priority. Research shows that staying awake for just 17 hours produces cognitive impairment equivalent to a blood alcohol level of 0.05%. That's close to the legal limit for driving in many places in the United States. I want you to think about that for a moment. Let's say that you're upstudying until midnight, and then you have to wake up at 7am to go take your exam. That is the cognitive equivalent of taking your test with a couple drinks in your system. I don't care who you are. That means you are not taking that exam at your best. But here's the thing. Despite what I just said, there is even more surprising nuance to this than you'd think. A study tracking college students with wearable sleep monitors found something very surprising. Yes, the sleep you get before an exam matters. But not as much as the consistency and quality of sleep that you get over the entire month leading up to the test. Sleep quality across the preparation period explained about 25% of the variance in exam scores. That's enormous. It means how you sleep for weeks before the test matters more than a single all-nighter, and also more than most study techniques. Here's the thing. Sleep deprivation doesn't just impair your cognition. It fuels emotional reactivity. When you don't have enough sleep, your brain essentially just goes into hyperactive mode. You start to see more risks everywhere and you start to worry a lot. So the student who sacrifices sleep to study more is actually doing two things wrong at once. They're impairing their ability to learn and remember, and they're amplifying the very anxiety that will hijack their working memory during the exam. Now, I want to give you one more technique, but this is going to be different than the others because this one isn't trying to get rid of your anxiety as much as it's trying to redirect it. When you're feeling anxious before an exam, you have a racing heart, sweaty palms, butterflies in your stomach. All that is a physiological arousal, and the interesting thing is that is almost identical to excitement. The physical sensations are the same. What differs is the story you tell yourself about them. Research on anxiety reappraisal shows that when people interpret their arousal as excitement, rather than fear, they actually perform better. Not because the arousal goes away, but because they stop fighting it. So the next time you sit down for an exam and you feel that rush of adrenaline hit your body, I want you to try something different. Instead of saying, I'm scared or I don't know what's going to happen in all that normal anxiety talk, I want you to reframe it. I want you to say, I'm excited. This is going to be good for me. My body is ready. Let's do this. Now, I get it. It sounds almost too simple, but studies show that this tiny reframe measurably improves performance on everything from public speaking to math tests. Okay. So now what I want to do is give you a very specific protocol that you can put into practice for your next exam. Two weeks before the exam, you need to establish a sleep schedule, and this is non-negotiable. So seven to eight hours, and it needs to be consistent. One week out, you want to add scheduled worry time to your daily routine. This could be 15 minutes, same time each day. When anxious thoughts interrupt your studying, acknowledge them and defer them to that window. This contains the anxiety without suppressing it. Then the night before the exam, do your expressive writing exercise. 10 minutes at minimum, longer if you need it, and get every single fear onto paper. And then, and this is crucial, you get to bed at your normal time. No last minute cramming. Whatever you don't know by now, you're not going to learn at midnight. On the morning of the exam, when you feel the nerves kick in, and I promise you will, you want to use the reframe. I'm excited. My body is ready for this. Don't fight the adrenaline, redirect it. And if you can, do a brief expressive writing session right before the exam. Even just five minutes helps. Some students will do this in the hallway before they walk into class. And if you want to put this to the test, you need to check out Kenhub. We use spaced repetition quizzes, which is where we ask you a question in one way, and then we'll ask it to you a little bit later down the road in a slightly different way, and then we'll do that again and again and again. And the research has shown that this is one of the most, if not the most effective way to quiz someone. And it's something you can test yourself with right here, right now. All you got to do is check the link down in the description below. But thanks for hanging out with me, and I will see you in the next video.

=== FILE: Muscles of the anterior forearm： Anatomy and functions ｜ Kenhub [36BJDLFWI24].txt ===

 In today's video, we're going to be using one of Kenhub's premium features to teach you everything you could possibly need to know to ace your next exam on the anterior muscles of the forearm. There are 20 muscles in your forearm. You have eight in what's called the anterior antebrachium, and then you have 12 in the posterior antebrachium. Today, we're going to be dialing in on the eight here. And like I mentioned, we're going to be using one of Kenhub's premium features called a study unit. So if you've never seen our study units, these are designed to pretty much teach you everything you could possibly need to know about these structures. We put it in one nice, convenient spot. So you can see there is a video which is going to discuss everything I'm about to discuss and more that's going to be at the top. You can see we put the quizzes here for you to then navigate. You can then see how there's going to be a custom quiz that we've built for you just on those specific things. You can see Atlas images, which we are about to use ourselves. And then you can see a key facts summary table. And by the time you make it to the end, you can start an exam and see, are you actually starting to understand this the way it's supposed to be understood? And if you are, well, you can go to the next area. You can go to the posterior compartment or let's say you're like, I need to learn something or maybe I'm a little rusty. I need to go back. I can go to the elbow joint. It's sequential. We can actually start learning about the body parts in order. It's a fantastic way to do it. And in case you're curious, we even put the articles that can go even into more depth on these structures at the very bottom. So our goal is going to be to use the Atlas images in order to understand these muscles. Like I said, this is going to be the anterior and a brachium, but sometimes you might hear these be called the flexors of the antebrachium. And we're going to start with a muscle called pronator teres. Pronator, because what it's doing is an action called pronation. So I'm going to kind of show it to you from this side. So this is occurring in the elbow and in the wrist. It's this action called supination and pronation. Supination and pronation. So supination is almost like you're holding a bowl of soup is the way I think about it. Pronation is like you are pouring it out. Now in reality, they're not happening like this. They're really happening like this in anatomical position. The thing is, you can't really hold a bowl of soup like this. So we kind of discuss it as though, you know, you're holding the bowl of soup like this. Regardless, pronator teres is going to pronate what's known as the proximal radial ulnar joint. The proximal radial ulnar joint is basically just where the radius is actually articulating with the ulna all the way up towards the elbow. It's just going to spin it and it's going to perform this action. Pronation. It's going to spin it over as though you are pouring out a bowl of soup. Next, we have a muscle called the flexor carpi radialis. So if you break these muscles names down, by the way, they're going to make a lot of sense. If we even go back real quick, pronator teres, teres means round. If you were to dissect this muscle out, it's kind of tubular. So it has like this roundish nature to it. You see teres at several places in the body, including like the teres minor and the teres major up towards that shoulder and just the rotator cuff region. So flexor carpi radialis, if you break that name down, flexor tells you there's going to be flexion involved. Carpi tells you it's involved with the wrist and radialis tells you it has something to do with the radius. And so if we look at this muscle, we can see that it is originating around or on top of, I should say, what's called the medial epicondyle. That's this projection of bone that's on the humerus. And it's going to be traveling down and it's going to cross the wrist and then it is going to insert at the base of the metacarpals, which are just going to be the bones deep to your palm. Well, this tells us since it doesn't go to the actual digits, this is not going to perform any flexion of the digits. Instead, like its name suggests, flexor carpi, this is going to flex the wrist. But then since it's on the radial side, so you see this is going to be the radius. And as the muscle is crossing from that medial to lateral side, what it's going to also do is something called radial deviation. Now to show you what that looks like, I'm going to stand up once again and we're going to look at this from anatomical position. So like this, if I am moving my wrist towards my body, we would call this ulnar deviation because my ulna is right here and my wrist is deviating towards the ulna. We could also call this adduction of the wrist. So we could say ulnar deviation of the wrist or we could say adduction of the wrist. But we could also go the opposite way. Now there's not as much range of motion this way, but this is called radial deviation because I'm going towards the radius, which is the lateral bone from anatomical position. But we also could call this abduction of the wrist. Abduction of the wrist, radial deviation, adduction of the wrist, or ulnar deviation. So if we're looking at this muscle here, what we see is that it is going and crossing over to the radial side. It is also going to perform abduction or radial deviation of the wrist. And in fact, whenever I move to the next muscle, I want you to just look at which side of the wrist the tendon is crossing. Because that will tell you if it's possibly going to be performing radial or ulnar deviation. So I want you to keep your eyes on that. All right. So let's move to the next one. And here we get flexor carpi ulnaris. So flexor carpi ulnaris is going to be, well, on the ulnar side. We can see that this is also going up to that medial epicondyle. It's coming down. It's crossing the wrist. And it's inserting here at the base of the fifth metacarpal. Right? This is going to be your pinky digit or digit five. And so this, once again, is not making its way into the digits. These are the mobile joints of the digits. The metacarpal doesn't. Right? You can't fold inside of your palm. It's just not possible. Which tells us this is not going to be doing any action at the digits. Instead, it is only going to be having an action at the wrist. But what are those actions going to be? Again, flexor carpi tells us that this is going to flex the wrist. And what does flexion of the wrist look like? Well, I'm going to show it to you like this. But remember, we're always talking about this from anatomical position. Flexion of the wrist is going to look like that. I'm trying to not include the digits at all. Just isolate the wrist movement. Flexion of the wrist from anatomical position. That would look like this if I hit my desk. Flexion of the wrist. So we have flexion of the wrist. But then since it's on the ulnar side, this is also going to be performing ulnar deviation or adduction of the wrist. Okay. Let's now move to a really fascinating muscle that you can do a little experiment at home to see if you even have. This muscle is in somewhere around or missing, I should say, in around 10 to 15% of people worldwide. It varies based on population. So there's going to be certain geographical locations that certain cultures and ethnicities are going to have a higher or lower incidence rate. But regardless, if you were to even it out, somewhere around 10 to 15% of the human population is missing this muscle. And it's possible you have it in one side and you're missing it in the other. It's possible you're missing both or it's possible you just have both. This is the palmaris longus. Palmaris longus, once again, we can see is at the medial epicondyle. And then it comes down and it crosses the wrist. And what's happening here is you can see it kind of fanning out. This is turning into the palmar aponeurosis, the palmar fascia. It's spreading out. And basically, this is the connective tissue that is just deep to the integumentary system in your palm. And what it's going to do is it's going to flex the wrist. We can know that because it is crossing the wrist. But do you see how it's traveling down the center of the wrist? This means it doesn't quite have the leverage to perform radial or ulnar deviation. Instead, by blending into the fascia, it deepens the hollow of the palm. So it's kind of like it's doing this type of thing. And all that's really going to do is impact the surface area that the palm can actually grab onto something as you are grabbing something. So I have a box of tissues here. So as I'm grabbing this, if I have palmaris longus, that can help actually increase the surface area for that connection. Is it profound? No, not in human beings. Humans are no longer climbers. But our ancient ancestors used to be much more tree-dwelling. And that made a lot more sense back in our evolutionary past to have muscles that would help improve the grip, the surface area for grip as we would grab onto something. But as we became bipedal and now we use our hands for just grabbing things and not really necessarily climbing, well, this muscle has started to dwindle away and out of our population. And that is, again, why only 10% to 15% are, or rather 10% to 15% are missing it. So what does it do beyond, or so actually, how do you know if you have it? So here's what you're going to do. You're going to take your thumb and you're going to take your ring finger. So digit four. You are going to push those together. And then you are going to push as hard as you can. It's kind of like, almost like a Spider-Man. It's like a Spider-Man hand position. And as you push that, I want you to flex your wrist like this. And what should happen is two tendons you should visibly see, or if you can't visually see it, you want to palpate. And you should feel two tendons popping out. If you only feel one tendon popping out, well, guess what? You probably are missing Palmaris Longus in that hand. I have done this many times with my students. I know for a fact that I have both of my Palmaris Longi. Is that how I'd say that? I feel like that's how I'd say it if it was plural. I know I have both muscles in both my arms. But again, just kind of push your thumb and your ring finger together. And then you're going to flex your wrist. And then you are going to feel and see if you have two tendons popping out. If you only have one, it is possible that you are missing Palmaris Longus on that side. All right. Moving along. We now see the flexor digitorum superficialis, which is such a fun muscle to say. I strongly encourage you to do that right now yourself. So we can once again see this is coming up from the medial epicondyle. And what it's doing now is it's traveling down, crossing the wrist, and then is going to the digits, which makes a lot of sense because this is the flexor digitorum superficialis. It's called superficialis because we're going to see there is a companion muscle to this one that is, well, you know, might as well show you right now. This is called the flexor digitorum profundis. Profundis means deep. And so this is going to be underneath or deep or profundis to the superficialis. But both of them are going to the exact same location. Now, they attach slightly differently at the ends of the digits, but we're not going to get overly concerned with that. Instead, these muscles are synergists to one another. What that means is that they work together to perform the same action. So this muscle is really broad. And as you can see, it is going to cross the wrist right in the center, meaning it's not going to perform any ulnar or radial deviation. But since it is crossing the wrist, this is going to perform flexion of the wrist. And then as it crosses into the digits, we can finally say, oh, this is going to perform flexion of the digits. Except we need to be clear on which digits. Because there is no tendon going to digit one or the thumb. Instead, this is going to flex digits two through five. Because remember, it goes digit one, two, three, four, and five. This only flexes the wrist and digits two through five. All right. So then if we go to profundus here, so flexor digitorum profundus, this time it's not quite coming all the way up to that medial epicondyle. Instead, it's going to be coming up here closer to that ulnar tuberosity on the ulna. And then it's going to still cross in the center of the wrist. And it's still going to go through digits two through five. It does the exact same thing. Remember, these are synergists to each other. So flexor digitorum profundus is going to also flex the wrist as well as flex digits two through five. All right. So then from here, we now meet flexor pollicis longus. Now, in anatomy, it's always important to understand there could be multiple names for the same thing. That's just the way it works. All right. So we can say like the thumb digit one. But you can also say pollux. Pollux is another way to say thumb. And so pollicis is kind of an alternative way to say that. So flexor pollicis longus is going to flex the thumb. This is what flexion of the thumb looks like. You just kind of bring your thumb over like that. But it's also going to flex it deeply like so. Because as you can see, this tendon is making it all the way down towards that distal phalanx, which is going to be the second bone inside of the thumb. So flexor pollicis longus. But once again, now you can see we're in the deep forearm. So this is the deep anterior compartment. This is not coming up to the medial epicondyle at all. Instead, this is on the radius and even the interosseous membrane, which is the connective tissue, the fibrous joint that connects both the radius and the ulna together. So flexor pollicis longus. Now, there is something clinically relevant we want to talk about here because you've probably heard of this thing called the carpal tunnel before. The carpal tunnel is an anatomical location. So something that doesn't actually make sense is if someone were to say, I have carpal tunnel. That doesn't make sense because, I mean, they're right, but everybody has carpal tunnel, right? Carpal tunnel is an anatomical location. It is where the transverse carpal ligament is actually bridging the gap between the carpal bones. So basically what happens is you have an anatomical tunnel in your wrist that nine tendons travel through, as well as a nerve called the median nerve. And the nine tendons that travel through this space, one of them is flexor pollicis longest tendon right here. Four of them come from flexor digitorum profundus. And the last four come from flexor digitorum superficialis. So if you have nine tendons all sliding, like imagine as I go like this sliding, it is possible to start creating irritation and inflammation. And since it's a closed location because of that transverse carpal ligament, it can put pressure on that nerve. And then you can start to feel the symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome. That's the way you want to say it. It's not I have carpal tunnel. I have carpal tunnel syndrome. Now we might have to do a whole other video on carpal tunnel, but we already have some pretty interesting content on there already. But still just understand there would be numbness, tingling, weakness in these three digits, as well as half of your ring finger. So don't say I have carpal tunnel. Say I have carpal tunnel syndrome, if that's what you're really getting at. All right. And then the eighth and final muscle inside of the anterior anabrachium is what is called the pronator quadratus muscle. So pronator quadratus is called that because, well, first off, it's going to pronate. Remember, pronation is where we are. So if I start like this, like I'm holding a bowl of soup, then I can flip it over and that is going to be pronation. Well, that is happening here because we can see one side of the muscles attached to the ulna, which is stationary. And then the other end is attached to the radius. And so when this muscle contracts, it's going to grab the radius and flip it over into pronation. But it's called quadratus because it is a one, two, three, four-sided muscle. So we had pronator teres up here and now we have pronator quadratus. We had a tubular muscle. Now we have a four-sided muscle. Both of them are performing the same action, but they're targeting different joints. So pronator teres was targeting right here, which is called the proximal radio ulnar joint. And then the pronator quadratus, this is targeting the distal radio ulnar joint, which is where the radius and ulna are articulating down here in the wrist. When you put all of those together, look, we can kind of come up here and you can see between the superficial and deep layers, all of these muscles here. It's a busy area. But remember, there's 12 on the posterior side. There's only eight. We only just discussed eight. But I want you just to think of all the dynamic movement that is occurring inside of the hand and the digits and the wrist and everything as you're going here. Because another thing that's important to understand is everything we just discussed is or what are called external hand muscles. Meaning these or extrinsic hand muscles are muscles that move the hand, but are not physically located inside of the hand. You also have internal or intrinsic hand muscles, which are muscles that are in the hand that move the hand. And so it's amazing just how much movement is happening as you're just doing things like this. It's also just completely understandable to see how much dexterity we really have in here. So this is the power of the study unit because you can see there's so much text here that can tell you we have the Atlas images. Again, you can see how everything is pretty much just summed up for you in these tables. And you can even take an exam to see exactly how you are doing with it. So my hope is that you now have a really good understanding of the anterior antebrachium. Now we're going to go ahead and leave a link down below so you can actually start navigating one of our 100% free Kenhub articles. But I strongly encourage you to take a look at the premium features because that is where the real true understanding and knowledge comes from. Because you can start testing yourself. You can test your knowledge, make sure you're understanding it and not just reading it. But don't underestimate the power of reading it because these articles are really well done and it's something we put a lot of effort into. But if you enjoyed this video, what I'd really appreciate you doing is going down and hitting that like button. It's a small gesture. But believe it or not, it actually goes a really long way in helping this video perform better. And then more people can just be exposed to anatomy or increase their anatomical understanding. While you're down there, why don't you go ahead and leave a comment? We are always looking to make the content you want to hear and you see and listen to. So if this is something you enjoyed, be sure to let us know what else you'd like us to discuss in future videos. That is very much appreciated. But once again, thanks for hanging out with me for a little bit. Good luck on your next exam. And I will see you next time.

=== FILE: Muscles of the pelvic floor - Quick Anatomy ｜ Kenhub [ZyX-z3OkE8I].txt ===

 scri scri scriber, NAC, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR, MR So let's have a look at each of these muscles in turn. First up, we can see the entire levator ani muscle highlighted in green. Remember, it consists of three muscles which more or less blend into each other. The puborectalis, the pubococcygeus, and the ileococcygeus. The first part of the levator ani we'll look at is the puborectalis. This muscle, highlighted in green, is named after its attachments and relations. Pubo, referring to the pubic bone. And rectalis, relating to the rectum. The puborectalis originates from the posterior surface of the bodies of the pubic bones. It then extends from its points of origin to form a U-shaped sling around the rectum at the anorectal junction. This is pretty different from a lot of skeletal muscle attachments where insertions are usually to bones. By encircling the anorectal junction, the puborectalis maintains faecal continence. When this muscle relaxes, the angle between the rectum and the anus increases, which allows for defecation to occur. You may have noticed that the puborectalis has two holes in it. The more posteriorly situated hole allows for the passage of the anal canal and is therefore called the anal aperture. But what about the anterior hole? This hole is termed the urogenital hiatus and allows passage of the urethra in both sexes and the vagina in females. In terms of innervation, the puborectalis is supplied by the nerve to the levator ani, which arises from the anterior rami of S4, sometimes with a small contribution from S5. The second component of the levator ani is the pubococcygeus. And nicely done, this muscle is also named after is attachment points. It originates from the bodies of the pubic bones, lateral to the origin of the puborectalis. Posteriorly, it inserts at the coccyx and the anococcygeal ligament. Similar to the puborectalis, it is innervated by the nerve to the levator ani, but also receives fibres from the branches of the pudendal nerve, such as the inferior rectal or the perineal branches. The last of the three components of the levator ani is the ileococcygeus muscle. Now this one is a bit deceiving, as its name would suggest that it originates from the ileum, but actually the ileococcygeus originates from the ischium, specifically the ischial spine. It also originates from this structure here, the tendinous arch of the levator ani. Luckily, on the other hand, its insertion point does match its name. Posteriorly, it inserts at the coccyx and the anococcygeal ligament. Like the rest of the levator ani, the ileococcygeus is innervated by the nerve to the levator ani. The last muscle of the pelvic floor, which is not part of the levator ani, is the muscle we can see highlighted now. This is the coccygeus, which is sometimes called the ischiococcygeus. This muscle originates from the ischial spine and travels posteriorly to insert on the coccyx an inferior portion of the sacrum. From this inferior view, we can see the insertion of the coccygeus, which is highlighted onto the coccyx and the sacrum. The coccygeus ovalies the sacrospinous ligament, which we've just added to the image now. This ligament has similar attachment points, the sacrum and the ischial spine. Sometimes this muscle and its tendon can fuse together. The coccygeus, as part of the pelvic floor, functions by pulling the coccyx anteriorly after defecation. In other species, its primary function is actually movement of the tail. It is innervated by the nerve to the levator ani, just like the muscles of the levator ani, which make up the rest of the pelvic floor. And before we move on, let me remind you of the functions of the pelvic floor. These muscles work together to provide support for the pelvic organs. Additionally, the pelvic floor helps maintain optimal intra-abdominal pressure and is involved in urinary and faecal continence in both sexes. If you found this quick anatomy or physiology video helpful, you'll enjoy our video tutorials even more. Click on the button and you'll see what I mean. We have hundreds of videos available to our premium members, not to mention all the fun quizzes, complete articles and atlas sections to solidify your knowledge. Click on the button in the middle to watch the full length video and master anatomy and physiology. So I will see you, I will see you, I will see you, I will see you, I will see you, I will see you, I will see you, I will see you, I will see you, I will see you, I will see you, I will see you,

=== FILE: Palmar interossei muscles： Anatomy and functions [4ggHgQ7gnNE].txt ===

 الس السio-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7-7 Now they're going to do a little bit of extension as well, but they're going to adduct the digits. Pad. Now what's interesting is on the opposite side, on the dorsal side of your hand, which there's not a lot of tissue there. If you go ahead and feel like you can feel the bones, you can feel the tendons sliding around. There's not very much tissue on this side. There's another comparative muscle on the opposite side called the dab muscles, which stands for dorsal abduction, which is where the digits are going away. Um, you think like being abducted by aliens. So the dorsal interossei dab, palmer interossei pad. And now these muscles are kind of interesting though, because well, first and foremost, you might be missing one. Um, so if you look at this picture here, we see three muscle bellies, but in reality there's four. It's just one of them is missing. Uh, that our illustrator decided not to do that because I mean, well, I don't know exactly why, but they just decided not to do it. And what that means is, um, for some people, there is another additional muscle belly that helps to adduct the first digit or the thumb. Um, but what we see here is that there are three of these palmer interossei muscles, and this is what everyone is going to have. But what's interesting is if you look really closely, you're going to notice that not a single one is attached to the third digit or your middle finger. And just in case you didn't know, it's digit one, two, three, four, and then five. So digit one is the big, uh, the thumb. And then the, uh, digit five is going to be the pinky finger. Um, and you can see this. I want you to do this right in front of your face, right? This is a, as fun as anatomy can be, this is, this is a fun activity. What you're going to do is I want you to just adduct your digits. And as you do that, you're going to notice that your middle finger digit three likes to stay put. It's the other digits that are the ones that are kind of coming towards it. And that is because of this. There is no muscle belly attached there in order to perform adduction of digit three. These are the palmer interossei. Now, this is also kind of interesting too, though, because there are certain neuropathies that, um, you can actually take advantage of the palmer interossei to figure out if there's a compression on one nerve or another nerve. So let me give you an example. So the nerve that goes to these muscles is called the ulnar nerve. And the ulnar nerve is also the nerve that creates the funny bone. It's what wraps around your medial epicondyle on your humerus. Now it's going to go down and it's going to, it's going to actually, um, innervate these muscles. And what you can do, if you want to test and see if someone is having an ulnar nerve neuropathy or some kind of impingement or some kind of condition, what you can actually do is kind of like put pressure, not a lot, but between their digits and have them try to add duct, right? You're like, you're trying to see if they can generate the tension in order to actually add up to the digits. And if they can't, that might be suggesting that they have an ulnar nerve compression or some kind of issue with it. But the thing is the ulnar nerve also goes to the dorsal interossei. So they also should be weak in abduction and pushing those open and bringing them away. So it's an interesting little piece of clinical anatomy that is kind of fascinating to play around with. But these, again, these muscles are as deep as they possibly can get inside of your palm. Um, and you have some on the other side. Now, everything we just went over is in a 100% free Ken Hub article that we're going to go ahead and leave in the description below. And while you're down there, if you enjoyed this video, please give it a like and leave a comment of other videos you'd like to see coming up in the future. We're always looking to improve and just actually discuss things that you want to hear us talk about. But thanks for hanging out with me. I will see you in the next one.

=== FILE: Pyramidal tracts： Brainstem - Quick Anatomy ｜ Kenhub [1Aw9oolBxAo].txt ===

 yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang yang at the midbrain. It's the most superior, or the most rostral part of the brainstem, and is continuous with the thalamus, the hypothalamus, the epithalamus, and the subthalamus, which are collectively called the diencephalon. It's involved in several processes relating to vision, hearing, and motor control, as well as alertness, arousal, and temperature regulation. Let's take a closer look at some of the unique landmarks used to identify parts of the midbrain. Let's start with these structures, which are the most obvious feature of the midbrain, and these are the cerebral peduncles, sometimes called the cruce cerebrae. The cerebral peduncles are aligned nearly perpendicular to each other and create a small space called the interpeduncular fossa. The cerebral peduncles are large collections of white matter fibre bundles, including the corticospinal, the corticobulba, and the corticopontine pathways, and we'll learn more about some of these pathways a little bit later on in the tutorial. A thin, dark line of cell bodies runs across the cerebral peduncles, and this is the substantia nigra, which translates literally into black stuff. The dark colour is a result of neuromelanin contained within its cell bodies, and the neurons of the substantia nigra release dopamine into the striatum to influence motor control. The cerebral peduncles and substantia nigra are closer to the ventral part of the midbrain, and if we move towards the dorsal part of the midbrain, we can see a small canal running through it. And this is the cerebral aqueduct. The cerebral aqueduct receives cerebrospinal fluid from the third ventricle, and this fluid then passes inferiorly to the fourth ventricle. A small region of grey matter surrounds the cerebral aqueduct. This region is referred to as the periaqueductal grey, and it contains neurons that project to the raphe nuclei in the reticular system to modulate pain. Moving in an inferior or chordal direction, the next cross-section that we're going to be looking at is taken at the level of the pons. And it can be identified by this large bulge on its ventral or anterior surface called the basal pons and its large connections to the cerebellum. It also houses several of the cranial nerve nuclei. Like the midbrain, the pons also contains fibres of the ascending and descending white matter tracks, but we'll discuss this in more detail in just a few moments. So next up is the smallest part of the brainstem, and that is the medulla, also known as the medulla oblongata, or the myelencephalon. And it's the most inferior or caudal portion of the brainstem, and is continuous with the spinal cord. Several small bulges and a uniquely shaped nucleus provide landmarks to identify it, and despite being the smallest part of the brainstem, the medulla is divided into two segments. So this over here is the rostral medulla, and rostral means beak or nose in Latin. And this part is called the rostral medulla because it is closer to the nasal region of the skull. Besides a few bulges on its ventral surface, which are known as the pyramids of the medulla, the best structure to use in identifying the medulla is the olivary nucleus. And the olivary nucleus is a uniquely shaped nucleus that appears convoluted in cross sections, and neurons in the olivary nucleus coordinate signals between the cerebellum and the spinal cord. The most inferior part of the medulla is called the caudal medulla. And caudal means tail in Latin, and so therefore the caudal medulla gets its name because it is closer to the tailbone or coccyx than the rostral medulla. If you found this quick anatomy or physiology video helpful, you'll enjoy our video tutorials even more. Click on the button and you'll see what I mean. We have hundreds of videos available to our premium members, not to mention all the fun quizzes, complete articles, and atlas sections to solidify your knowledge. Click on the button in the middle to watch the full length video and master anatomy and physiology.

=== FILE: Pyramidal tracts： White matter tracts - Quick Anatomy ｜ Kenhub [TdE24ZXAok4].txt ===

 IOM IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL IRL I located between the thalamus and the putamen. From here, the fibers of the corticospinal tract descend into the midbrain, where they travel within the cerebral peduncles and then continue on to the pons, before gathering into discrete bundles which form the pyramids of the rostral medulla. And as you can see in the illustration, the fibers are somatotopically arranged, with the more medial fibers belonging to the upper extremity and the more lateral fibers associated with the lower extremity. As they reach the caudal medulla, the fibers of the corticospinal tract separate into anterior and lateral divisions. And this occurs at the pyramidal decussation. And just a reminder, to decussate means to cross to the other side of the medulla. This is the anterior corticospinal tract, and axons within the anterior corticospinal tract remain ipsilateral, which means being on the same side to the motor cortex they originated from into the spinal cord. And before these fibers synapse with interneurons in the spinal cord, they will cross over the other side of the body, anterior to the grey matter of the spinal cord. And these fibers provide motor innervation to your back, as well as the proximal portions of the extremities. And they play an important role in maintaining posture. The axons of the lateral corticospinal tract cross to the other side of the body in the medulla at the pyramidal decussation. And these fibers supply motor innervation to the distal parts of the extremities, like your hand. This tract is a relatively recent evolutionary development, and only found in mammals capable of performing skilled voluntary movements. Another white matter tract I would like to briefly mention to you is the corticobulba tract. However, instead of controlling muscles in your legs or arms, the neurons in the corticobulba tract control muscles in the head and neck. And because they don't need to travel lower than the neck, the axons in the corticobulba tract do not enter the spinal cord. Instead, they synapse onto the nuclei of cranial nerves 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 9, 10, 11, and 12. So basically, cranial nerves 3 to 12 minus number 8. And these cranial nerves contain motor fibers for the muscles of your eyes, face, the muscles of mastication, and some of the muscles of your neck. Something important to note is that the corticobulba tract is sometimes called the corticonuclear tract. And this tract has actually been renamed because the word bulba refers to the medulla. However, not all fibers of the corticobulba tract actually reach the medulla. And it's more accurate to say corticonuclear, which instead refers to the cranial nerve nuclei. If you found this quick anatomy or physiology video helpful, you'll enjoy our video tutorials even more. Click on the button and you'll see what I mean. We have hundreds of videos available to our premium members, not to mention all the fun quizzes, complete articles, and atlas sections to solidify your knowledge. Click on the button in the middle to watch the full-length video and master anatomy and physiology.

=== FILE: Soleus muscle： Anatomy and functions [Jj-paLt7BV4].txt ===

oireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoireoire down to three-headed muscle of the calves. Suri means calves. So here's one head, here's two heads, there's three heads, but they both are going to join up at the calcaneal tendon or the Achilles tendon is what most people would call it. But our goal today is to learn about soleus, which is hiding just behind. And to do that, we are going to be using a 100% free Kenhub article that we've gone ahead and left a link down the description below. So please feel free to follow along at home. Now, this is the soleus in all of its glory. Now, granted, we can also see another muscle up top. This is called the popliteus. It is another really deep muscle. This is the deepest muscle in the posterior crust. But just below it is where soleus is going to originate. Now, both of them are kind of like attaching at the same point. It's called the soleal line, the soleal line on the tibia. But it's also going to originate all the way over here on the medial border of the tibia. And then it's also going to originate on the head of the fibula and also another part of the fibula shaft as it's going down. This has a really broad attachment. And then it's going to come down and insert with the gastrocnemius via the calcaneal tendon at, you guessed it, the calcaneus, right? But very good name for the tendon to be called the calcaneal tendon if it's going to the calcaneus. And I should say, by the way, soleus, its name means soulfish. And that means someone at some point looked at this and believed that it looked like the soulfish, which is a flat fish, which I would argue, I think that's a pretty good name for it. Now, its action is going to be very simple. It's going to be what's called plantarflexion. We're going to see that in action in just a moment. But I just want you to know plantarflexion is the only thing that it's going to do. But that doesn't mean that it's not important or that it's a simple muscle. This muscle we're going to see is active all the time. Now, to understand, I'm going to scroll back up the nerve that goes to it. So we can view this image here. We can see the nerve coming down. And in inserting here, this is called the tibial nerve. The tibial nerve is one half of what's called the sciatic nerve. The sciatic nerve splits and bifurcates. You can see that here in the back of the knee becoming the tibial nerve and the common peroneal or common fibular nerve. And what's going to happen is it's going to come down and it's going to innervate that soleus. Now, let's go ahead and scroll on up. And I want to show you this video that is embedded inside of our article. Now, this is a premium feature, but I just want to show you the power of these videos because it is really, really cool. And so I want to orient you real quick. You can see we're looking at a crust, right? So you can see the foot, you can see the tibia, the fibula, you can see the femur, the patella. And if you look closely, you're also going to see like this white transparent muscle on top that is representing the gastrocnemius, leaving the only colored muscle we can see to be the soleus. And then you can also clearly see that calcaneal tendon or Achilles tendon. And I just want to let you know, this is a massive tendon. When I was growing up, I used to think the Achilles tendon was just this tiny little thing right there. But in reality, it's huge. It goes about up like halfway or half the distance of your entire crust. This is a big tendon. So I'm going to go ahead and press play. And we're going to just kind of watch as the video goes through. Now, this has, you know, awesome narration going over it that I've just silenced so we can talk about this. But it's showing you the action plantar flexion, right? Plantar flexion, you can think of just as standing on the tips of your toes. But again, like if you really think about it, you're not really doing that all that often. But like you are walking, right? Like, I mean, yes, it's showing I don't know if you're in ballet, that would make a lot of sense. But I'll kind of pause this for a second. You are not standing on the tips of your toes all that often. But since you are walking, it helps to push off during locomotion. So you can just kind of propel. But that is not the only thing that it's doing. And it is mentioning like the difference between gastrocnemius and soleus. This is another really cool thing about our videos is it tells you like really subtle differences. And what it's kind of explaining here is that, you know, whether or not your knee is flexed, as in like right now I'm sitting in a chair and so my knees are flexed over the edge, that actually makes a difference regarding whether or not soleus is more active or gastrocnemius is more active. So kind of interesting how that works. But the main thing that soleus is really going to be responsible for and we're going to see this in just a moment has to do with balance. And you see this a lot with muscles. And by the way, this is actually going to show you some of these awesome workouts that this individual is doing. They're trying to show you the difference between say like a flex knee and an extended knee while you're doing plantar flexion. Because just to let you know, if you are using a flexed knee, you are actually going to be using more of soleus just because gastrocnemius doesn't have the leverage to really work as much as it could if it was in the extended state. What they're trying to say here is, and this is a really powerful thing about knowing your muscles, is that the exact position the joint is in can work different muscles, even if you're doing the same action at a different joint. That's all we're really trying to show here. But back to what I was saying about balance, and we're going to see this in action here. Soleus is really there to help keep you from falling flat on your face. Right? So that's what they're going to show right here is you're going to see like it's going to twist it around. And it's going to show that it's like, just based on gravity and how the body naturally wants to lay, it's going to actually start to wants to lean forward. But that's obviously not going to work like you don't want to have that forward leaning posture. It's just not going to be good. Right? So this is what we would call dorsal flex, your dorsally flexed or dorsiflexion. So you that at the ankle. So soleus is in the stretched position right now. So what it is going to do is it is going to contract and bring you back into this neutral upright position. This is also plantar flexion. And this is just an important thing I really encourage you to understand when it comes to muscles. And this is more of a deeper kinesiological perspective. We're going to go ahead and exit the full screen here and kind of scan down and just look at soleus is simply that yes, muscles have an action. But just because that action is described very simply, like just saying plantar flexion, that doesn't really tell you a lot about what it does in your day to day life. Typically, remember that is assuming anatomical position, anatomical position being that you know, I can kind of stand up and show you, you know, being this right here. I mean, you're not really in that position. I'm not in that position all that often. Instead, like once you kind of learn your muscles, I strongly encourage you to start thinking about them in terms of what they do dynamically. How do they actually work in our day to day? Because you're going to find that most of the muscles you learn, they really operate in different ways than you would think because they're not because you're not always in anatomical position. But that is a different conversation for a different day. The real thing you need to know, though, is that the soleus does indeed perform plantar flexion of the ankle, innervated by the tibial nerve. And yeah, it's a really, really cool muscle. So my hope is that you found this video very useful. Again, we went ahead and left a link down the description below. So you can check this 100% free Kenhub article out yourself. See what else we have to explore. There is a lot on the Kenhub platform that I know you would absolutely love, including a brand new physiology section that we just launched. But while you're down there, please hit that like button. Small things like that go a long way in the all powerful YouTube algorithm just helping these videos perform better and get in front of more people. But thanks for hanging out with me and I will see you in the next video.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.449582Z ===
