 two groups. You have what are called the intrinsic muscles and the extrinsic muscles. The intrinsic muscles are what we're going to be looking at in these next four images. And these are muscles that change the shape of the tongue itself. So yes, there's going to be a little bit of movement associated with it, but at the same time, it's primarily there to change the shape of the tongue. And you might be wondering, well, why do we even need to have our tongue change shape? What's the point? Well, that is going to come down to a few different things, right? What do you use your tongue for, right? Your tongue is going to be for tasting. It's also going to be actually be for speaking. It's going to be curved and we're going to see a curved image. In fact, actually, I'm going to scroll down. I think this would be nice for us to see it from, let's look at it from this one. You can see from this view that we have a curled tongue here, right? It's curved. And that curve is going to be essential for acoustics, but the tongue is also going to be again for tasting. It's going to be for speaking and it's going to be for mastication, which is where in swallowing, where basically it's helping with the process of moving stuff around and then your teeth are going to pulverize it and then you're going to swallow it back and it's going to go down into your pharynx and then down to your esophagus. So the tongue needs to be able to change shape for all of this, right? As I'm speaking right now, my tongue is just doing this dance around in my mouth in order to curve the word and spin the verb, as they would say, and then we are allowed to talk. So there is quite a bit going on with this tongue. So again, we're going to kind of scroll back up here and look at this image and we're going to start with the intrinsic muscles. Again, these are the ones that are changing the shape and we are first going to meet what is known as the superior longitudinal muscle of the tongue. Now, these are all going to, I mean, there's a lot of similarities with them, but this is actually going to help flatten the tongue a little bit. And even like, kind of like a depressive, a tancy bit. So it's kind of like, it's going to just flatten it out. And by the way, like we're going to see that there's actually going to be this lingual septum. So this lingual septum is basically dividing the tongue in half. Actually, I should probably even tell you what you're looking at here. Now, this is always a great habit is to try and figure out what you're looking at just like ahead of time. But this is what we call a coronal view. So we have cut the head into an anterior and posterior half. And then you are looking at the tongue as it's been cut, like just like this, and you're looking at the posterior half of it. So technically this would be an anterior view of a coronal section. And so the tongue is going to be like this. Now this bone up here would be the hard palate. So be your maxilla. And then if you look down here, you can see the hyoid bone. This is going to be that bone that's in your throat. So the tongue is actually traveling from your oral cavity or your mouth, and it's going all the way down to the hyoid bone in your throat. It anchors itself there, which is actually very wild. And so the superior longitudinal muscle, this again is just going to help flatten it. And this is going to be innervated by what's called the hypoglossal nerve. So the hypoglossal nerve is actually going to be innervating many of these muscles. In fact, it's going to be seven of the eight, but we'll get to the one that it is not going to be innervating. Then if they took the time to say the superior longitudinal muscle, well, then there's going to be an inferior longitudinal muscle. This is going to do something similar. It's just going to be at a much less dramatic effect. This is going to be deeper down and it's going to help to flatten it. It can even help with like protrusion and retraction and teens a bit. Just kind of like, so like when I say protrusion or elongating, it's like it's like it's thickening the tongue out. Or you can get small amounts of this as these muscles are kind of flattening, but it's not going to be an awful lot. We're going to see that there's another muscle that's really good at sticking the tongue out, but that is going to be an extrinsic muscle because the extrinsic muscles are really there to help move the tongue and throw it around where these intrinsic ones are primarily there to just change its shape. So it's like when I say change its shape, it's like you're kind of like cupping around and kind of somewhat elongating and shortening, just a teensy bit of that in most cases, like so on and so forth. So this is inferior longitudinal muscle. And then we're going to get the transverse. This is going to be the transverse muscle. And this is going to do something very similar. So it's going to help kind of like widen it, broaden it out. And then again, you can kind of picture like it's just going to snap back and forth and go like this and stuff. I don't want to just necessarily be making funny faces at you and sticking the tongue out, but that is exactly what the transverse muscle is going to be doing. It's just going to be changing that shape like so. And then we get the vertical muscle. Now the vertical muscle is really good at depressing the tongue. So you can see it's called that because, well, the fibers are traveling in this vertical direction. So it's just going to, it can help to kind of like depress it pretty strongly. And even like some of the fibers can start to contract a little bit more so than others. And you can even get kind of like this dip, this kind of like concavity inside of the tongue itself. Now, so these are the four intrinsic muscles of the tongue. But what we want to do now is scan down. And what's nice about our articles is we love to add these key fact tables. And so you can see what's really nice about all four of these. It tells you their origins, their insertions, their innervations, which I should also say every single muscle I just discussed was all innervated by the hypoglossal nerve, which is a cranial nerve. Um, so all four of them, but we like to put all of this right here for you. You can see the action of it, um, as well. So we're now going to go down and look at the extrinsic muscles and we're going to first meet a muscle called geneoglossus. So geneoglossus is, um, really good at depressing the tongue. Now the thing is, I actually want to look at it from this view. And so if we look at it from this view, I think it'll give you a really strong intuition on these muscles. And so this is going to be like a lateral, also somewhat sagittal view, not entirely sagittal. Like we can see, for example, the zygomatic bone is it's turning the zygomatic arch and turning. So it's like your cheekbone. But if we go deep to that, you can see that there's been a cross section made, um, around, uh, the maxilla. So the upper, so the hard palate, but you can see just how much is going on with the tongue here. All of this is going to be the tongue. Although we can also see the pharynx back here. Um, but yeah, so if we're looking at this highlighted portion here, this is going to be geneoglossus. Now geneoglossus once again is going to be innervated by the hypoglossal nerve. But the thing to really take note of from this view is that geneoglossus is attaching to the mandible. And so this is the muscle that is really good at sticking out your tongue. As the muscle contracts, it's just going to grab that tongue. And then the tongue is going to be able to stick out. Now, again, it itself is not elongating it as much as it's pulling it forward. And then you have the superior and inferior longitudinal muscles that are helping to elongate it. And you're able to get, um, you're able to get that position. All right. So this is going to be geneoglossus. Now I should say that is if it's a bilateral contraction, if you're only having a unilateral contraction. So one side, again, we have that lingual septum going on the center. If only one side contracts and you can, uh, uh, uh, uh, move your tongue left to right, you can actually move it to the sides. Okay. So as we scroll down here, we now meet the hyoglossus. So, um, hyoglossus, this one, actually, I want to see it again. So again, you can see that it's kind of fanned out from here and it's attaching to the hyoid bone, which is how it gets its name. Hyoglossus really, really straightforward. But I want to look at it from this view here. I think this gives us the best intuition and understanding of what this muscle is going to do. Um, it is also going to help to pull it to the sides if we have a unilateral contraction, but it's also going to be really good at just like depressing the tongue, just kind of pulling the whole thing down. Um, because it's just going to be pulling into the, or attaching into these, uh, lateral fibers here. You're just going to flatten my tongue like that is what hyoglossus is going to be doing. And then if we continue down, we then are going to meet styloglossus. Now styloglossus, if I come over here now, it doesn't really show it, um, in this particular view, you can see like the brainstem turning in the spinal cord, but there is this little projection that is coming off the temporal bone called the styloid process. And that's exactly what this muscle is going to be attaching to. Now the styloglossus is really good at kind of like as bringing the tongue up. So I don't know if you can see this, uh, again, my, it's working with the intrinsic muscles to, to actually change the shape of the tongue, but it's lifting the tongue up. So you can see how it's kind of like just at this arching angle, it's just going to grab the tongue and it's going to help to lift it up. It's going to be absolutely essential when you are in that swallowing, uh, phase of, uh, of when you're eating. And then the last muscle we're going to meet, and then we'll have met all eight of them. And it is the only muscle that is not innervated by the hypoglossal nerve. This is actually going to be innervated by the vagus nerve. It's another cranial nerve. Specifically, this is cranial nerve 10 and the vagus nerve is in charge of a whole lot of different stuff. But this right here is going to be the palatoglossus. Now palatoglossus, if we look at it from this view, you can see that it's actually attaching up here to what is called the soft palate. So the soft palate, um, a part of the soft palate is going to be your uvula, but this is not really blending into the uvula. This is kind of like around the uvula, the uvula being that little hangy doodle thing. Um, the palatoglossus, what this is really going to aim to do is help to kind of like close off that opening between your oral cavity and your, um, oral pharynx, which is going to be the throat. So if we look at this other view here, you can kind of see. So again, here's that soft palate, get those words out of the way. And as it does that, like you can imagine, it's going to bring these ends closer together. So if you do this right now, if you sit and swallow, you're going to feel your tongue and your soft palate meet one another. And as they do that, and it's closing it off, this is all essential as the tongue is pushing everything back. So they, it's going to be closing this gap and lifting the tongue and somewhat bringing the soft palate down, but not too much because the soft palate is pretty strongly anchored down, but it's still going to help close off that distance. But this is going to be innervated by the vagus nerve. And so again, you can see there are these eight muscles, like the tongue is really a superstructure. And when you look at it from this view, you can see the superior longitudinal muscle. You can see, um, get those words out of the way. You can see the vertical muscle, right? Like you can see these different ones. The tongue is more than just one thing. It's a bunch of different muscles all working together for specific functions. Again, those functions being taste, which taste would actually be coming from the mucosa of the tongue. The mucosa, I should say, is going to be the surface of the tongue. And that's where you're going to find like taste buds and those types of things. But the tongue is going to be for taste. It's going to be for speaking, right? For the acoustics of sound. And then it's also going to be there for swallowing and assisting with moving things around in your mouth as you are masticating them. So the tongue is an absolutely fascinating, fascinating structure. But our hope is that you enjoyed today's video. Again, we left a link down the description below for you to go ahead and check out this 100% free Ken Hub article. And while you're down there, go ahead and leave a comment, leave a like. Those things really do go a long way in helping these videos perform better. But I, again, I really hope you enjoyed today's video and I will see you in the next one.