 Whymids, dm.,oshoppedonent,oshopped,oshopped,oshopped,oshopped,oshopped,oshopped, this 100% free Kenhub article. We've gone ahead and left a link down the description below. Feel free to follow along. This thing is amazing to help us understand because what we're looking at here is the pharynx. Now the pharynx is your throat, right? That's what everybody would call it. And, but there is much more to this thing. It's not like it's just one tube, right? I mean, like it is, but it isn't, right? It's made up of multiple muscles, right? We're actually going to see there are six relevant muscles to what we're going to be discussing today. Now to kind of also orient you so you understand what you're looking at, this is like a posterior view. So it's, it's like, um, cause I mean, your throat, you know, see if I can try to do it. Your throat's back there. Well, we're looking on the posterior side of the throat, right? So like to give you an example, like this right here is going to be the esophagus, right? That's your food tube. And the food tube is going to be more posterior. So like what would be like right here would be the vertebral column or your spinal column. So that's to hopefully give you some kind of intuition as to what we're looking at. But what's going to be cool is we're actually going to be opening this up as we go along the way. So with enough of that said, so first thing we have to understand is there's actually superficial muscles and then there are deeper muscles. And the superficial muscles kind of like form like this cone, right? They form like this like tube, cone shaped tube that's just going around it. And there's going to be three of them. Now the first one we can see highlighted here in green, this is going to be the superior pharyngeal constrictor muscle. And so this is the one that is going to be contract contracting first, because you can see the fibers are kind of like they're coming at this angle, but they're also going around, right? This is, this is doing a full 360. And the idea here is it's going to actually be squeezing from the top down, right? That makes probably a lot of sense to you because you want the food to go this direction. You're going to need to squeeze it in that direction. So this is going to be the first muscle of the constrictors to kind of like push it down along that path. And then we're going to meet the middle pharyngeal constrictor. And so the middle is then just going to take it over. It's a baton race. It's just, okay, I squeeze, now you squeeze. And then what's going to also happen is then the superior pharyngeal constrictor muscle is going to start relaxing, right? It's not going to fully be able to relax as much as it's in that phase of relaxing as the, as the bolus, as we would say, right? A bolus is like when you chew something up. So think like you're eating, I don't know, some, some crackers or something, right? You're chewing the crackers and you're munching it up. You've now turned those crackers into a slobbery bolus. And now it is slowly being squeezed down and we see the middle pharyngeal constrictor muscle. And then we're going to meet the inferior laryngeal constrictor muscle. And this one is pretty massive. This one's pretty massive. And, and then that is what's going to connect to the esophagus. Now, what's really cool is we're about to see that we can kind of cut this open, peel it apart and see what's on the inside because there's going to be other muscles. And that's also going to give you some intuition as to what is also in this area because the pharynx itself can also be divided into three different sections. You have what's called the nasopharynx, the oropharynx, and then the laryngopharynx. And it's just trying to tell you the portion of your throat that it, that corresponds to another area, right? So like the nasopharynx to absolutely no surprise is the portion of your pharynx that is in contact with the nasal cavity. The oropharynx is in contact with the oral cavity or your mouth. And then the laryngopharynx is going to be in contact with your larynx or your voice box. And that's exactly what's on the other side of this muscle. So let's go ahead and now cut it open. And this is where things get kind of cool because you can see like into like the nasal cavities, right? So you can actually see like the conches, you can see like the nasal septum, because again, we're looking at the posterior view here, right? You're seeing into the oral cavity, here's the tongue. And then you're seeing like the, as we're opening up into the larynx, and then we can see as we're going down into the opening of the esophagus. So there's, there's actually like quite a bit to look at here. Now, this first one that we're going to look at, so this is not a constrictor muscle, right? This is going to be deeper down. This is called the palatopharyngeus muscle. So the palatopharyngeus muscle, as you can see, just based off of its fiber orientation here, is going to be lifting the pharynx. Now you might be wondering, why do you want to lift the pharynx? I thought we want things to go down. I mean, it's a fair question, but you have to understand what it's also attached to. This is, this is going up towards that nasopharynx. And what it's going to do is it's going to help bring and help kind of close the soft palate. It's going to work with other muscles to do this, but it's going to help close the soft palate, which is what separates the nasopharynx from the oropharynx. And it's going to help prevent food from going up, right? We don't want the bolus to go up our nose. Again, we don't want everything to just squeeze because it would go this way. But now we have that superior constrictor, right? The pharyngeal constrictor pushing down, but at the same time, we're going to also elevate the pharynx and close off the nasal cavity to just kind of guarantee that food or that bolus is not going to go up into that nasal cavity, right? So this is going to help lift it as well. And just like that, right? So then we're getting the salpingo or salpingo pharyngeus muscle. So this one is really, really cool. And you can actually play with this one yourself because this muscle, you see it's connected right here. This is connecting to what is called the auditory tube or the pharyngotympanic tube. This is the connection that your throat or your pharynx has to your middle ear. So this is either going to make you wildly uncomfortable for the rest of your life, or you're going to think this is super cool. I want you to just swallow for me and you're going to hear little, so go ahead. I'll do it with you. Let's just, let's just close our mouths and swallow. Do it again. What just happened as you were swallowing the salpingo pharyngeus muscle pulled on that pharyngotympanic tube and opened it. And now this is, this is there to help equalize pressure, right? Like if you've ever felt like your ears needed to pop, that's because there's a difference in atmospheric pressure between your middle ear and then the external environment. And your tympanic membrane or your eardrum is feeling that pressure difference. And so what you can do is swallow and it opens up the auditory tube or that pharyngotympanic tube and the air can hopefully equalize. And then you're going to get that pop. So you might be like, you know, doing all that kind of stuff to try and open it. But what's happening here is this is, that's part of what this is doing, right? It's, it is also helping to elevate, right? To elevate that pharynx a little bit, but it's also pulling down and opening that pharyngotympanic tube to kind of open up and equalize the pressure. This happens every single time you swallow, every single time you swallow. That's why I'm saying it might, it might make you wildly uncomfortable. Let's, let's go to the next one. So then we get the stylo pharyngius. So the stylo pharyngius, so this one is going to be connecting to something called the styloid process of the temporal bone. It's this little, these little hooks that just kind of come down like this. And there's several muscles that attach here. Now, this is also going to act to elevate the pharynx, right? Just kind of bring it up. But what it also is going to do is widen it, right? So it's going to like open it up this way, kind of pulling it laterally. And the reason you want to do that is because you're, I mean, you have a bolus, right? You're, you're swallowing a whole bunch of food, right? You're just kind of throwing it back and you can see, you just want to be able to fit everything. And so the stylo pharyngius is going to help to do that. So we are elevating and pulling open. So when you add these three muscles together with those constrictor muscles, right, what you're doing is you're basically just creating space, lifting, closing off. In fact, let's go back to this. We're closing off the nasopharynx so that food doesn't go that way. And then the constrictor muscles are going to come into play and they're going to squeeze it like a tube of toothpaste. And it's going to push it down until you are eventually going to empty into this esophagus. And the esophagus is, that's something we could talk about in a future video, because the esophagus is going to be having its own muscular layers. And that is then going to help push all of that down and drop it into the stomach. And at the same time, you know, your epiglottis is going to come down and it's going to close off your larynx. So then you don't have food going into your airway. It's like, it's amazing, right? The cascade, the symphony, if you will, of events that is happening every single time you swallow, including the pops that you're going to hear for the rest of your life, because I do. And that's just the way it goes now. I hope you enjoyed today's video. Again, this is a 100% free Ken Humpa article. I just want to kind of show you how this looks. I mean, you can see, we like to put these key facts tables. You can see the innervations, which I didn't even discuss, right? All of these muscles are going to be innervated by what's called the pharyngeal plexus, or except one of them, which is going to be the stylopharyngeus, which is going to be innervated by the glossopharyngeal nerve. But I just want to kind of like scan down here because we also have this really cool cadaveric image here that has been color coded to help try to show you these things. Um, it's just really interesting. The amount of information we like to try and put in these articles that are 100% free. So you got to check it out. You can see more of this Atlas image that puts everything just right there and more than we just talked about too, which is super, super cool. All going down. Um, you're just going to want to check this out again. We're going to go ahead and leave a link down the description below, but thanks for hanging out with me. I really hope you had, um, got some value out of today's video. If you did hit the like button, leave us a comment, let us know what you want to talk about or us to talk about in future videos. We appreciate it, but until next time, have a good one.