 In today's video, we're going to be using one of Kenhub's premium features to teach you everything you could possibly need to know to ace your next exam on the anterior muscles of the forearm. There are 20 muscles in your forearm. You have eight in what's called the anterior antebrachium, and then you have 12 in the posterior antebrachium. Today, we're going to be dialing in on the eight here. And like I mentioned, we're going to be using one of Kenhub's premium features called a study unit. So if you've never seen our study units, these are designed to pretty much teach you everything you could possibly need to know about these structures. We put it in one nice, convenient spot. So you can see there is a video which is going to discuss everything I'm about to discuss and more that's going to be at the top. You can see we put the quizzes here for you to then navigate. You can then see how there's going to be a custom quiz that we've built for you just on those specific things. You can see Atlas images, which we are about to use ourselves. And then you can see a key facts summary table. And by the time you make it to the end, you can start an exam and see, are you actually starting to understand this the way it's supposed to be understood? And if you are, well, you can go to the next area. You can go to the posterior compartment or let's say you're like, I need to learn something or maybe I'm a little rusty. I need to go back. I can go to the elbow joint. It's sequential. We can actually start learning about the body parts in order. It's a fantastic way to do it. And in case you're curious, we even put the articles that can go even into more depth on these structures at the very bottom. So our goal is going to be to use the Atlas images in order to understand these muscles. Like I said, this is going to be the anterior and a brachium, but sometimes you might hear these be called the flexors of the antebrachium. And we're going to start with a muscle called pronator teres. Pronator, because what it's doing is an action called pronation. So I'm going to kind of show it to you from this side. So this is occurring in the elbow and in the wrist. It's this action called supination and pronation. Supination and pronation. So supination is almost like you're holding a bowl of soup is the way I think about it. Pronation is like you are pouring it out. Now in reality, they're not happening like this. They're really happening like this in anatomical position. The thing is, you can't really hold a bowl of soup like this. So we kind of discuss it as though, you know, you're holding the bowl of soup like this. Regardless, pronator teres is going to pronate what's known as the proximal radial ulnar joint. The proximal radial ulnar joint is basically just where the radius is actually articulating with the ulna all the way up towards the elbow. It's just going to spin it and it's going to perform this action. Pronation. It's going to spin it over as though you are pouring out a bowl of soup. Next, we have a muscle called the flexor carpi radialis. So if you break these muscles names down, by the way, they're going to make a lot of sense. If we even go back real quick, pronator teres, teres means round. If you were to dissect this muscle out, it's kind of tubular. So it has like this roundish nature to it. You see teres at several places in the body, including like the teres minor and the teres major up towards that shoulder and just the rotator cuff region. So flexor carpi radialis, if you break that name down, flexor tells you there's going to be flexion involved. Carpi tells you it's involved with the wrist and radialis tells you it has something to do with the radius. And so if we look at this muscle, we can see that it is originating around or on top of, I should say, what's called the medial epicondyle. That's this projection of bone that's on the humerus. And it's going to be traveling down and it's going to cross the wrist and then it is going to insert at the base of the metacarpals, which are just going to be the bones deep to your palm. Well, this tells us since it doesn't go to the actual digits, this is not going to perform any flexion of the digits. Instead, like its name suggests, flexor carpi, this is going to flex the wrist. But then since it's on the radial side, so you see this is going to be the radius. And as the muscle is crossing from that medial to lateral side, what it's going to also do is something called radial deviation. Now to show you what that looks like, I'm going to stand up once again and we're going to look at this from anatomical position. So like this, if I am moving my wrist towards my body, we would call this ulnar deviation because my ulna is right here and my wrist is deviating towards the ulna. We could also call this adduction of the wrist. So we could say ulnar deviation of the wrist or we could say adduction of the wrist. But we could also go the opposite way. Now there's not as much range of motion this way, but this is called radial deviation because I'm going towards the radius, which is the lateral bone from anatomical position. But we also could call this abduction of the wrist. Abduction of the wrist, radial deviation, adduction of the wrist, or ulnar deviation. So if we're looking at this muscle here, what we see is that it is going and crossing over to the radial side. It is also going to perform abduction or radial deviation of the wrist. And in fact, whenever I move to the next muscle, I want you to just look at which side of the wrist the tendon is crossing. Because that will tell you if it's possibly going to be performing radial or ulnar deviation. So I want you to keep your eyes on that. All right. So let's move to the next one. And here we get flexor carpi ulnaris. So flexor carpi ulnaris is going to be, well, on the ulnar side. We can see that this is also going up to that medial epicondyle. It's coming down. It's crossing the wrist. And it's inserting here at the base of the fifth metacarpal. Right? This is going to be your pinky digit or digit five. And so this, once again, is not making its way into the digits. These are the mobile joints of the digits. The metacarpal doesn't. Right? You can't fold inside of your palm. It's just not possible. Which tells us this is not going to be doing any action at the digits. Instead, it is only going to be having an action at the wrist. But what are those actions going to be? Again, flexor carpi tells us that this is going to flex the wrist. And what does flexion of the wrist look like? Well, I'm going to show it to you like this. But remember, we're always talking about this from anatomical position. Flexion of the wrist is going to look like that. I'm trying to not include the digits at all. Just isolate the wrist movement. Flexion of the wrist from anatomical position. That would look like this if I hit my desk. Flexion of the wrist. So we have flexion of the wrist. But then since it's on the ulnar side, this is also going to be performing ulnar deviation or adduction of the wrist. Okay. Let's now move to a really fascinating muscle that you can do a little experiment at home to see if you even have. This muscle is in somewhere around or missing, I should say, in around 10 to 15% of people worldwide. It varies based on population. So there's going to be certain geographical locations that certain cultures and ethnicities are going to have a higher or lower incidence rate. But regardless, if you were to even it out, somewhere around 10 to 15% of the human population is missing this muscle. And it's possible you have it in one side and you're missing it in the other. It's possible you're missing both or it's possible you just have both. This is the palmaris longus. Palmaris longus, once again, we can see is at the medial epicondyle. And then it comes down and it crosses the wrist. And what's happening here is you can see it kind of fanning out. This is turning into the palmar aponeurosis, the palmar fascia. It's spreading out. And basically, this is the connective tissue that is just deep to the integumentary system in your palm. And what it's going to do is it's going to flex the wrist. We can know that because it is crossing the wrist. But do you see how it's traveling down the center of the wrist? This means it doesn't quite have the leverage to perform radial or ulnar deviation. Instead, by blending into the fascia, it deepens the hollow of the palm. So it's kind of like it's doing this type of thing. And all that's really going to do is impact the surface area that the palm can actually grab onto something as you are grabbing something. So I have a box of tissues here. So as I'm grabbing this, if I have palmaris longus, that can help actually increase the surface area for that connection. Is it profound? No, not in human beings. Humans are no longer climbers. But our ancient ancestors used to be much more tree-dwelling. And that made a lot more sense back in our evolutionary past to have muscles that would help improve the grip, the surface area for grip as we would grab onto something. But as we became bipedal and now we use our hands for just grabbing things and not really necessarily climbing, well, this muscle has started to dwindle away and out of our population. And that is, again, why only 10% to 15% are, or rather 10% to 15% are missing it. So what does it do beyond, or so actually, how do you know if you have it? So here's what you're going to do. You're going to take your thumb and you're going to take your ring finger. So digit four. You are going to push those together. And then you are going to push as hard as you can. It's kind of like, almost like a Spider-Man. It's like a Spider-Man hand position. And as you push that, I want you to flex your wrist like this. And what should happen is two tendons you should visibly see, or if you can't visually see it, you want to palpate. And you should feel two tendons popping out. If you only feel one tendon popping out, well, guess what? You probably are missing Palmaris Longus in that hand. I have done this many times with my students. I know for a fact that I have both of my Palmaris Longi. Is that how I'd say that? I feel like that's how I'd say it if it was plural. I know I have both muscles in both my arms. But again, just kind of push your thumb and your ring finger together. And then you're going to flex your wrist. And then you are going to feel and see if you have two tendons popping out. If you only have one, it is possible that you are missing Palmaris Longus on that side. All right. Moving along. We now see the flexor digitorum superficialis, which is such a fun muscle to say. I strongly encourage you to do that right now yourself. So we can once again see this is coming up from the medial epicondyle. And what it's doing now is it's traveling down, crossing the wrist, and then is going to the digits, which makes a lot of sense because this is the flexor digitorum superficialis. It's called superficialis because we're going to see there is a companion muscle to this one that is, well, you know, might as well show you right now. This is called the flexor digitorum profundis. Profundis means deep. And so this is going to be underneath or deep or profundis to the superficialis. But both of them are going to the exact same location. Now, they attach slightly differently at the ends of the digits, but we're not going to get overly concerned with that. Instead, these muscles are synergists to one another. What that means is that they work together to perform the same action. So this muscle is really broad. And as you can see, it is going to cross the wrist right in the center, meaning it's not going to perform any ulnar or radial deviation. But since it is crossing the wrist, this is going to perform flexion of the wrist. And then as it crosses into the digits, we can finally say, oh, this is going to perform flexion of the digits. Except we need to be clear on which digits. Because there is no tendon going to digit one or the thumb. Instead, this is going to flex digits two through five. Because remember, it goes digit one, two, three, four, and five. This only flexes the wrist and digits two through five. All right. So then if we go to profundus here, so flexor digitorum profundus, this time it's not quite coming all the way up to that medial epicondyle. Instead, it's going to be coming up here closer to that ulnar tuberosity on the ulna. And then it's going to still cross in the center of the wrist. And it's still going to go through digits two through five. It does the exact same thing. Remember, these are synergists to each other. So flexor digitorum profundus is going to also flex the wrist as well as flex digits two through five. All right. So then from here, we now meet flexor pollicis longus. Now, in anatomy, it's always important to understand there could be multiple names for the same thing. That's just the way it works. All right. So we can say like the thumb digit one. But you can also say pollux. Pollux is another way to say thumb. And so pollicis is kind of an alternative way to say that. So flexor pollicis longus is going to flex the thumb. This is what flexion of the thumb looks like. You just kind of bring your thumb over like that. But it's also going to flex it deeply like so. Because as you can see, this tendon is making it all the way down towards that distal phalanx, which is going to be the second bone inside of the thumb. So flexor pollicis longus. But once again, now you can see we're in the deep forearm. So this is the deep anterior compartment. This is not coming up to the medial epicondyle at all. Instead, this is on the radius and even the interosseous membrane, which is the connective tissue, the fibrous joint that connects both the radius and the ulna together. So flexor pollicis longus. Now, there is something clinically relevant we want to talk about here because you've probably heard of this thing called the carpal tunnel before. The carpal tunnel is an anatomical location. So something that doesn't actually make sense is if someone were to say, I have carpal tunnel. That doesn't make sense because, I mean, they're right, but everybody has carpal tunnel, right? Carpal tunnel is an anatomical location. It is where the transverse carpal ligament is actually bridging the gap between the carpal bones. So basically what happens is you have an anatomical tunnel in your wrist that nine tendons travel through, as well as a nerve called the median nerve. And the nine tendons that travel through this space, one of them is flexor pollicis longest tendon right here. Four of them come from flexor digitorum profundus. And the last four come from flexor digitorum superficialis. So if you have nine tendons all sliding, like imagine as I go like this sliding, it is possible to start creating irritation and inflammation. And since it's a closed location because of that transverse carpal ligament, it can put pressure on that nerve. And then you can start to feel the symptoms of carpal tunnel syndrome. That's the way you want to say it. It's not I have carpal tunnel. I have carpal tunnel syndrome. Now we might have to do a whole other video on carpal tunnel, but we already have some pretty interesting content on there already. But still just understand there would be numbness, tingling, weakness in these three digits, as well as half of your ring finger. So don't say I have carpal tunnel. Say I have carpal tunnel syndrome, if that's what you're really getting at. All right. And then the eighth and final muscle inside of the anterior anabrachium is what is called the pronator quadratus muscle. So pronator quadratus is called that because, well, first off, it's going to pronate. Remember, pronation is where we are. So if I start like this, like I'm holding a bowl of soup, then I can flip it over and that is going to be pronation. Well, that is happening here because we can see one side of the muscles attached to the ulna, which is stationary. And then the other end is attached to the radius. And so when this muscle contracts, it's going to grab the radius and flip it over into pronation. But it's called quadratus because it is a one, two, three, four-sided muscle. So we had pronator teres up here and now we have pronator quadratus. We had a tubular muscle. Now we have a four-sided muscle. Both of them are performing the same action, but they're targeting different joints. So pronator teres was targeting right here, which is called the proximal radio ulnar joint. And then the pronator quadratus, this is targeting the distal radio ulnar joint, which is where the radius and ulna are articulating down here in the wrist. When you put all of those together, look, we can kind of come up here and you can see between the superficial and deep layers, all of these muscles here. It's a busy area. But remember, there's 12 on the posterior side. There's only eight. We only just discussed eight. But I want you just to think of all the dynamic movement that is occurring inside of the hand and the digits and the wrist and everything as you're going here. Because another thing that's important to understand is everything we just discussed is or what are called external hand muscles. Meaning these or extrinsic hand muscles are muscles that move the hand, but are not physically located inside of the hand. You also have internal or intrinsic hand muscles, which are muscles that are in the hand that move the hand. And so it's amazing just how much movement is happening as you're just doing things like this. It's also just completely understandable to see how much dexterity we really have in here. So this is the power of the study unit because you can see there's so much text here that can tell you we have the Atlas images. Again, you can see how everything is pretty much just summed up for you in these tables. And you can even take an exam to see exactly how you are doing with it. So my hope is that you now have a really good understanding of the anterior antebrachium. Now we're going to go ahead and leave a link down below so you can actually start navigating one of our 100% free Kenhub articles. But I strongly encourage you to take a look at the premium features because that is where the real true understanding and knowledge comes from. Because you can start testing yourself. You can test your knowledge, make sure you're understanding it and not just reading it. But don't underestimate the power of reading it because these articles are really well done and it's something we put a lot of effort into. But if you enjoyed this video, what I'd really appreciate you doing is going down and hitting that like button. It's a small gesture. But believe it or not, it actually goes a really long way in helping this video perform better. And then more people can just be exposed to anatomy or increase their anatomical understanding. While you're down there, why don't you go ahead and leave a comment? We are always looking to make the content you want to hear and you see and listen to. So if this is something you enjoyed, be sure to let us know what else you'd like us to discuss in future videos. That is very much appreciated. But once again, thanks for hanging out with me for a little bit. Good luck on your next exam. And I will see you next time.