 This muscle Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper Proper is the oscoxa, but we also can notice if we look in here that there is a hole in the oscoxa. This is the obturator foramen, and it happens to be the origin of the obturator internus. You see, the obturator internus kind of like attaches itself to the out, like this ring, this posterior aspect of the obturator foramen, but there's also going to be a piece of connective tissue inside of this hole, because foramen means hole, called the obturator membrane, and that is exactly what obturator internus is originating on. But then what you can see it doing is it's coming around, and it's going to insert here at the greater trochanter of the femur, and this greater trochanter, by the way, that just means to run. So basically, it means big chunk of bone for running, more or less, but what's also fascinating is if you look really closely, you can see that there's this thin red line up here, and then another thin red line underneath it. These are the little twins, and by little twins, I mean the superior gemellus and the inferior gemellus. So this one's superior, and then this one is inferior. Gemellus, you could think of like gemini, meaning twin. So what's interesting is all three of them share a common tendon as they insert onto or into the greater trochanter, and that leads some texts to call this the triceps cocci, right? Like, believe it or not, there's more than one triceps in the body, right? Pretty much everyone's familiar with triceps brachii. Some people are familiar with triceps suri, which is down in the calves, but this right here is the triceps cocci, just meaning the triceps in the hip. Now, the reason why it's like only considered by some texts, I think has to do mostly with innervation. So the nerve that actually goes to obturator internus, this is going to blow you away. I hope you're ready for this. It's called the nerve to obturator internus, which I love when that happens. Like when I was learning my nerves, that's like one of my favorite things in the world. Like another example would be the nerve to subclavius. That's, that's, that goes to subclavius, but I will say the nerve to obturator internus also does go to the superior gemellus, but it doesn't innervate the inferior gemellus. And what that means is that, you know, in my mind, and I think in a lot of other people's minds is that if you have different nerves going to the muscles, then perhaps it's not actually one muscle itself, but still regardless, it's kind of like a potato, potato. This is the obturator internus. And so the question we want to ask ourselves is what does it do, right? We know that it originates here at the obturator foramen and inserts at the greater trocancer. We know it's innervated by the nerve to obturator internus, but what does it do, right? Well, to, well, to see that, I'm going to go ahead and exit out of this and we can now see that we are looking at a 100% free KenHub article. And we've gone ahead and left a link down in the description below. You're welcome to follow along with me and kind of check this out. You can see that like we build these like an encyclopedia. We put as much information as we possibly can. In fact, I do want to show you this alternative view. And these are all part of our Atlas images and our Atlas images are also 100% free. And in my opinion, are the best anatomical images available on the internet, but I'm probably biased, but it's still true. So what you're looking at here is a superior view of the obturator internus, but there's more than just the obturator internus, right? If we look at this, what we're going to see is all of these pelvic floor muscles and the obturator internus is just coming off right here. This whole area is what we call the pelvic bowl. And this is like where you're like, you think like your bladder is going to be resting inside of, or possibly the prostate. Like there's going to be several structures that are going to be in this space, but now you can see that how far forward, right? How far anteriorly compared to the sacrum that obturator internus actually is. And then you just have to remember the obturator externus would just be kind of like mirrored on the other side, but would also still be going towards that greater trochancer. But, uh, this is just super cool to see. And again, as we can kind of just scan down, you can see other images we have like the obturator artery, which is going to provide the blood supply. You can see the function and yes, you can see our quiz mode, which is a premium feature, but still I encourage you to check it out, but I'm going to scroll all the way to the top because at the top, we, whenever we have one available, like to place a video in here. And what I've done is I've gone ahead and scanned forward to find just the functions of the obturator internus. Now this is a premium feature, but I want to show you just how useful this is going to be. So I'm going to full screen this and we're going to push play and watch this muscle here, which is the obturator internus. Now we've included other muscles on here. So you can see them like gluteus maximus and gluteus medius piriformis, but these are all made to be transparent. So we could easily see the obturator internus here. So I'm going to press play and let's just kind of watch what it's going to do. And that is our first action is going to be what's called external or lateral rotation of the hip. So basically all of these fibers here are pulling on the greater trochancer and then just rotating it externally. Now to give you like a very practical sense of what that would look like, you could think of this basically like rotating the foot, like you're kicking a ball. I think like a soccer ball or like a football, right? So as you do that, it's like your whole foot is going to rotate, right? And so we can see that here. It's just like, boom, you can see, watch the foot is completely to the side. That is going to be external rotation. However, that is not the only time it does it, right? So what we'll do is we can see an example here of what is called gate rotation. See in biomechanics gate is walking. And what you have to understand is that walking is actually kind of complicated when you really break it down because I mean like there's so much torque and twisting going on through your body as energy is just being transferred between body parts. You have to be able to rotate your body in the right direction at the right time in order to walk in a straight line. And that's exactly what obturator internus does. Obturator internus, when the foot is planted, so you can see this back leg, when the foot is planted, is actually going to help perform that external rotation. But when it's kind of like off the ground, then it's going to help to kind of perform more of a medial or internal rotation. My point is obturator internus is playing a role inside of gate rotation along with many other muscles, but that's not it. It also does this action here, which is called abduction of a flexed hip. And the best way I can describe this is kind of like a dog urinating, right? So it's kind of like it lifts its leg into flexion and then it's going to like chicken wing it out. And when it does that, you know, that's called abduction of a flexed hip. And yes, obturator internus along with several other muscles are going to do that. And that's something I want to finish on is obturator internus is only one of what are called the deep hip rotators. And so you can see like piriformis here, we've all already mentioned superior gemellus and inferior gemellus. There's another muscle down here called the quadratus femoris. These are all belonging to a muscle group called the deep hip rotators. And almost all of them are going to do that abduction of a flexed hip. The only one who really doesn't is you quadratus femoris. You just don't have the leverage to pull it off. But my hope is that you really enjoyed this video and you learned something about the obturator internus. Remember, this is a 100% free Kenhub article. We've left a link down the description below. Be sure to check it out. I know you're going to absolutely love it. But while you're down there, why don't you also hit the like button and leave us a comment. Let us know what else you'd like us to discuss in future videos. That just makes things easier for everybody to know exactly what you want to learn. But thanks for hanging out with me and I will see you next time.