 anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti-sp 기분, anti to person. Campus fascia is the outermost or most superficial layer of superficial fascia of the anterior abdomen and is continuous with the superficial fascia of the thigh and the datus fascia of the penis. The deeper layer of superficial fascia of the anterior abdominal wall is known as scarper's fascia and this is made up of membranous fascia that lies deep to the campus fascia we just saw and scarper's fascia is a thin layer of connective tissue that resembles wispy spiderweb like fibers in humans. Scarper's fascia is continuous with the fascia of the urogenital region so fluid accumulated in the scrotum or labia majora could ascend the abdominal wall deep to this layer. Scarper's fascia is sandwiched between campus fascia and the muscles of the abdominal wall. And we can see one of these muscles over here the rectus abdominis muscle. So the rectus abdominis muscle is the most midline of the anterior abdominal wall muscles and it's made up of two columns of muscle on either side of a thick band of dense connective tissue called the linear alba. The muscle fibers of the rectus abdominis are arranged along the superior inferior axis so that when this muscle contracts the spine is flexed. The rectus abdominis also compresses the abdominal cavity and in doing so it causes abdominal organs to push against the diaphragm and aids in exhalation. Let's just take a few minutes to look at the diaphragm right now. So the diaphragm marks the most superior extent of the abdomen and it's comprised of skeletal muscle that inserts on a central tendon near the spine and decreases intrathoracic pressure when it contracts. The decreased pressure causes the lungs to expand resulting in inhalation. Although it is a muscle situated between the thorax and the abdomen the diaphragm receives its innervation from a nerve emerging in the neck the phrenic nerve. The subphrenic recess is the space directly inferior to the diaphragm and it overlies the liver and spleen and can be displaced by several inches during inspiration. And some of the ligaments that stabilize the liver can be found in this area. One ligament the falciform ligament extends inferiorly down the front of the liver and attaches it to the anterior abdominal wall. The most distal part of it is called the round ligament of the liver. Next let's move on to talk about the reflections of the peritoneum. So during fetal development the migration of abdominal organs causes the peritoneum to fold over itself in some areas and creates peritoneal reflections which divide the abdomen into two spaces the greater sac and the lesser sac. The lesser sac also known as the omental bursa is bounded anteriorly by the lesser omentum superiorly by the liver and the diaphragm posteriorly by the peritoneum overlying the posterior abdominal wall and its organs and inferiorly by the transverse mesocolon greater omentum. The greater omentum is actually the largest peritoneal reflection and it hangs off the greater curvature of the stomach and transverse colon as a layer of fatty peritoneum and part of the lesser sac rests between its two layers as we just saw. The lesser omentum up here is a smaller peritoneal reflection that attaches to the lesser curvature of the stomach and the inferior surface of the liver. As its name suggests it is usually less substantial than the greater omentum and lies anterior to the lesser sac here. The most superior extent of the lesser sac is called the superior recess of the omental bursa and as you can see it lies posterior to the liver just below the diaphragm. The lesser sac communicates with the greater sac through the omental foramen and it's a small opening posterior to the hepatic portal vein, the hepatic arteries and the cystic duct. The greater sac is the larger part of the peritoneal cavity that houses the intestines and it's bounded anteriorly by the anterior abdominal wall, the liver, the posterior abdominal wall and the pelvis. Now let's have a look at some of the structures within the peritoneum. Remember that the intraperitoneal structures are those that are completely encased by peritoneum. So this is the stomach. It's a hollow J-shaped organ that receives food from the esophagus as a bolus. In this illustration we can see the stomach from a sagittal view and the smaller part of the J is called the lesser curvature and is attached to the lesser omentum. The larger part of the J is called the greater curvature and the stomach is made up of three layers of smooth muscle in differing orientations that churn its contents while glands in its mucosa break down proteins and other macromolecules. After being mixed and partially digested by the stomach, the food you eat next moves into the small intestines. And the first part of your small intestines is called the duodenum. The duodenum is shaped like a C with four parts. And these four parts are the first or the superior part, the descending part, the horizontal part and the ascending part. In this illustration the part of the duodenum that you see highlighted in green is the horizontal part of the duodenum or the bottom part of the C. It's really important to note however that only the superior part of the duodenum is intraperitoneal while the distal three parts are all retroperitoneal. Now all of these highlighted structures here are part of the lumen of the small intestines and it's very convoluted so in this image we can see it in multiple places. And as food passes through the small intestines, small microvilli absorb proteins, fats and nutrients that were broken down in the stomach. And as you can see the small intestine is long and folds upon itself so it is suspended by a mesentery for support. So this is the mesentery here and besides providing support for the intestine, the mesentery also transmits the neurovasculature supplying the small intestines and also some of the large intestine. One branch of the superior mesenteric artery, the middle colic artery, travels to the transverse colon and we can see it here because the middle colic artery travels in the midsugital plane. The transverse colon seen here is the second part of the large intestine and it extends across the abdomen from the ascending colon at the right colic flecture to the descending colon at the left colic flecture. Because of its proximity to the stomach, the transverse colon needs to be somewhat mobile and it is suspended by the next structure we're going to be looking at which is the transverse mesocolon. And although most of the large intestine is retroperitoneal, a layer of peritoneum extending from the transverse mesocolon completely surrounds the transverse colon so it is considered an intraperitoneal organ. So now let's move on to some accessory digestive structures that we can see in our image here. So this large solid organ is the liver and the liver sits in the superior part of the abdomen and detoxifies the blood from your intestines. It attaches to the anterior abdominal wall by the falciform ligament and is usually restricted to the right side of the body but in some cases can extend to the left as well. Blood from the spleen and small and large intestines reaches the liver through the hepatic portal vein and we can only see a small part of it here but this vein is fairly large. It's formed by the merging of the superior mesenteric vein and the splenic vein. And about 75% of the blood supply to the liver passes through the portal vein. The rest of the blood supply to the liver comes from the proper hepatic artery which is over here. And when it reaches the liver, the proper hepatic artery splits into two smaller arteries called the left and right hepatic arteries. The proper hepatic artery is a continuation of another artery coming from the celiac trunk. Now let's move on to talk about some of the retroperitoneal structures in the abdomen. So remember that the retroperitoneal organs are those with one side covered by peritoneum and one side against the posterior abdominal wall. And the first structure we're going to be talking about that has these characteristics is the esophagus. And you can see this highlighted in green on our image. It's a hollow structure and is an organ of the foregut that transmits food from the pharynx to the stomach. And it also empties into the stomach at the esophagogastric junction. The pancreas is over here. And it is an endocrine organ and secretes glucagon and insulin which are produced in the islets of Langhans. Glucagon is made by alpha cells while insulin is made by beta cells. Together these hormones maintain a healthy level of glucose within the blood. As you can see in our illustration here, the pancreas is a retroperitoneal organ except for its tail which is intraperitoneal. This large blood vessel over here is the abdominal aorta. And the aorta is the largest artery in the body. It arises immediately from the heart and features many paired and unpaired branches like the celiac trunk that we saw earlier. The celiac trunk arises directly off the abdominal aorta as the first unpaired branch of the abdominal aorta. It's a short artery with three main branches that provide the blood supply to the foregut and to the accessory digestive organs. And there are several branches of the celiac trunk and these are the left gastric artery, the common hepatic artery, and the splenic artery. From this perspective we can only see the common hepatic artery and the splenic artery so we'll just take a quick look at these. The splenic artery is a large convoluted artery that courses towards the spleen on the left side of the body. And it's partially embedded in the pancreas and provides some of the blood supply to this organ as well. And over here we have the splenic vein. And this vein receives blood from the spleen, the pancreas, and the inferior mesenteric vein. Rather than running through the pancreas like the splenic artery, the splenic vein passes posterior to the pancreas and is not as convoluted. Most of the arteries traveling through the mesentery arise from the artery that we'll look at next, which is the superior mesenteric artery. The superior mesenteric artery is the second unpaired branch of the abdominal aorta. It passes inferiorly over the duodenum and fans out into a wheel of arteries to reach all of the small intestine and the first half of the large intestine. From this perspective, we can see some of its smaller branches within the fat of the mesentery. Another major retroperitoneal great vessel which courses to the right of the abdominal aorta is the inferior vena cava. In this image, it's not highlighted in green, but you can see it circled in blue down the bottom here. And it carries venous blood drained from the lower limbs, pelvis, and abdomen. Let's turn our attention to some additional retroperitoneal organs, beginning first with the kidneys. As it's not evident in our main image, I'm just going to bring in a coronal section of the abdomen with the kidneys highlighted in green to show them a bit more clearly. And as you can see, they lie directly on the posterior abdominal wall and are covered by peritoneum only anteriorly. Sticking with this view, let's have a look at the ureters, which you can now see highlighted in green. The ureters carry urine from the kidneys to the urinary bladder and they are also retroperitoneal. Let's shift up a little on our image and have a look at the suprarenal glands. And over here, you can see the left suprarenal gland highlighted and now we can see the right suprarenal gland highlighted. The suprarenal glands are situated on the superior aspect of each kidney and are also known as the adrenal glands. These two are considered to be retroperitoneal organs and produce the hormones adrenaline and noradrenaline, which are also referred to as epinephrine and norepinephrine, respectively. The renal artery is another branch of the aorta. This paired artery supplies the kidneys and adrenal glands with oxygenated blood. This is the accompanying renal vein. The renal veins drain deoxygenated blood from the kidneys and adrenal veins into the inferior vena cava. The left renal vein also receives blood from the left gonadal vein, which drains blood from either the ovaries or the testes. If you found this quick anatomy or physiology video helpful, you'll enjoy our video tutorials even more. Click on the button and you'll see what I mean. We have hundreds of videos available to our premium members, not to mention all the fun quizzes, complete articles and atlas sections to solidify your knowledge. Click on the button in the middle to watch the full length video and master anatomy and physiology. space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space space