 aiouetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetain, akoetainain coming up into this position. This is flexion of the knee. This action is initiated by the popliteus muscle. And that's exactly what we're going to be looking at today. Now, to help us with this, we're going to be looking at this 100% free Kenhub article. I'm going to go ahead and scan on up and we'll come back down to that nerve and we'll discuss the quiz feature in just a moment. Instead, I want to jump to this image right here, which is showing you the popliteus muscle. Now, this is a very deep muscle. This is what we would say the floor of the popliteal fossa or the popliteal space, which is this fancy way of saying the back of the knee. And so you can see some vasculature here and then you can see a bunch of the deep crust muscles. But our focus is going to be on this green highlighted muscle here, which again is the popliteus. Now, it is going to be originating on what is called the lateral condyle of the femur. And I'm going to go ahead and show you that right here. So this is the lateral condyle. Condyle just means knuckle. And that is a fantastic name for this bony landmark here on the femur. But there's just this side here. And this is mostly where that popliteus is going to be originating. And then what it's going to do is it is then going to come over and insert on the tibia. Now, this right here, this green line is what's called the soleal line. This is where another muscle called the soleus is going to originate. Well, popliteus is just above that, right? This is, we call this like the posterior proximal surface of the tibia. And what it's going to do is just anchor itself to the posterior tibia in this position. And that means it's coming at this oblique angle. So once again, we can kind of come back here and you can see that this muscle is kind of, it's coming at this oblique angle. And if you put both legs together, I've always thought it kind of looks like a V, right? The fiber orientation coming down is going to just have a V appearance. But again, you can kind of picture this is, this is as deep as it gets in this space. And so what it's doing is again, it's initiating knee flexion, but that's not all that it does. All right. So if we go back down here now, this image is showing you knee flexion, but I want you to think there's a term that we have in anatomy and well, more specifically for kinesiology for movement, and that is called gait. And so gait is just a fancy way of saying, you know, as you're putting your foot down and moving during locomotion. And you have to understand that it's a very complex movement, right? As you plant the foot down on that ground, there's going to be twisting and turning that needs to occur in the knee joint in order for you to walk in a straight line, right? Because this movement, there's going to be twisting that's happening, but you want to walk or run in a straight line. And so when your foot is actually planted on the ground, the popliteus will actually rotate your knee externally, right? So like, think about it, like your entire body is just going to twist that way for the foot that is planted on the ground. However, when your foot is in this upward motion, then there's not weight being placed on it. The popliteus can actually rotate it internally. And so what's ended up happening is like, because you think about it, like as one foot is on the ground, another is off, then it's on, the other one's off. There's rotation happening at the knee here to help keep you in a straight line, which is a really interesting thing. This is one example of what is known as a gait rotator. There are other gait rotators at different joints, and I'm thinking about the adductors specifically, but the popliteus is definitely going to be involved in this action. And then if we come up here, we can also see the nerve that is going to innervate the popliteus. And what I also like about this image, which by the way, this is one of our atlas images, which is 100% free, just like this article, you can explore the Kenhub atlas at no cost to you and see some of the best, or in my opinion, the best illustrations, anatomical illustrations that exist. But regardless, you again, you were looking at a posterior view here, and we can see what is the sciatic nerve. The sciatic nerve is really two nerves wrapped together. One of them is called the tibial nerve, which we can see here, and then the other is going to be the common peroneal nerve, or common fibular nerve. But what happens in the back of the knee, again, this is that popliteal fossa, or popliteal space, the sciatic nerve bifurcates, it splits. And what happens is the tibial nerve comes down, and we can see a really close up view of this popliteus muscle. And sure enough, the tibial nerve just makes the most sense in order to innervate it. Meaning, if you think about this from a clinical perspective, if someone is having sciatica, or some kind of sciatic neuropathy, it is possible for the popliteus to be impacted. Maybe there's numbness, maybe there's weakness, maybe there's tingling. It really kind of just depends on the severity of the neuropathy, but it is something interesting to consider. Now, we should also say, though, the sciatic nerve is responsible for a lot of other things, so it's not as though only the popliteus would be affected and impacted, but it is an interesting thing to consider. Now, again, like I mentioned, this is a 100%, actually, we're going to go up, free Kenhub article, but I do just want to quickly mention that in these articles, we also have our quiz feature, which I strongly encourage you to check out. Now, this is a premium feature, but still, this is one of the best ways, or in my opinion, probably the best way to learn your anatomy. The way we've built these quiz features is basically you could use a study session or an exam quiz. The study session is basically, it quizzes you in a way that teaches you, which is a really interesting way to do it. It uses what's called spaced repetition. Spaced repetition is basically where it asks you a question, and then later on, it's going to ask you the same question, and then later on, it's going to ask you the same question, except each time it's asking it to you in a different way, which is a really cool way to learn your anatomy. An exam quiz is exactly what you think it is. It's where we're going to test your knowledge and see if you're understanding this. But my hope is that you learn something really cool about the popliteus muscle, and if you did, go ahead and give this video a like. Small things like that actually go a long way in helping this video perform well in the all-powerful YouTube algorithm. And then while you're down there, why not leave us a comment? Let us know what other structures you want us to discuss in future videos. But thanks for hanging out with me. I really appreciate it, and I will see you next time.