 oISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISISIS S-shaped bones also make up part of the shoulder girdle and allow for the attachment of quite a few important muscles and ligaments, for example those that support the bones of the shoulder girdle. The next landmark I want to draw your attention to is this slight bump on the top of the shoulder just here. This bony protuberance can be seen in most individuals and is formed by the acromioclavicular joint. This is a shoulder joint formed between the acromion of the scapula and the clavicle, just here. Moving down to the lower edge of the thorax, the next major landmark we can see is the costal margin. The term costal means rib which lets us know that this landmark is formed by the bottom edge of the ribcage, resulting in the inverted v-shape we can see here. The costal margin marks the lower portion of the chest as well as the location of the diaphragm. This makes it an important clinical landmark and is used for some surgical procedures. In this area we can also identify the subcostal angle. Also known as the infrasternal angle, the subcostal angle is situated at the lower end of the sternum between the sternal attachments of the seventh costal cartilages. This is the point at which we can find the zifisternal joint. Depending on the build of the individual, the ribs themselves or the ribcage can also be visualised and easily palpated. The flattened external surfaces of the ribs are especially easier to define on either side of the thorax from the axilla or armpit downward. All of the individual ribs can be palpated relatively easily with the exception of the first ribs as they are covered by the clavicles. Some of the muscles that cover the thorax may also be distinguished relatively easily in some individuals. One of these being the pectoralis major muscle highlighted here as well as the serratus anterior muscle which can be quite prominent in individuals that are relatively physically fit or in individuals that do weight training. Let's flip around and look at some female surface anatomy for a little bit. So also quite prominent and visible on the thorax, mostly so on females but not exclusively, are the mamma or the breasts. The size of the mamma in both males and niliparous females, that is women who have not previously given birth, varies but in spite of this they are easily distinguishable. Also visible in this area is the nipple areola complex comprised of areola and the nipple. The inframammary region is the region just beneath the breasts. The mid-sternal line is really an imaginary landmark. Don't mistake it for being unimportant though as this vertical line runs through the middle of the sternum between the mamma and is very important because it can help us determine the approximate location of the apex of the heart, specifically at the level of the 5th intercostal space and 9cm to the left of the mid-sternal line. Also somewhat easy to visualise and palpate in most individuals is the sternal angle. Also known as the manubrio-sternal junction or the angle of Lewis, the sternal angle is formed by the articulation of the manubrium and the body of the sternum as we can see better here if we look at the underlying skeletal anatomy. This joint is synafrotic which means that it doesn't facilitate any movement. This is a really useful landmark for a couple of reasons. Firstly, it indicates the level of the second pair of the costal cartilages and therefore the second ribs, making it a useful reference point for our counting the ribs. And secondly, it indicates the level of the intervertebral disc between the 4th and 5th thoracic vertebrae. If you found this quick anatomy or physiology video helpful, you'll enjoy our video tutorials even more. Click on the button and you'll see what I mean. We have hundreds of videos available to our premium members, not to mention all the fun quizzes, complete articles and atlas sections to solidify your knowledge. Click on the button in the middle to watch the full length video and master anatomy and physiology. There you are. There you are. There you are. There you are. There you are. There you are. There you are. There you are. There you are. There you are. There you are. There you are. There you are. There you are. There you are. There you are. There you are. There you are.