 I have been saying for years that the single best way to unite the human species is for us all to discuss our back pain. Because if you don't have back pain now, you're gonna have back pain. And if you have back pain, the question is really just, how bad is it in this very moment? In today's video, we are going to give you the language in order to properly discuss your back pain. And more than just back pain, because the back is actually super fascinating. Beyond just the part that makes us all upset. And to do this, we are going to be using this 100% free KenHub article. We've gone ahead and left a link down in the description below, so go ahead and follow along with me there at home. So, what we gotta do is understand that this entire thing is your back. And I know at first you're like, okay, yeah, that makes sense. But if I were to then say, okay, well, what about this region here? You would say, well, that's my neck. And you're right. Here's the thing, it's actually both. This is your neck region, yes. But the bones in here belong to the back. Now, there's different ways to describe the back. You could say back, like I have been. Or you could say spinal column. Some people will just say spine. Others will say like my backbone. But the more precise, or I guess the most precise way to describe it, is the vertebral column. And that's what this is. And that's because each of these individual bones are vertebrae. So, a singular one would be a vertebrae. And then plural would be vertebrae. And so, when you stack them on top of each other, we're gonna see that there's actually a hollow spot. In fact, let's go ahead and scan down here real quick. And we can see this image of a vertebrae. Specifically, this is a lumbar vertebrae. But if you look right here, you're gonna notice that there is a hole. This is what's called the vertebral foramen. And this is where the spinal cord is going to travel. Because one of the functions of a vertebra is to protect the spinal cord. And so, I think you can probably then imagine if you stacked all the vertebrae on top of each other. Let's go back up here. What you are going to then have is a column. Alright, it's a whole bunch of stackings. And then there's gonna be a hollow passageway called the vertebral canal. That the spinal cord is then going to be traveling in. But the entire purpose of this is not to just protect the spinal cord. There's other functions for the vertebral column. And we can see a little bit of that right now. You can see the ribs are coming around and attaching back here. This surprises a lot of people. We understand where the ribs are. But for whatever reason, the mind doesn't intuitively understand, or at least intuit, that it's actually going to attach at the vertebrae. And if you were to have like a dislocated rib, well, you're not really going to dislocate the rib very often over here. And that's because that's more of a tear. The dislocation should be happening on the posterior side where that rib is attaching to the actual vertebrae. But with all that said, what I want to do is start looking at each individual section of these vertebrae or this vertebral column. And so what we're going to start with is that neck region. Right? And this is what we're going to call the cervical region. So there are seven vertebrae here. And so how, and here's the thing. We get, we number them accordingly. Right? So you may have heard like someone say C1 or C5 or something like that. That's because no one wants to say cervical vertebra one, cervical vertebra two. It just becomes too much. And so we just take the lazy way out and we say C1, C2, C3, C4. And so this is the cervical region is what is going to connect the back to the skull. So the very first cervical vertebra is also known as atlas. Because you can think of like from Greek mythology, atlas holding up the world and the world in this case would be your head. So then we would just go C1, C2, C3, and then you go all the way down and you end at C7. Now cervical actually means neck. So when we're saying cervical vertebra one, we're saying the neck vertebra one. It all kind of lines up there. Now you might be wondering, well, why do we then transition to something else? Why don't we just keep on calling it the neck? Well, this next region here, in fact, let's go ahead and highlight this, is what we call the thoracic region. And thorax is essentially just meaning chest more or less. And here's the thing. I want you to actually take a brief moment. You can pause the video if you need and try to figure out what's different between the thoracic region and the two regions of the back above and below it. Because you're probably already seeing that the ribs are going to be attaching to the thoracic vertebrae. In fact, there are 12 thoracic vertebrae. And guess what? There are 12 ribs and each of them are going to come off and attach at one of those thoracic vertebrae. So the easiest way for you to tell, you know, am I looking at the cervical or what we're going to see to be the lumbar region down here or the thoracic region? It's really about the ribs. And the ribs are the giveaway. You just look at it and go, oh, you see this first rib coming around? You see that first rib coming around? And you go, that is T1. Because in the same way that we said cervical vertebrae 1 is C1, thoracic vertebrae 1 would be T1. And this, again, would just go all the way down. So we have T1 through T12. Now, I should also probably mention the movements that happen in these different regions. So if we go back to the cervical region real quick, you know, you can do this, you know, right there at home. Is you can kind of just go through the movements that happen in the neck. Because there's a lot of movement that happens in your neck, right? So I can do what's called flexion. I can do extension. I can do lateral flexion or that side to side movements. And I can rotate my neck. Now, there's a lot of movement happening in these seven vertebrae. However, if we get to the thoracic region, there's not near that amount of movement. In fact, it is impossible for you to flex your chest, flex your thoracic region or extend it. And you're like, whatever, I can do a little bit. But it's like, if you really are paying attention, what's happening is your neck is moving a little bit. And then your low back is moving a little bit. In fact, the only real movement that we have in any meaningful amount in the thoracic region is what's called lateral flexion. It's kind of like you're, so I'm gonna try to keep my neck in place. It's kind of like I'm going like this. Basically, you're sliding like this. That is all going to be in the thoracic region. So then we move to the lumbar region. In the lumbar region, right, this is just your low back. There are five lumbar vertebrae. Now, you can have six lumbar vertebrae and they are actually more common in women. Because a sixth lumbar vertebra can actually be useful if she is pregnant. Because that excessive range of motion can just help her with the uterus and everything that's kind of pulling forward. It can also, though, create too much range of motion if she's not pregnant, which can lead to back problems. And again, back pain. Back pain. Just happens to us. Happens to us all. But there are five lumbar vertebrae here. Again, we do the same naming scheme, right? So we have instead of saying lumbar vertebra one, we say L1, L2, L3, L4, and L5. So these are what most people think about when they think about their back. But the thing is, it doesn't actually stop here. We can keep going. And that's where we meet the sacrum. And the sacrum is a singular bone. However, it does not start that way. In reality, there were five different sacral segments, right? Like sacral vertebrae that have fused. And what happens is you end up with one solid bone that we call the sacrum. And it's a really cool looking bone. If we go back to, well, you can't really see it. We can see it from this view. If you look at this view here, you can see that it's curved going like this, right? And that's because not only is the back, you know, you have these different regions. It's also curved, right? It's not straight up and down, right? That's something we call like bamboo spine or ankylosing spondylitis. In reality, there are these curvatures. And so the sacrum is having this posterior curvature. We call that a kyphotic curvature. And then this forward leaning curvature is what we call a lordotic curvature. So if you actually look at this, there are two of these curvatures each, right? So the cervical region is going like this. It's going forward. I mean, I'm exaggerating it. You don't want this. This is what we call lordosis where it's excessive. But like this is curving. Their neck curves forward. So that is a lordotic curvature. Your thoracic region is going to curve posteriorly. That's kyphotic. And then we go back into a anterior pulling lordotic curvature in the lumbar region. And then we again swing back into a kyphotic curvature with the sacrum and this bone here. This is called the coccyx or your tailbone. And so the tailbone, it's called that because yes, you know, if you were to rewind, you know, the evolutionary history of our species, there would be a tail coming from this bone. However, for now, it does have a purpose, right? I often hear people say it serves no purpose. And that's just fundamentally not true. There are several muscles that are going to attach to it and then spread out and anchor itself in the entire pelvic region. We call these the pelvic floor muscles. But the coccyx itself was also individual segments. And this is more variable than other areas. So you could have anywhere between three and five coccygeal segments. But again, that is going to fuse and then it's going to turn into one solid bone. And for most texts, we just kind of like sum up and say, you got four. You have four coccygeal segments that are all going to fuse into one. And the reason why this is important to talk about the individual coccygeal segments and the individual sacral segments and not just treat them as like one sacrum and one. One sacrum and one coccyx is because usually what you're going to find in testing environments and on exams is they're being treated as individual segments in a question that looks like how many vertebrae are in the entire vertebral column. So what I want to do is I want to go through that. So we're going to use this image and we're looking at the lumbar vertebrae. So let's see if we can remember how many we had each. So in the cervical region, we had seven cervical vertebrae. So we have seven. The thoracic had 12 vertebrae. So seven plus 12 is 19. Then we come down to the lumbar region and we have five. 19 plus five is 24. Then we come to the sacrum. So now we can go here in the sacrum. If you remember me saying had five fused. 24 plus five is 29. And then we come down to the coccyx. And once again, we're going to treat it as though it is 4. 29 plus 4 equals 33. You have 33 total vertebrae in this entire vertebral column. That is the number that you're going to want to remember. Again, could there be extra extras? Yes, because you could have six lumbar vertebrae. Maybe you have five coccygeal vertebrae. So like these all can, there's a little bit of nuance to it, but the best answer for testing purposes is definitely going to be 33. Now, what I'm going to do now is scan down here and I want to take a look at the spinal cord. Because the spinal cord, like we mentioned, is going to be essential to part of the function of the vertebral column. We're going to see the other functions in just a moment, but I think this is a really good place. A good way, a good place to start with the functions. It's just, you can, you can think of it like the spinal cord can be divided or not really. I mean, yes, the spinal cord, but these little offshoots we're going to see called spinal nerves can be divided in the same way that we divide vertebrae. So for example, you're going to have a cervical component to your spinal cord, a thoracic or in a lumbar. But then it gets a little weird because the spinal cord does not travel all the way down to the coccyx. In fact, the spinal cord ends around L1, L2. And then what happens is it turns onto all these little nerves. And this is super cool. This is something called the cauda equina. It means horsetail. And it's all these little nerves coming off of it. But the thing we want to understand here is that there are little offshoots coming to the sides of the vertebrae. And it's going to go on the left and it's going to go on the right. Because you can think of yourself as symmetrical, right? You have a left hand, you have a right hand, right leg, left leg. And so you're going to need nerves, pairs of nerves going off. And we call these spinal nerves. And we can compare and contrast that with what are called cranial nerves. Cranial nerves are what are coming off of the brain. So spinal nerves come directly off of the spinal cord. But if you've been looking at this image, you might see something that seems a little strange. And that is if we look here, we see that up in the cervical region, it says C1 to C8. And that's strange to people. It's like, what do you mean? We just discussed that there were seven cervical vertebrae. Why are we now saying that there's eight? Well, here's the thing. The spinal nerves, there is a spinal nerve that comes out on top of C1, above or superior to C1. And so what that does is gives us an extra spinal nerve compared to how many vertebrae we have. The rest line up. If you look down here, you're going to see that it says we have 12 spinal nerves in the thoracic region. And then we're going to get to five spinal nerves coming off the lumbar and then another five for the sacrum. So it all starts to kind of line up. But what I want you to understand is these are the nerves that most people think of when they're thinking of nerves. Like, have you ever heard of like sciatic, the sciatic nerve or the median nerve, which is responsible for like carpal tunnel syndrome? And there's so many other examples. Those are all spinal nerves and they're all coming off of. Well, they're really branches of the spinal nerves. But what I'm trying to get at here is they're all part of something called the peripheral nervous system, which is going to be branching again off of that spinal cord. Now, the last thing I want to mention real quick is I want to come back down here to this and just give you just a real quick, easy snapshot of kind of like what other functions do vertebrae serve? And so what you're looking at here again is a lumbar vertebra. And what you can see is that there is partially a disc on there. So you may have heard of someone saying I slipped or bulge or herniated a disc. And then underneath it, we can see this mass of bone. So this is what's called the vertebral body. And the vertebral body is going to be weight bearing. This is the part that supports the weight above it. And then it'll also be transferring weight below it. And so the lumbar vertebrae have enormous vertebral bodies because they're supporting the rest of the weight. So let's go ahead and scan up here. And you can see this right here. I mean, like you do not need to have really big and thick vertebral bodies up in the cervical region because it's just supporting the head. But the farther down you go, you're going to need to get thicker and thicker. Look at how enormous these vertebral bodies get to be because they are simply supporting all the weight from above it. But here's the thing and where we can start really answering this question around back pain. Again, this is only one type of back pain. There are several different types of back pain. But to give you some kind of sense as to why it's so common is because of these curvatures. And these curvatures or what they're doing is they are being, well, actually, they put it this way. In between the vertebral bodies are these discs, right? These are those intervertebral discs, the ones that people slip or herniate or bulge. And what happens, you have to understand, is that these are also like surrounded in ligaments that are going to help keep that disc in place. They're not just able to slide in and out. They're firmly attached to the vertebrae. But then you have the ligaments. However, the back needs to be able to move to do all these diverse movements. And then it has these curvatures. You have to also understand that gravity is flowing through this. So it's like pushing and squeezing and all these different things. And what can happen is these discs can start to get squeezed out. And then they can start to degenerate. Right? So if you've ever heard someone say they had degenerative discs. I myself have degenerative discs. I have almost a completely absent L4 and L5 disc. It's wonderful. It's a great experience. I'm excited every day about it. Right? But one thing you have to understand is that sometimes these discs like to go backwards. So let's go back down here. And if we look here, what I want you to understand is that spinal nerves are going to actually be... So picture here in this vertebral foramen. The spinal cord would be present here. And then the spinal nerves are going to branch off. And then they're going to start going to the sides. Well, you can't put ligaments in this space where the spinal nerves like to go out. Because then that would block the spinal nerves. And so there's actually a gap where due to pressure and movement and wearing down and gravity and all that kind of stuff. These discs, which are made of fibrocartilage, they can just kind of push backwards. And they push directly into that nerve. And then that is going to cause all sorts of neuropathy and just discomfort. You name it. It's not a great time. It's definitely not a great time. But it just goes to show that this is a very common thing. And it's just due to the architecture of the back. Right? As bipedal creatures standing straight up and down. When you have this back, it's just... It's nice to be able to walk like this. But there are consequences to the way that the back is structured. And then the last function, I guess we could really say, for the vertebral column and just these individual vertebrae, is they serve as like muscle attachment sites. And other soft tissue is attachment sites. So we have these little projections coming off the side that we call transfer processes. We have these projections coming out the back that we call spinous processes. And if you're learning your muscle anatomy, you might hear things like rhomboideus major attaches to the spinous. And then the thickness processes of T2 through T5 or something along those lines. And it's just saying, hey, the muscle attaches here. The muscle attaches here or here. And then they also have little projections that articulate with the ones above and below them. And that's what helps dictate the exact range of motion the bones are moving in. So vertebrae are actually surprisingly interesting. Right? They're doing quite a bit. They're there to support you quite literally. And, but they are most definitely a pain in the back. No denying that. Again, this is a 100% free Ken Hub article. You go ahead and find that down in the link in the description below. And you can just see just how much amazing stuff is in here. I scratched the surface. There's so much more to this article, like talking about C1, C2. So be sure to go down there, check that out for yourself. But while you're down there, if you really enjoyed this video, you do us a favor if you could like it. Leave us a comment. Let us know what you'd like us to discuss in future videos or just what you thought about this one. But thanks for hanging out with me and I will see you next time. I'll see you next time.