 medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal medal seems like this place you'd want to be, right? Like balance is a good thing. And I'm not saying balance is a bad thing. I'm just saying homeostasis is not this place you just want to exist in. You are usually wanting to exist in that in most situations, but there are plenty of times you do not want to be in homeostasis because that is going to be very bad. So balance, what I'm trying to say is balance is not necessarily a good thing depending on the circumstance. And so that's what we're going to be figuring out today. And to do this, we're going to be looking at one of KenHub's brand new physiology study units. This is part of our also brand new physiology section, which is something we've been working out behind the scenes so hard. Well, I shouldn't say me. I just get to talk about it. I get to explain the amazing hard work of my friends and colleagues, but we're just so excited to share this with you. In fact, to celebrate, we've got, we've gone ahead and left a link down the description below to a separate physiology study unit, but that is equally cool. It's all about reflex arcs. So reflex arcs are like a, so basically, you know, you go to the doctor and they hit your knee and then you're kicking, right? It explains that and more than just reflex arcs. So we really strongly encourage you to go check that out and just see how this works because this is, I might be biased in this, but I think it's the best thing on the internet. That's probably the most biased statement in the history of the world. Regardless, let's talk about this because homeostasis is really, really interesting because again, it's not about balance. Instead, what it's saying is there is a set point, right? So you see this dotted line here. This is trying to tell you that there is a set point in the human body for pretty much everything, right? Like, so we're looking at it from in this image, we're really going to be focused on body temperature, but there's all sorts of things that homeostasis is going to have an influence off of. So, but I think it's actually going to be easiest to explain this if we just focus on one of them and that's being body temperature. So body temperature is normally around 37 degrees Celsius or around 98 or so degrees Fahrenheit. Now that number has actually been decreasing. So like when I was growing up, it was 98.7 degrees Fahrenheit. And then now we're seeing it's more closely, uh, closely to 97.9, but we're going to go ahead and say that it's around 37 degrees Celsius is like your normal body temperature. So what do we mean by that? That means you're just existing. Things are fine. You know, like things are fine. You're not sick. You're not doing anything strenuous. Temperature's good. All of that. You're just, you're just, you're just fine. Everything's good, right? Your body is now operating at a normal level. Now I do think it's important to understand the things that can actually impact your body temperature. So the easiest one I can give an example to is going to be, uh, an infection of some kind, right? If say like you have, um, a viral infection like influenza, right? We all know when we get the flu that you're going to get a fever. And then the reason you're getting a fever is because your body is working overtime and it's using more chemical energy called ATP, adenosine triphosphate. And as it does that, the by-product of that is heat, right? There's a heat exchange for things to happen in your body, right? For cells to do work, they utilize ATP and it gives off heat. And so the more work that your body is doing to fight an infection, then the higher your body temperature goes. My point here is the set point of 37 degrees is really just saying that is the normal operating temperature for just being awesome, for just being you, right? That is what you're, where you should be at. And so your body is more or less striving to keep it around that area, but the circumstances matter. So what this is trying to show you is let's say it's a really hot day. So if this is a really hot day, in fact, I can actually hit this little magnifying glass and then we can see these with a little bit greater detail. Um, so let's say like if it's a really hot day, the temperature is rising, the sun is cooking you, how is your body going to respond? Well, obviously it's going to sweat. Sweating is a very important thing. And so sweating does what's called evaporative cooling. So you have these sweat glands, specifically they're called ekran glands or ekran pseudoryphorous glands. And what they're going to do is they're going to just like secrete water essentially. Now your sweat is mostly water. It's not entirely, but it's mostly water. And what's going to happen is it lands on the surface of your skin. It's going to absorb the heat and then it is going to evaporate and take the heat away from your body. It is evaporative, evaporatively cooling your body. Now at the same time though, your body's also going to respond by dilating its blood vessels. So if we actually go down here real quick, we can see this, right? We have like this fire, uh, sign here to just kind of show that it's hot temperature, but you're seeing here. So we have the sweat. Yes, the sweat drops, but then we also have, this is showing you a blood vessel. And now this blood vessel has these arrows expanding this way. And that is to do what's called vasodilation. So when blood vessels are going to dilate, they can increase their diameter. What that means is more blood flow is going to go through them. And then the heat is going to start to kind of like, um, like come out of the blood vessel. So the heat is actually going to start flushing your skin. So you're going to see this or possibly feel this. Um, for me, I see it because I am extraordinarily Caucasian. And so it's easy with my skin tones to be able to see these types of things, but you're going to feel hot, right? You just like, you literally feel hot. This is your body trying to get rid of the heat. So then the sweat can evaporatively cool you. Right. And what that's going to do is it's going to bring your body temperature back down because your body wants to get towards that balance. Now the opposite is equally true, right? So this is trying to show you, let's say it's cool. So let's go back up to here and you can see that this individual is getting cold, right? There's an AC and they're sitting there. They don't have a coat. They don't have anything like that. And then what they're going to start doing is shivering. The reason why they're shivering again, as we start to go away from this set point, this baseline, right? The muscle tissue is going to start to contract because that contraction is going to involve ATP. And again, ATP is where we're getting body heat. So when you shiver, that is actually your body's attempt to try and warm you up. At the same time, your body is going to start to vasoconstrict. The blood vessels are going to get smaller. Why are they getting smaller? Well, that is how you hold onto the heat, right? So it's like, and everything is just saying, hey, no, we're going to kind of keep everything as warm as we possibly can. Now what's interesting also, over time, it's like the blood will start to go towards your core because your body is also understanding like, it's not like your body wants to get rid of your limbs. It's just understanding that the limbs are not as important as the organs, your viscera. This is why people get frostbite and things of that nature is one of the reasons is because the body is saying, look, I want it, but I want this thing more. And so I'm going to prioritize that. And so you're going to get shivering, you're going to get vasoconstriction. And what that's going to do is it's going to start to increase your body temperature and again, bringing you back to here. And so as you're looking at this, you might be like, well, that sounds like a good thing, right? Like, like, like what I'm saying is like, it sounds like the baseline, the set point is a good thing. It is a good thing. My point though, here is it's also okay to go away from that because look, I'm not saying just letting yourself cook in the sun is an ideal thing. However, let's say like, it's not just running like that. Let's say you're running. Let's say you're exercising. It actually makes sense to increase your body temperature, right? It's not that it's a bad thing to go away from that set point baseline. It's just that obviously you don't want to exist there permanently and your body is trying to help regulate this as much as it can, but there can be reasons that this can be good. I mean, like, you know, cold, cold treatments have been a very standard thing for a long time. If you've ever heard of like rice, you know, rest, ice, compression, elevation treatments, like cold temperatures can be really good in some, in certain circumstances. And so my point here is I don't want you to think of this as necessarily being the only good thing. It's okay to deviate from these ranges as long as it's not too much. Because if we go back to the fever, right, we all know that eventually your brain will start to cook, right? As you start to get to like, okay, what about 38, 39, you know, the degrees, that's, that's excessive, right? Or say like 102, 103, 104 degrees Fahrenheit. When you start to get to these really elevated body temperatures, you have a problem because what's starting to happen is you're cooking. Your brain is starting to cook. That's the real worrisome part, right? We call that hyperthermia. At the same time, you have hypothermia. You can get way too cold where no amount of shivering is going to save you. And so in those instances, you, you know, the, the, the, that is very bad, right? So I'm not saying deviation is always good. I'm just saying that it's not always bad either. So I don't want you to think of homeostasis as necessarily being like, this is the only good part, right? There's going to be deviations and the body's going to respond. And again, body temperature is only one example, right? There's going to be homeostasis examples for all sorts of things like bone density, hormone levels, you name it, all sorts of things over the body around the body are all going to be susceptible to those homeostatic changes. And that is a good thing. I hope you enjoyed today's video. Again, this is part of our brand new physiology section. This is a physiology, physiology study unit. This one is all about homeostasis and feedback loops. Really awesome. Again, though, we're going to put a link down the description below to a separate, but equally awesome. Again, this is, it's still very, very cool. Um, study unit on, uh, reflex arcs down the description below. Strongly encourage you to check it out when you're down there, go ahead and leave us, you know, a like a comment. Those things go a long way and we appreciate it very much. But anyways, thanks for hanging out with me and I will see you in the next video.