 join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join join with someone the other day that I thought maybe you guys would be interested in learning. And it's sort of some guiding principles to grip fighting. I know a lot of people struggle with the grips, right? Maybe you're coming from Nogi, you're getting into it, maybe you're new, or maybe you're just rolling with it and you struggle with the grips. I have some guiding principles that helped me out. And I'm going to give you a handful today to set up takedowns, to set up submissions, to escapes, whatever it is, you can use them for all of them. Today's assistant is Black Adam, Marvin. It's Marvin, it's not Black Adam. All right. There we go. All right, guys, I know I'm going to get someone that's going to call me a racist on the internet after that one, but you know, whatever. So we're getting in here into the grip fighting stuff. And again, this can work for the ground and can work on the feet. One of the first things I like to focus on is sort of a decoy and disguising your grips. So what do I mean by this? Well, think about it this way. When we roll, right, a lot of times, especially during a really fast paced roll, we're not necessarily going through like a 16 point checklist, right? We're responding to something based on feel and intuition. And then we go, right? Like your body's just happening, especially like when you think about like a really fast paced roll, you don't have time to think you're just reacting. And so one of the things that you want to do is you either want to disguise the grip or set of decoys, take their attention away from what you actually want. I'll show you a couple of examples of this with both the feet and on the ground on the feet, right? A very common thing is like, maybe I want to cross collar as an example with my right hand, that can be an example, right? Maybe I want to get here and do a snap or something like that, right? Well, if I try to go for this, he might, I might get it, but he also might deflect it and stop it, right? So one of the things I love doing is if I'm on the feet here, I'm never reaching for the grip that I want. I'm always starting with the hand that I don't actually need and I'll go here or here or whatever, basically trying to get his, his attention away. He goes to fight that hand, boom, there it is, right? That's an idea. And even let's say if I want a left collar, right hand or sleeve, right? I might go out, I'm here and I punch that hand in, he starts to focus on the break, boom, and there's my grip right there. So we go in, he goes to grip, bang, bang, we get what we need. Lay on your back for me here, Marvin. Another example, and this is a, one of my favorites is setting up some cross collar chokes here. So let's say that we're in side control. We're going to set up this basic baseball choke here. When we get into this position, if I start to like grab onto this collar, it's going to be very apparent to him that I'm trying to choke him pretty, pretty early, right? So there's a little sort of stealthy grip that I'll use here where what I'll do is I will take my hand, by the way, I'm going to be easy on Marvin. We had a heavy training session tonight. So I'm not trying to just lay all over him while I'm talking to you guys. So instead of reaching for the collar to put my hand in here early like this, what I'll do is I'll slide my hand up on his chest right here. Okay. This does not feel like an actual choke, right? It doesn't feel like I'm getting ready to do anything. It just feels like I'm just touching his shoulders back. Right. But now, boom, I turned up and now I'm ready to finish the grip. Right. And that's an idea of disguising it, right? Instead of the first one was more of a decoy. This one is more of a disguising of, so you get them off, off the track. Another one, just as an example is a lot of times if I'm passing, especially in the gi on, I'm going to your side here. I love getting, especially if I'm in this, like this late stage passing where I've got past the legs, but I don't have them flat on the mat. I love grabbing this collar and doing a cross face here, but a lot of times their hands will be up here. Right. And so every time I go in, go and have your, yeah, your bottom hand comes in. Right. So what will I do is I'll start to go in here like this to grab base. I'm just touching and I can get that bottom hand to trail it. Bang, go right into it. And so what that looks like is I'm going in here. He's stopping it. Boom, boom, right in. And we can grab and get into the position. Right. And so you can use those ideas whenever you get a move that you like, you get a technique you like, whatever it is, you're using it, it's working great. At some point people are going to start stopping it. Then you want to find different grip setups for it and different ways to use it. One last one to change it is for an arm bar. So one of my guys, Chad, back in the day, he had so many different setups to the most basic arm bar. So Marvin's sitting here, you know, we're in his basic guard. Right. So again, you have your basic arm bar, you go here, you go for your arm bar, boom, get the submission. But again, people start to recognize it. Right. My buddy, Chad, and again, I'm sure this is nothing new. Everybody probably knows this, but maybe you're a white belt watching this and maybe you don't. Jeff, come around this direction here. He started using this grip here. He would get this really loose grip on the back of the arm and he would hold like this. So right now, Marvin, you don't probably feel like anything's going on, do you? I'm in danger. You are in danger, but you probably don't feel like it, right? Because there's not this strong tug on the back of the tricep. Because if you think about it, a lot of times when people are grappling, it's this, it's these strong grips that make them go, Ooh, something's in danger. If I'm just grabbing something kind of loosely, a lot of times they don't really bother it. They don't mess with it. And so from there, he would cut the angle on me and then get tight right at the point where now I try to pull out. Boom. He'd catch me this damn arm bar all the time. And so disguise and decoy, disguise your grips by changing them up, set up decoys by going for other things you don't even want to just to get them off the trail of the actual grip that you want. Next principles, don't hold death grips. Kind of goes back to what we talked about with Chad's arm bar. Don't hold death grips all the time. There is a time to hold like really tight, but it's typically when you're doing something, right? This is something where a lot of times you'll see white belts and newer grapplers or people that are new to the gi, they will burn their grips out really quickly because they hold everything as tight as possible. Um, you know, an analogy here, right? Is I can grab my phone and I can hold it right now. My hand is not, I'm not doing anything crazy, but then I can also squeeze this as hard as I can. I'm not going to be able to hold this for very long. Now, either way, I'm still holding it. And so I don't have to squeeze as hard as possible all the time, just that quick moment or moments when I'm trying to move for a technique. So for instance, with a takedown as an example, I'm in here fighting whatever, boom, boom, right? I don't need that death grip until I'm actually going for something, right? If Marvin starts to break it, boom, I'll let go. No problem. Boom. I'll get my grip back again. I don't have to hold everything unless I think I need it for the, uh, the attack. Right. And again, going back to it, this kind of goes along with this disguise and decoy idea. Um, a pretty common sweep is the, uh, the flower sweep. You may call this something else. I call this a flower. We're here, right? We get into this position. I grabbed the pant grip right here. Okay. Now, if I go down and I grab ahold of his leg and I really squeeze this pant grip, it signals to him that something's going on. He's like, Ooh, I don't like that. Right. He'll kick it back. But if I get down and just kind of like barely get like, I've got my fingers in it, but like, I'm not doing anything. You would be surprised. Most people don't check this grip. They're like, I'm fine. I'm going to go and start working on breaking the guard and everything else. And he starts to bring his, maybe his right knee behind my butt and try to break that guard open. Boom. Then we have the grips we need to go for the, uh, the sweep there. So as an example, right, when you have your grips, when you're going for the pass, you're going for the sweep, you're going for the takedown, whatever it is, it is a good idea to really clamp down on those grips and hang on to them. But in the moment before, like where you're trying to get everything set up and you don't want that person to pull away, you can hold them a little bit lighter. And again, if they break the grip, so what get it again. But at the same time, a lot of times you'll be surprised where they don't check the grip because they don't feel that threat coming from it. Because again, they're used to a feeling where something's gripping tight. Whereas if they're just gripping a little loose, they may not even respond to it. Another one guys is you want to be disciplined and you want to stop the other person's grips. You want to stop the grips that they need, right? And this can be for a lot of different reasons, but you know, if you're rolling with someone, you'll probably pretty quickly realize what they're grabbing. They're grabbing something over and over again. Um, an example is the guy, uh, the other guy on the channel that sometimes you guys see, you know, Adam, the white guy, Adam, right. Um, he has a really good double knee pass. I'm just specifying, right? Cause I, I'm bringing, bringing the color into it. I'm a terrible person and everybody's going to not follow me anymore cause I'm terrible. So anyway, um, but there is, he's got a great double knee pass. And I remember very quickly back when he was like blue purple belt, like if he can get double knees, just blow right past me. And so when he and I roll, if he's standing, we're in the gi, if he starts grabbing the double knee, I mean, I'm breaking those grips here. And a lot of times I'll cover those spaces to not give them those positions, right? Cause I can't let them get them because here's the thing. The higher you go in skill in jujitsu, the less time they need to execute the move from point of grip to point of execution. You know, like a newer person, they get the grip and it's kind of like a lag between, Oh, I've got the grip. Now it's time to go. The better you get in jujitsu, as soon as they get the damn grips, they're off to the races and they go for it. And so this is why the higher you go, the more grip fighting and positioning becomes like the battle because as soon as they get the grips and the, and the positioning that they have the move that they want. Right. Another common one, and this can be used, no, gee is if the person's a half guard, right? So in a lot of cases in half guard, one of the, the main things that they can do is they can reach up in your collar with this right hand. They can use this to space. They can get under hooks with that, or with that hand here. I said, right and left hand, you're going to correct me. He's like, Oh, you're wrong, dude. Um, so what I want to do is I want to control this top hand. And so sometimes it can be as simple as boom, shutting this thing down. And I've, I've shown this video before I've done a whole video on this. I remember years ago, someone was like, that wouldn't work. I'm like, come roll with me. I have like tons of matches where I've used such a good move. Um, just controlling the top arm because what I know he wants to use this top arm. So if I'm controlling this can be super frustrating. And again, if I allow him to get up into my cross collar, I'm now I'm in a really bad spot because he can off balance me. He can sweep me, whatever. Same thing with an underhook here. If I allow him to get the underhook, it's going to be a bad situation, right? So you want to think about the position that your partner or opponents in and what grips they need. Or if you start noticing them trying to grab something over and over again, if they're grabbing it for over and over again, there's probably a reason that they want it, right? So you want to shut those grips down and you've got to be disciplined about it because here's what happens. Most people get bored with the grip fighting. They go, Oh, I want to just do a technique. I just want to move on. But if you stay disciplined with this and you make the person, you take away their grips and you make them fight from the position of your choosing, that's how you win, right? Again, that, and when you watch the higher level people, that is how they make people fight the battles they want. Again, if I know that I got to get you into half guard to beat you and you've got to put me into whatever position, whoever does what they need to do, that's who's going to win the match, right? Or win the role. And so again, you got to be disciplined about it, but it's a really useful tip. Fight for the grips. Relentlessly. Do not let people simply grab wherever they want to grab just because you get bored because you went in at a technique. You want to fight for those things first, and then you get to your position once they get undisciplined and allow you to have the grips you want. Last idea, guys, is that you want to be first. This kind of goes with all of them, right? When you're gripping someone, you want to be first. You want to take command of the mat because you want to take control of what's happening, right? And so be first means that, again, like let's say if we're on the feet, I don't go, okay, all right, let me grab this right here, right? If you're here, you're moving, boom. It's like a punch. Like if I'm actually really grabbing someone during a roll or doing like a match or a really competitive roll, my hand comes out and I mean, I'm punching him in the shoulder as I'm gripping onto it, right? I mean, I'm not just hitting him, but like my hand is coming out and reaching, right? Or I'm pop, pop, getting that decoy grips and going back and forth. Same thing, passing. Like if I'm going here with Marvin, right? And he's playing guard, maybe he's seated, maybe he's on his back, doesn't matter, right? I'm not going to go, okay, well, let me go ahead and get you my collar. Go ahead and get on in there. There you go. All right. Like terrible idea. What do I want to do? I want to go in here. Boom. I'm first, right? If he's sitting up, maybe he's trying to get into my collar, right? I got to be disciplined to fight those grips. And then I immediately want to start going for the grips that I might want for that pass, right? I want to be first. I want to be disciplined about breaking those grips if they get them, but then I want to be first on establishing mine. And again, it's an important idea. If you watch a lot of judo players, they're really big on this because from what I understand in judo, again, I know a little bit about it, but still don't know a ton, but you can't do a lot of the grip work that we can in jujitsu because they have a lot more rules. And so in a lot of cases, once they get locked up, they're just locked up. Like they can't do double hand breaks. Like for instance, if like Marvin grips my grip, I can break this off or in judo, they can't. And so they're really big on getting the grips first because then they can throw off of it, right? Could be wrong about some of that. So if you're a judo player, you can correct me. But we want to use that same idea for us in jujitsu. You want to be first. We don't casually grab things with a collar. You want to know what your grips are for the techniques that you're using and you get out and grab them. Now, if you're a brand new white belt and you're like, Joey, I don't know what the hell I'm supposed to be doing. Don't worry about it. As you train more and more, you will start to develop a game of your own. And with that game, you'll start to know the grips you need. And then it's your job to be first with those grips. And so guys, those are a handful of ideas, guiding principles that helped me out with grip fighting. I have more of them. They also somewhat apply to hand fighting as well with no gi. But since we're in the gi, that's what I wanted to do today. And again, if you guys have any questions, you can shoot them over. But otherwise, hopefully this helps you guys out. I'm a big nerd for grip fighting. The more I fought, the more I started focusing on grip fighting about a decade ago, the more I won in competition, the better I did. And I don't think it's like, I don't think it's by accident. I think the grip fighting is a big thing. So the more you focus on it, the more dominant you can be in your competitions or even just roles in the gym. So hopefully it helps you guys. I'll talk to you next time.