 musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi musi in drilled knee bars yet, but those ACL attacks are definitely the most intimidating part of BGJ. Do you even feel the knee bar going on? That's what concerns me the most. I mean, you know, you know, when you're getting choked, you know, when you're getting your arm or shoulder ripped out, but I've been in a couple of hill hooks and it feels different in my white belt mind. I don't know I'm in danger and I try to escape the wrong. And if I try to escape the wrong way, I'm probably going to blow my knee out and be out for six months. Our knee bar is the same. Even with ankle locks, I think I could still live with a torn foot ligament and not, but not being able to work and carry on with my kids, et cetera, because of a blown knee would be a major problem. It would be, wouldn't it? It's probably the reason there is a big drop off in competitors. So interesting that we're going to touch on two things. One, do you even feel it? And then we'll talk about the fact that you're not training leg locks at all, right? So, cause you said you never even drilled a knee bar, right? So it's, it's a good topic to touch on because I've heard this so many times, right? People say leg locks are so dangerous because you don't even feel them, right? You don't feel them and then everything explodes. Um, I remember a lot of the sort of old guard black belts back in the day who just didn't want to train leg locks back in like say 2013, 14, when leg locks were obviously picking up steam and we're like watching people get submitted with them left and right. A lot of the old guard were like, no, I'm not going to train these. These leg locks are unsafe because you don't feel anything. And all of a sudden everything explodes that whole deal. You know, think about this for a second. If I put you in an arm bar, do you wait for your arm to explode? No, you wait for your arm to get caught. You are familiar with that tightness in that joint, depending on your flexibility, cause it's different for everybody. And you know when to tap. If I put you into a Kimura, which by the way, is a really dangerous submission, probably one of the most dangerous submissions in the book, because we're attacking the most mobile joint in the body. You screw this shoulder up. You're never the same, but we put the shoulder lock in, right? And when we apply pressure, you start to, again, depending on your flexibility, cause everybody's a little different. You kind of know your limits and you tap out because you're familiar with it, right? This is why, let's say if I have a wrestler, a guy that can grapple a bit and wants to roll early on, um, let's say if he's wrong with one of my more experienced students, I'll tell my more experienced student, Hey, no joint locks, no leg locks, no arm locks, nothing just chokes because you're right. You know, when you're getting caught, everybody, it's a universal feeling to know when you're getting strangled or choked. Pretty, pretty simple, right? But shoulders and arms aren't the same. I think of shoulders and arms basically the same way that I do legs. You learn when you're caught by playing around with them, experimenting with them, getting used to them, drilling them and getting caught versus having this catastrophic explosion of your, your limb is a very different thing. And to your point, you said you've never even drilled them. So of course you're going to be in those positions. If you've never had any experience with them, you're like that new wrestler that I'm worried about coming into my gym and blowing his arm out because he doesn't know to tap by the arm bar or zig the, or excuse me, move the wrong way, zig when he should zag or get caught in a shoulder lock and try to fight it and get his shoulder ripped out. It's no different. And I would tell you that as a coach, when we started instituting more leg locks back about 12 years ago, we have a pretty heavy leg lock culture. It's like, we're not like the biggest leg lock gyms, but I think it's really important for people to learn leg locks from the beginning, because I mean, I don't want one of my guys to be a purple belt or brown belt and have this non-existent leg lock game. If they want to compete, or even if they just train somewhere else to where, you know, they're going to get exposed to leg locks. I want them to have that from the beginning. And also for safety purposes, here's what I've noticed. I remember back in the day when we did not train them, we did not drill them. We would every now and then throw them into the mix, but otherwise we sort of just left them alone. When that was going on, I would see more catastrophic injuries because of the exact situations you're talking about. They didn't know they were caught or they tried to escape the wrong way. Since we started training leg locks more, it became more, more a part of our culture. And again, it doesn't mean that every guy in my gym is a leg locker, but they have the basics down. They know when they're caught, they know how to escape some basic stuff. We've had less injuries, way fewer injuries. And also too, I would tell you that it's a lot more fun to play legs when you know, when you're caught, you know, when you're not caught, you know how to escape all that stuff. And so to your point, do you feel the knee bar? If you train knee bars, you will know that you're caught. You will know. It's very clear. It's a clear feeling. You're, your legs locked out. You're unable to escape because your escape options are gone. Just like your arm being locked in position, all of a sudden you try to move. It's all really tight. Boom. And you can feel that before anything happens as far as being injured. Same thing with a heel hook. If it's a well-applied heel hook, you will know when your heel is caught, you'll feel it. You'll feel this joint sort of ratchet up and tighten and you tap out. That's it. And so I would tell you guys, Lauren and anybody else, if your coach doesn't right now go over leg locks and ask them, say, Hey, could we incorporate some leg lock training into the gym? And I would tell you that if for some reason your gym has leg lock training and you're avoiding it, do not avoid it. Don't do it. All right. It's so easy. Again, this whole thing that we do jujitsu wise is to get us out of our comfort zone. And I know you might be worried about leg lock injuries and stuff like that, but look, you got this hand right here, get it up to tap quick, right? Trust me, tap quick. It's not a big deal. And if you have the ability to, to get a little situational training in from the positions would be great. Even if it's an open role, say, Hey, can we start in this leg lock position so I can fiddle around with it? There's a lot of cool things you can do, but don't avoid them because again, like I said, you don't want to be in a situation where one, you eventually maybe compete as a blue belt, purple belt, brown belt, and you, you don't have this, this whole part of your game is non-existent. That's a bad thing. And then also too, you don't want to be in a situation where like, let's say you go to a gym when you're visiting, or maybe some guy comes into your gym and they play legs and you're simply a sitting duck because you have no idea how to deal with them. Right. I would tell you that me as a person, like I'm not like the heaviest leg locker, but generally speaking, you know, knock on wood, I've done pretty well against leg lockers and competition because I know how they work. I play around with them. I know how they work. I'm not afraid of them. And because I know how they work, I can defend them way better and I can stop them from happening way better. And so those are just a couple of ideas to chew on, but yes, you can feel leg locks. You will know when they're there, as long as you train them, just like your regular joint locks, your arm bars, your, your toehold, not your toes, your wrist locks, your, uh, Kimuras and everything else. So Lauren, thank you for your question. And I'll talk to you guys next time.