 What up, what up guys, what up guys, so today we got a question from new jujitsu, or chukru subscriber, that's my daily email, named Chad, and he says, hey man, would love to know the name of the dextrose supplements that you use in the electrolyte mix recipe that you have, and so I figured what I would do is take you guys through the stuff that I put in my mixture right here before rolling sessions and lifting sessions. It will change sometimes depending on if it's a second session in the day, I'll talk about that in a second, but this is kind of a little bit more about it. It's kind of the base. So it'll begin first. I have no affiliation with this company. This is just the brand of aminos that we were using. So this is just basically, it's an EAAspowder, essential amino acids, BCAs, and there's some hydro, like some electrolytes and stuff like this already in it. And it tastes really good. So it tastes like blue raspberry. So there's that. And then the sort of like ingredient, by the way, this is, there's no sugar in this. Okay. Now here's like the biggie, right? Dextrose. As far as what brand, I just get this one because it's cheap and it's effective. It's fine. And dextrose. So again, like right now I'm in a cut getting ready for a competition. And so, you know, my carbs drop throughout the day. And so during those training sessions, I need a little bit of a boost of energy and I can use dextrose, which is a fast acting sugar. I'll drink it before and during my workouts. And again, it helps out a ton, whether I'm lifting weights or doing jujitsu. And so I'll take this and use a certain amount. Again, I don't want to give you my number, but I'm going to have a certain amount of dextrose in each one of these shakes to make sure that I get the amount of carbohydrates that I need to support my training. Next is going to be creatine monohydrate. Again, creatine is awesome. I'll typically have at least five grams a day, somewhere up on a lot of days, upwards of closer to 10 grams, which is perfectly fine. There's a lot of good benefits to creatine, both for training and like muscle, but also for like your brain health. And then I throw about 10 grams of glutamine into it if I'm lifting. And again, I've seen different studies that say, oh, glutamine is helpful. Some say it's not. I just throw it in there. My coach said to do it and it seems to help me out. So I throw it in there. And so this all together, an EA sort of powder with some flavor alternatively. And sometimes like if I'm in a pinch, I will have a Gatorade and I'll just take out the dextrose because it's already got the sugar and I'll just have Gatorade with creatine and glutamine together. And then also too, in some cases, if I'm training super heavy and I'm sweating a lot, especially in the summertime, I'll throw a, I'll throw a packet of element, the LMNT. I'll throw a packet of element into the mix just for some extra hydration. But as far as it goes, this is what I'm doing, brother. So you were asking kind of like what I put in my like dextrose mix and all that stuff. This is basically it. EA powder, dextrose, glutamine and creatine. And then in a pinch, we take out the dextrose. If I'm traveling sometimes, I'll just do Gatorade in lieu of that and sometimes a element pack. And there, and again, I do this when I'm training and when I'm lifting super helpful. So for some of you guys, if you're cutting weight or whatever, and you just need a little bit of a boost, or if you just sometimes need a boost, especially you're getting into training. Or a lot of you guys, I hear this all the time. People say, oh man, you know, I can't, I can't really eat anything before training because it makes me feel sick. I hear that all the time. And if that's the case, you can take this and get some, some fast acting sugars into the system to help fuel you during your workouts. And again, it feels a lot better than not having it. One of my, one of my guys here, DT, I remember he was like super resistant to this. He was like, nah, man, I fast all the time. I do this low carb stuff, all the, all the stuff. But then God, he got on the diet with me and Eli and all the guys, right, doing it. And again, he swear to God is this now. And again, he has a lot of energy for it. And so anyway, just sharing that with you guys. If you guys want a little more energy, that's how I do it. And hopefully it helps you.