 T1, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM, ATM Have to dislodge it nice and soft. But with that said, I'm going to take my students here, Marvin, who's also been called to by you guys, not me. He was Black Adam. And then I've got... It's racist, it is. But, you know, I've got Eugene here. You guys know it, the jiu-jitsu therapist. And afterwards, we're going to go through this impression kit so you guys can see how the thing works. And so if you guys get something with TrueFit, then you guys can go through this and kind of see how it works and hopefully this is useful to you. Yep. I understand the assignment. Oh, that's pretty cool. All right, guys. So if you get the... You got dentures, don't worry about it. So look, check this out, guys. When you get the kit, you'll have all this stuff here. You'll have this base and the catalyst. I don't know exactly what they are, but you mix these together. You'll put these into the actual mouthpiece here, and then you will bite down on them. You'll have a lower and a upper, right? And then from here, you'll have the instructions. So you can go through this right here. It's got all the instructions. Just take your time and do it well. Again, a couple of people have messaged me and said that they had trouble doing it. For me, it was no problem at all. Just read the instructions first and then jump into it. That was the hard part. That's right. We had a teacher the other day. She said she had this big, long pop quiz for her students, and then she's like, make sure you guys read the instructions first. And in the instructions, it says, you don't have to answer any questions, whatever, right? But of course, nobody read the instructions except for one kid. So they all got that Tic Tac brain, or the Tic Tac brain. And so after you mix the stuff together, you want to put it on that tray, and you're biting right there in the center so this way it doesn't look all jacked up. So take a little bit over there. You guys take a look at it and get ready. And while they're doing that, guys, I'll show you kind of some of the stuff that they've got. So this is the mouthpiece that I use. So it's like, it's super soft, right? So like when I was fighting and stuff in MMA, I had like a big clunky one, a big chunky one that was great for fighting, but I'm not taking that kind of punishment. I just don't want to like, like my chip, I will like chew through my lips and everything else. And also too, sometimes when I'm passing, you get head butted or your mouth runs into someone's knees. So it's super soft. Again, it's pretty minimal, but it gives me all the protection I need. They've got a lot of other cool products too that I'm going to try out. So like this one is that same mouthpiece, just the brand new one. I've had this one since 2020, 2023, beginning of 2023, still going strong. So again, that said, if you do your mouthpiece with them, it's saved on record. So you just like say, hey, I need a new one, and we'll give you a new one. But they've got thicker mouthpieces. Like this one's a little bit on the thicker side right here. So this one's not missing the little spot. Like this one's a little heavier. Let's just fill in real quick. So here's already pre-made. So yeah, since mine mold is already there, they can send me like different models and stuff like that. So protect my teeth and then open it with my mouth. I'm sure it's correct for my teeth. I got three different order from them. Well, so they've got all kinds of stuff, bro. And you guys can customize it. I don't like it. When I did, I need to get changed. But like for instance, this like fill the difference here. These are all brand new. My mouth hasn't been on it. Try it out. So get a fill. That's like, that's the thin one. This one is. Here's the standard one. Right? And then here's the heavier duty one. But you haven't tried this one out. I have one like that, but I really prefer the thin one. Like the thin one just... The thin one right here? The thin one's like locked in place and you don't have to do much with it. You just sort of like get it in there. But it just doesn't take up... Like any of you guys that have had boil and bite mouthpieces, it sucks because they're like, they're in the middle of it. They're like falling down out of your mouth and you're trying to breezy spit them out. But that thin one is perfect for grappling. And this is a product, this is for like nighttime if you grind your teeth. Yeah. So this one... So I'm going to try this sucker out tonight because I have a tendency like sometimes I grip my teeth a little bit. At least it's what my dentist has told me. So by the way, I like this. It says something about like when we're opening this up, it says comfort measured in micrometers. There's a penis joke in there somewhere. I don't know where it is, but it's there. The big one's hurt. Yep. There we go. All right. So let's get into it. Marvin knows. So we're looking at the base and the catalyst. So basically, they're going to take this stuff and mix it together. Fellas, you guys kind of have the instructions. You're ready. All right. Mark, set, go. The big deal, guys, is don't rush this. Be slow and steady with it. And again, because you don't have a whole lot of time to... Once they combine, you have like... You got 80 seconds. You got 80 seconds. The clock is going. And I'll get the timer set. Mix them together. Right. Yeah. You got to read the instructions, Eugene. Stop cheating. Okay. And then once we get it plugged in there, we'll hold for... I think it's what? Three minutes? I got to keep it in my mouth for three minutes? Yeah. After waiting three minutes, grab... Yep. Yeah. Mix them? Yeah. Mix it. So put them together and then like do this. Roll them to like a putty. It's like... Hospital peanut butter. Same color. Come on, Marvin. You got 80 seconds, dog. I got 80 seconds to get it out? I don't know, man. Just like... Let's mix it together. You were taking your sweet time. Come on. Let's get it surgical. My bad. Let's not get it surgical. Like this, right? No, you need to mix it more. You want it to be like one color. See? That's what happened. You didn't read the instructions. I did. I was in a hurry. I took my time and read the instructions. Look here. It says no streaks. No streaks. All solid color. It's kind of like your underwear at the end of the day. You're looking for no streaks. That's right. Clean boot. I'm still going. You got belly? Do you need to be quiet? No, you're good. What's up, Coach Josh? I only see you in the morning. I know, man. I love that guy. It makes my day. It makes my morning. Once it's a solid color... Thin skin. Then you put it on the tray. Chicken skin. Thin skin Josh. What do you think? You think we're good? Yeah. If it's one solid color, you're good to go. I don't know, man. It's close enough. Now, like I said, make it into a nice turd. Like a little turd. And this is what we can put it on there. A little yellow turd. Mine's better than mine. Come on now. Let's get to this. All right. I'm ready. This looks good. Put it in the thing. Spread it out a little bit. Yeah. This is going to be terrible. Right in the middle, yes. Hold on. Hold on, guys. Spread it out there. Let's make sure we follow the directions. Chewy thing. Spread it. Yeah. I'm pretty good. And then just make sure that when you bite, you're trying to bite right dead in the center. All right. I'm pretty good at it. Cheers. Cheers. Hover it over and then chomp. And then we're off. So we're going to wait for three minutes. Uh-oh. You all right? Uh-uh. What? Is it gross? What's wrong? Uh-uh. Come see the camera, Jeff. Right there. Take your dad. Ready? All dad. All dais. Yeah, all right, so I don't it looks like it looks like one of those like cheese craters. How's the juicy mine? Yeah, I was salvin Yeah, I'll get the right behind you Jeff you grab so or give me a You got paper towels. All right, so we're gonna do one more time Doing the second round and Marvin's excited about this. Sorry. Let me tell you Salvation all right We're doing again. Yeah, you're gonna do both of them That's why you can make sure that you get the right one because you don't want to say so do you think I need to bite harder or less? Probably less like a bit fair. I mean, I think it's Solid for the most part. Yeah, that should be okay. Just just bite down like you know, not quite as you don't have to Exclusive as hard as possible. You just want to make sure it's I think that's what yeah. Yeah Pretty good. All right Marvin's is all jacked up. It's all good Marvice. Why don't you give us two? Thank you Thank you true fit. Thank you true fit, but they don't mess this one up I've got a backup in case I need to I've got a third I've got a third pack in case tell me Yeah, make it like this is it. Well, no I was like I'd like I was like I told him sound my students sometimes, you know They're not the sharpest spoons in the drawer. So maybe some mean extra say man not saying anything bro You are a doctor of physical therapy something tell me can't put a mouthpiece I did it Did you he did it? I hope so I don't know. I was the only one that said I did it by the way guys I'll probably mention this to you again later on at some point video But if you guys want to get one of these mouthpieces and you'd like to save a few bucks I've got a code chewy Simple enough if you go to the website using the links down below you can get it for something off it changes depending on what kind of things They got going on at the time of recording this it's 35 It's like thirty five dollars off or something like that. It's a pretty good deal, right? It's awesome and again you get um You get the mouthpiece you get the kits and stuff like that and then once they've got it in there You know, it's it's in the system So if you ever need another one you just order it from boom that's it right super simple super easy And you get a mouthpiece that actually fits your mouth and doesn't fall over the place Protects your mouth and again it allows you to breathe because like some of those like mouthpieces are just I use the blown bite Ones and they're terrible and then I have them made by my dentist. Yeah, it was like two or three hundred bucks. Yeah, yeah So this is great. This is definitely not two or three hundred bucks. It was I mean like yeah, it's the same thing Yeah, like Lou that's how they did it. It was like It was crazy expensive I've always trained with the mouth guard. I always do you know, man I used to not because I was like whatever but then uh Trufit actually contacted me back in 2022 right before nogi worlds Yeah, and I was training real hard and I was like sure i'll try it whenever you guys are ready I'll get the timer going and I tried it man. I really enjoyed it because like for me like When I was when I was younger fighting mma I had a good one from the dentist sure But it's expensive really expensive back then and then you know the boiling bites suck The they have those double ones like here where you're breathing through a friggin straw awful So, you know, I just never did it and then I got with theirs I was like this is a this is really awesome. You ready? Let's do it roll into a turd. I got a little bit So you can put that turd in your mouth trying to get here. Jeff. Let me sit real quick What do you think? Let me see here Mash it in there All right, it's going in it. It's going in it. Is it ready? I'm ready. You ready for it? Make sure it suckers nice and spread out evenly. What do you think? All right pretty even Let's give it a whirl when you guys are ready. Let's do it again. Let's do it. Catch this one All right here it goes All right Timer is set All right, how many words? We're playing schrades two words, okay Wave Hand finger and palm Time Time Time to Time Down time Suck at schrades Diamond time. It's What is this? Sexy times Terrible schrades Do not play. Did they not play schrades in Russia? Eugene's a communist. He's a plant from the Soviet Union from the 80s. True story was born in the Soviet Union. Now he's as American as apple pie and cheeseburgers. Alright, three minutes. Go get his paper towel. Run like a dog. You fucking again? I don't know why mine does that. Man, that looks perfect. That's your best one. That's it. Look at that. Slobbery. I drool a lot, guys. I apologize. Let me see. Alright. I don't want money. I don't want money. Here, let me go. I got one more. I got one more. I got one more. I got one more. Hey, Jeff. Yes, sir. Alright, guys. So we're going to try this again. A couple things could be going on. Marvin could be messing it up or it's very possible that Marvin just has a big mouth, which he does figuratively, but maybe literally has a big one. So now we're going to try this one more time. Let's make this. I don't want to be all touching your stuff, so let's make it some turd. And then we're going to try this out. I'm going to help you load it and we'll see if we can do this together. Alright. So the other thing might have been too close to the front. So we're going to... I'm going to put it into your mouth and tell you when to bite. Yeah, he is. Yeah, he is. Just put that in your mouth, Marvin. Yeah, I'm calling CPS. Huh? CPS? What did you say one time when we were walking into a grocery store and you were like, they either think you're my football coach or what? Oh, yeah. We're like some age gap gay couple. Look at that nice man with his knees. He probably is a football coach. Well, we were, you know, grocery shopping together at Kroger. It was like in the evening. And we were holding hands. Were y'all here? Y'all in town? No, we were out of town too. That's fine. Nobody recognizes it. Yeah, we were holding hands. We were wearing matching shirts. That's pretty sweet. I mean. What happens? When in Rome or Nashville. He's got a shirt that says, with my UK. Like, points to you. I like that. We can get those made. Yeah, I'm with my UK. That'd be dope. With my UK, I'll point to the right. Mm-hmm. It's like hanging out with a girl and just, with my UK, right? Yeah. With my UK. We'll point it. Yeah. I'll do numbers. Get one. Sujitsu on the back. Do numbers. Do numbers. Get that on the Jujitsu shop. All right, Chu. So, now that this is here, we're going to wait on this. Wait on Marvin. All right. Let's load that turdy up. Let's scratch that up. Is there any problem with the turd? Turd looks good, man. It's a good turd. That's a pretty good looking turd. Yeah. Turd form is, that's very uniform colored turd. Okay. So, we're going to aim to put your teeth right dead in the center. So, let's see if we can get this sucker in here. And then, let's slightly come down. That looks good. Yeah. Right there. Let's chomp. And don't go crazy hard. Just give it a nice firm bite. Just comes pretty good. Now, give it a nice firm bite, but not a crazy bite. We're just going to hang. We're going to hang. Just a little bit. Now, I get to make fun of you. You can't say anything nice. I'll pull it out. I was like... Hey! All right. I think it's there. That looks good. That's a good one. There you go. That is a good one. One more. Maybe go a little more towards the front. One might do it. We're on the right track. One more. Last one. Do one more. Do it towards the front. Just to make sure, but that was good. Okay. All right. Got most of your teeth in there. Yeah, so you can bite a little bit closer. So, not this close. But not this far. Yeah. That one should work, though, man. They got different colors besides what? Oh, yeah. They got whatever colors you want. So, like, if you look on this little sheet here, you can get... So, when you guys get it, you can pick. You'll be able to decide this actually online. Since you guys are... This is kind of like a thing, but online you can decide all this. So, you can do different colors. You can make it clear and transparent. You can have, like, obviously different colors. Thin, standard size. You can customize. You can put initials on it. Yeah, you can put initials on it. You can do a lot of cool stuff on it. So, super neat. So, are you going to invade my oral cavity again? I am going to invade your oral cavity. Let's do it. How does my turd look? Turd looks good, man. A little greasy. Nice and yellow. A little degreasy turd. It's okay. Yeah, you got... Your turd's got jaundice. So, maybe go a little bit more towards the front. So, that one's pretty good. Maybe go a little more towards the front. You might be there. That one, I think, is still good. Yeah. But we'll just make sure we get another one just in case. There it is. Just put that turd out a little here on the side. It's time. I'm going to invade your oral cavity. So, let's see. Get it in there. Now, let's see here. Go ahead and bite down. I think... That might be good. Go, good, good. Oh, that's good. Yeah, we're good there, I think. There it is. Is it the timer for you? Did you see it? Why did you cross your eyes out? Me. Praying. You're praying. True fit. I don't know what you're saying. All I did was you did some social media wizardry. I don't know what that is. Just here hanging out with the fellas, you know. Just typical... Typical evening after Jiu-Jitsu. Let's see. What do we got, winner? I think it's probably our best one. Oh, that looks good, man. That's a perfect one. That's perfect. You got all your... It only took four tries. That's right. Yeah. Six. Four? Four. Stop. Come on. I don't think we like that. All right. All right. So, here's what we got to do next. Next, we need to go rinse those suckers off, let them air dry. And then the way that it works is when you... After you rinse them off, you will put your little trays here. You put them back into the box. And then the box is a self-mailer. So, basically, if you look back here, you'll have a thing like this where you just finish putting everything back into it. You put this in the mailbox. Boom. You're done. I can just leave it outside. Huh? I can just leave it outside. Just leave it outside. Someone's going to pick it up, right? Maybe you get your mouthpiece back. But you just drop this off at a mailbox or, you know, give it to your mailman. And boom. You get it out. So, it's super simple. So, after you... When you get this in the mail, you do this. Put it back in there. Put it back in the mail. You get your mouthpiece. It's sent to you directly. Super simple. Super easy. And again, a nice mouthpiece. When we get yours, we'll have to do a follow-up video. There we go, guys. It only took us, what, 18 tries for Marvin? All right. It's all right, though. We made it. We made it. So, again, we're going to get these mailed off. And maybe we can do a bit... We'll do a follow-up video whenever we get them in. But that's how it works. If you guys want a really cool mouthpiece that's, like, legit... Again, a lot of my students already have this. I wanted to take them through it so I could share it with you guys. If you guys get the mouthpiece, that's the process. It's relatively simple. And then after that's done, you get it back in the mail. You got an awesome mouthpiece to serve you in the gym to stop you from having your teeth get all messed up. And that's that. So, appreciate you, fellas. And, guys, talk to you next time. Bye. Bye.