

=== FILE: 1 Reason I'm Not Broken After 20+ Years of BJJ & MMA [5Rpx-1NKZEQ].txt ===

 whatabuy. So we got a question from Pedro, who sends me a message, a shoey. I'm looking for some advice. What would you give a higher priority to as complimentary to BJJ? Running or lifting? If I had to focus on one, which one would I choose to compliment my jiu-jitsu? So, Pedro, thanks for the question, brother. So this could be dependent on people. Some people maybe would benefit more from running, but personally, for me, hands down, lifting. Why? Well, because there's going to be, and it depends on how you lift, by the way, if you're lifting like a crazy man and doing maximum weight and stuff like that, then maybe not so much. But for me, lifting does a few things. One, it helps for the injury, helps keep my body strong. I have met lots of people in jiu-jitsu who have bodies that are just completely destroyed. I've also met a lot of older guys in grappling that have been doing it for 20, 30 years, and they're damn healthy. They're in damn good shape. And the thing that I can say about all the people that are doing well as they get older, they all lift weights. They all strength train in some way. And so for me, that's just a good sign. Maybe not, correlation is not causation, but if everybody's doing it, it's probably a good sign to follow. And so you get that injury prevention. And I would tell you that I think, for me, I haven't been injured that much in jiu-jitsu, and I think a big reason is because of lifting weights. You also get the strength benefit, because, again, you're rolling with someone in jiu-jitsu. If you don't think strength matters, you're kidding yourself. It's a myth in jiu-jitsu that strength and SARS doesn't matter. Of course it does. That's why we have weight classes. And if you've ever rolled with a really strong person who's much bigger than you, you find out real frigging quick that it matters. So having a little bit of strength is helpful for performance. And again, there are other benefits to it, like looking a little bit better, muscular endurance, all that stuff. But again, those are too big. Injury prevention and having a little strength, those are benefits. Running, you get the cardio benefit. And if you really need that, that's great. But for me, the way that I think about it is unless I'm getting ready for a competition and I need that extra boost, if I'm really just like huffing and puffing, I can typically just work harder during my rounds. And it's not to say that there's anything wrong with doing a little cardio, because when I'm getting ready for a competition, I will do extra cardio. But when I'm thinking about just training on average, jiu-jitsu is cardiovascular exercise. Like when you're getting in there, your heart rate's getting up to really high and you're moving around, you're scrambling around, all that stuff's happening already. So if I said I could only do one, I'm probably not going to stack more cardio on top of it. I want to get the other side of the things. I want to strengthen my muscles, strengthen my joints, do all those things, and then have the cardio aspect of it be my jiu-jitsu. And if I have to, I'll just roll a little harder. I'll just train a little harder, push myself a little bit more in training to get that boost of cardio that I might want. And again, if I'm getting ready for a competition and I need more cardio and I need to push a little bit more, then I might go run or do some bike. But otherwise, I don't really mess with it too much. And so yeah, that would be my advice to you, bro. You had to do one or the other. Running or lifting, I would say lifting first over running for jiu-jitsu as a complementary exercise that's been my personal bearded experience. And I'm sure some people are going to go, no, Chewie, you got it all wrong, running this. Do what you want to do, man. I'm going to do what I'm going to do. I've been doing it for 20 plus years. My body's healthy. My body's strong. I don't feel broken down like a lot of people do. And so again, I got lucky, I'm sure, but then there's also the fact that I've always lifted throughout that. And that's important for me because if I can train consistently because I'm not injured and if lifting, supporting it, that's going to allow me to train jiu-jitsu more consistently, which is going to make me better for the long term. So anyway, that's the idea for you. Hopefully, it helps you, Pedro. Talk to you guys next time.

=== FILE: 11 Reasons Why Your Takedowns Suck (And How to Fix It) [CWaiRqGr18w].txt ===

 what up guys? So today's video is going to show you some reasons as to why your takedowns in jiu-jitsu might suck. I'm gonna give you some examples in both no-gi and the gi. And we will go through a bunch of different reasons as to why your takedowns may not be so good and we're gonna identify the problems and then also give you some ideas on how to fix it. This is my lovely sister, Mr. Marvin here. Let's get into it. Number one, you don't use your head correctly. So this is one that I see a lot of times and you watch any jiu-jitsu guy do a takedown who's relatively inexperienced and you just, you know it looks bad and this is one of the reasons why you'll see a lot of jiu-jitsu guys do this. They come in and their heads way down. We do not wanna see anyone's, we don't want anyone to see the back of our neck. And so we do that by keeping our head up. So anytime you're pushing into the person, let's say we're picking up a single leg here or shooting a double or whatever it is, we're pushing from our temple across our forehead to other temple. We're pushing right about here. So anytime we're pushing here with my head, I'm pushing here. I'm going in, shooting a double, coming up. It's always about this. Now what does this do? This keeps him from seeing the back of my neck. Opposed to if I'm going in like this, this is just guillotine city right here. Or I'm gonna get my takedown stuffed, right? Also think about being in an athletic position. If you were getting ready to do a squat or something like that, you're not gonna have your head tucked down like this, like this is just the way you are. Okay, we wanna keep our spine in a better position. So especially like when we're in these positions where I've shot in to grab the legs and I gotta get up, if my head's down like this, this is not a good position. Besides him even defending, just me trying to stand up against his weight, this is gonna be tough. Opposed to if my chest is up, my head is up, I'm in a stronger position to use my leg and my drive because my spine's in alignment, right? The other one that you'll see a lot of times, which is common in like lower levels of wrestling too, is guys just sort of not using their head at all, right? They in no ghee, they may be ear to ear. In the ghee, they maybe don't use it at all. We wanna use our head. So by this, I mean we're head to head. So if in no ghee, I'm collar tying, working inside ties, I'm head to head. Or I could even be head inside the neck, head to the collar bone. This may seem like a subtle difference between ear to ear, but to the side, but it's huge. Because think about this, as soon as I put my head on the side of my, on his neck, I'm now in a situation where I'm on the side of his body and anytime we're trying to initiate an entry to an attack, it's always tougher for the person to defend coming from the side. This is true for combat sports in general. Whether it's me picking up a leg or if I'm boxing, I'm slipping, coming off to the side, I'm at an angle. So from here, we're head to head here, working, pushing in. This is our first point of contact. And if for some reason I do start to veer off to the side, I want to get my head into his collar bone into the side of his neck, which allows me to get angles on him. And so make sure we're using our head. All right guys, number two, going back to, you know, the ugly Jiu-Jitsu guy, take down, double leg, and you know, athletic stances. We know that this is bad, right? So if we get the person to use his head, does this make it any better? Instinctively, you know that this is not right, right? So another thing that people do, and they don't think about, is that they don't keep, they're not mindful of where their shoulders and their chest are positioned, right? So if you think about what's happening right now, is if my weight's this far forward, and this could happen for a number of reasons. One, if I go in for that ugly take down like this, that's obviously an issue. Or sometimes if I shoot in, and I get really far out like this, I'm now in a situation where notice how far over my knee, or past my chest and shoulders are. This is where, yeah, you maybe got a good grip on the leg, but this person's easily gonna be able to sprawl out and kick you down because you're off balance, right? Think about if we were squatting weight, again, and I say squatting weight because when you're standing up, you're essentially bearing the person's weight. Like you've ever done a front squat, or even a zurcher squat, you're essentially gonna be doing that because that weight's gonna be in front of you here, and you're having to stand up. Well, if we were trying to do one of those exercises, and my body's tipped over, good luck lifting anything serious, right? So with that said, what we wanna think about is, stand square for me just for illustrative purposes, right? They're not gonna stand square unless they're not very good at jiu-jitsu or grappling. When we step in, let's say for a double leg, I get in. I wanna make sure that when I start to get in here, I wanna keep my knee, hip, and shoulders in alignment with each other. If for some reason I get a little far out, I wanna slide up and get this position back underneath me. Why is this important? Well, again, if we think about this, now when I begin to stand up to forget the finish of this takedown, I can get up easy, I have strength, my spine's in a good alignment, I'm able to use my head, and I'm not getting sprawled on. Also, if the person starts to sprawl on me, when I'm in this upright position, going sprawl, I can start to work my way up, opposed to, if I'm out like this, if he starts to sprawl, I have no ability to really stop it, he's gonna kick his leg out. So, when you're shooting in for your takedowns, be mindful of that position. Also too, if you get snapped down a lot, this a lot of times happens where guys will start leaning really far forward over top of their feet, and the person snaps them down to the ground. Whereas, if my weight is nice and level here, shoulders, knees, heels, if he starts to snap me down, I've got a good position. So, be mindful of where your shoulder position is, whether you're shooting or when you're just in your stance. ["Snowball"] Next up is not staying in your stance. So, this is really important, especially in no-gi. It's a little bit easier in the gi because you can like grab onto the handles and it's a little tougher, but in no-gi it's gonna be a lot more important because it's more kind of wrestling, there are no grips to grab onto. So, the person can shoot more easily. And so again, when that happens, the person that is in a good stance, if they're low, is gonna have the advantage of getting it on the legs. And what you'll see a lot of times is people that maybe they know they should be in their stance, they'll start by getting down low, and then after maybe a couple minutes, they start to get lazy and then they start staying in straight up, which sometimes can be permissible if you know this other person like, if I look at Marvin, he's staying in straight up, well I probably don't need to worry about him trying to shoot in on me. But if Marvin is leaning forward with his weight over top of his front foot, now I gotta be more concerned, right, because he's in a stance to where he might drive in for the leg. And if I'm just lumbering around here like Frankenstein, I'm gonna get taken off my damn feet. And so again, when you talk to good wrestlers, right, a lot of times people can get sort of ood and odd by the social media mess of like cool takedowns and really flashy stuff, talk to a lot of good wrestlers and it like comes back down to like basic fundamentals like hand fighting and hands, head and stance, right. Where is your body at in position? We're here opposed to wandering around like Frankenstein and then wondering why we keep getting taken down. So again, stance is really important, especially in no-gi when you have the person trying to shoot in on you and that person's in a lower stance to where they can take advantage of your bad posture. ["Bad Poster"] Next one, you don't get back up to your feet quick enough. So years ago, one of my buddies, man, he had such a fast initial shot, right. He'd be here, whatever, boom, boom, boom, stop. He'd be off and he'd have that really quick shot into position. I know that's not that quick, I'm not really that fast, but he'd have that quick shot, right. But he would then stay on the ground and he didn't get up to his feet quick enough and then the person would sprawl and counter, right. Understand that even if you shoot in on the legs low, you're not trying to stay down there most of the time. Sure, you can and there are some ways to finish it, right. I can pivot or inside trips and things like that. But in most cases, if we shoot in on the legs here, then my next goal is to get a little bit and then get up to my feet and I finish on the feet, right. I get up and just run this person down, right. So if I'm getting here, boom, I step on the outside to get this single here, I'm picking that single up, boom, we're getting up there to finish. We're not sitting down on the ground. If I get to that double, we're getting up to finish. So make sure that when you're going for your takedowns, if you drop a level, you do a penetration step, you get a hold of those knees and whatever way you're doing it, make sure you train yourself to immediately get back up. And in some cases, even if we're not able to finish that double, we can still drive and work up into things like body locks and rear body locks to get control of their body. So we can get up to the feet and finish from there. Another simple one, but super important, you don't focus on your grips. So as an example, let's say that I wanna go for a arm drag to inside trip, one of my favorite takedowns, right. Well, then I know that one of the grips that I need is this grip here on the wrist. And typically I will either post here, here or here. So I know I have a couple of options there, but I have to have this wrist control because I've gotta drag to the side, right. So with that, when I'm fighting this guy and I'm going, and I'm locking in, everything is about trying to get to here so I can arm drag, okay. If I was going for a sweep single here, right, I might work on trying to get this inside tie and wrist control so I can step and go, right. Or the number of different things, right. But you wanna have your takedown in mind and then you're trying to set up the conditions for that particular takedown with the grips. So when you're gripping, it's not sort of haphazard. You're not just gripping to sort of grip for no reason. You're gripping for something very specific. Same thing happens in the jacket, the gi, right. Like if I know that I have a particular takedown that utilizes this cross collar here, right. Well, then everything's about getting to that cross collar. So we might be battling grips here. I'm breaking here, pulling this grip off. But everything is about getting to that, right. So when you're on the feet and doing takedowns, you wanna have an idea of what takedown you're after, at least some ballpark of what you're after. And then when you're battling for the grips, Dior, Nogi does not matter. The principle is the same. You fight for the specific grips that you need to make that takedown happen. Not just sort of grabbing stuff for no reason. And I see a lot of newer people in Jiu-Jitsu, they make that mistake. They kind of have an idea of the takedown they want. But then when they get to the hand fighting part, they just sort of go blank and they just scramble around and they sort of haphazardly grab stuff with their hands. Be specific and precise with your grips. Next tip is that people don't have setups for their takedowns, right. So they understand how to do a basic double. They understand how to do a basic single leg or whatever that is, but then they don't have some setup for it, right. Some basic setups, just as an example, right. I can use this arm drag here to get this person to step. That then allows me to get in for the double or shoot the inside trip. I can get this person moving and stepping onto their foot by using simple pulls. Like we can push, pull, boom, there it is, right. I can step up for the single. Maybe I see this person leaning kind of over their feet. I can snap down into a front headlock and then push, step into the person and either get a double or even a body lock, whatever it is, but you have to have a setup to then get into it, right. We hand fight, we grip fight, we get our setup, we go for the takedown. If you don't have that, and here's a sign that you don't have that, you'll do this thing where basically you're kind of like, all right, okay. And then you just shoot from really far out and the person literally, it's like a bowl charging in. They just sort of step to the side, right. We don't want to do that. That's not how you want to do your takedowns. You want to be able to get in here and get control, fight hands, fight body positioning and have a clear setup, boom, to get in to your takedown, whatever it might be. And again, if you watch someone teach a takedown in a lot of cases, they will have a setup in the beginning, the grip fighting part where they're moving into it and that's the part you should be really, really focused on because if you get good at using the setup and get in on the leg, the finish becomes a little bit easier because you can reliably get there, right. It's like going for an arm bar with no grips on the arm or anything else, not going to work. Likewise, you shooting out from really far out unless you're a damn good wrestler who knows how to do it, is not going to be good. Otherwise, we need to be about a bent arms reach away and the only way we're going to be able to shoot from in here or go in for body locks or whatever takedown is that we're going for is to know how to do good hand fighting and good setups. So again, invest some time in focusing on your setup. Guys, a useful tip for Guy and no Guy, but especially the Guy, is you have to learn how to disguise your grips. I've done a video on this before where I call it sort of going under the radar, so to speak. So basically, let's say as an example, maybe I want a cross collar here on Marvin, right? Well, if I go for the cross collar right out of the gate, he can intercept the hand, right? Very common. If you watch in like in the Guy, a lot of times people stand like this for that reason to keep people out of the car. Well, then what I can do is I can start by reaching out with my left, boom, here. So this way his hands are beginning to focus there to shoot into the cross collar, right? Or in some cases, I'll even give them, like I'll get a straight grip here and let's say if I want to wrist control, I'll even give my wrist out here to sort of they grab it just so I can get over top, right? Or another one is that, and there's a lot of my matches, I like going left collar, right wrist, set up single legs, right? So then what I'll do a lot of times is I'll take my hand and I'll swipe it out and their hand goes to fight that bang here. And then now they go to focus on this and I go to the wrist, right? So you can think about that. You can do the same thing in No Ghee as well. You can go for a grip that you don't actually want so that you take their attention elsewhere and then actually go for the grip that you want. And again, this takes maybe a little bit of higher level thinking but you want to think about that, right? Because if you get known for doing a particular move or whatever it is, you have to disguise the grips that you use for that move. That's how you take a move that everybody knows you're going to do and you keep using it on them anyway, you change the grip slightly because what happens a lot of times is people sort of develop the sixth sense. Oh man, every time Chewy grabs, he's always going for the cross collar, right? So we got to get them off the scent, we got to take them somewhere else. And so you can do this by setting up other grips very aggressively, which makes them focus on this, which is the most important thing. Makes them focus on this, which then allows you to go for the grip that you actually want, G.O.R. No-Gee. Another useful idea on the grip battle, G.O.R. No-Gee is that you don't clear the grips enough and that can be a reason why your takedowns aren't so good because what a lot of times happens is people will lock up and they'll get into these engagements and they just sort of stay here. But again, as we said earlier in the video, if we're going to grab something, we need to have a purpose for why we're grabbing it, right? We're not grabbing just to grab stuff. We're very focused on what we're trying to set up. And so if you're in a situation where either this person's maybe beating you by getting inside ties on you, where now he's in control, his hands are on the inside, he has my wrist control, I've got to get out of this, right? Or even let's say if he's got two double inside ties right here, this isn't good for me, right? If I get into a situation where I don't like that, then I need to clear the grips, I need to break away, right? Different ways we can do that. If he's like double inside ties here, I can use a simple snap just to clear the grips, right? No big deal, just snap them down. Now we're back to, we press the reset button. Now let me again move in with purpose for the grips that I want, right? If he's got a good collar tie and wrist control here, I can start to use this over tie, break the wrist control, snap this off, get away, right? In the gi, it's the same thing where we can use this here, where let's say that, man, Marvin's just killing me with these damn grips, right? Well, let's say if he gets the grips on me here, boom. Okay, well then boom, I gotta get here, break the grip off or grab the collar grip, boom. Breaking the grip off, getting away, resetting, and then coming back in. So again, don't be afraid to clear the grips multiple times over and over again to make sure that this way you can press that reset button and move back in with purpose to get the grips that you want to set up the takedowns you want. Moving into the next tip, it kind of builds off of that. One of the reasons why your takedowns may not be so hot is that you are impatient. So this happens a lot with people early on. Anytime people are inexperienced with something, they become impatient, right? Think about if you are doing jiu-jitsu, at some point you were on the bottom of Mount, maybe that's you right now, but at some point you were getting into the bottom of Mount and you would panic and freak out and just do stupid stuff, and then you got better at it, or you will get better at it, and then you become more relaxed. Like someone gets me the bottom of the Mount, it's very, there's like a system to it, it's like another day of the office, we'll say it that way. Where they get there, I'm like, okay, I need to get my frame set up, not a big deal, there's pressure on me, so what? But in the beginning it was a panic mode, and a lot of people who haven't been accustomed to playing off the feet and fighting for hand positioning and everything else, a lot of times on the feet, it's kind of spazzy, it's kind of wild, a lot of times they're doing stuff here, they're like constantly moving, they'll shoot from really bad angles, some of you guys watching this, the guy in the camera's kind of grinning a little bit because he sees it, you see the new guy like, like just all over the place, gotta learn to relax, man. So you gotta get in there and you gotta move here, and again, we're moving with purpose here, and we're waiting until we see the opportunity to go for what we want, okay? We don't wanna shoot from really crappy positions, we don't wanna shoot from far away, we wanna fight for the hand grips, we wanna make the openings happen, and then we go for it when we see it. Think about for a second a guy that's playing off of his back inside guard. We don't think that that person on the bottom of guard has to have any sort of, like there's not like a shot clock going, oh, he's gotta hurry this up, right? We understand it's gonna take time to set these sweeps and submissions up, right? If you watch two good wrestlers going at it, or two good judoka going at it, right? It takes time to set things up, and so one of the things that you wanna do is you wanna be very patient when you're setting up your takedowns and give it a little time, and don't be so fast to like pull the trigger on the technique, give it time, it might take a couple minutes to even make a good attempt, but if that's what it takes to get the setup that you want, that's what you want. You don't wanna be shooting sloppy takedowns or takedowns from far out, you wanna be patient with them. Another reason your takedowns may not be so hot is that you don't read the person's body. So when my person, like my opponent's standing across from you, let's see if it's at a match, right? Instantly I'm looking at what I've got, okay? I'm gonna read their stance. Are they standing upright? Are they standing a little bit more low? If they're a little bit lower, that means they might shoot on me. If they're standing upright, maybe not as much worry. Also too, I'll read the legs, right? Because the legs will determine, for me, with the game that I have, if I'm thinking about going for a single or a double or an inside trip or whatever, foot sweep, whatever it is, I'll look at the feet. And for instance, like right now, Marvin's leading with his left leg, which mirrors mine. So for me, I'm thinking, boom, single leg all day, right? So for me, I'm gonna lock up here, right? And I'm gonna start to move this person to where I can try to get that lead foot to step further. And then boom, there's my single leg, right? However, maybe I'm watching Marvin move. And I notice that every time I like push into him, he starts to walk backwards a little bit. I'm like, oh, he's walking on his heels, right? Well, then that tells me this is double leg city. Because as soon as he starts to sit back on his heels, boom, there's that double all day, right? So again, when you find a handful of takedowns that start to be your best or even a good one, right? You wanna start to read the person's body and those can give you some ideas as to what could work pretty easy. Now, you still may use the same takedown no matter what, you might have good setups to make that same takedown happen over and over again. But what I'm saying here is an example, switch your feet for me. Let's say I'm thinking single leg with my right leg, right? Well, if I can't get this damn guy to step forward with that leg, it's gonna be hard to get that single leg, right? It's probably gonna be easier to set up some sort of double leg off on this leg, or I'm gonna have to switch my stance, right? Or there's other takedowns that I could use like inside trips. Now, you may not use those same takedowns, but that's an idea for you. You're reading the person's body to see what they're giving you. And a lot of times you can usually work with that. There was a match I had recently where as soon as I locked up with a guy, I noticed his left leg was forward and I'm thinking single leg all day. That's what I'm focused on the whole time. And you can think about it on the ground. If you're sitting in guard and some person's reaching out with their arm, what are you thinking? Arm bar all day because it's there. Or if the person's constantly reaching back, what are you thinking? Triangle because it's gonna leave the arm exposed. You wanna do the same thing with your takedowns. And guys, the last reason and probably one of the most important reasons as to why your takedowns don't suck, or why your takedowns do suck rather, sorry, is that you don't train them. You never go live with them. You never drill them. You don't do anything with them. And yet you want to have good takedowns. Again, you can drill takedowns in a way that's not too damaging to the body. You can do them live with a good training partner who's controlled and you guys can move around. You can do a lot of positional work from those takedowns, right? Like, so instead of just hammering each other, you could start by saying, hey, let's start from the single leg right here. We're gonna begin reps here. If I get the takedown in the finish, reset. If he escapes, reset. Or you can even do drills where, again, the person's giving you a look and you're just moving the person around, bang. And they're gonna give me a look here. He's fighting with me right here. He's not gonna stop me, but as soon as I see, I can go in for something, right? There's all kinds of cool stuff you can do, but you have to do something with it, right? If you find a takedown you like, you're in the gym, they're an open mat, you need to work with them, right? There's no way around it. You don't have to drill them. I like drilling takedowns. I feel like I get some value out of that. Not all techniques I like drilling, but with takedowns, I like having an opponent give me a look and then they're giving me some different responses and I'm shooting in on them or going for a body locks, whatever it is. And then doing live work, situational live work, with those positions over and over again, to get some time and position. Super important. That's how you develop that intuition in your body to know when to go for things, the timing you're gonna need. And even to develop that sense of calm that you're gonna need to set up your takedowns in a very patient and effective manner. And so again, in your gym, if you wanna get better with takedowns, you have to do something with them. During open mats, during full rolling, whatever you can squeeze in. And so guys, those are a bunch of different ways or reasons as to why your takedowns may not be so good and some ideas on how to correct them. Hopefully this helps you guys out and I appreciate you guys for watching. Talk to you guys next time.

=== FILE: 5 Reasons You’re Mount Escapes Suck in BJJ [T4ntBlvaOx0].txt ===

 whatever, YouTube. So at some point, if you're doing jiu-jitsu, you're gonna end up in a position like this, where you've got a large man sitting on your chest and mount, and you're unable to escape. And if you're new to jiu-jitsu, this position's not a lot of fun to be in. And I'm gonna show you the five big mistakes that I see a lot of new people make when they're playing mount and their new jiu-jitsu practitioners. Hopefully this will help you not make these mistakes. This is my handsome assistant here, Mr. Marvin. He's a large man. Let's get started. All right, guys, big mistake number one. If you're new, this is what it looks like. You ready? You panic and freak the hell out, and you do all kinds of crazy stuff that you were never shown, and you know you shouldn't do what you do anyway. So it's a real problem, right? And I get it, because I used to freak out the panic, and I basically made all of these mistakes when I first started, and I see when new people make it. But again, the panic is the big one. You see people when they freak out and they start doing just the wrong stuff. And obviously they would turn their back and get choked out too. I forgot that one, right? But we want to first off, just like any other position in jiu-jitsu, the mount offers the ability to have sort of an if this, then that approach to it, right? What I mean by that is if we go to, let's go to guard real quick. If we go to guard, we could develop a process for something where I go, okay, I grabbed a cross collar, and I'm going for this, as they're asleep here. Marvin widens out his base. Well then I could do a kick out sweep right here. Or this hand starts to veer on the inside. His right hand starts to veer on the inside. I can cut this across, and then I can go for a triangle. Oh, if he starts to raise up, I have an arm. But you get the idea, right? We have this whole process. The same thing exists here in mount, right? Where, okay, I set up my frame, I try to off balance him to shrimp, but I can't move them all the way across. So maybe I push this knee out to hook the foot. But then, you know, the whole deal, right? And you want to do that same thing with mount. Now, is it gonna be like that in the beginning? Well, hell no, it's not. It's gonna take time to develop that. Here's one of the biggest things that I could tell you to do to get rid of the panic so that you can think. Because if you can't think in this position, you're not gonna be able to develop that ability to go step by step. So here's a really simple detail for you, or something that you can do. Go into the gym, enroll, and you can either, like during an open round, like an open roll, you either have your partner startin' mount, or you could simply just let them get to mount, right? And what you do, if you freak out up with panicking, do this. First off, bring your arms in tight, okay? We want to bring our arms in tight. We don't want to leave them out until they get submitted, okay? I would also tell you that I like putting one of my arms across the middle of my chest, right above my solar plex, or right about at my solar plexes. So if he puts all of his weight down on me, go ahead. It just sort of puts a frame across my chest so that he can't have direct chest connection, raise up a little bit, because if my hands are up like this, doing the, go ahead and do this, put your chest pressure on me, there we go, that sucks. And it does really make it a lot harder to breathe, okay? Come back up, but if I just put this hand here, I've still got one to protect, but if he lays his weight down on that forearm, go ahead. I'm okay, right? And it's the same pressure. He is putting real pressure on me, okay? And he's a 220 pound fella, okay? So, and like, strong 220 pound, right? Like, look at this man. It's almost like, I just hurt my hand, it's concrete. But anyway. Terrible humor. But going back to it, here's what you do. You go to the mount, you get here, and do not even try to escape. Just sit here. Just see how long you can survive. Look up at the clock, see how many minutes are left, whatever, try to survive, that's it. Now, what's the point of doing this? Well, the idea behind this is, if you get really focused on shelling up and defending, you would be surprised at how effective you could probably be and how long you could actually slow someone's defenses down. This was like the first thing that worked for me as far as removing the panic from my mount position, and it's what I do with all my students. I'll put them in the position periodically, and they can't escape, they just get laid on, and they try not to get submitted, that's it. And what happens is, is when you realize that when you get really good at just shelling up, like, you don't really have to worry about being submitted. And then what does that do? That allows you to go, all right, how do I wanna escape? What does my opponent give me? What kind of options do I think I have? And then we'll look at the next option. ["Street Fighter II"] Tip number two, if you've rolled with a new guy, or when you were new, you probably did this at some point. I know I did, you pushed on the chest here. And obviously this does absolutely nothing. Maybe if there's a big size difference, and the guy is really strong on the bottom, maybe you get chucked off, but otherwise, all this does is lead to arm bars and getting submitted or being gassed out because you waste all your energy, right? We don't wanna be pushing on the chest, okay? The good rule of thumb is that when you're setting up your pushes and your frames, you're gonna aim below the belly button or the belt line, right, because we're focused on moving the hips. Because really what's important about this is, if we go back to guard here for a second, with my legs and my hips in front of his, I'm in an offensive position, right? Well, when he passes the guard, really what you do is just track his hips. His hips move over top, go ahead and goes to mount, boom, his hips are now in front and over top of mine. He is now in the offensive position, right? That's it. So all of our attention is gonna be about moving the hips or pushing against hips, or for the most part, moving ourselves, because it's always gonna be easier for us to move our body when the person's on top than us moving theirs. But again, when you are pushing and framing, it's gonna be at that belly button or below, in most cases. ["Belly Button"] Tip number three, one of the mistakes that people make is that they will start to try to push with their hands. Okay, now this isn't always wrong, but you gotta think about something. Your arms right here are gonna be strongest when they're locked out, right? Or close to. Think about a bench press. If I go down here, right, where does everybody get stuck on the bench with a heavy weight? It's not here. Once you're about up to this point, it's pretty easy to lock out. It's when you're down at the bottom and the chest muscles are fully stretched out, the triceps are stretched out. That longest point, that's where your muscles are weakest. So if you think about what's happening, when he's here, my arms are stretched out. I'm not necessarily in a strong position, right? So that's why when we build our frames here, we're not necessarily pushing with our hands, rather, but the forms and the elbows, right? Because think about this, come out for a second, Marvyn. And here's what I want you to do. I want you to lay all of your weight on top of my arms here. And like plank on them. Just put all your weight here. I can support Marvyn's weight all day like this. There's no strain. I can move his body around. Take your hands off the ground. Marvyn, all that weight, all that 220 pound, right? Right there, no problem. Come back out. Now, I'm gonna put my hands here, okay? Now, I'm not a weak guy, I lift weights, right? I'm fairly strong, but when he puts his weight here, ready, I can't hold him, right? Like it just, it just, and again, I can bench press two plates. I'm not a weak man, but I can't hold up 220 pounds of Marvyn sitting on my chest and side control. It's just not a good position, right? So when we're pushing, a lot of times when we set up our frames, we're not pushing with the hands. We're using these elbows here because this is a stronger position for those muscles and then that part of our body, right? So as an example, when we get into our frames here, okay, he puts his weight on me, put that weight down. There we go. I might bridge to off balance here and then I'm stripping out. But as I move, I'm pushing with this form here, right? And the cue that a lot of times I like to think about here is lay your weight on me, Marvyn, and I'm really gonna push you, okay? Is that when we, you know, get him off balance, I'm gonna push with this elbow here into the form to get his weight off balance. So this way, I can move. Now notice again, I mentioned this before, notice what happened. I off balanced him a little bit, I pushed against his hips, but at that point, the push on the hips after he's off balance is not to push him away but to hold him in place, right? That's a frame, right? The frames of the walls hold something in place. I'm framing to push, but the push is to hold him in place as I move away from him. Now we're ready to go. ["Move Away From Him"] Number four, a mistake that I'll see sometimes people make is that they don't really use their bridge effectively, right? So the bridge is important because if you think about him in this position here, there's no way I'm just going to, unless I'm just thinking there's a big size difference or I'm just massively strong, I'm not bench pressing Marvin off of me, right? With his weight down on me. So what we're gonna be doing here is we're gonna be using our hips, right? So like in this position, I'm going to bridge up, keep your weight on me, just lay your weight there. There it is. My bridge is what's gonna lift him up, okay? Now when I bridge, I don't just bridge straight up. I will bridge trying to go off to a side because what I want to have happen is I want to have his hands start to reach out towards weight shifts from directly onto me, onto the mat. So for instance, I would push and bridge and there's different ways we can manipulate the legs and everything else, but just in a basic idea, using our frame push and our bridge, we can make his weight shift subtly to one side. That then allows us to move because he's no longer heavy on me and I can get into some escape that I might want to get to, right? And so again, make sure that when you're there, again, we don't freak out and panic and just start bridging up. We want to bridge to a side to get this person off balance and you want to make sure you're bridging. There are times where we may not want to bridge, maybe the person's too big and we have to do things like foot slides and things like that, but assuming that there's any relative closeness to weight, we will use the bridge and I see a lot of times people not just either pushing straight up and they turn, they get stuck or they don't even use the bridge at all. So we want to make sure that when you're here, we use that bridge effectively with our frame to off balance him to a side, which is really helpful for getting that weight off of you, which then allows you to shrimp out to bring your legs in front and escape. All right, number five, the mistake that people make and this is a big one is that they're either really slow to recognize that they're being stuck in mount or they recognize it and they sort of just, I don't know, let off the gas pedal for a second. So here's what I mean by this. This happens with a lot of positions in Jiu Jitsu. Let's go for example with guard passing. This is a really common one. Let's say that Marvin's passing my guard, I'm defending and we get into the situation where maybe I'm framing, I feel like my frames, I'm losing this position, my arms are getting tired and then I go, ah, man, and I just fold, right? Now, either I failed to recognize that this person's passing my guard and I need to transfer to what's next or I knew that he was passing and I got frustrated and I just let him get into this really strong side control here, right? Because you'll hear people all the time, they'll say, oh, I have trouble escaping side control, right? A big problem is that you're letting the person get all the way to here versus, let's say that I'm in side control, if I know I'm losing this position that I can either start to dive in for like that and scroll and go for the underhook here, I can start to turtle away to regard there's a lot of options there, okay? Same thing happens with Mount. If for some reason I feel like someone's getting to Mount, as soon as they're getting to that position, when you feel like that moment where that person's sliding their knee across or they just stepped over, this is the moment that you really have to fight hard to get your grips together, right? Afterwards, you can take a second to breathe if you're exhausted, but like right now, a lot of times if they go to Mount, they'll have arms secured or they'll immediately try to work for one, we can't relax here because this is a dangerous position. I need to fight to get to this, to bring my hands back in so that I can defend and get the inside position, right? So come out for a second here. So let's say that Marvin goes to do whatever Mount he's doing here, he slides right there, I feel it. I feel that he's getting to Mount, I can't say, oh man, he's getting to Mount, this sucks. Right, you can't do that. This is exactly the point where you've got to fight hard. So as soon as I feel him getting to Mount, I've got a frame here across his stomach here, he can keep that arm tight for me, Marvin. I'm gonna have the bridge up out just to get a little bit of space in here and get everything in nice and tight, right? Now I can fight and defend from this position. So again, that one is a little bit more abstract, but you'll know it when you feel it, right? That's kind of how Jiu-Jitsu works. You can see something, you can hear someone talk about it, but you know it when you feel it. And so with you guys in Mount, if you're struggling with the position, make sure that you never let someone just get this nasty Mount position where, even worse is where people just sort of, they let off the gas pedal with their abilities and everything else, and then the person gets into a really high Mount and they're trying to defend. As soon as a person's getting to Mount, we want to fight hard to get our hands down, get our neck protected, especially in the gi. So you have to recognize when it's happening. And that's really important when you're playing the defensive game, whether it be side control, Mount, back mount, whatever. As soon as that person is in those spots, you have to start going into defensive mode quickly. And start setting up your defense and your hand positioning. Because if you're late, it's really bad really quickly. So hopefully that helps some of you guys out with your Mount positioning. Again, I could go on for hours, as far as mistakes that I see and that I've seen as a coach, but those are five biggies that I see. That I've seen even when I'm going around at the Jiu-Jitsu Open competitions, I'll kind of like watch guys compete. That's when I'll see in the early, I think the white and blue belt in the beginner divisions. And so hopefully that'll help out some of the white belts and the blue belts here that are watching the channel. I'm finished. Thanks for watching guys. Talk to you next time.

=== FILE: 7 BJJ Rules to Train Safe & Improve Your Submissions [Ue4dM4CpErI].txt ===

 what up guys? So I have a pretty cool stat to share with you. So I'm pretty proud of this. So I started jujitsu back in 2003 and since that time, I, you know, have won lots of competitions. I've become a pro MMA fighter, trained super hard, all that stuff. But I'm happy to say that in that 20 plus long years of intense training and everything else that I've done, I've never injured anybody with a submission. And I've never been injured by anybody using a submission on me. Now, I have accidentally injured people before that. And I've been injured by people because, you know, ultimately, jujitsu, it's like two cars going opposite directions on the road. You can try to make it as safe as you want to, but, you know, stuff happens, accidents happen. That said, again, there's a reason why I'm around 40 years old. I'm 40 years old. And I've been training for over 20 years, started grappling, wrestling in 2000. There's a reason why I've been able to train this long. And my body feels pretty damn good. I don't feel broken. I feel pretty good. There's a reason why I'm being able to do that. And I watched people who have trained at different periods of time where they would eat submissions and they would fight through them, all that stuff. And they would, they've lost the ability to do certain things like extend their arms or just go for walks. And so again, this video may not be, you know, exciting to some of you, but that said, it could be damn useful to some of you. If you want to train jujitsu, you want to get better. You want to improve your submissions so that you can apply them effectively. But you also have longevity in mind and you want to be able to do this stuff for a really long time without getting injured and be able to train consistently. So if that's you, then watch the video and take these seven commandments in and hopefully this is useful to you. Appreciate you guys for being here. Commandment number one, thou shalt remember that none of this fricking matters. So this is one of the most surefire ways to just ruin your experience in jujitsu period is taking this thing to super serious, right? Every training session super serious. Remember, practice doesn't count. This isn't the world championships. This is you rolling with people. This is you playing a game. Even the people that are training at the highest, highest level. Sure, you train super intense, but you don't want to eat submissions. Remember, this is a game that has serious consequences for your body. And being that it's a game, we have a reset button called a tap. You want to be willing to press that reset button often. And if you're one of those people that comes in that takes a thing super serious and you treat every training session as if it really matters, it's going to be hard to press that reset button. And you'll probably find that you fight through submissions way too long, or you go after them too aggressively, not good for training. And so again, I just remind you, none of this matters. Your girlfriend, your boyfriend, your friends, your dad, your mom, nobody cares about your training sessions. They're not that important. And so remember, the training sessions, none of this matters. Commandment number two, thou shalt catch fast and finish slow. So think about it this way. When you have someone in an arm bar as an example, when that arm is fully locked out, and you're applying pressure, that is when they are at the point of maximum danger for that joint. Let's say you've got a hill hook, you've got the hill hook locked in, you've got your legs wrapped around it, you feel the tightness in that knee and that joint. That is the point where we begin to apply pressure with the hips. It's maximum danger. This is where things can go wrong. And so we want to treat that with a certain level of reverence, right? So when you go into those submissions, I, at least this is how I do it, I will be very quick to get the catch. Let's say it's a Kimura. I might get the figure four lock really quick. And then break the grip. But when I'm taking that submission to the end range, where that person is then in danger of having a tendon ripped or a joint popped or whatever it is, I go very slow to the finish. Now I do this for a couple reasons. One is because I want to take care of my training partners. I don't want them to get hurt. I would like them to do the same for me, right? Also too, it is a demonstration of control. For me in the gym, this is my philosophy on applying submissions. I want to apply the submission with as much finesse, technique, leverage, just all those types of things as possible, rather than having to muscle it to grip and rip. And for me, if I can't apply the submission slowly with control and demonstrate that control over my training partner, then my technique needs to get better. Also too, I want my technique to be a little bit better in the gym. So this way, if I go compete, if it gets a little sloppy, it's better than what it needs to be. It reminds me of one of my old boxing coaches. I remember, you know, he would get on us during certain drills to have our hands up a little bit higher than what we needed to. And his whole thing was so that this way they drop where they need to be when your arms get tired. Maybe that's not a great analogy, but that's my thought process. When it gets a little sloppier in competitions or when I was fighting in MMA, I knew that I could rely on my technique because it was much better in the gym. And so I don't apply any sloppy submissions. If I've got a submission and I'm getting ready to flop back, I let go of it if I don't have control. I won't use certain things, certain submissions that I can't apply with control. I just won't touch them because, again, he goes against my philosophy on training to both get really skilled and then also take care of my training partners. But again, that is the idea of the submission. Catch it fast, finish slow. Number three, thou shalt avoid those who eat submissions. So hopefully you don't have anybody in your gym that does this, but I know they exist out there. And I used to run into them when I was younger. We don't have this problem at my gym now. But I remember when I was younger and I would train with some of the MMA bros, you would get these guys that would eat submissions. You put them in an arm lock and they wouldn't tap. I remember one guy literally told me, he's like, I don't tap to submissions. Like I had him in an arm lock and I'm like, Hey, bro, you're going to tap. He said, I don't tap to submissions. So, you know, me being then younger and stuff back then, I just took his back and choked him unconscious, right? But now if I was in that sort of situation and this is what I would recommend, I wouldn't roll with him. I would avoid him. If I had someone that told me I don't tap to submissions or if I had a fully locked in something and they're like grimacing and they're not tapping, I'm just going to stop and go roll with someone else. I'm going to avoid that person because one, I don't want to pop anybody's anything in the gym. And then also two, if this is how you're treating submissions, then I have no confidence that you're going to be safe with me if you get me in something. And so again, if you for some reason have someone in your gym that just eats submissions like crazy and they're letting stuff get popped or getting to that point, then personally, I would just roll with someone else. Remember, you don't have to roll with anybody you don't want to roll with. Just go to someone else, talk to your coach, whatever. Terrible practice. And if, by the way, if this is like a normal practice in your gym, then find a different gym to train at. Number four, thou shalt have a kill switch. So what do I mean by kill switch? Well, some machines will have this thing called a kill switch, which is a device to basically, you know, in an emergency, it can stop the thing, right? You want to have this same thing with your rolling where if you're rolling with someone and maybe I'll tell you about how I do it. I roll with someone and I put them into a lock and they may be an inexperienced person moves the wrong way, which could damage them. I let go. If my training partner makes a weird noise or, you know, there's something I just feel something weird about it. I let go or even sometimes I have a really good submission applied and all of a sudden maybe I'm falling off to the side and I realize that I'm either going to have to apply really quick pressure or I'm just going to lose control and possibly injure them. I just let go of it completely. And so you want to have that ability to in the middle of the role, no matter how focused you are on what you're trying to do with the technique, you can stop in an instant. You can stop on a dime. And again, this can take some time and some skill to develop, but you want to develop it. It's something where just like the other day I was rolling with one of our brown belts at the gym and he had me in a butterfly suite and my hand got caught. It got pinned underneath of him and he was taking me over and my wrist was about to break. Right? What did he do when I started yelping? I went, ah, I made like a noise. What did he do? He let go instantly. His old body just went limp and my arm was freed and I was saved from a broken wrist. So he was focused on getting a sweep and he was locked in and ready to go. I was like midair and when I did that, he let go. By the way, Brian, thank you if you're watching this. And so I let go. I don't have a broken wrist and then we got to roll again. So you want to develop this with your training, the ability to just shut off the body in an instant if someone makes a weird noise or you feel something that's out of place. Number five, thou shalt communicate with your training partners. What do I mean by communicate with your training partners? Well, I'll use my arm triangle as a great example. Years ago, my arm triangle was shaky. And a lot of times what would happen is, is I would get it. It wasn't quite where it needed to be. So what I would do is I would just start squeezing harder and harder. And a lot of times I would get a submission from the crank, right? Well, eventually that's not going to work. And so I started to train with people and when they were defending, especially these brown and black belts, I'm trying to go for the submission they're defending, I would stop and ask them, hey, what do you feel? Like, why is this not working? And they could tell me what they felt. And then I would a lot of times make some adjustments and try to troubleshoot it. And then we would figure it out together. And obviously, these are my like, consistent training partners. And over the time, I developed a really strong arm triangle choke, what's one of my best submissions now. And I can get it on people and I mean, it's locked in. It's tight. And this is one of the way that you can tighten up a lot of your submissions. When you're applying them to someone, if they do not tap instead of putting more gas in the pedal squeezing harder, all that stuff. Ask them what's going on. Ask them what they feel that can be incredibly helpful. I had the same thing happen with my leg locks years ago where I'm rolling with a guy put him in a hill. He's got really good leg locks, good leg lock defense. I feel like I'm doing it right. And I even ask him, hey, bro, why aren't you tapping to that hill hook? And he said, oh, because of this, that and that. Ah, I learned something. So instead of just muscling through it, burning my arms out, I'm getting some actual good feedback. And now I can get better. And so one of the things that you can do with your training partners, especially those consistent training partners that you kind of develop a good training bond with. If you're applying a submission, they don't tap instead of trying to rip it more or whatever. Ask them what they feel. And again, if they're grimacing and like fighting away, well, then we avoid that person. But assuming that you're applying the submission and they're just not really responding, then instead of squeezing, burning your arms out, possibly hurting them, you can get more information on how to make that submission tighter, have it more technical, be able to apply with more finesse and less energy and make your jiu-jitsu better. Number six, thou shalt tap fast and tap often. Pretty simple one. We talk about this one all the time in jiu-jitsu, I think, but it's important. I don't care if I'm in some weird position and I shouldn't tap to it or it's not even a real submission. I tap a lot of times in my gym. Again, I'm one of the highest ranking guy. And you know, there's black belts and stuff, but I'm rolling with a lot of blues and purples and stuff. If they get me in a submission, I tap no big deal. And I would tell you that even sometimes if I get put in something like a sloppy neck crank, which isn't like a real submission, and it's something where I could eat it, but I know that especially at my age, I'm 40 now, if I eat that neck crank for too long, like my neck's going to be all jacked up for the rest of the day, or even a couple days later, I just tap to it and just next time do a better job of staying out of those positions. As a quick aside, I personally don't use neck cranks much in the gym for submissions because for me, the juice isn't worth the squeeze, you know, because you're attacking that spine. It's not something that I can apply without putting some pressure on that. I just, I like to stay away from the neck for my training partners. And so I don't use them personally. I just don't think it's worth it. But that said, with any submission that you get caught into or any weird position, whatever it is, just tap. That's what it's there for. Again, it's the reset button. Press that reset button over and over again. If you're playing a video game, just press the reset button, load up your save file, whatever you want to consider it and restart the damn thing instead of eating weird positions or fighting through things you shouldn't when you might feel some torque on your shoulder or whatever might be. So really simple one. Just tap, tap, tap often. Number seven, the last one. Thou shalt honor the golden rule of submissions. So think about this. It's really simple. I think the world would be a lot better if we observed the golden rule of submission. It's really simple. I think the world would be a lot better if we observed the golden rule with just about anything, but you want to take care of your training partners like you want them to take care of you. It's as simple as that, right? When you look at submissions, these are powerful techniques and they should be treated with a certain level of reverence and they should be applied with a certain level of responsibility. Because again, you could permanently injure someone. You could alter someone's ability to live, to put food on the table for their families, to pick up their children, to go for a walk, whatever it is, right? By applying a careless submission. And so you want to take care of your training partners and also you want to understand that your ability to get better at Jiu-Jitsu is determined by your training partners. It is a singular martial art wrapped around a team. You cannot get better without them. They cannot get better without you. And this is how we dance. And so again, you want to apply submissions like you would want them to be done to you. You don't want to get injured. I don't want to get injured. So let's take care of each other. And this is by the way how you can train really intensely, but do it for a long time without injuring anybody with submissions. Also to just sort of saying this to you guys if you're newer, if you become the reckless, careless person on the mats, you will become labeled like that person. And when it comes time to roll and you're looking around for a partner, the whole mats going to scatter like cockroaches. Like when the light flips on, they're going to just scatter away from you because nobody wants to roll with that person. Nobody wants to come into the gym after a long day's work or because they're getting ready for a competition and they get injured because of the reckless person. So keep that in mind. That said, if you become the person that they know they can get good roles in, they can train intense with, but they know that they're safe, you will have no problems getting a training partner ever. And so again, the golden rule, when you apply those submission roles, apply them like you would want someone to apply them to you. It's a simple rule, but follow that along with the other six rules, other six commandments and you can train jiu-jitsu. You can get after it, you can push yourself and you can do so without injuring anybody with submissions. Again, accidents do happen, but you can mitigate a lot of those with these ideas that I'm talking about in this video. And so hopefully this is useful to you guys. Also guys, if you're a white belt or if you're just someone that's trained jiu-jitsu and you want to improve a little faster in jiu-jitsu, one of the things that you have to do is you have to have a little bit more focus with your training. You don't want to come into the gym aimless just showing up with no ideas to what you're doing. And so I have an e-book and a video. So if you're a reader or you're a watcher, you can get access to it and sort of dive in. And it will give you over 12 different strategies on how to add more focus to your rolling and I've made it so this way, even if you're a white belt or a black belt, you can make use of it. And again, it'll give you some strategies on how to improve your rolling. This is stuff that I do and this is stuff that when I look at like a lot of some of the world champions that I've talked to on our podcast, this is stuff they do. So again, it's useful. And then when you join up, you will become a true crew subscriber, which is my daily email that I send out, which goes through everything from jiu-jitsu tips, lifting tips, dieting stuff, just anything and everything that I think might be useful to you. I also include stuff that's sort of off the mat like books I'm reading and things like that, resources and recommendations. But if you guys want to get that, you can check the links or the comments down below. But hopefully this helps some of you guys out just some ideas to train with longevity in mind. And thank you guys for watching. Talk to you guys next time.

=== FILE: Avoid this BIG Mistake BJJ Beginners Make with Takedowns [jz-ZuT96gEw].txt ===

 אזetimibe, esempestane, אזetimibe, esempestane, אזetimibe, esempestane, judo. Very common. One of the biggest mistakes people make when it comes to takedowns and stand up and I'll show you guys that and hopefully this helps you out Kyle and anybody else that's having this trouble trust catch. Hey, he didn't even know I was gonna do it to you. My man. Let's get started. Alright guys, so let's take a look at this mistake and I'm gonna do this and I'm gonna illustrate this first and then I'll talk about two simple takedowns that I have tutorials on on the channel that you can check out if you want to, right? So here's like the problem that you'll see from a lot of people and again this is Giyunogi. This is not specific or where it gives but it can be done in either one. Okay, what you'll see a lot of times is this. Let's say the match starts. Just gripping for no damn reason, have no idea what you're doing. You're just gripping to grip, right? Now imagine let's sort of take this back to the ground because most Jiu Jitsu people feel fairly comfortable on the ground, right? Let's say I get into my guard. Come on in here, Marvin. So we slap hands, we bump fists, we're competing, we're rolling, whatever. I'm not gonna... Some of you guys are probably gonna comment be like, hey that's me. You know, so what I'm getting at here is that people just grip from... they don't even know what the other gripping on the feet. Now on the ground what do we do? We think, okay I'm gonna get a cross collar, I'm gonna get this sleeve, I'm gonna go for this thing but then on the feet all that goes out the window and they're just all over the place. And a lot of times this is due to inexperience, this is true, but what you have to think about is when you're on the feet just like everywhere else the gripping battle is huge. To me the gripping battle is probably one of the most important, if not the most important thing because if you get grips you can get your move. If you don't have the grips you need, you don't get the move you want, right? So we have to think about what do we want, right? So let's start off with a cross collar to a knee pick which is a really simple take down in the gi to illustrate this, right? So if I'm thinking that I want a cross collar to a knee pick here and I'm gonna snap this guy down, take this leg here, take him down, then when I'm gripping him everything is centered around me going here and here, right? In a situation by the way where I have two strong grips on him and he has either none or at the best one, right? I'm winning that grip battle, okay? So you have to think about that. So let's say that we were gripping here, right? I might grab here and I'm moving around but ultimately this is what I'm after and I'm not worried about anything else until I get to this, okay? That's what I'm gonna try to get to. Okay, as an example, another one would be a snatch single leg. Just again, as an example really simple take downs that I talk about a lot because they're very simple and again if you're asking a take down question like this you're probably relatively new to jiu-jitsu, right? Or at least new to the take down stuff. So another really simple one, right? Could be a snatch single leg, we can go here, set it up, bang, pick it up, very safe, very effective, you know, at any level, okay? Well then that says that I need a risk control or sleep control and I'm gonna want a collar or maybe an inside tie here, right? Okay, perfect. Then everything that I'm doing is to get to that, right? And so we might start with different grips here but ultimately I'm not worried about it until I get to this, right? So I have a destination that I'm working to. That's really important with grips. You kind of know where you're going. Now, look, as you become more like proficient with take downs and everything else, you will start to improvise. Your body will intuitively figure things out and you'll do things that maybe your coach or you've never really done or shown before because your body, you know, it's that Charlie Parker quote, right? It's like you master the instrument and you master the music and then you forget all that shit and you just play music, right? Eventually that's what happens with Jiu-Jitsu. Like you try to master these different techniques and positions and you take all the information and then you're just playing at some point but in the beginning it's really helpful to be like I need a cross, a straight collar and a wrist or I need a cross collar and a sleeve, okay? Another thing that goes along with this grip battle is watching and seeing what they're giving you, right? So going back to these two take downs, right? This is another mistake that people make is that they don't read what the person's giving you. So for instance, let's say that I wanted a, like those are my two take downs. We're going to use a scenario. I'm really good at either the knee pick or the the snatch single like here. Alright, so I'm looking at this situation. I can read his body. He's leading with his left and I'm reading with my right, which means that if I want to snatch single leg, I want to have this foot on the outside to indigie, right? It's a basic single leg. Perfect. Well then he's, he's lined up for me. I don't need to do the the knee pick here because if I want to get to the knee pick, I really got to yank him hard to get that leg forward. If he's here, well then heck, all I've got to do is right into it. Maybe get him to step a little bit. But on the flip side, switch it up for me. Maybe I'm trying to get this snatch single leg or and he's not giving me that foot. Well then he's giving me that leg. Now I'm stepping here to get this to come forward, right? I'm reading the person's body. Okay. There's a lot of that goes into that too, where, you know, I can tell like just as we're talking about this, let's say that Marvin's weight is very heavy on his lead leg and he's bending a bit. Likely chance he's going to shoot, right? If you see a person that's like this, there's a good chance they're thinking about shooting. However, if the person's far more upright, they're not shooting, right? So I might read that to their body. But again, kind of going back to it, starting to ramble at this point, giving you a few things to chew on. The biggie is understanding the grips that you want. So Kyle and anybody else that's having trouble being offensive with your take downs, I hope that helps you look make your menu smaller, focus on something very specific. Yes, you might have to adapt to an improvised. That's fine. But it's really helpful to have that destination to know what you're after, know what you're looking for and trying to make that one thing happen. Especially if you're not used to the position, we want to try to make everything a little bit more focused rather than just playing around and seeing what happens. And again, I find that a lot of times, the reason why people are very, they lack offense is what we'll say with take downs is because if I ask them, hey, what are you gripping for? They don't really know. But then when we get on the ground, they have a very elaborate system of sweeps and guard passes and submissions, but then on the feet, they don't. So you want to have that same thing on the feet as well. And I have a ton of videos showing you specific tutorials on the channel because someone said in a recent video, they say, chewy, you talk a lot, but you don't give a lot of value, you know, and which is fair, you might say that. But again, there's tons of videos in here with technical stuff. But hey, I would sort of bet some of you guys would probably say this, that you have watched a ton of how to instructional videos and you haven't done anything with it, right? But if we can get you in the right mindset, then it can be a little more helpful. So what I'm trying to get you to do mindset wise right now, which to me, there's a value to is find a takedown that you think you can hit, that you want to work on, that you can drill, that you can practice in your gym, roll, whatever you want to do, and then get really focused on using that damn thing over and over again. Right? That's how you get better with this stuff. Repetition. Try it out during live rolling, use it during drills, whatever you want to do, but use that information, put it to work. So anyways, that's the idea. Hopefully it helps you, Kyle and everybody else. Talk to you guys next time.

=== FILE: BJJ Black Belt Gets Defensive About Gi VS No Gi Argument [7xPYp5DAWWY].txt ===

 whatabguy. So today we got a question from one of my two crew subscribers. I get my daily email, which if you guys want to get, check the links down below. But he sent in an email to me. He will go by the name of Bob, which is the anonymous sort of alias that I give to all the questions where people don't want to, because a lot of people watch the videos. They don't want to throw themselves out there for their teammates or their coaches to see. In this particular instance, it's his coach. So he says his coach recently was in the gym, and he went on a long rant about how the ghee is better than no ghee, and that the ghee is more technical, and it requires more skill, and so forth and so on. And we're just talking about all the virtues and the benefits of the ghee, and then was talking and downplaying no ghee. Now, he does both, but he does like no ghee a little bit more. And so he sends me the message, and he's just asking for my bearded opinion on what I think about the argument of ghee versus no ghee. So Bob, thank you for the question. So look, bro, I've experienced this from the moment I started Jiu Jitsu back in 2003. From that point in the beginning of it, it was like everybody was supposed to bow at the altar of the kimono. That was the whole thing. The ghee was superior. It was better. It was more technical. We had one day of no ghee, and that was just sort of like, ah, you guys can go wrestle around, which is usually my favorite day of training. But we were supposed to train the ghee because it was better. It was more technical. And I did. I took that advice. I was like, sure, let me. I'm going to do this. And looking at it from a person who grew up in that environment, who now I train both. I train more no ghee now because I find it's easier in my body than ghee. But train both of them. I would tell you that I don't agree with that. I don't think that the ghee is more. You could say that the ghee has more available stuff to it because, yeah, the kimono has a lot more complexity, we could say, because of the fact that you have handles and stuff all over the body that you don't have a no ghee. But I don't think that one requires more skill than the other. I think it requires slightly different skills, different specializations. Because you don't have IBGF World Champions, simply dog walking people to get to the ADCC championships. Likewise, you don't have ADCC Champions necessarily running over to the IBGF World Champions just cleaning house. Doesn't happen. It's the same thing, in essence, but there's some different specializations required. And I would tell you that I think in some ways, I think that they require more skill in certain areas. I actually think in some respects, the no ghee is more technical or requires more skill than ghee. How would I say such a thing? That's like the jiu-jitsu blasphemy. As an example, one of the things that I hear all the time, one of the things I see people say all the time, is that the ghee is more fun for them, or they like the ghee more, or the ghee is more technical because it's slower. You can slow people down with the grips, which makes them think more and so forth and so on. Which you can make that argument, sure. It does slow things down. No ghee does have a natural base as far as pace goes, as far as speed. But I would tell you that you can slow things down to a great degree in no ghee. You just have to know how to do it, and you have to hand fight more precisely. So you're hand fighting, you typically have a little bit fewer options because you can't feed a little pal through their legs and everything else. There's a lot of other stuff that you can do, and some stuff you can do in no ghee you can't do in ghee very easily. But I would tell you that you can slow things down to a great degree in no ghee. You just actually have to really know how to hand fight and position your body and only your body. And you've got to know how to do that precisely because you have less options. Whereas in the ghee, if I want to slow things down, well, you've got handles all over you. I don't even have to be picky sometimes. I can just grab onto a shoulder or a chest here. There's grips all over your body. You don't have those grips in no ghee. If you want to pin someone in no ghee and stop them from moving, you have to learn how to do that with just your body and handles here. You don't have anything else. You can't just lock your lapel around them and pin them. And so I think in some of those cases like that, where you're trying to pin someone or lock them down and slow them down, I think the ghee, or actually, no ghee is more technical, requires more skill to do it. Because you don't have the assistance of all those grips everywhere. On the flip side, I would tell you that escaping in ghee is far more difficult because of all the weapons and handles. Because let's say if you're working in no ghee in the back, you have to worry about arm bars and some triangles and renegade chokes and things like that. But all of a sudden, in the ghee, you have handles everywhere. And you have lapels. And now you have more weapons on top of that. Likewise, getting out of, say, the bottom of side controller mount when someone's pinning you. That can be tough in the ghee because you have handles everywhere. And so your frames and everything have to be that much better because you can't simply just be sweaty and slippery and get out of it. And so for me, as a person who does both in jiu jitsu, I don't agree with this nonsense of like, oh, this one's better than the other. To me, when people say that stuff, bro, you have this in martial arts, just in general. It's like martial art versus martial art. Jeet Kune Do is better than this. Karate is better than this. Taekwondo is better than this. And jiu jitsu is better than this. That's the kind of thing. And then within each one of those martial arts, you have this, again, in fighting. We have it in jiu jitsu, right? It's like, oh, Gracie jiu jitsu, we're close to the source. We're better than you. Or no, sport jiu jitsu. We actually fight in a real setting. We're better than you. Or you'll say a BJJ versus jiu jitsu versus American jiu jitsu. Or it just keeps going. And so then you have this gi and no gi argument. And people are like, well, the gi is better than no gi. No gi is more realistic. And they bicker with each other and argue. And I think a lot of times it's just because people, to be honest with you, I think it's a lot of times when people just decide that they're not good at it and they don't want to learn how to do it. Because I'll see people who are in the gi and then they go over to no gi and their grips are gone. They've lost their emotional support pajamas. And they're frustrated by the fact they don't have those handles. So instead of taking the time to learn how to hand-flight grip with just the body, they just throw their arms up. The gi's not technical. Or no gi's not even technical anyway. It's better to do this. I'm going to take my ball and go home. And then you see the no gi guys where maybe they've never even done the gi and they're just like, ah, the gi's so stupid. Instead of simply saying, it's not my thing. You don't have to talk trash about it. It can just not be your thing. You may not want to do no gi. Doesn't mean no gi's bad. Doesn't mean it's less technical, whatever. Likewise, the gi's fine. There's benefits to the gi. Do whatever you want to. But you see this in-fighting. And so my opinion is that I think they both have things to offer you and anybody else that wants to take part of them. I think there's benefits to both. And then I also think that a lot of times people just talk trash about one or the other because they don't want to learn how to be good at it. And they're just like, I'm going to take my ball and go home and instead of doing it. So that's my personal bearded opinion, brother, that you asked for. Hopefully that gives you a couple ideas to chew on. And any of you guys that come out, just stop the nonsense, man. You know, like, again, I don't know. You guys can do what you want, of course. It's the internet. You can talk all the trash you want to. But go fight with the guys who promote really bad martial arts advice instead of your jujitsu brethren about the fact that they want to wear the kimono or they want to wear the rash guard. It's silly. But anyway, hopefully you guys enjoyed the video. Also, if you guys want to get my daily email, Bob, then you can check the links down below. When you join up, I will give you my daily email. You'll also get a free guide that a giveaway that goes through some, basically, about 12 different ideas on how to improve your jujitsu faster with more focused training during your open rolling. It's made for people like the 99% of people who cannot control their training. And it also comes along with a video in case you don't want to actually read. You can just watch the video if that kind of content suits you. So you can check that in the links below. Appreciate you guys for watching. Talk to you next time.

=== FILE: Effective Game Plan for Purple Belts to Get 1 Step Ahead in BJJ [z6MYMUfPsbU].txt ===

 whatabuy. So today we got a question from Chris, who is a fresh new Purple Belt. He's also 50 years old, and he's wondering, how can I improve my ability to think ahead, sort of chess, not checkers, with setups, chaining attacks together and other cool stuff that Purple Belts and higher belts are supposed to be good at? I do great against the younger guys, less experienced guys, and loves training, but he feels like he should be better than he is, and so he's asking if I have any tips on strategy, that sort of thing. So, Chris, thanks for the question, brother. So you are at Purple Belt, and I've talked about this before, but I see Purple Belt in that sort of time period of your training as kind of the prototype belt. It's where you start sort of laying the foundation for what's gonna become at least your style for a good while. Many of my Purple Belts in the gym will develop a certain section of their game that becomes Black Belt level, like my young Black Belt back there. You might see him, let's see, right here, Chad, who, the picture got messed up. He actually is like the tallest guy back there, but somehow he looks like the shortest. Chad, from a very young age, when he was a Purple Belt, had a Black Belt level triangle. He would go to competitions. He would submit Black Belts with triangles. I mean, he was nasty with this full guard triangle game. It was brutal. Used to catch me in all the time. It was frustrating to this hell. Now, the rest of his game was not fully fleshed out yet, still needed a lot of work, but that particular area, man, he had setup after setup, and once he got you in his little trap, you were fighting one thing after the other, and he was a step ahead of you, just like you're talking about, right? I've been like this with my guard passing for a long time, right? So my guard passing from pretty like Purple Brown Belt level was basically Black Belt level, and I would roll with Black Belts, and if I could get them into my particular style of guard passing, I could basically chip away at their guard until I was able to pass. Still needed a lot of work elsewhere, but this particular area was like this. And again, how do you develop that ability in your guard, your sweeps, your submissions, whatever it is, to think ahead of the person, to be ahead of the person, right? Well, I would tell you that it comes from you working on that particular area a lot, okay? There is a component of knowledge from it, for sure, but one of the most important parts about it is gonna be your body, your intuition, the muscle memory, having the feel of the position, right? Because you could go watch an instructional and regurgitate whatever that coach said, and might sound smart, but then you go try to roll, and you can't do a lick of it, because it's not just here, this is a part of it. We have to have it in this thing. This, your body is what does the work for you, right? Not just doing a lecture. And so you have to get into those positions, so what I would tell you to do, bro, what a good starting place for you to be, would be to pick out a guard position, guard pass, a top position, like a dominant position, think Mount Backmount Side Control, and you start to work towards a specific style of those to focus on. So for instance, me, when I was a purple belt to brown belt, I was really good from half guard, a little bit of butterfly guard, but especially my half guard, that was my first really good guard position that I felt effective with. On top, I had this really good pressure passing style from like an over under half guard chest to chest, which I still do this day. And that was my guard passing. And then on top, for me, it was always about getting to the back mount, Side Control Back Mount. These days I have a lot more Mount involved, but back then it was all about Side Control, either getting an arm lock or going to back mount, which I still have those as well, but that was my style back then. And so everything that I would do as far as my A game would revolve around those things. And so I would focus all of my attention on that. And so, if I was studying Instructionals, it would be on those areas as much as possible. When I was rolling, it was about using those things. When I was getting ready for a competition, it was about using those things. Now there's not to say that you can't take in new information and you're going to for sure, but when you're talking about thinking steps ahead, you're not gonna be able to think steps ahead about every single position, right? This is why when people in competitions and when you watch the best jiu-jitsu practitioners, they are synonymous with a position or a technique because that little area is where they have everything mapped out, right? They have all the side roads, the detours, and the main roads, they have everything mapped out so that if one thing gets blocked, they go this direction. And to develop that ability, you have to focus on those positions over and over again because what you will find is that when you start to use a particular pass, a sweep, a submission, whatever it is, people will defend in a certain way. And the ways that people defend typically become very predictable and repetitive. And then you begin to adjust to those. And as you take in new information, you can say, oh, well, when the person does this, then I do this. And this is how you develop a system, right? If this, then that. If I go for this and they do this, then I do this. And if they go for this and I do that, you get the idea. You just go through it like that. But again, that has to be wired into your body. You can't be thinking about it too, too much. You have to have the thought process there, but then you also have to have the body reacting because I would tell you in most cases, especially when you're in a good role with someone who's of competitive level with you, a lot of times things happen too fast for you to sit down and mark out the 17 bullet points of how you're gonna do something. It happens like that. And a lot of times for me, when I'm competing as an example, which is an extreme, again, it's like the testing ground for us in Jiu-Jitsu, when I'm competing, like a lot of times my body's doing stuff and my mind is following afterwards. It's like my body's reacting to things quicker than I can even think about. That's kind of how you want things to happen. And again, that comes through training. So identify a couple of positions like I talked about in a second or before. And then from there, you focus your training and your attention there. So every day you walk into the gym, Chris, you always make sure you get a round or two from those positions as many times as you can. And that would be my suggestion to you, being focused. This is one of the reasons why the little e-book that I give away from you guys when you join my email newsletter, and it's a video too, I give away a video, an e-book that goes into being more focused with your training. Because I think for most people, it's one of the simplest things you can do to improve in Jiu-Jitsu. And it's one of the things that nobody does. People go into their gym and they're like, hey, I'm here, I'm here to show up, I'm here to be here. But if you want to get better, and by the way, that's not necessarily wrong, but if you want to get better, if you want to improve in Jiu-Jitsu faster, if you want to break through plateaus and you want to stop plateaus from ever happening, it comes from you having a clear focus as to what you're working on. And so identify what you want to work on from your guard, from your guard passing, from your top position where you're going to submit, or if there's another position you have to focus on, like maybe one of your escaping positions, but assuming you're kind of a purple belt, you're going to be able to effectively use some of this stuff. Then when you roll with a less experienced people that you know you can control, work on those positions over and over again to get those reps in from those physicians, those live reps you need, and then begin crafting that style as a purple belt. So brother, hopefully that helps you Chris. Good luck with your training brother, thank you for the question.

=== FILE: Getting Smashed in Bottom Half Guard？ Here’s 2 Ways to Get Unstuck [RxAac0CK8uA].txt ===

 bl Joe and anybody else just have trouble with this. So check this out. When we play half guard, obviously we want to be in a situation where we're typically on our side, either playing with a scholar, getting under hooks, doing whatever it is that we're doing, right? But the problem is that at some point you're going to get flattened out. And again, that's kind of, if you're the top person, that's one of the things you're looking to do. Because if he can get in and get me flattened out here, that takes away most of my options, right? At this point, I'm pretty much in defense. This has gone from a really good attacking position, which half guard is, to a great passing position for him. So here's what we're going to do. We're going to look at two different options. These are really common, especially early on. There's some different things that he could do that would stop these. But for the most part, these are to you, you can get a lot of bang for your buck with. So if the person is driving into you, so you feel this forward push, right? Now, again, they're not necessarily off balancing themselves in any sort of crazy way, but you can feel that there's this energy going forward. Okay, come up for a second. I've shown this movement before. It's a sweep. I call it the Giggler sweep. I think people call it different names, but the Giggler is what we started calling it back in 2014. And so the movement is going to be where I dig my hips underneath of the person. And so the sweep is what we call it and this essential movement that we do in Jiu-Jitsu, where we get our hips underneath of the person, I call it a hip shovel. I'm digging myself underneath of the hips, right? So the key for us is going to get under his hips to get him off balance. So if he's driving into me here, going lock up, what I'm going to do is I'm going to hip shovel underneath to get him to post. As soon as he posts, my hand needs to be ready. So I will have my hand sitting right here on the side of the shoulder. And as soon as his hand or elbow posts, I'm going to go underneath. Okay, now he's going this direction. So what is he going to do? He's going to start to rock back as he rocks back. I can start to fight for the underhook or go back out here to an e-shield. Okay, let's look at that from the side with the legs here. So Jeff, get a look at my leg for me. So again, he's in here tight. So what I'm going to do is I'm going to use my feet to pull myself underneath. And notice what's happening. My knees are going from this direction. And they're shifting to the direction that I'm taking him to. And at the same time, I'm trapping this leg, which is going to force him to post his elbow or his hand from here, get underneath the arm. As he starts to rock back, I follow him up. And then I'm back up, right? So that's that's one of my favorites. And you can catch this a lot because in a lot of cases, when guys are driving into you, as soon as they start to clear knee shield, if you know, you're losing the position, instead of just following backwards, as soon as he drives out, you're coming through, boom, I can off balance him. Now, if you get the sweep, great. But if not, even if I off balance him and he starts to post, there's the post, we can come back up. Now, what happens if he starts to sink his weight down? Okay, you have to be sort of aware of this. So let's say these here. Another common reaction when they're passing is they'll be heavy here. But if you were to draw a center line down my body, you would feel the pressure is heavy on this side, I can feel this hips a little bit lower. This is the issue, right? So now if I try that, save the hip shovel, I'm not going to be able to move them. Right. So the hip shovel, typically, I will do what he's about centered up, like when his body weights like right on the center line of my, but when he sinks down, and he's over on this side, we're over on towards the side of my body, then I'm going to do just a basic smash the bicep, just sort of this big swinging motion with the arms. Now, we've got two things going on here. One is going to be a bicep push across the face. And then at the same time, I'm going to be trying to touch the leg here, trap the leg. Now this leg can be in a couple different places. Sometimes they may have the leg out. Sometimes the knee might be here. Sometimes the knee might even be really close to your body. But either way, you're looking to trap the leg at least a little bit. And at the same time, bridge up. So my hand from this side is pushing across his face as I'm bridging up on this leg and coming up here to the side. Now look, all I'm looking to do is get his hand to come off the of me for just a moment. And again, you will find sometimes where if the person is too like committed to this grip, if you bridge and do this, you will literally take them over sometimes. It's rare if the person's decent, but it happens sometimes. So instead, most of the time what you'll get is a hand or an elbow post, boom. And then from here, as soon as it happens, we start to fight our hands in the inside again to frame up. Okay, so let's look at the other side here with my foot. So from here on the on the foot aspect of it, I'm taking this foot, posting out nice and wide. It's a bridge trapping of the leg. And again, I'm being nice to Marvin, but what I'm really doing this in a hard training session or a competitive competitive session, this hand, I mean, it's coming off to the side and bridging. And I'm really trying to club the guy. Obviously, I'm just trying to be nice to my UK here while we're doing this. But that's the idea. So for you, Joe and anybody else, those are two ideas to use. Now here's the deal. Here's how they work. And here's the, the cool part about it. If they drive into you, which is really common, you do the hip shovel. If they sink back a little bit, which again can be a common reaction, if they think you're going to go for the hip shovel, or sometimes it's the way people pass, then you go that direction. And that covers basically this way and that way. Now there's some other stuff that we would have to do to lift the person up. But those will take care of a lot of the situations that you'll run into in jiu-jitsu. And I would tell you that in like when I'm playing half guard, probably at least half of the time, 50% of the time, those two can take care of what I need. And the off chance that it doesn't work or someone's switching their hips into a reverse half or something like that. Then I have some other options, which I have some on the channel. But for you, brother, those are a couple things to chew on a couple ideas to try. Hopefully those help you. Thanks for watching. Talk to you guys next time.

=== FILE: How to Use Serious BJJ Injuries to Improve Your Grappling [cgVyJhwLtNI].txt ===

 whatabguy. So today we got a question from a blue belt who just had a shoulder replacement, a partial shoulder replacement. He's about 10 months out from it, and he's getting back into training. He has some great training partners who, you know, they're not trying to rip off his shoulder or anything like that. But he says that where he's having a lot of trouble right now is he's been forced to change his game because he says, back in the day before his shoulder issue, he would play everything on his left side. And now he's having to do everything on his right side. But having to change my game has severely limited my progress, or at least I think it has, and I'm an impatient person. And he says, do you have any advice going forward? And so I forgot to write your names, I'll call you Bob, but I do have your email address so I'll send it to you afterwards. But brother, thank you for the question. So yeah, I got some advice for you, brother. And some ideas that you want. First off, I would say that 10 months out, you're still not in the clear. My lifting coach, Eli, he had some arthritis issues. Genetic, his mother has a lot of arthritis, and he seemed to inherit it. His shoulders, they were just cooked. I mean, when I first met him, he literally couldn't even open his shoulders all the way out. If he had to take a jacket off, he's like having to do this. Now you'd see this guy, he was massive, but he had to do all these like workarounds to like build up the muscle because he couldn't even do things like lateral raises like this for as an example. And so he ended up having total shoulder replacements on both shoulders. And it definitely took him probably about a year and a half, two years to really get him back up to speed. Now, you know, they were good about a year out, like where you're at, and he could do stuff, but there was still a lot of strength that he developed. And again, I don't know your situation, but he, you know, took a little bit of time. So give yourself some grace. It's only been 10 months. You had a big operation done on the most mobile joint on the body, right? So don't be in a rush. The second thing that I would tell you is that I have seen these types of situations do two things to people. In some cases, people get all pissed off and frustrated, and it ruins Jitsu form. Or I've seen people sort of use it as a chance to improve their game, and they become like so much better because of it, right? Like years ago, one of my students, Jeff, he was a black, he's a black belt now. If you guys do the Jiu-Jitsu opens, he's the one of the other guys there. He's like the main guy that, you know, runs the operations there. He was getting ready for his black belt, and I was kind of testing the guys to kind of see where they're at. And he had a great top game, great takedowns, great top pressure, a very strong presence on top, but man, on the bottom, he just didn't have it. It just wasn't there. He wasn't up to where I thought he should have been to be a black belt. And so I talked to him afterwards, and I said, hey, listen, man, in order to get your black belt, I want to see you, I want to see that bottom game come up. So I need you to work there. Just so happened around the same time, he ended up getting some injuries, one to his rib and some shoulder issues were happening. And so he started working more from his bottom game, his guard. And again, he was not a guard, puller or guard player at all before then. Fast forward a year later, he sent me a text, almost a year to the day, sent me a text of him going to a competition, pulling guard and leg locking and other black belt competition. That was a pretty cool thing to see. Right. And now if you guys see him, because he'll compete at the jujitsu opens a lot of times. And when he competes, he's mostly a guard, puller, he'll play stand up sometimes, but a lot of guard pulling. And again, that started because of that. And this has opened up a whole aspect of his game that he's never had before. And it's been good to see a much better game, much better jujitsu. And so you can have that, right? You just have to be patient as an impatient person, right? And there's a cool idea from a book called iron John. If you've ever read it, it's worth a read. And in the book, there's an idea that he shares that every wound becomes a wound, right? And he's talking about sort of this sort of the deep sort of psychological scars that we get as like a young kid and things like that and how it changes us, right? But you can think about it as pretty much anything. Like every sort of wound that you take, figuratively, so to speak, right? Like you're thinking about maybe, you know, the feeling of frustration because you can't use the side that you've always used, or you can even think about you go to a competition and you lose because you got armbar in five seconds, right? Anything that happens like this can be something where something else that useful grows out of it, right? So like my student, Jeff, I told him, Hey, man, your bottom game is not up to snuff, man. Like you need to improve this area. He could have run with that and got frustrated because he wasn't as good when he pulled guard and just threw up his hands and said, I'm not doing this anymore. But instead he went through the frustration of developing a new area of his game that was kind of underdeveloped. And over the course of a year, all of a sudden he has this new area of his game that he's able to use effectively at the black belt level. Something new grew out of that, right? And so you can think about it from there, bro. It's definitely not a fun place to be when you're going through it. I've been through it a few times myself, not necessarily for the same reasons, but forced out of my original game and forced to play with something else because either the necessity was there because I was getting beaten tournaments and things like that, or because of an injury. And as I said, when you look at it from that standpoint, it's like this year forced to grow in something good is going to come out of this. Good stuff will happen. But again, if you let it get you frustrated because you're not where you want to be right now, you're not as good as you were on the other side yet. Like just give it some time. And you said that you're not progressing as fast as you would like. I just want to remind you that a lot of times when you're doing Jiu-Jitsu, you're learning even, you're actually learning a lot when you're going through those frustrating periods, right? A lot of people always think that they're learning when they're doing things right. But a lot of times your wheels are turning the most when you're getting frustrated by a problem and you're really locking in like, how can I fix this? As long as you keep that problem solving mindset, you keep working at it. So again, I've had people had shoulder replacements and they've come back and they do great. And again, I've seen a lot of people who have had to switch their games due to other injuries and other reasons, and it's made them even better more often than not. If they stick to it. And I think the same could happen to you, brother. If you stick with it and you keep the right mindset on. So hopefully that helps you, brother. And I'll talk to you guys next time.

=== FILE: Non-BJJ Focused Lifting Style Made Me Stronger for BJJ as Older Grappler [HuFsUHcfwkM].txt ===

 whatabuy. So one of the questions that gets asked to me all the time is what kind of lifting do I like to do for jiu-jitsu? What's the best lifting for jiu-jitsu? What's the best lifting that I should do to support my jiu-jitsu? So I'm going to share the lifting style that I like doing. I've been doing the last five years, but I will be honest with you guys, I don't lift for jiu-jitsu specifically. I think it's kind of a bad idea. I lift for other reasons, which I'll explain in a minute, but I have gotten a lot of benefits for jiu-jitsu and a lot of carryover for jiu-jitsu. I'll explain what that is. And so join with me today as I get one of my lifting days in and I'll explain a couple ideas with you. So as I'm getting warmed up, I'll explain kind of my focus on lifting. First off, like I said, it's not jiu-jitsu first, right? For me, when it comes to lifting, first is injury prevention. I want to lift in a way that makes my body strong and healthy and protects me from injury because I feel like if I'm not getting injured all the time, I'm going to be able to train consistently and that's going to be better in jiu-jitsu, right? Which has been a idea that I had and it came to be true. Second sort of focus for me, second importance is aesthetics. I want to look good with my clothes off and when I'm naked in front of my wife. Simple thing, right? So I want to look good. Third is I just want to feel good and feel mentally sharp for me after a workout. I got to feel mentally better. Physically, my body feels nice and loose. Like even the work that I do, I was talking to one of my guys about this last night. I don't feel mentally sharp until after a workout of some sort, whether that's jiu-jitsu, lifting or even if it's like a rest day, I'll take the dog for a long walk. And then after all those three things, right? Feeling good, being physically healthy without injury and looking good, then it comes down to performance, right? And then it goes to what kind of performance or carryover value I'm getting for the sport that I'm doing. And so for me, the way that I think about it is if I'm strong, if I'm not getting injured, if I feel good, if I'm able to train consistently, then it's going to be easy to carry that over to jiu-jitsu, right? Like if I'm strong and healthy, I will figure out how to use the strong and healthy body and convert it to jiu-jitsu with the technique. Now that said, there have been a couple things that have really carried over to my jiu-jitsu in a big way over the last five years since I've been working with my coach. So I started getting my lifting routines made by my coach Eli back in 2020. You know, I just wanted to try something new before that. Like when I was young, I had done things like when I was in my early 20s, I was like 255. I was doing like strongman and powerlifting, just doing as heavy as I could because that's where I was mentally. Then later on, I did CrossFit and you do the crazy workouts and, you know, the functional fitness that it said that it was. I think it just turned into a sport and a lot of people doing really sloppy reps at times, not always, but in a lot of cases. And I think for jiu-jitsu, it's just too much. I saw so many people get injured trying to do CrossFit and jiu-jitsu, but not everybody. So if you like CrossFit, I'm not saying anything. But with what we're doing here, what Eli started to have me do was basically, because it's what I wanted to do, is basically more bodybuilding style, hypertrophy, nothing crazy. But with that said, there's been a few different benefits I've had from it. So first off is going to be the use of these slow repetitions where we're moving the weight, getting full range of motion, and we're focused on slowing the rep range down. Maybe having a little pause here at the bottom. And at the same time, the rep range is higher than what I was doing before. So what's been useful about it? Well, first off, those slowest intros, think about it this way. When I was younger, everything was just like, if I was lifting, it was like chugging, chugging, chugging, and with a bench press. If it was a squat, we're squatting down, bouncing out of the bottom. Everything was really fast. And think about this from Jiu Jitsu, like, how often are you doing one big massive push? Probably not too often, unless you're getting destroyed in the mats, right? That's your desperation push. But how often are you doing something like a, like holding here, or having someone pushing, you're having to frame and push from here, or even having to do multiple pushes, right? All the time. That's Jiu Jitsu every day. So doing those slower eccentrics, pauses at the bottom, those gave me strength in particular places that I wasn't, I didn't have it before, it got me stronger there. Now, because the rep range is a little higher, and the eccentrics are slower, the weight has to drop. So when you slow the reps down and you increase the rep range, what does that do? Well, you got to drop the weight. Well, now you're lifting less weight, which for me, being an older guy, right? And again, I know some of you guys here, you're older than me, and you're like, chewy, you're only 40, whatever. I've got my AARP card. Look, man, I've been doing grappling for 20 something years. You know, kind of, what's the word? It sort of ages you a little differently, right? I've been grappling since I was in my teenage years. And so I'm old by athletic standards. I'm old enough now that for the most part, in any other sport, I'd be retired already. But for some reason, the Jiu Jitsu, I'm still ticking, right? So anyway, by lowering the weight, I've been able to lift more often and have less wear and tear in my joints, right? So back in the day when I was lifting a little bit heavier, God, leave me. Every time I do a lift, I would just feel it afterwards. Like, you know, if I was doing squat days and everything else, I just didn't feel good. It's like, I, you know, I lifted, I felt, you know, got stronger or whatever, but my body felt it more with the lifting style that I'm doing now. I can lift like this multiple days a week, four days a week, no issues. And again, I've had almost no issues where it affects my Jiu Jitsu because I don't want to lift and then take away from my ability to do Jiu Jitsu. I can do this lift in the mornings. And then I can do Jiu Jitsu at night, no issues whatsoever. And the last thing that I kind of got from it was because the plan was focused on the muscles, right? Like getting full range of motion, right? Everybody's seen some guy at the gym doing like a bro squat like this. Because you're so focused on getting full range of motion to really stretch those muscles out to get the most fun the muscles. The thing that I noticed and again, I didn't intend for this to happen was I got more mobile, flexible, whatever you want to call it, especially with my squats. Because what you're doing is you're forcing your body into the position, you're forcing your body to build strength there. A lot of times when people think of a flexibility issue, they almost always think, Oh, the muscle is just really tight. I got to stretch it out. But in a lot of cases, it's a strength issue. And your body can form a muscle tightness in an area where it's weak to prevent you from going there. Because it's like, look, we don't have any strength here, we got to like keep you out of that space. And I remember especially from doing like slow squats, where, you know, I'm doing a three to five second eccentric on the squat, pausing at the bottom, and then coming back out of it. Doing that instead of just simply getting to the bottom and bouncing out real fast. I got a lot stronger in those those positions I wasn't used to. And I found that my knees and my legs felt better. Right. Like I remember my late 20s, I felt there were times where I literally would crack and pop just walking around the house when I was waking up in the morning, like now four years old, like over 10 plus years later, I can wake up in the morning, I can squat down just fine, no issues. And that's with two knee surgeries. I've had a meniscus surgery on this one. I was 19. I've had a meniscus surgery on this one when I was 29. And again, my knees feel better than they did 10 years ago. And again, I think a big part of that is doing less weight, but doing full range of motion with these exercises and again, adding in that slowest centric in those pauses have been really helpful. So again, I'm just sharing it with you guys. A lot of times you ask about what my favorite lifts are for jiu-jitsu. It's I don't lift for jiu-jitsu. I lift to keep my body strong and healthy and they look good, feel good. And then if those are in check, I think my jiu-jitsu is going to benefit from it. That's how I look at it. I do do some specific stuff like upper back work, like to help pull my shoulders back so that you know, again, in jiu-jitsu, we're always squeezing. So we develop these overly tight pecs, helps fight against those. But otherwise, that's the idea. Also, just sort of shameless plug. If you guys want to check it out, me and my coach Eli, we put together a whole program for basically lifting and balancing it with jiu-jitsu. The whole deal, if you want to check out, it's down below. We call it the swollen roll program. If you want to check it out, it's basically how to balance jiu-jitsu with lifting. If you don't, no big deal. You can simply do whatever program you have now and you can start implementing this idea of like slowest centrics, three-secondy centrics, a pause at the bottom followed by a nice forceful concentric, or you're pushing the weight up, that sort of thing. So very helpful. And again, you can do these with your bench presses and pushes or your rows and your pulls or your squats. It doesn't matter. So hopefully, it was useful to you guys. If you were interested in the type of lifting that I'm using, or I found beneficial, especially as I get older and older into grappling, and talk to you next time.

=== FILE: Secret to Training Everyday as an Older Grappler [ZMRdW19FNSY].txt ===

 whatabguys.com. So today we've got a question from Mark, who's a 45-year-old blue belt who wants to train all the damn time, and he's finding out, as you might imagine, that a 45-year-old blue belt who trains all the time is getting fatigued physically, sometimes mentally getting burnt out, and sometimes having some small injuries. And so he says he started jiu-jitsu off because it was fun, it was enjoyable, it was some exercise where maybe he would get a little self-defense in as well, and then it sort of turned into something else, and he got bit by the grappling bug, started competing in all this stuff, and now he's just eaten up by the damn thing and wants to train all the time. And so he sends me a message and basically asks, is there any way that he can train a lot and avoid getting injured, banged up, and that sort of thing. So brother, thank you for the question, and there is. And I will give you the secret to how to train, like damn near every day if you want to. The big deal is you have to change what you view as training, right? So when you talk about training to people, most people view training as like the hard intense rolling and stuff that you do in the gym, right? You know, the big rolls, the hard training, leaving exhausted, they feel like that's the good training, that's what I need, right? But you have to think about training in the sense that there's different types of intensities, and you also have to think about your body in the sense that, again, your body has a budget. This is how one of my coaches told me, right? Your body has a budget for expenditure, recovery, whatever you wish to say, right? And once that's spent, you're now going into debt to do anything else, right? So for instance, let's say if you have, you know, as you get older, you have less of a budget to work with, right? Because you just, your body can't take as much. When you're younger, you have more. And so let's say you've got your budget set up, and all of a sudden, like you really spend the first couple of days just training super hard, and you are just taxed to the gills. You're done, your body's exhausted, you're mentally fatigued, but you know, you will yourself through it because you have, you know, willpower, and you've been watching a lot of David Goggins videos. And so you go into training again and again and again, and then you start to, it's almost like you're getting into debt for your body to recover from. And that's where you start to feel those being mentally fatigued and having your body start to break down on you, and then you get into bad places. So what you have to think about doing is how do you manage intense sessions, hard sessions with lighter sessions and things to help you recover? So for instance, let's say that you had a hard training session on one day, maybe you held it, maybe you even did it to a day. Well, then maybe the next day could be a day where you walk and do some stretching and loosening things up, some good blood flow basically, recovery work, but letting your body recover a little bit faster and aiding it with some movement, right? There's a lot of literature to support that doing some sort of light movement and getting blood flows good for recovery, better than doing nothing at all, right? And then maybe having another day where you then, instead of going these hard roles, maybe you focus on getting more skill work, right? Where maybe it's an open mat and you can talk to one of your training partners and say, hey, would you like to work on a specific position with me today? We're only going to roll from this specific position. Situational training or doing Jiu-Jitsu games, whatever you wish to do, those allow you to train in a very specific area to develop skill without taking on the all the variables of like a full role. And a lot of times to help you avoid a lot of the injuries and the intensity of it. A regular full role can get very intense and you're going back and forth and you may not get to the position you're trying to work on anyway. So keeping it really sort of confined to a specific area is very useful for having a lot of skill work out of a very light training session. And then you could then have another hard day after that. You can just, you can do this thing. But again, it goes back to you having to change on what you think hard or what you think training really is. Training is your hard roles. Training is your, you know, your, your situational training, if you will. Training is your recovery days. Like are you doing some walking, some light cardio, some stretching? Training's all of it. It's lifting weights. All of this is training. And so you can do a little bit every day that's going to aid you in your quest to be better at jiu-jitsu. Now, can you train really, really hard every single day? I would advise against it, Mark, because as you're already feeling, your body's not feeling too hot from it, right? So you're only going to go into a bad place. Even for me, I'm telling you right now as a guy who's 40 years old, so I'm younger than you. I've been doing this a lot longer. This takes a lot out of, less out of my body than it does for you, because I've been doing it longer. I don't train hard every single day. My body just can't take it. I don't even get good results from that, because if I train really hard multiple days and I don't give myself some time to recover, then by the end of it, like third day in, I'm just sort of going through the motions. Whereas if I take a day of rest or have a recovery day where I do some light and when I say rest, that's kind of me. I don't ever take, I don't really take days off. I'm always doing a little something. It might be the walk, it might be the stretching, some yoga. I'm always doing something every day. And so even when I say rest, understand that. So I've had my having one of my rest days and I'm doing some active recovery type stuff. The next day I come back, I get such a good training session because I had this day to get my body back up to speed and say they were lifting, right? Lifting, go and do my lifts, do all that stuff. I don't even lift super intense anymore, because again, my most intense sessions of training are going to be in my hard roles. Everything else is around to support that. And I can't be intense here. It's like years ago, I remember seeing a lot of people that would get into CrossFit. They would do these intense CrossFit exercises and they'd do these intense roles. Your body can only take so much, right? So I would have my, for me, I find it best to have my intense roles and then everything else is sort of less intense and to support that. And again, trying to find the balance there. And you ultimately have to play around with this yourself to figure out what works for you and how much your body can take. But again, that's my idea to chew on. If you want to train every single day, you can do it, but you have to change what you think about as training. And you also have to make sure that you do not equate hard training as good training. It might be, but that doesn't necessarily mean it is, because a lot of times you can get a lot of good skill work that is in a less intense role, opposed to just going really hard all the time and feeling like you did something because you got really sweaty. So those are my ideas to chew on Mark. Hopefully it helps your brother. Talk to you guys next time.

=== FILE: Should Kneebars be Banned at Blue Belt in BJJ Competitions？ [qP21Wl4t11U].txt ===

 kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab in one tournament. So it's like an Al Bundy reference here or something for any of my old folks, right, for touchdowns in a single game. Anyway, he goes to this tournament, gets a bunch of knee bars, and then obviously, you know, he made a post about it showing all the knee bars. No big deal. But a lot of the people were making a stink about it in the comments saying like, Bluebelt's doing knee bars? Oh, you know, I be Jeff wouldn't allow this. And, you know, that's against the rules, whatever it is, right? So just making a stink about it. And I was thinking about this because, you know, it is anti leg locks as the early 2000s jujitsu was, we all used them pretty early. I remember going to several tournaments where knee bars and straight ankles were all legal at Whitebelt. It was like basically it was like if you if you didn't know how to like defend a knee bar, it was kind of like, why not? It's like an arm bar, right? Like twisting things like hill hooks and stuff were a little bit more dangerous. Although I do remember there being a tournament. I remember we even thought it was a little while that they were like letting Whitebelt student hill hooks and you were just watching. I mean, get ripped. But anyway, but this is like back before people kind of knew what they were doing. So I mean, there's no like control. I mean, it's like grip is ripping. It's terrible, but definitely lost a few ACLs at that tournament. But again, for me, thinking about it, just in just my general view, my bearded opinion, if you can't defend a knee bar, like, I guess, you know, there are different qualifications for Bluebelt's just saying. And again, you know, for me, at the gym, we always start guys off doing leg locks early. Now they can't use hill hooks in full rolling like early on, but we make sure that they know them early on. So they learn them so they can learn how to defend them. They can learn how to use them because I'll tell you as a coach, I've had less submission or less injuries of from leg locks after we did them more because people know how to apply them safely, they know how to defend them properly. And again, you know, at the very early on, we want them to get exposed to leg locks because you don't want to do no leg locks. And all of a sudden you get to purple belt or brown belt or whatever level you get to. And all of a sudden it's like, aha, surprise, you know, have to deal with this weapon that you haven't done anything with. That's what I said to one guy. He's like, they can't do them till brown and black. I was like, what do you think I'm going to do to people when I get there? Yeah, like if you haven't used them for years, and now they're available. That's right. So my question to you guys is, do you think that Bluebelts and Whitebelts, let's say Bluebelts, because it's the Whitebelts, whatever, you know, but Bluebelts, do you think Bluebelts should be able to do knee bars, knee bars? What do you think? Drop it down in the comments below. I'm curious to see what kind of people we're working with here. And I make no judgment. If you're not a knee bar person in your Bluebelts, I make no judgment whatsoever. I'm just having fun with you guys. But I'm curious, right? Like, do you guys care about the arbitrary rules set of one tournament as if it should be the standard for all? Or do you think that yeah, knee bars are fine, whether you use them or not? Let me know what you think and talk to you guys next time. We got a clock. What? Oh, no. No. Marvin really likes the clap. Like, we'll do videos sometimes that aren't like posted on YouTube. They're posted like for some of my bike constructions and stuff like that. And he's like, the clap's there. All right, let's do this again. Talk to you guys next time.

=== FILE: The Big BJJ Training Lie I Believed as a Lower Belt [rCfpAqi-QAA].txt ===

 what's up guys, so today we're at the gym, actually have guys working out right now. They're lifting weights. Hey, there's Hayden. It's funny, so the reason I do a lot of my videos at my house and my studio at the office there is because the gym's always busy. I usually only got a couple hours here, and I used to do a lot of my videos late at night. If you go back and watch some of my videos early like 2000 and 23, 24 and before, you would kind of see that the lighting looks a little differently, but the issue is I got a son, and I see him in the mornings, and I come home for nighttime afterwards, so I can read books and bath time and stuff like that, and so can't do the videos here as often as I do at home. But that's just random, neither here nor there. Let's talk about Jiu-Jitsu. So I got a question today from a young guy, I didn't get the name down, so I'll call him Bob, but I apologize for not getting your name, I'll send this to you in an email later. But his question to me is he says, what is a belief that you held strongly as a lower belt that has completely changed as you become a black belt, and what experience triggered that shift? And so I could probably write a book on this, because things change a little bit when you've devoted your entire adult life to doing something, improving it, right? So the things that I thought 15 years ago-ish, there's a lot that's changed. But here's one biggie that I see people suffer from all the time, it's something I did wrong, going into it, caused a lot of problems, and I see it committed over and over again. So when I was younger, I basically equated being like having a good training session by the level of exhaustion I felt at the end of the session. So basically the harder sessions were better sessions. The issue is it's not always true, right? And it reminds me of kind of the way that people chase money, okay? So there's a, stay with me here, I know I'm kind of going all over the place here, but you'll see people, and just in society in general, there is this pursuit of money and material possessions that people go after to make them feel happy, right? But the issue is, and when you really look at it, there is a certain amount of money that kind of takes care of the needs and allows us to do things that make us happy, but when you look at the happiness, the things and all the studies they've done and everything else, these things are like relationships with friends and family, your marriage, your relationship with your kids, obviously. Finding purpose in your life, finding meaning in your work. I mean, these things, having autonomy in your life, a sense of freedom, number of different things, right? These are the things that bring people more happiness, but the issue is those are really hard to quantify, aren't they? Like how do you quantify, do I have a good relationship with my son or my wife? I mean, it's kind of hard to put your finger on. You know it when you feel it, you know it when you see it, but it's kind of hard to kind of put your finger on, but money, cars, boats, things like that, those things are pretty easy to put your finger on. You know when you have them, they're tangible, but a lot of times the things that make you happy about them goes back to the intangibles. Why do you have the big house? Well, because you're gonna have friends over. Why do you, like for me, why do I have land? Because my wife can go play around in the barn and the horses have a garden, my son can run up and down the hills and everything else, and we can sled in the winter. Those are the things that it brings, but you have to think a little bit more deeply about it, and I think people just default to, hey, get money because that's gonna make me happy because I can buy this stuff and they realize it doesn't. Anyway, that said, I think a lot of people in Jiu Jitsu, and this is where I was at, they default to hard sessions mean better sessions. Because again, skill acquisition is a pretty hard to put your finger on that thing because you can train on a given day and do you feel like you've gotten better? Who the hell knows sometimes? You can sometimes feel like you're training really focused, really hard, but you sometimes feel like you're getting worse and sometimes you're feeling getting better. It's really hard to know, but if you wore yourself out and you're laying in a pool of sweat, you damn well know that you had a hard training session, and you can feel like I did something. There's a sense of accomplishment that comes with it. Now, I will say that hard training sessions are necessary at times, and they can be very useful and they can be very productive, but they can also be very just, they can be very useless in a sense of skill acquisition. Great for exercise, maybe not good for actual getting skill. On the flip side, you can have a relatively light training session that's very focused on specific situations and objectives, and you won't be leaving in a pool of sweat, but you could get some really good skill work done. And so that's something that's shifted a lot, and I know that when I was younger, it was always hard, hard, hard, the harder the better. As I got older, the experience that shifted was running into lots of injuries, seeing my students run into lots of injuries because we're going through the ringer all the time, we're training too damn hard, and not getting the results that we'd like. It's like, well, we're training as hard as we possibly can. I don't know that we can push it anymore. We have to do something different. Then it became a lot more of being more focused with training, lots of situational training, being more strategic with training, hard days and light days, skill work only, that kind of thing, right? And so with that, over the course of say 10 years from 30 to 40, as I began to shift more towards that, I can tell you that I won more competitions. I felt like my jiu-jitsu improved more. I feel like I have a better knowledge of jiu-jitsu overall, and I got injured a lot less, right? Like I had multiple surgeries, as like three surgeries as like a 20 to 30 year old, and no surgeries from 30 to 40, knock on wood somewhere. So that would be one of the bigger shifts that I had, which was moving away from hard training all the time, to being focused on more really focused skill work, and being moving in that direction where it could be hard or it could be very light, but it's not necessarily about that, it's about are we actively working towards developing a skill, a position, a technique, something like that. And so to your question, bro, that's one of the things that I held pretty deeply back in the day was hard is better, no pain, no gain, that kind of thing, and light was bad, and then that's shifted around a lot, where it has nothing to do with the heart of the light, that depends on what we're trying to do. It's been that way even with lifting. I remember years ago with lifting weights, I would go into the gym, and it was all about power lifting, strongman, the heaviest steps I could lift. I would tell you that now I lift moderate weight, controlled, a centric, pauses, higher rep ranges, full range of motion. I can lift more regularly using that. I've been able to change my physique in a more effective way, and my body feels better for jiu-jitsu because I'm not putting this heavy load on my joints all the time with heavy ass weight. But I'm still getting a lot of benefit from it with both my strength, because I stay stronger longer because I'm doing these slowest centrics and these pauses and developing isometric strength. And also my body feels better because I'm not banging myself up so much that when I go into the gym, my joints are hurrying or I'm super fatigued, so I'm able to get the benefit of the lifting and then go in and train and have no issues. And so I would tell you that, again, dialing it back and training with a purpose instead of just defaulting to intensity because it feels like I did something, that's one of the biggest shifts. And that can be tough because sometimes the intensity feels good. It feels kind of good to be in a pool of sweat if you're wired like me. And so that was the shift kind of moving away from that. That was big and it was helpful. So anyway, hopefully that helps you out, brother. Anybody else watching this video? I'll talk to you guys next time.

=== FILE: The Myth of Confidence in BJJ & Competition [-dV2dZlUbuY].txt ===

 kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab everybody's wondering if I have any tips on how to build confidence and how to push through this so that he can go to the competitions and perform well. So Phillip, brother, thank you for the question. So dude, check this out. You're looking at confidence the completely wrong way and I think that you're looking at your situation the wrong way and this just happens a lot. This is like the myth of confidence. People think that if you're confident that you just know you're going to go into a situation that you're going to win. I know I'm going to win. That's not confidence. That's delusion. Right? If you get into a competition of any sort, there's no guarantee. Right? I look on like one of my favorite types of books to read is biographies. I love reading about biographies. I like reading about how people did things and how they worked their way up and the sort of things they went through to get there. And one of the common things that you see people who have done something, one of the common traits that they have, that they've all sort of displayed is their willingness to fall flat on their face usually more than once and to get back up, dust themselves off, reload, try again. That's to me like the thing that you really base their confidence on is that. I think about it like boxing. I remember when I started getting into boxing when I was like learning how to fight MMA and I had to learn more striking. You know grappling at that point was very you know normal to me natural but getting into boxing was rough. And I remember the thing that always bothered me in the beginning was getting hit. I didn't want to get hit. And I would stiffen up a lot and it would hurt a little bit, right? When I started to develop the ability to roll with the punches to stay loose and to take the hit and it not really bother me, that was when I got really confident with my ability to go into a sparring session because I knew like, yeah, you're going to hit me but I can take it. I'm going to be able to defend no big deal. And when you look at these people who then take risks to go for something that they want and they can fall flat on their face and they just get back up and try again, that's confidence bro. And for you, you should feel confident to some degree because look, you've lost. The worst thing that can happen to you in a competition is losing and you've done that and you're still training. You're still here. You took the punch, you kept coming. You fell flat on your face, you're still coming. You should look at that and you should think, ah, that's pretty damn cool. You should be confident about that. The worst thing happens and you're still able to go. Now, how do you develop confidence to go out there and win? Well, I mean, there's strategies for that. The biggest thing is we develop confidence in our training room, right? By making sure that we know that something's working, right? If it's working on everybody in the gym, like if you have a good competitive gym, it's probably going to work outside of the, into the competition. You probably need to narrow your game a little bit as far as your focus on a specific game plan style of rolling, like saying, this is the style, these are the take downs. This is the moves and positions I plan to use in competition. Let me focus on these as much as possible because again, in a competition, you're only going to use a very small sliver of the jujitsu that you know, right? But beyond that, you should be confident enough to go out to that competition and say, oh, if I lose big deal, I've already done this before. Not a big deal. Let me go for the win. I can take the risk because I know if I fall flat on my face, if I get submitted in 20 seconds in front of everybody, I'll just get back to training the next week and I'll come back again. And so that's how, that's how I would tell you as far as confidence goes. Stop looking at confidence because your message was longer and kind of getting into some of the things I didn't mention in the video. You're looking at confidence as it's going to be this thing where all of a sudden you're going to be walking around thinking you're just going to beat everybody. That's not confidence, bro. That's delusion. Confidence is knowing that you can fail or you can win and either way you're going to keep doing what you're doing. At least that's how I look at it. My bearded opinion, of course, but hopefully it helps you out, Phillip. Good luck to you in your next competitions, brother. Talk to you guys next time. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.

=== FILE: The Real Reason Failure Wrecks Your Confidence [6XFj-SktWAk].txt ===

 whatabguy. So at the time of recording this, we are getting ready to do our Chujitsu Open in Frank and Moose, Michigan, and we're getting ready to close down registration because it's, we were already at 15 mats, it's got 800 people, it's just, it's too much, and so we're done, and it's going to be a huge tournament, it's going to be our biggest one so far. And it made me think of something that happened when we first started the Chujitsu Open back in 2023 in July. So, you know, I had this idea of this format, and my partner, Jeff, him and his wife have been running some competitions and, you know, they wanted to partner up. And I said, well, let's try this out. And so we did the test run at our gym in Louisville, Kentucky, right? And we crammed about 200 people into that gym to compete over the course of the day. And it was a really unique experience, it was a lot of fun. I mean, it was like a million things went wrong with it. First off, the, it was our, the hottest weekend of the year. We had 200 people competing, then you got to think about all the family. Our air conditioning systems went out in two sections of our gym. So we had two units that were down. So I mean, just blistering hot. We had to rent these big fans that were spewing out like mist and everything else. I mean, it was, it was, it was something, right? It was something. We did the best with what we had and it ended up being a lot of fun. But obviously, the, the hypothesis worked. We, we had a format that people are interested in competing in. We had people that drove nearly nine hours to get there and compete. And they had a good experience. Well, after it was over, I remember I was talking to this, this group of young fellas from Chicago, we were taking pictures and they're chatting with me, that sort of thing. And I remember one of them asked me, he said, Hey man, you know, this tournament was successful. Like it was a really cool, you just sort of bootstrapped this thing and it worked. Like, does it feel good or were you expecting it to be this, this successful? And I told him that, and I think this is an interesting thing. And it's something that I, I sort of applied to just about everything I've talked about this mindset, but I told him I didn't really expect anything. I didn't make any expectations of how this was going to work. Right. I mean, I just was like, let's see what happens. That's my sort of thought process of what was with it. Right. I was going to do everything I could to make it successful. But if it wasn't successful, then whatever, right. I'm not really too attached to the outcome. And, you know, in the term, in the sort of context of competition, training and everything else, I take this mindset to like everything from jiu-jitsu to relationships to business, doesn't matter. I try to sort of be detached from the outcome. Right. I'll do everything I can to make it successful. I'll work really hard and I have very high standards to the way I will put forth effort, the way that I will train for things. But like if I don't win, yeah, it happens. Right. Everybody's failed before. Right. And I think this is important because, again, going back to competition since we're talking about the jiu-jitsu open and everything else, I've seen so many competitors, and myself included, I've experienced it, where you get so attached to this, this, what you can see, perceive as a positive outcome of you winning, getting your hand raised, being on the top of the podium, whatever it is, getting the gold medal, getting the money, winning, succeeding. But you get so fixated on that and expecting this like this has to happen or you want this to happen so badly that it causes you to not perform at your best. You become nervous, you become anxious, you become kind of fragile. Because if the expectation that you set doesn't happen, you get upset about it. Right. Because you had this expectation, you failed to meet it, and there's that friction versus being able to go 100% after it. I would tell you that I've talked to numerous world champions, ADCC champions who have the same mindset that I've kind of come to, where you push yourself to go for the win. You do everything in your power to win. You have that burning desire to win. You do not like losing. Right. Winners do not like losing. It stings. You can sort of flower it up however you want to. You're not losing, you're learning, you're losing. It stings. And all those things are true, but at the same time they go into it without this attachment to this is supposed to happen. I have to have this outcome. They're giving it all they have and then they let the chips fall where they may. Right. And so going back to the Jiu Jitsu open thing, this thing has grown steadily over the last couple of years. I mean, 15 mats, 800 people, plus 800 people. It's a huge tournament. I mean, I'm surprised. I mean, this is a massive tournament there. And I was thinking about Frank and Ruth Michigan. I didn't even expect that of all places. And I look at some of the other tournaments that we're competing against and we're doing really well. But I go back to that first conversation at the first one. And like, did I expect it? I didn't expect it. I'm happy it's doing well. I'm very happy. And I appreciate all you guys for supporting it. But again, there's no expectation to it. And again, that is something that I originally sort of came to understand in Jiu Jitsu because I used to be one of those guys where I would underperform in competitions compared to what I was in the gym. And then when I let go of the expectation and instead just went really hard for the win and just let things happen, I became one of the people that I tend to overperform in competitions. I tend to show myself better in competition than I do in the gym. And that's kind of what you want to have happen. And so maybe that will be useful to some of you guys who get really fixated on the end result in just about anything, but especially Jiu Jitsu competitions. But again, I could tell you that like this is an example. It's been really useful to me in my business and other aspects of my life. So that's the idea that I wanted to share with you guys. Also, by the way, if you want to compete at one of our upcoming competitions, you can check the link down below, put the website up there. We have some coming up in 2026 in Louisville in Chicago, January, I think 17th for Louisville. And then April, I think 16th or 17th in Chicago, you can check the link down below to get the website. But hopefully I'll see you guys there and at some of our Jiu Jitsu open competitions. And if not, hopefully you enjoyed the video. Talk to you next time.

=== FILE: This BJJ White Belt has a Toxic Training Partner [nTJH1ck1gsY].txt ===

 whatabguy. So today we got a question from a young fellow named Arsalan Khan who is wondering if he just got a taste of the Jiu-Jitsu lifestyle and he's being a pussy or if in fact like something's wrong about this. So he says that he's been doing Jiu-Jitsu for six months and he says that when he was training very early on he developed a friendship with one of the guys in the gym, if you want to call it friendship, training relationship of sorts and he said they quickly, they're around the same age, young, they're getting into the gym and they were just getting into these scrappy rounds where they're elbowing each other, slamming each other, the whole deal and he didn't think much of it but this guy had more experience, more skill and would typically get the better of them and he said that this guy started talking about it off the mats. So when they would see each other when they're out and about doing things outside of the gym he says that the guy would talk about it and oh, talk about how he beat him or he submitted him or whatever and the young guy Arsalan brought it up to him and was like hey man, why are you talking about it like this and you shouldn't do that. That kind of thing and this guy basically told him in his words he said you're being a pussy, shut your bitch ass up. So anyway, that said the guy eventually left the gym which he's pretty happy about but at the same time there's some little nagging thing in the back of his mind where he's thinking like maybe I am being soft, maybe I am being a wimp and so he sends me the message asking what my thoughts on it are and brother, thank you for the question. So check this out dude, I'll give you a couple ideas to chew on, I know you're a young guy so I'll give you some ideas that should anything ever happen like this in the future and I'll also talk about just really important etiquette for training and how to be a good training team partner right. So first off, if you ever come across someone who has more experience than you and they know more than you and they're giving you constructive criticism like they're telling you maybe something you don't want to hear but they're doing so with the intention of trying to help you and you can feel that, listen. Put your ears on and listen to them and see what they have to say. On the flip side, if you ever meet someone that is chipping away at you and they're saying nasty things about you and there's no constructive side to the criticism, it's just them tearing you down, take those ears, close them off, go somewhere else right because that's more on them than you. I would give you a couple examples. One, I've had plenty of guys that have come in here that we needed to toughen up so to speak. It's a tough sport, it's a tough martial art, it's not easy, you know I think it means like the soft way or the whatever bullshit right? Like Jiu-Jitsu is tough, it's hard, you spend a lot of time getting smashed, the whole deal. One of my guys recently getting ready for a competition, you know, I wanted him to develop some grit in certain positions and so I started basically surprising him when I would get it to the end of the day, end of the rolling session. I knew he was tired, I would go pick out someone who I knew was a little bit more on the fresh side, I would put him in a really bad spot and then I would start the match off or the roll rather but I would grade it like a match. I tell him he's down two points, you've got five minutes, let's go. Too purposely put pressure on him, both figuratively and mentally, too let's literally and figuratively and to really push him a little bit and it helped, helped develop the grit in him a little bit. I can also tell you that I had a friend years ago who is a bigger guy but he used to be like a very overweight fellow right? And I remember one day we were sitting around hanging out and some large overweight person sort of passed our view. I didn't think anything of it, he sees this guy and he starts just sort of going off the rails about just fat people and blah blah blah blah, you know, just very mean stuff. And I look at him, I said, bro, you used to be overweight last year, what are you talking about? And I remember him sort of admitting this, something to the effect of yeah, you're right, like I just, I hated myself so much when I was overweight and when I see other people, I get angry because it's kind of like I'm looking at myself. It's a projection of what's going on inside of him, not has anything to do with the other person. So whatever's going on with that young guy who's talking trash to you, it's on them man, it's not on you, right? And I'm glad that he left because otherwise your coach would definitely need to check that because here's the other side of it. You don't want to train like that with someone. You don't want to train with someone that's like that, you don't want to have them in your gym because they start to ship away at the walls, so to speak, of your training environment. So there's an idea that I really like from a book called Iron John. If you've ever read it, cool, if not, the analogy to me is very useful for a lot of things. In the book, the guy Robert Bly talks about this, that everybody needs a walled garden in their life. And the walled garden is a metaphorical sort of thing. So you can think about first off, there are walls around this garden, the walls are to protect what's going on on the inside. Now the walls for us are both, there's walls around the gym, there's real walls, and there's also cultural walls. We have a culture, we have this environment that we're in that's different from the soft ears out there, right? Now I know not everybody has cauliflower ear, but that's kind of my name for like, you know, normal people that don't do jiu-jitsu, right? They don't understand what they're doing, they think it's weird, they think it's gay, they think it's stupid. Yeah, they're soft ears, right? And so there's these walls that go on, they provide protection because on the inside, what's going on is, you have a garden, you have the dark soil, you have the light, the bright light, and then with your work, water and the toil that you sort of exert, then you create something new, you grow something new. For us in jiu-jitsu, right? We're in here, we deal with the darker sides of ourselves, the frustration, the anger, there's the bright, the good sides of ourselves, helping up our teammates, excitement for putting in hard work and feeling the success of that, all these different things, and we create something new. We create, you know, new abilities, new skills, but you even create a whole new mentality and a new personality in some cases. I've seen people completely change from this stuff. I've completely changed from this stuff. I just had a woman, this was one of the coolest stories from 2025 for me. I had a woman that came in at the beginning and she had some trauma in her past. She could not roll without having a panic attack because of that past trauma. We did our best to help her out, she kept fighting through it, and then she went to a competition and by the end of the year, she was able to get a submission and actually win a match and play second in a competition. It's pretty damn cool, right? She went from not being able to roll without shutting down to fighting through that. She's dealing with a hell of a lot and she finally works up to where she can go and compete and not completely shut down. Pretty badass. Now, cool. You can't do that if those walls aren't there. You can't do that if you can't trust your training partner because, again, when we're training, we have the real vulnerability of our body. You have my arm in a submission. You have a choke or a strangle wrapped around my neck. You have my leg locked up and you could rip my tendons to shreds if you don't go about it properly. Likewise, there's also the mental side, the mental vulnerability. If I need to improve in jiu-jitsu, I have to take chances. I have to try new things. I can't just do the same old thing. I have to push myself. I have to make mistakes and I have to know I've got a training partner that will be gracious when I do. I don't need to have someone that's going to rub my nose in it because then it makes it hard to do those, to make those mistakes, right? Likewise, if I don't think I can trust you when we're doing these things, then it makes it really hard to just do anything else other than hang on or it turns into a more ultra-competitive situation that it doesn't need to be. So, that Waldgarten analogy is a cool one. I like it. Again, that's the way I think about it. With your former training partner, this guy, he was tearing at the walls and that protection that you have of what you're dealing with because, again, you're new to this stuff. You're still in a very vulnerable state. You're like a little baby in jiu-jitsu still. You're six months in. You're like a baby in jiu-jitsu. He says, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys, guys guys guys guys guys guys guys guys guys guys Whatever, that's on them, not you. And likewise, when it comes to the training room, right, everyone else around you, you have to protect that environment, right? And so if you ever come across someone that ever does that again, who's in the locker room, who's outside of the gym, talking about submitting someone or beating them or whatever, it's gross, it's stupid. And go talk to your coach and tell them to knock it off. Again, it's something that sort of thing irks me because no matter how hard I've ever trained, maybe I just learned this from wrestling or whatever, but you always help your training partners up. They're your teammates. If you want to go like go really hard and celebrate how you're submitting people, go compete in a competition. Don't do it to your training partners. It's stupid. So anyway, just sharing it with you. Hopefully that gives you a couple ideas to chill on, bro. You're not a wimp. You just got to hold up a bad training partner. But again, keep doing what you're doing. Listen to your coaches and good luck to you in the future, brother.

=== FILE: Treat Your BJJ Opponents Like Toddlers to Become More Technical [HKeDLkTQQb0].txt ===

 and alfalfa-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha-alpha to do that, right? Because just for speed and timing of things. But I find that a lot of times the easiest way to go about it is to get him a couple of choices that ultimately to the outcome that I want. So as an example, when sometimes for whatever reason, it'll be time to take a bath. And I'll say, hey buddy, it's time to take a bath. And he's like, I don't want to take a bath, da-da. And so you hear that, okay, well hey, you know what? You let me know. You can either walk to the bathroom on your own or a da-da can pick you up and take you to the bathroom. Your choice, dude. What do you want to do? And a lot of times he'll go, I go by myself. It's like, oh, you decided you're going to go to the bathroom, right? No problem. Let's go. Or there's other times where like, hey, you can either do this thing now or we're going to finish this for two more minutes and then we're going to do the thing. What do you want to do, buddy? Your choice. But basically giving him two choices to ultimately lead to the thing that I want, right? And I was thinking about this the other day when I was teaching some butterfly guard stuff to my students where a lot of times what I'll do is sweeps is I will use failed sweeps to set up other attacks, right? So as an example, in butterfly guard, I will go for a butterfly sweep. And if the person starts to escape, which sometimes happens with their hand where they get a free hand to post because if obviously if I trap the hand and roll them, they can't post. But a lot of times if I can get them rolling to a side, they will reach out with their hand to post. When they post that hand, their hand is on the mat and that hand is now exposed to the attack. And a lot of times I set up my shoulder crunch attacks like that. I will fake the sweep to one side just to get their hand to post and then to come in to get the head in the arm to actually go for the attack. The same thing happens a lot of times when I'm going for submissions of different sorts, I will basically attack one spot where I have an arm and a neck available to me. And it's basically like, which one do you want to defend? I can either go for a choke or I can go for an arm attack, but you can't defend both, but you can defend one. Which one do you want to defend? And I'll take the other. And so this is just something you want to think about with your jiu-jitsu. You want to place these problems on people, right? I think what is it Donna, her calls from Dolimus, right? You want to place these on people where when you're rolling, you want to force them to do something that leads you to get the thing that you want. And as an example, a lot of times there's different submissions and different attacks that involve the person having to post their hand on the mat. Again, we talked to our students in the beginning, right? Very early on, do not place your hand on the mat. And so people don't do that. So in order to put that hand on the mat, you could obviously try to force the hand on the mat, but that leads to a lot of struggle. Just like my toddler, if I try to like just force him to do something like it's a pain in the butt, right? But if I can get them to want to do it, that works, right? So instead of me like pulling the hand to the ground, if I sweep them into a situation where they're either going to plant their face on the mat or they're going to have to post their hand out, boom, they gave me what I want. Or maybe if I'm trying to attack the neck, then I attack the arm to get their hands to come together to defend and typically arm, arm attacks will bring the hands down closer to the body and away from the neck, which then opens up the neck for attack, right? So you can get them to do what you want. There's a lot of different ways to do that. And if you guys watch the channel and you watch some of the different playlists I put up and some of the sequences, it works off of that kind of model where it's basically, if you do this, then I do this. And a lot of times I will sort of set it up to where I'm getting you to give me the thing that I want by placing you in a bad position with basically bad choices for you. And so it's something to look at in your game, you know, and again, maybe if you guys haven't done that with your kid, maybe that's something to keep in mind. That's a, that's a little helpful little hack for me. But again, it's something to keep in mind with your jiu-jitsu game too, because again, you're going to be in those points where you can just try to brute force your way through things, or you can try to figure out ways to get your opponent, your training partners, whoever you're rolling with to do what you want them to do. And you can do that a lot of times by setting up other attacks to force them into those spots. So just an idea to chew on that I was thinking about, hope you guys are doing well. And if you guys want to get my daily email that I send out, you can check the links down below. I give away a free guide along with it. It goes through 12 different strategies on how to improve your jiu-jitsu faster with more focus. A lot of people don't have focus in their training. It'll give you some ideas on how to do that. And it's written for the 99% of jiu-jitsu who basically have no control over their training, you're going into the gym, but you do have open rolling or open mat time. And so it basically is based on that. And so if you guys want to check that out, check the links or the comments down below. But appreciate you guys for watching. Talk to you next time.

=== FILE: Unusual Case of a Purple Belt Who Doesn’t Enjoy Winning BJJ Comps [ny4bCcAc5E4].txt ===

 what up guys? So today we got a question from Jack, who is a purple belt, who has an interesting problem. He says he's done all right in competitions, but he says he doesn't enjoy winning. Right? That seems kind of strange to a lot of us, right? Like, why don't you enjoy winning? That's what most people are competing for, right? Why don't you enjoy this? He says that, you know, when he competes and he executes a technique, he feels pretty good about it, but not that much more than in the gym. And he says that what he actually gets the most enjoyment out of is seeing someone else that he's helped coach succeed. Like, seeing someone like another student do well and he's helped him along the process, he loves that. But as far as actually going out and competing and winning, it's not that big of a deal to him. It's kind of wondering, like, why am I the weird one? Like, what's wrong with me? And so he sent me a message, you know, sort of asking about that, so to help him figure out what the heck's wrong with him. So, Jack, thanks for the question, brother. So, I have a confession to make with you, bro. I don't really care that much about it either, right? I definitely get more enjoyment from seeing my students compete. And especially if I see them use a technique that I know I helped him out with, bro, that's the best. You will see me grinning from ear to ear, right? If that happens. If I win and win a competition, you'll see me, like, hold my medal up, I'll, you know, take a picture and then I throw that sucker into the bag and on I go. I don't really care that much. I like winning a hell of a lot more than I like losing, but at the same time, it's not that big of a deal. For me, the, my favorite part about competing and doing well is all about the technique. Like, when I go out and do a competition and I use a cool technique that I've been drilling and that I've been practicing and I use it in competition, I love that feeling. But the most you will get from me after winning is that, like a little fist pump. You will never see me get them. Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Ah! Like, shaking stuff. It's not my thing. You'll never see it. Because it's not that big of a deal. I want to win, for sure. But at the same time, if I don't, I'll be alright. I've been there before, I've lost plenty of matches. So for me, the way that I look at this whole thing with this is, this is a testing ground for me. I like the feeling of being able to go 100% because I never go 100% in the gym. 100% means I'm giving, I'm just going full tilt. I'm clubbing you as hard as I can. I'm gonna try to, like, squeeze you as hard as I can. I'm gonna put the choke in as hard as I can. Now, I'm gonna be safe about it. But again, I'm giving you all I got. But in the gym, I'm always, you know, you always hold a little bit of back to take care of your training partners. But in this sense, I get to go 100%. And honestly, for me, bro, I like competing because a lot of times it forces me to wear, I'll do things I never do in the gym. It's like, I've talked about this before. It's like there's a side of me that takes over when I compete and they're so much stronger and faster and they do all kinds of cool stuff. And I kind of watch myself, watch my matches afterwards. A lot of times going, damn, look pretty good in there. Who's that guy? Right? Looks like me. You know, sounds like me. But it doesn't seem like it's me. It seems like it's someone else. Maybe you guys have ever experienced it before. Your body's just doing what you've been trained to do. It's going off of intuition and training. And so again, I like that feeling. I like being able to test myself. I like letting my body go and just letting it out. Let's see what it can do. But as far as beating someone, I don't really care. And also one of the reasons why I don't overly celebrate is because I've been on the losing end of it. It's not fun. So I'm trying not to rub salt in the wound. If I want to go celebrate afterwards, we'll go celebrate when we're having dinner or when I get back to the gym. And so I'm totally with you there. And so I was also looking at your profile and I saw that recently you became a father, right? And again, that's one of those life changing moments for a man, isn't it? Like when you have these two little eyes looking up at you and you're like, Hey, like you're responsible for me. And you look at those two eyes and you realize that you would do anything for that child. That puts a lot of things into perspective. You know, at that point, again, like when you become a dad, everything else becomes side quests. You know, that becomes like, I need to do this right. Everything else side quests. Everything else is not as important, but providing for this thing, that is the most important thing that I can do. And so again, I there's a lot of other things that are going to be really important to you, especially as you get older. And that's something that I've come to the same sort of feeling with. So again, I can't sort of give you how to enjoy winning. But I would say that you can enjoy the feeling of testing yourself, of getting out there and competing and doing the techniques you've been been training. And that whole thing that can be a fun part, learning more from it so that you can help coach people to help make them better. That's part of it. And you can still enjoy, you know, coaching people. But again, you don't have to be the person that's screaming and yelling and enjoying beating someone in order to be good at competitions. I've been good at competitions for years. And again, I haven't really enjoyed, I've never really enjoyed screaming and yelling since I was a young, young guy. From a long time, I always sort of just was like, Hey, I'm doing this because I enjoy doing it, not because I'm trying to like, beat this person or because I enjoy beating other people, that kind of thing. Does that make sense? Kind of ramble in there. But again, I can't give you the exact idea, but I can just tell you you're in good company, there's nothing wrong with it. People compete for different reasons. And that's okay if that's your reason. So anyway, brother, thank you for your question. I'll talk to you guys next time.

=== FILE: Why Cutting Weight is a Big Mistake for Most People in BJJ [mvF8wH3ICYw].txt ===

 whatabuy. So today we got a question from Bob, who is wondering about weight cutting for his 16-year-old teenage daughter. So he says that she's been training jiu-jitsu for a bit, she's a blue belt now, and she's getting more and more into jiu-jitsu itself and getting into competitions. She hangs out and trains with a group of young women in their early 20s who are around the same size as her and they're competing and they're all cutting weight. And so this young 16-year-old is looking at him going, huh, you know, monkey see monkey do, they're cutting weight, I guess I'm going to cut weight. Now Bob, who is a purple belt who also competes and sometimes does cut weight, says he's anti-cutting weight for younger kids and stuff and so he doesn't like it. And he's also worried about his daughter getting into some sort of weird hang up with food and his body image and stuff because, you know, for a young woman, there's so much garbage out there on social media that already distorts how you think you're supposed to look and everything else. And he's like, he just doesn't want his daughter to get screwed up in the process chasing like these weight cuts or anything like that, which, you know, again, totally understandable, right? So his question basically is if I have any suggestions or ideas on weight cutting for younger people or maybe to help sort of steer his daughter away from doing hard water cuts as a young teenager and would love to hear your thoughts, Bob. So brother, thank you for the question. So I got a couple ideas for you to chew on, man. And hopefully this is useful to you. So check this out. As a general rule, this is just the way that I think about it. I'm a guy who has cut plenty of weight over my years. I have cut weight early on and jujitsu had cut like 10 pounds for a tournament in my MMA fights. Generally it was around 15 to 20. I remember my last pro fight, I was walking around like, you know, 205 to 10, I would walk like slowly chip away diet wise to about 199. And then I would water out into 185. And then after that, I would, you know, I took IV bags and like hydrate and everything else. I was 204 the next day, you know, so again, I've cut water and know how to do it. That said, I really wouldn't recommend most people in jujitsu cut weight. If you have a day before weigh in, you could do that. But for most people, most competitions, IBGF competitions or competitions when you're, you know, getting ready to compete within a couple of hours, I just don't think it's a smart idea. And to be honest with you, most people in jujitsu have no business cutting weight. I say that because most people in jujitsu, if you look around, they kind of, they have an extra little bit of fluff that they could lose. I'm not saying your daughter is this way. I'm just kind of going off and quit rant and I'll bring it back to your daughter in a second. But you see people in, you know, in jujitsu where, you know, their diet isn't very good. They have some pounds that they can lose. They have excess amount of body fat. And then they're like, I need you to do a water cut. Bad idea. What would be a better idea is to diet down and learn how to get those things in check and get to a lower body fat percentage. I'm not saying you got to be shredded to the gills. I'm just saying like lower. So you're not carrying around excess body fat because there's no advantage in jujitsu in being a, at a higher weight class. You're going to be better off to be at a lower weight class for, you know, your size. You want to be bigger for the weight that you're in. This is why cutting weight is such a popular thing to do, right? Because you're, you are bigger at the weight class that you were at, right? The issue is, is that a lot of people want to do the water cut when they could just diet down for a couple of weeks and they would feel so much better. I speak from experience. I started working with my coach Eli back in 2020 for a competition. And I remember it like with a guy that actually knows how to manipulate food. It's a complete, it's a game changing thing. I was literally cutting weight, losing weight. I felt amazing because I was eating the right types of foods. I was eating the right types of foods to support my performance. I went in and competed and felt incredible. I remember there was even like little weird things where in 2022 when I won worlds, I remember the day before the weigh-ins, my weight had dropped a little bit. I was a little low, lower than what I wanted to be. And I was like, Hey man, I need to, I want to be a little bit higher, about two pounds higher. What do I need to eat tonight in order to go in just around like 200 at the scales? And so he, you know, gave me some extra things and told me to eat an extra, a certain amount of carbs through the form of rice and a pop tart. I asked him why I was like, why am I eating all of this? And he said, because X amount of carbs binds with X amount of water. And so he should put us around this particular weight. The next day, voila, that was the weight that I woke up. That's incredible to me because he's like a wizard with food. And so with that, what I would tell you to do, bro, what would be a great learning experience would be to find a coach for her to help her out with her nutrition. Now you could use the one that I use that many of my students have used. And actually many of you guys online have used. If his information is down below, he doesn't pay me anything for it. I just do it because he's done a hell of a job with me, my wife, my students, and a lot of you guys. And so if you want to use him, you can do that, but use anybody that you might know that works with women or competitors, just someone that, that knows what we're doing and they can help craft a diet. Now here's the beautiful part about it. Your daughter then can get to the weight class that she wants to get into, but instead of her killing herself with water cuts that are probably going to be not well done, because most people again, don't know how to hydrate properly back. And this isn't even like new competitors stuff. I've met a few in the last year I've talked to several different, like good black belt competitors, very good guys who like don't know how to rehydrate properly, and then they're in their matches, getting cramps really bad. Um, and you know, just not feeling good. And so she can learn how to adjust her diet to get to the weight that she wants to be in, whether she wants to go down, whether she wants to go up. And I would tell you that for me, right? After working with Eli for the last five years, I've gained weight. I've lost weight. It's so systematic. There's no mystery behind it. It's nothing like the internet junk where, you know, everything's about being like sensationalized and hyper, uh, hyperbolic, like, you know, instead of just telling you something like basically straightforward and simple, it always has to be there's this one food you don't know about. And if you want to find out, then buy my course and I'll show it to you. Right. When really it's like, again, the best thing for you to do. It's fine foods you like foods at your body, digests well and seems to, to deal with well, right? Cause there are food allergies and stuff that sometimes you can find. And then you eat those foods consistently and that is your diet. And then if you want to get bigger, we just take a little of the food away. And if we want to get, you know, if we want to get bigger, we add more food. If we want to get smaller, we take the food away and we can manipulate our weight very systematically. No, no mystery about it. And so it would be a great education for your daughter to go through that. Then later on, as she gets a little bit older. If she wants to do a little bit of a water cut, she can do that. And also if she has a good coach that knows how to do that properly, she can actually learn how to do it. Well, where you know exactly how to hydrate yourself properly with the balance of electrolytes that you're going to need, how to spread that out over a course of a couple of hours and so forth. And so my encouragement to you with that is to get her a coach that can help her with her diet. Most people have an idea of how to eat relatively healthy. Yes. But most people couldn't tell you, Hey, you want to manipulate your weight by two pounds or whatever, like that. They don't know how to do that. But if you get a good coach, they will know how to do that. And for her wanting to be a competitor, that would be a great education to learn at a younger age. So this way she can be wherever she wants to, and she can develop a really healthy relationship with food where she can enjoy the food she wants. But she knows if she wants to lose weight, this is all you have to do. Nothing crazy, no, no nonsense, just very straightforward, basic principles. And so those are my ideas to you, brother. If I, if I had a kid, I have a son and if my son was coming to me and said, dad, I want to cut some weight, this is what I would do. I would get him working with a coach like my coach, Eli, to get his weight where it needs to be opposed to like sort of half-assing a water cut, or just like coming up with some like, you know, cockeyed, like diet or whatever, like, just have someone write it out for you that knows that stuff. And so anyway, rambling, been talking like this for about seven minutes, right? Um, hopefully that's helpful to you, Bob. And good luck to your daughter and their competitions. And then you said you compete too. So if you compete, good luck to you as well, brother. Talk to you guys next time.

=== FILE: Why am I so damn sore after a BJJ competition compared to training？ [iqyBnT2Tpjg].txt ===

 whatabuy. So today I got a comment from the seal, is the name, I think I'm saying it right. He says, hey Chewie, I recently got bronze at a competition, got a triangle in every one of my matches, and then right after the competition, my right leg, the part of the leg that's above, the person's neck is so sore that I can't walk, and basically he's really banged up from the tournament overall, and he's wondering if I have any advice on the competition, and the fact that he's so sore after this competition. So Vasil, thank you for the question brother, and I imagine that you are new to competing brother, that's probably why you're so surprised about this, because any of us that have competed in any length or any, for any length of time, we sort of understand that this is what happens. You go into the competition and you might be able to roll for like an hour plus in the gym, but then you go into a competition and you do like two or three matches and you're banged up from it. It's a big difference, and this is because you are going at such a higher level of intensity when you're out in competition. Like for instance, my resting heart rate is generally about 50-ish to 60-ish, that's where it sits most of the day. That's my normal resting heart rate. At a competition, my competition day, my resting heart rate sits like 80 plus, literally just doing nothing, it's just ramped up. My body is ramped up. I remember sitting there with my heart rate monitor, because what I do is at competitions, I will use my heart monitor to make sure that I'm getting into my red zone, so to speak, right before my matches. I make sure my body is warmed up for that level of intensity, and I'll look at the heart monitor, and it doesn't take much for me to get into that zone, whereas most of the time in training, I really got to push hard to get into that level of output with my body. Understand that when you compete, your body is pushing at such a hard pace that you cannot replicate in the gym easily. Even if you are really pushing yourself hard, inside of the gym, you know and like the people usually. You're always holding back a little bit, because you don't want to hurt someone, right? In a competition, you're going full speed. You don't know this person, you're in a foreign environment. There's all kinds of factors being played into it, bro. So you are pushing yourself at an intensity that is just so hard to capture without being there. And this is why I tell a lot of people that are new to Jiu-Jitsu, if you want to compete, you got to go do it. Like I actually had one of my guys recently, Levi, who he went to a competition, didn't do so well, and then he came back and competed recently, and then he had a great competition. And I think it's in part because he had the experience of filling it out. It's hard to know what you're getting ready for. It's hard to know how to prepare until you felt it, right? And you go out there and you feel that. So that's why you're so sore. You probably don't fight as hard for those triangles like you did in that competition like you do outside. I can tell you that most of the time, what I typically do is I sort of plan a week off from competition after the competition is over. Even if it wasn't really the most physically straining competition, a lot of times neurologically, like my body's just shot. Like I just feel a little fatigued mentally. I feel a little foggy. Even if my body feels okay for the most part. And so that's what's going on, bro. It's nothing crazy. It's something that's pretty normal for everybody. Just planning your next competition once it's over. Try to give yourself like, you know, a week or so after the competition to sort of take it easy a little bit. Do some light exercise, have like an active recovery. You'll do some stuff to get the blood flowing, but don't push it too hard because, you know, you just pushed yourself at a very intense level. And I remember one of my buddies, Derek Wilcox, he's a, he's an intelligent guy and he was doing this study with people where he would basically measure their grip strength as a means to judge how how their body was doing and they could test like overtraining or if they were getting sick. And they found all kinds of interesting stuff where they could find that they could almost detect that the person was getting sick before they were getting, before they even knew that they were sick because they would see their, their grip strength decrease. And he was talking about that even if the person did a, an event in the particular sport that he was judging on, when they would do the sport, even if it was an easy, relatively easy event, just because of the stressful nature of being in a competition, a lot of times when they would come back, they still weren't recovered, even if they felt physically okay. And so it's generally a good idea just to take some time off a week off after a competition, rest up, come back afterwards and then get back to it. And so yeah, bro, that's what's going on. That's why you felt so banged up. You're just going, you're at a high intensity level in competitions. It's very normal. Just have some rest and chill out and programmed afterwards so you can recover and then get back to training afterwards and not get injured in the process. So hopefully that's helpful to you, Vasyl. Thank you for watching the video. I'll talk to you next time.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.059226Z ===
