 abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants, abundants abundants, abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants abundants I do. I coach people in jujitsu. That's what my job is. However, it's also one of those things where I've become a YouTuber, right? Never really intended to do that, but that's part of what I do now, even though I absolutely hate the term and I absolutely despise the idea of being an influencer. But in this world we live in right now with like the videos, there's so many bullshitters out there, right? And I mean, every space there's like, for instance, I'm a business owner. So I get targeted for all this stuff. These business guys that talk about how to run a successful business. And these guys have never run a successful business. They've never operated a successful business, but they're going to teach me how to run one. Like get out of here. And there's plenty of social media people in jujitsu who they show all kinds of crazy stuff, whatever else, but like they don't get out and test it. They don't go out and show that it works. You know, they're like, yeah, like watch me beat up my white belt and look at me like trash them. Like that's not what I'm about. So I share this stuff with you guys because I have a very simple game. My game is very simple. I show this to the channel over and over and over again. In fact, a lot of people will send me messages. I've had comments. I've even had people tell me this to my face in person. Oh man, I love your jujitsu stuff. It's really great, man. Great, simple stuff. Really awesome for white belts. And I mean, like if you watch my matches over the years for the last decade and a half, like that's my game. It's simple. I like simple because in my bearded, but I think correct opinion, in many cases, subtraction is harder than addition. Like for instance, with diet, it's easy to go ahead and suck down some more vitamins, add another vitamin, add another supplement to the mix. But you know, what's tough for most people taking a little bit of sugar out of the diet, taking a little extra food out of the diet, taking your junk food out of the diet, reducing your calories. That's hard for people, right? And you think about the biggest problem that a lot of people have in jujitsu. It isn't that they don't have enough information. They have too much information. They're like chasing all these new things. There's always a shiny object thing over here. You know, it's tough to think about what it is that you want to do and then focus on that thing for a long period of time, opposed to, you know, chasing a new technique every day and doing something new and always looking for the new trend and what the new meta is. It's harder to focus on things for a long period of time and to dive into that deep complexity that you get when you focus on something because, you know, you can have the shallow knowledge, but when you stick with something for a long period of time, you get into this deep knowledge where the complexity of it is in the grip changes, the positional adjustments and the strategy of it, the principles that you understand behind it. That's where the magic to me is. And that's where the complexity of my game lies. And so in these videos, you'll see plenty of stuff that I've shown on the channel, different sweeps, guard passes, and things like that. And so hopefully this is useful to you guys. And by the way, I have nothing wrong with new techniques, new positions. I do this stuff all the time. I experiment all the time, constantly do that. I love doing that. But again, I'm just sharing my philosophy that when it comes to being effective, subtraction, that's what you're looking for. You're looking for simplifying things rather than making them more complex for complexity's sake. That's been useful to me in my jujitsu, my life, my business, everything else. And also just throwing this out there to you guys, if you want to train with me at one of my upcoming jujitsu camps this summer, check the links or the pinned comment down below to get details for my upcoming jujitsu camps at my gym this summer. They're a really cool, intimate experience where we keep the numbers relatively small. It'll be you guys and my students training together. It's a good time. And let's get into the matches. And let's get into the matches... And Up under your head. Second grip. You've got that left hook on your leg. Get a wrist there. Get that off. Keep your leg here. Re-apply both of you. Two kicks. Two kicks. Keep your posture. Good. Now move your leg back. Now move it back to center. Now move it back to center and move it on your body. Now move it back to center and move it on your body. And Step right foot to the floor. You have to walk. You have to walk. You have to take your hand. You have to take your hand. Reline your head. Reline your head up. Reline your head up. Put your head to the knee. Straight climb. Use your head to dig at your hips. Make your head on the floor, lift your hips. Take your head. Push the elbow up to the sky. Step to the elbow. Get your elbow. Get your elbow. What can you do, Robert? Walk your hips away. Run your shoulders away. Short marks. Relax. Reline. Reline your head up. Reline your head up. Reline your head up. Reline your head up. And straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight straight 2 on 1 on that knee. 2 on 1. Get into a little bit, Rich. Grab that knee. Grab that knee. There's a 2. Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Seats down towards the feet. Don't go high. Don't go low. Grab your butt down towards the feet. Get your head under the armpit. Get lower. You've got a minute, Dad. Scoot your butt lower. Grab your feet to the scoreboard. Let's go, James! Get your head on the other side. Other side. There you go. Take your head to the mat. Take your head to the mat. Okay. Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Hey! Pick up, let's flys. Pick up, let's flys. Pick up, let's flys. Pick up, let's flys. Pick up, let's flys. Pick up, let's flys... Pick up, let's flys... And push them back in... And Beautiful! Go, go, go, go, go, go! Go, go, go, go! Woo! Good burn on that one a little bit. How do you feel after that one? Good, so I don't have any points. I don't have any points at Master 3, old man. So I'm like the second to last seed. I was like, so I had a pigtails match to get into the bracket. So just wanted to get that one out of the way. One second. Eight tangles now. Eight tangles now. Eight and seven. Six, six, third, third, third up now. Up the leg, good. Five seconds now. Good, good. And... And... And... Thank you. And Go, go, go! Go, go, go... Thank you. Thank you.