 ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing ing He's on this new diet. Everything's laid out and he's ready to get in and get after it, right? Ready to make some changes and then Life happened as it often does, right? And so then he's looking at his plan and it's all falling apart And he's not able to make it happen And I remember talking to him the other day and he's like chew. I just feel so undisciplined You know, I wasn't able to stick to my plan and he's talking to me like hey chewy Like how are you so disciplined? How do you stick to your plans? and I shared something with them that i've shared multiple times with people and I think it's useful because most people have this belief that being disciplined Is this sort of rigid adherence to like a plan? or this thing making it happen exactly as you wanted to but That's not how I see discipline now. You could disagree with me, of course, but to me discipline is about flexibility Because as life happens things your plans go to hell, don't they? I think there was a famous philosopher Who said uh Everybody's got a plan until you get punched in the face Not sure if that's plato or mike tyson But uh, you know, you you do things you make plans Whatever this is maybe that's training. Maybe it's your diet. Maybe it's something with your business Maybe it's something with your family whatever you make plans and life happens and life punches you in the face And what happens just what i've seen right and what i've experienced in the past when I was Viewed things a little differently Is when the plan goes to shit people just throw their hands up and go ah i'm so undisciplined It's all falling apart. Why even do this right? But it's at that moment That's the moment when you show your discipline When things go to hell, what do you do? Do you fold? Or do you remain flexible and figure out a way to make it happen? Think about like a jiu-jitsu competition or an mma fight, right? You go into that that contest and maybe you have a game plan Maybe you have i'm going to shoot for this takedown or i'm going to set this guy up with that whatever it is And then as many of us have experienced what happens your opponent does something you didn't plan for right? Things happen your plan went to hell What do you do? Well in a competition setting you remain flexible you say okay This didn't work out but i've got to figure out how to solve this problem that i'm faced with This person's doing this and I got to do this This weekend was a great example of this right this weekend. I you know Had this big coaching workshop set up for my uh for my gym Uh that we had like this fundamentals class coming in to have the coaches work on it I'm also in a weight cut right now because i'm losing weight for some competitions So i've got this stuff going on And I had my little plan set up for the week Here's what i'm going to be doing on these days And then my son developed this really gnarly infection on his bottom that progressively got worse until on friday All of a sudden he's wailing in pain. So we go to the er we're like we get to get this checked out They check it out. They send us back home with some medicine medicine's not really helping on sunday We go back to the er and we're in there longer than they're like Well, we need to operate on this thing and we'll have to bring him back in tomorrow So then on monday we go to the or and get it taken care of now, by the way, he's fine He's super healthy. It was just a very small thing, but everything's good now But that threw a wrench in everything that I had planned for that weekend And you know the food had been ordered all the messages have been sent people were coming And so there were some different things that I had to work on really late in the evening on friday to make sure everything was ready um, I had to get my workouts in early and then when i'm at the hospital in these different days I'm on my weight cut. I'm not going to gorge and eat whatever the hell I want to because i've got to maintain this diet So i'm having to crunch macros in the or and the the hospital to make sure that i'm where I need to be And bring some snacks with me and again, this isn't to say that this was that big of a deal It wasn't that big of a deal, right? I just share this with you because i'm sure a lot of parents relate to that, right? But I share this with you because this happens all the time And again, you can't lose heart at the first Moment that something just doesn't happen the way you want to right at least again That's just been my experience. And so I share that with you guys, right? If you're got your plans set up and you've got your little thing set up in whatever realm of your life that you're getting ready to do it in Right expect it to go wrong expect it to just go to hell expect it to just Things are going to happen. That's the way that it always works, right? And then think about it this way is that is the time where you actually show your discipline If this happens, what can you do to work around that? What can you do to stay on your diet? What can you do to get your training and what can you do to be there for your family or your business? Whatever it is, right? So anyway, i'm just rambling at this point. I think the video is long enough I just wanted to share that with you guys because i've met so many of my students over the years Who get really attached to this is how this thing is supposed to work with training And then when it falls apart They lose heart they either they maybe go one day off their diet and all of a sudden they just throw their hands up I don't need to do this anymore or maybe something happened in the middle of the week I'm, just going to skip the rest of the week or whatever Find a way to make it happen remain flexible To me, that's what discipline is about discipline is the flexibility to make it happen Even when things don't happen the way you want to or they get a little messy So just an idea to chew on i'll talk to you guys next time To me two you