 whatabuy. So one of the questions that gets asked to me all the time is what kind of lifting do I like to do for jiu-jitsu? What's the best lifting for jiu-jitsu? What's the best lifting that I should do to support my jiu-jitsu? So I'm going to share the lifting style that I like doing. I've been doing the last five years, but I will be honest with you guys, I don't lift for jiu-jitsu specifically. I think it's kind of a bad idea. I lift for other reasons, which I'll explain in a minute, but I have gotten a lot of benefits for jiu-jitsu and a lot of carryover for jiu-jitsu. I'll explain what that is. And so join with me today as I get one of my lifting days in and I'll explain a couple ideas with you. So as I'm getting warmed up, I'll explain kind of my focus on lifting. First off, like I said, it's not jiu-jitsu first, right? For me, when it comes to lifting, first is injury prevention. I want to lift in a way that makes my body strong and healthy and protects me from injury because I feel like if I'm not getting injured all the time, I'm going to be able to train consistently and that's going to be better in jiu-jitsu, right? Which has been a idea that I had and it came to be true. Second sort of focus for me, second importance is aesthetics. I want to look good with my clothes off and when I'm naked in front of my wife. Simple thing, right? So I want to look good. Third is I just want to feel good and feel mentally sharp for me after a workout. I got to feel mentally better. Physically, my body feels nice and loose. Like even the work that I do, I was talking to one of my guys about this last night. I don't feel mentally sharp until after a workout of some sort, whether that's jiu-jitsu, lifting or even if it's like a rest day, I'll take the dog for a long walk. And then after all those three things, right? Feeling good, being physically healthy without injury and looking good, then it comes down to performance, right? And then it goes to what kind of performance or carryover value I'm getting for the sport that I'm doing. And so for me, the way that I think about it is if I'm strong, if I'm not getting injured, if I feel good, if I'm able to train consistently, then it's going to be easy to carry that over to jiu-jitsu, right? Like if I'm strong and healthy, I will figure out how to use the strong and healthy body and convert it to jiu-jitsu with the technique. Now that said, there have been a couple things that have really carried over to my jiu-jitsu in a big way over the last five years since I've been working with my coach. So I started getting my lifting routines made by my coach Eli back in 2020. You know, I just wanted to try something new before that. Like when I was young, I had done things like when I was in my early 20s, I was like 255. I was doing like strongman and powerlifting, just doing as heavy as I could because that's where I was mentally. Then later on, I did CrossFit and you do the crazy workouts and, you know, the functional fitness that it said that it was. I think it just turned into a sport and a lot of people doing really sloppy reps at times, not always, but in a lot of cases. And I think for jiu-jitsu, it's just too much. I saw so many people get injured trying to do CrossFit and jiu-jitsu, but not everybody. So if you like CrossFit, I'm not saying anything. But with what we're doing here, what Eli started to have me do was basically, because it's what I wanted to do, is basically more bodybuilding style, hypertrophy, nothing crazy. But with that said, there's been a few different benefits I've had from it. So first off is going to be the use of these slow repetitions where we're moving the weight, getting full range of motion, and we're focused on slowing the rep range down. Maybe having a little pause here at the bottom. And at the same time, the rep range is higher than what I was doing before. So what's been useful about it? Well, first off, those slowest intros, think about it this way. When I was younger, everything was just like, if I was lifting, it was like chugging, chugging, chugging, and with a bench press. If it was a squat, we're squatting down, bouncing out of the bottom. Everything was really fast. And think about this from Jiu Jitsu, like, how often are you doing one big massive push? Probably not too often, unless you're getting destroyed in the mats, right? That's your desperation push. But how often are you doing something like a, like holding here, or having someone pushing, you're having to frame and push from here, or even having to do multiple pushes, right? All the time. That's Jiu Jitsu every day. So doing those slower eccentrics, pauses at the bottom, those gave me strength in particular places that I wasn't, I didn't have it before, it got me stronger there. Now, because the rep range is a little higher, and the eccentrics are slower, the weight has to drop. So when you slow the reps down and you increase the rep range, what does that do? Well, you got to drop the weight. Well, now you're lifting less weight, which for me, being an older guy, right? And again, I know some of you guys here, you're older than me, and you're like, chewy, you're only 40, whatever. I've got my AARP card. Look, man, I've been doing grappling for 20 something years. You know, kind of, what's the word? It sort of ages you a little differently, right? I've been grappling since I was in my teenage years. And so I'm old by athletic standards. I'm old enough now that for the most part, in any other sport, I'd be retired already. But for some reason, the Jiu Jitsu, I'm still ticking, right? So anyway, by lowering the weight, I've been able to lift more often and have less wear and tear in my joints, right? So back in the day when I was lifting a little bit heavier, God, leave me. Every time I do a lift, I would just feel it afterwards. Like, you know, if I was doing squat days and everything else, I just didn't feel good. It's like, I, you know, I lifted, I felt, you know, got stronger or whatever, but my body felt it more with the lifting style that I'm doing now. I can lift like this multiple days a week, four days a week, no issues. And again, I've had almost no issues where it affects my Jiu Jitsu because I don't want to lift and then take away from my ability to do Jiu Jitsu. I can do this lift in the mornings. And then I can do Jiu Jitsu at night, no issues whatsoever. And the last thing that I kind of got from it was because the plan was focused on the muscles, right? Like getting full range of motion, right? Everybody's seen some guy at the gym doing like a bro squat like this. Because you're so focused on getting full range of motion to really stretch those muscles out to get the most fun the muscles. The thing that I noticed and again, I didn't intend for this to happen was I got more mobile, flexible, whatever you want to call it, especially with my squats. Because what you're doing is you're forcing your body into the position, you're forcing your body to build strength there. A lot of times when people think of a flexibility issue, they almost always think, Oh, the muscle is just really tight. I got to stretch it out. But in a lot of cases, it's a strength issue. And your body can form a muscle tightness in an area where it's weak to prevent you from going there. Because it's like, look, we don't have any strength here, we got to like keep you out of that space. And I remember especially from doing like slow squats, where, you know, I'm doing a three to five second eccentric on the squat, pausing at the bottom, and then coming back out of it. Doing that instead of just simply getting to the bottom and bouncing out real fast. I got a lot stronger in those those positions I wasn't used to. And I found that my knees and my legs felt better. Right. Like I remember my late 20s, I felt there were times where I literally would crack and pop just walking around the house when I was waking up in the morning, like now four years old, like over 10 plus years later, I can wake up in the morning, I can squat down just fine, no issues. And that's with two knee surgeries. I've had a meniscus surgery on this one. I was 19. I've had a meniscus surgery on this one when I was 29. And again, my knees feel better than they did 10 years ago. And again, I think a big part of that is doing less weight, but doing full range of motion with these exercises and again, adding in that slowest centric in those pauses have been really helpful. So again, I'm just sharing it with you guys. A lot of times you ask about what my favorite lifts are for jiu-jitsu. It's I don't lift for jiu-jitsu. I lift to keep my body strong and healthy and they look good, feel good. And then if those are in check, I think my jiu-jitsu is going to benefit from it. That's how I look at it. I do do some specific stuff like upper back work, like to help pull my shoulders back so that you know, again, in jiu-jitsu, we're always squeezing. So we develop these overly tight pecs, helps fight against those. But otherwise, that's the idea. Also, just sort of shameless plug. If you guys want to check it out, me and my coach Eli, we put together a whole program for basically lifting and balancing it with jiu-jitsu. The whole deal, if you want to check out, it's down below. We call it the swollen roll program. If you want to check it out, it's basically how to balance jiu-jitsu with lifting. If you don't, no big deal. You can simply do whatever program you have now and you can start implementing this idea of like slowest centrics, three-secondy centrics, a pause at the bottom followed by a nice forceful concentric, or you're pushing the weight up, that sort of thing. So very helpful. And again, you can do these with your bench presses and pushes or your rows and your pulls or your squats. It doesn't matter. So hopefully, it was useful to you guys. If you were interested in the type of lifting that I'm using, or I found beneficial, especially as I get older and older into grappling, and talk to you next time.