 kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab in one tournament. So it's like an Al Bundy reference here or something for any of my old folks, right, for touchdowns in a single game. Anyway, he goes to this tournament, gets a bunch of knee bars, and then obviously, you know, he made a post about it showing all the knee bars. No big deal. But a lot of the people were making a stink about it in the comments saying like, Bluebelt's doing knee bars? Oh, you know, I be Jeff wouldn't allow this. And, you know, that's against the rules, whatever it is, right? So just making a stink about it. And I was thinking about this because, you know, it is anti leg locks as the early 2000s jujitsu was, we all used them pretty early. I remember going to several tournaments where knee bars and straight ankles were all legal at Whitebelt. It was like basically it was like if you if you didn't know how to like defend a knee bar, it was kind of like, why not? It's like an arm bar, right? Like twisting things like hill hooks and stuff were a little bit more dangerous. Although I do remember there being a tournament. I remember we even thought it was a little while that they were like letting Whitebelt student hill hooks and you were just watching. I mean, get ripped. But anyway, but this is like back before people kind of knew what they were doing. So I mean, there's no like control. I mean, it's like grip is ripping. It's terrible, but definitely lost a few ACLs at that tournament. But again, for me, thinking about it, just in just my general view, my bearded opinion, if you can't defend a knee bar, like, I guess, you know, there are different qualifications for Bluebelt's just saying. And again, you know, for me, at the gym, we always start guys off doing leg locks early. Now they can't use hill hooks in full rolling like early on, but we make sure that they know them early on. So they learn them so they can learn how to defend them. They can learn how to use them because I'll tell you as a coach, I've had less submission or less injuries of from leg locks after we did them more because people know how to apply them safely, they know how to defend them properly. And again, you know, at the very early on, we want them to get exposed to leg locks because you don't want to do no leg locks. And all of a sudden you get to purple belt or brown belt or whatever level you get to. And all of a sudden it's like, aha, surprise, you know, have to deal with this weapon that you haven't done anything with. That's what I said to one guy. He's like, they can't do them till brown and black. I was like, what do you think I'm going to do to people when I get there? Yeah, like if you haven't used them for years, and now they're available. That's right. So my question to you guys is, do you think that Bluebelts and Whitebelts, let's say Bluebelts, because it's the Whitebelts, whatever, you know, but Bluebelts, do you think Bluebelts should be able to do knee bars, knee bars? What do you think? Drop it down in the comments below. I'm curious to see what kind of people we're working with here. And I make no judgment. If you're not a knee bar person in your Bluebelts, I make no judgment whatsoever. I'm just having fun with you guys. But I'm curious, right? Like, do you guys care about the arbitrary rules set of one tournament as if it should be the standard for all? Or do you think that yeah, knee bars are fine, whether you use them or not? Let me know what you think and talk to you guys next time. We got a clock. What? Oh, no. No. Marvin really likes the clap. Like, we'll do videos sometimes that aren't like posted on YouTube. They're posted like for some of my bike constructions and stuff like that. And he's like, the clap's there. All right, let's do this again. Talk to you guys next time.