 tr habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit habit cases. And so hopefully this helps you out, David. Today is my lovely assistant, Mr. Marvin. Let's get started. So brother, you didn't specify gi or no gi, so I'm going to just show you like one that they work in both, right? My game is kind of universal. I can change the grips up, but I'll show you how to do that. We'll talk first about the snatch single, and then we'll talk about a sweep single, okay? So let's turn this side here. So snatch single, really simple. The basic idea, and I'll get into the grips in a second, is that we're going to get in, we're going to take a step on the outside, pick that leg up here, and then we can try to finish it however we'd like. Bang, maybe we do a trip or something like that. But we can get in and pick the leg up. Now, the beautiful part about a high-level snatch single like this, where you're not dropping down, is if it fails, typically the worst you're going to get is a push away, right? They're just going to push you away and get away from you. You're not going to get the takedown, no big deal, right? You can sometimes even use them as jabs. If you think about a jab in boxing, a lot of times you're not expecting the big knockout with the jab, but it's to keep them honest, to keep them on their toes in a match or something like that, or even a roll, you can shoot this here like you're going for a single and then make them defend it and basically just make them kind of be more on the defensive, opposed to like going for the big shot right out of the gate. It's almost just a feinting and hand fighting and positioning, just getting them to move. Now, how would we set that up? The way that I like to set them up is I like to have, I'm a right leg lead typically, and so my right leg's leading and I want to get him on that foot, all right? Now, if he's not on the foot already, I'll start circling. If he's already on the foot, again, I'll still circle because what I would like to have happen is I would like to circle and get him heavy on that foot. So usually what I will do is work a wrist sleeve, at the very least an inside tie here. But for me personally, I typically like wrist control or sleeve control because I can pull down. And I would tell you that most of the time, gi or no gi, I tend to still grab a wrist. And what I'm doing here is as I'm circling, I'm circling away and then I'm pulling down. And notice what's happening. As I pull down, I'm getting that, getting him to step. And it's only for a moment, right? He's going to step. He's going to be heavy on his foot, which then allows me to take a step on the outside. And then I drive in. Now, big deal here. Do not try to pick the leg up. The name says snatch, but you don't want to get in here. And this is what like a lot of people that are unfamiliar with takedowns that do. They'll get in this position and they'll try to pick it up. We're not trying to pick that leg up. Okay. If Marvin puts all of his weight on his lead foot here, I'm not going to be able to pick this leg up. But if I drive into him, his body weight shifts backwards to the other foot and the leg pops right up. Very easy. As I pick that leg up, the hand goes behind the knee and then I can use this hand to come in and reinforce it to help support that grip. And then you can obviously work takedowns here or try to get that leg on the hip here towards the side. Okay. I don't want the leg to go to the other side. We can play collar and we can use this collar to move them around and everything else. And you can also use it as a push, as a post, right? Because in some cases, if I see the guy kind of leading here, I can do a post here and pick this leg up. And then the grip here, if I've got these two grips here, one, two, boom, driving up and going. You can also play this off of, let's say if he gets a collar grip on me, I can go inside tie here and get this. And a lot of people don't seem to check this. I can also go for an inside bicep grip here, a inside pec grip here on this gi. And a lot of people don't check these grips. Like they feel strong with this. But if I get here, I'm on the inside of the grip now. I'm winning the grip battle. Okay. And so I can go here, same idea, head to head here. We're battling it out. Circle, boom, circle, pick it up, boom, finish it. The second one is a snatch or a sweep single. So the sweep single, it's more risky, but you will not, you won't have that straight sprawl that people can get. They can't, if they're good wrestlers, they'll know how to counter it and they'll have some defenses. But like that sort of just basic, like sprawl back, you're not going to get hit with that. And so what that looks like, again, I'm going to try to do my best here. My dumb ass broke my toe. I don't know if I broke it, but it's definitely swollen. If you look down at my feet right now, this toe's fine. This is that, this is that, uh, only fans content. Look at that fat bastard. So I got a sausage link for a toe. Um, and so I'm going to do my best as my shooting leg. So we'll see what it does. Right. So from here, same grips, collar, inside tie, inside, uh, peck to grip, any of this stuff works. And then from here, I typically hold sleeve or wrist. But again, I tend to really like the wrist. I feel like I get more control, same basic idea. I'm circling to get him to step. And then I'm going to take a slight step on the outside. Now, instead of running in on this, what I'm going to do is I'm going to try to drop my knee behind the back, right around here, uh, behind his leg. And at the same time, I'm going to hang on this grip on his collar or the, uh, inside tie here. Like I'm falling, like almost like I'm falling from a branch and I'm yanking on this sucker. Okay. And what that looks like is as I'm going here, boom, drop. Now what happens is stand up for me. I'm off to the side. Now some, he, what he just did will happen. I've got some matches where like literally I pull on this and the guy drops to the ground in a lot of cases also is I'll pull and they'll take a step. Now what's as significant about that step? Well, his weight just went on his foot, right? And this makes this leg lighter, makes it easier for me to pick the leg up. What's nice about this. You're talking about the sprawl. If the person sprawls, when I'm out on the side, they're going to go flat on their face. And there will be times if the person doesn't have good wrestling and doesn't know how to cut angles with their defense. I've had guys where they literally sprawl right in front of me because that's all they know as far as defense. They know sprawl. That's how you stop shots. But if you're shooting at angles, it's a little different. So again, we're here, we get our grips inside tie here, here, anywhere on the inside that allows me to pull. Okay. So we can get this foot to step. All right. And then over here, we're controlling this so that I can get him to step heavy. And also, again, I didn't talk about it, but it's worth noting. Remember your job when you're shooting in is to get the hands out of the way so that you can connect your body to their legs. Because you think about it, if we're in a takedown situation and we're going for shots, his first line of defense is his hands. So if I go to shoot, he can just push me away. He can get under hooks, whatever. So if I'm able to get through those, now I can get in, then we have to deal with the hips. Okay. So from here, I circle, pull, step, boom, right into position here and then pick the leg up and then we finish. And those are two basic takedowns. Obviously the snatch single is a little simpler. I still use it all the time. I've got plenty of matches me hitting this over the years. And then the snatch single or the sweep single, that one would take a little bit of practice. If you've never done it, drill it a little bit, get familiar with it, and then start doing some situational rounds where you get comfortable with it. But it's a great move, good in wrestling, good in jujitsu. And if you wear the gi, you can use that drop almost like you're doing like a seonagi type of movement where you're really yanking on the collar. If it's no gi, you'll typically imagine that we're doing no gi. We can be here, here. I'll have this inside tie here on this arm. And as I'm taking that step, again, I'm just pulling down, dropping to the side. That's how I set it up. Like most moves in grappling, there's lots of variations, lots of ways to do it, but I've hit both of those techniques plenty of times. And they will generally, if you use them, will typically keep you out of way of being sprawled on and allow you to get back up if they fail. So David Tobias, hopefully that helps you, brother. Thank you for your question. And as always, guys, talk to you next time. Bye.