 kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab kab everybody's wondering if I have any tips on how to build confidence and how to push through this so that he can go to the competitions and perform well. So Phillip, brother, thank you for the question. So dude, check this out. You're looking at confidence the completely wrong way and I think that you're looking at your situation the wrong way and this just happens a lot. This is like the myth of confidence. People think that if you're confident that you just know you're going to go into a situation that you're going to win. I know I'm going to win. That's not confidence. That's delusion. Right? If you get into a competition of any sort, there's no guarantee. Right? I look on like one of my favorite types of books to read is biographies. I love reading about biographies. I like reading about how people did things and how they worked their way up and the sort of things they went through to get there. And one of the common things that you see people who have done something, one of the common traits that they have, that they've all sort of displayed is their willingness to fall flat on their face usually more than once and to get back up, dust themselves off, reload, try again. That's to me like the thing that you really base their confidence on is that. I think about it like boxing. I remember when I started getting into boxing when I was like learning how to fight MMA and I had to learn more striking. You know grappling at that point was very you know normal to me natural but getting into boxing was rough. And I remember the thing that always bothered me in the beginning was getting hit. I didn't want to get hit. And I would stiffen up a lot and it would hurt a little bit, right? When I started to develop the ability to roll with the punches to stay loose and to take the hit and it not really bother me, that was when I got really confident with my ability to go into a sparring session because I knew like, yeah, you're going to hit me but I can take it. I'm going to be able to defend no big deal. And when you look at these people who then take risks to go for something that they want and they can fall flat on their face and they just get back up and try again, that's confidence bro. And for you, you should feel confident to some degree because look, you've lost. The worst thing that can happen to you in a competition is losing and you've done that and you're still training. You're still here. You took the punch, you kept coming. You fell flat on your face, you're still coming. You should look at that and you should think, ah, that's pretty damn cool. You should be confident about that. The worst thing happens and you're still able to go. Now, how do you develop confidence to go out there and win? Well, I mean, there's strategies for that. The biggest thing is we develop confidence in our training room, right? By making sure that we know that something's working, right? If it's working on everybody in the gym, like if you have a good competitive gym, it's probably going to work outside of the, into the competition. You probably need to narrow your game a little bit as far as your focus on a specific game plan style of rolling, like saying, this is the style, these are the take downs. This is the moves and positions I plan to use in competition. Let me focus on these as much as possible because again, in a competition, you're only going to use a very small sliver of the jujitsu that you know, right? But beyond that, you should be confident enough to go out to that competition and say, oh, if I lose big deal, I've already done this before. Not a big deal. Let me go for the win. I can take the risk because I know if I fall flat on my face, if I get submitted in 20 seconds in front of everybody, I'll just get back to training the next week and I'll come back again. And so that's how, that's how I would tell you as far as confidence goes. Stop looking at confidence because your message was longer and kind of getting into some of the things I didn't mention in the video. You're looking at confidence as it's going to be this thing where all of a sudden you're going to be walking around thinking you're just going to beat everybody. That's not confidence, bro. That's delusion. Confidence is knowing that you can fail or you can win and either way you're going to keep doing what you're doing. At least that's how I look at it. My bearded opinion, of course, but hopefully it helps you out, Phillip. Good luck to you in your next competitions, brother. Talk to you guys next time. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye. Bye.