 geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb geb Gatlinburg and the few things happened. We acquired a few more sponsors. And if you guys didn't know how we do sponsorships, when someone sponsors the Jiu Jitsu Open, we take that money. We dump it right back into you guys that are competing in our Nogi Absolute division. So real quick, if you're not familiar at our competitions at the Jiu Jitsu Open, when you compete with us, let's say that you place in any division, Gi or Nogi, doesn't matter. You place in a division. You can then sign up to do the Nogi Absolute, which is broken up by skill. Beginner, intermediate, advanced, expert. Male and female. And each one of those divisions gets $1,000 to the winner. Yes, you could be a white belt and get $1,000 to compete. Where on earth are you getting $1,000 to compete as a beginner in Jiu Jitsu? I don't know of anyone, right? And likewise, you can be a blue, brown, black, whatever. Find your spot in there and compete. And it's our Nogi Absolute divisions at the end of the tournament. So I'm pumped about that. $1,000 to compete for grappling. Or that's due to our sponsors for helping make that happen. And big thanks to them. Wattify. Wattify is the big sponsor for this competition coming up. And they are a gym management software. So again, for any of you guys that are not familiar, as a gym owner, a lot of people think that what we do as gym owners is we go out there, we teach Jiu Jitsu or we show people how to do whatever it is that we do, right? That's usually like the small part of what we do. There's all kinds of stuff we got to do in the back end to actually make the business work, right? And Wattify takes a lot of that off your plate and it automates it. So again, if you're a gym owner that's struggling with clunky old software and there's just so much stuff going on the back end, they automate a lot of that. So this way you can focus on the stuff that you actually want to do, which is teach Jiu Jitsu, train people, train yourself. And if you guys are interested, they have a special offer right now going on where you can get it for a buck, a dollar to use it, to try it out. And then afterwards it goes to $79 to $399, depending on the features that you use. And if you're not sure and you just want to sort of take it for a test drive, you can book a free demo with them. And again, they're donating a big chunk of the money for this sponsorship coming up. And so again, big thanks to them for helping make this happen. And if you're a gym owner that has clunky old software or no software at all, I've seen that a few times, check them out. Also thanks to our sponsor, Faithfully Natural Soap Company. So they are based in Tennessee. They're run by a blue belt and his family. So they're Jiu Jitsu people and they create all natural soaps that are free of fragrances and synthetic dyes and all that jazz, all the stuff you don't want to be rubbing your body in or your children's body in. And again, they smell great. I've been using their soap for a little bit. They sent me a package and me and my son, we get in there, I let him sniff a couple different ones that he wanted to use. And we've been using it on his skin. He's around three years old and he's got really sensitive skin and I use it on him and he doesn't aggravate it at all. And again, it smells great. So it's a win-win. It's free of the fake stuff, smells amazing. And they've got all kinds of different bars and shampoo bars and scrubs, the whole deal. If you guys want to check them out and say 15%, you can check the information down below. And then the last announcement that I want to share with you guys that I'm also excited about is that we teamed up with the PGF. So the PGF is the Professional Grappling Federation, is the brainchild of my buddy, Brandon McGaffron. And with him, he and I talked some months ago and he said, man, I love what you guys are doing with the Jiu-Jitsu Open and we're good buddies, right? So he said, man, let's figure out a way to team up. And what we decided to do is he runs qualifiers all over the place to get people to feed into his big organization because he's trying to run a professional grappling league that continuously runs, that gives grapplers a chance to win real money on a continuous basis, not just a random super fight, not just a random event. And with that, we are going to run a PGF qualifier at our Jiu-Jitsu Open Gatlinburg event. So if you're in the 175 pound weight range, we're doing that weight category. So for season nine, the PGF is doing their 175 pound class. And if you are a grappler around 175 pounds and you want to go get your shot to the big show, this is a great opportunity to do it, right? We're running a qualifier at the Jiu-Jitsu Open on December 6, 2025. It'll be later in the day and we'll be doing it then. So I'm just going to let you know also too, guys, if you're interested in competing, whether you're wanting to win the money, whether you're wanting to do the PGF qualifier, or you just want to compete in our unique style of grappling competition, I would do so sooner than later because multiple tournaments this year, we've had to close down registration because each venue has a unique situation and we can only fit so many people in. We had to do this for Branson. We had to do this for Louisville. We had to do this for Frankenmuth. We've had to shut down several of our tournaments because we just run out of space. And so I imagine that putting eight G's on the plate for people and then a lot of things, opening up the PGF qualifier, we're going to get a lot of people. And so if you guys are interested, get signed up sooner than later. This last competition, just letting you guys know, we had tons of kids. We had tons of master's divisions. We had a lot of women. We had a lot of men. We had a wide range of people. And again, it was incredible. And so if you guys want to get more details about the jujitsu open or anything that we have going on, you can check the information down below. But again, I'm super pumped about this. I know I'm like selling this stuff thing, you know, but I'm just excited. We started this thing two years ago in July here at my gym, we packed 200 people in this gym to compete. And we had to close that down too. Right. And I was thinking, I was like, you know, man, this is crazy. We went from 200 people in my gym to all of a sudden, we have 880 people in the middle of Michigan. We had over almost 700 people in Branson, right? We had almost 600 plus in Louisville. I mean, it's getting, it's getting big and I'm, I'm incredibly grateful to you guys that have been doing it with us. And we're going to continue to make it bigger, better, to give more money away and to do what we can to help both grow the community and give you guys an amazing competition that gets you tons of experience and a great, great, just a great time to enjoy. Right. I talked to a lot of people up in Frankenmuth who said they loved the tournament. They had such a blast at it that their gym had a good time. And that's, that's what we're after, right? We're after having a place where you guys can train, you can throw down, you can get after it, but at the same time you have a good time doing it. So anyway, I'm done rambling. I appreciate you guys for checking this out and hopefully I'll see you guys in Gatlinburg, Tennessee on December 6th or at my Sunday seminar on December 7th, again in Gatlinburg, Tennessee. See you guys there.