 Gundite1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1-1 You know, he's all the things that you want physically from someone to be good at competing in jiu-jitsu and be good at jiu-jitsu. But mentally, he's going around talking trash about the training partners. He says in his message, it was a really long message, so I'm not going to read it all here. But he says that he's come, this young purple belt has come to this coach saying things like they don't deserve the belts that they have. Their jiu-jitsu is trash. They don't deserve to carry the belt they're wearing. And the coach said he's tried to repeatedly talk to this guy about it, but he's not getting it. And so he says his question to me, he says, in your experience, how have you successfully communicated this reality to younger, stronger, highly skilled practitioners, especially regarding the legitimacy of older practitioners being promoted to higher ranks when they may no longer be able to tap or even consistently defend against much younger athletes? And he's just looking for some ideas to chew on. And so, guys, thanks for the question. And, Bob, you'll be a Bob coach question. Thank you for the question, bro. So check this out. I want to share two things with you. One, where is it coming from in that person? My guess from what I've seen. And then I'll share kind of my experiences with it and how I communicated it with my younger guys, right? So first off, where is it coming from in them? Like why would you have someone who's, you know, physically gifted that's doing all these things that's good, and then they're talking trash about their teammates of all the things to do. That's like it's one of the things you don't do in jiu-jitsu is talk trash about your teammates. It's a shitty thing to do. And so I think in most cases it stems from mental weakness and insecurity. I think it was Ernest Becker in his book, The Birth and Death of Meaning, he said in one of the things he's talking about when people cut down on other people, he said it's a neurotic resource of the weak and insecure, right? And you think about that, right? Because essentially when you're cutting down on people, it's like a cheap boost of self-esteem. You're like, your jiu-jitsu is trash. I'm better than you. And it's a cheap boost of self-esteem that will stay with you for a little bit, but it's like sugar. It's going to be burned up pretty quickly, right? Whereas going out and actually doing something and accomplishing something, going through all the hard work and all the effort that's required to do that, that's a hell of a self-esteem boost, right? You can really, that's like, I think of like your self-esteem and your ego. It's like a stool. And every time you do something worthwhile that you feel really proud of that you've made happen, it's like you put a leg underneath of it, right? And when you're younger and you're in your 20s, you're pretty insecure. You haven't done a lot, right? And so you don't really have a lot to stand on. I know that when I was in my 20s, like the only leg that I had to stand on for my sense of like self-confidence was grappling. If I had a bad day in like a competition or whatever, you knock that thing out. And my poor little fragile ego was gone. And I think a lot of times for young guys, I don't know about everybody, but at least for me and a lot of the guys I've been around, there's this overwhelming sense of burden, maybe even like a dread where you don't want to end up, you know, being sort of worthless, not accomplishing something, not being worth, you know, something around the people that you're there with. You know, as young men, you want to go out and assert yourself and become someone and do something worthwhile. And to, you know, gain the notoriety of the tribe that you're around, the whole deal, right? And so I imagine this young guy, and I don't know, I don't know the whole story, but from the sounds of it, you got a young gifted guy who hasn't done anything. He hasn't accomplished anything. And for the most part, when I see people that cut other people down a lot, they haven't done anything, right? They do a lot of this, but they haven't actually done anything of note. Like, yeah, maybe they want to like a local Naga tournament or whatever, but they haven't won a world championship. They haven't, you know, gone and done like an ADCC trials and won that. They're just like, they've done a few things and then like they're talking about it, right? Most of the people that I have met that have accomplished the biggest stuff, like the world championships and everything else, I'm not saying all of them, but most of them, from what I gather, I haven't heard them say like a negative word of cutting down people. They may have disagreements with people, but they're not going to go around cutting down people, and especially as hell not their frigging teammates, right? Now, my experience with this, I've seen this happen with a couple of my younger guys. Most of the time, the strategy that I'll give you in a second, it's worked fine. There was one guy in particular, though, it was unfortunate because the guy, like your guy, physical specimen, very gifted, good. He was very good for the time that he was in, but man, the dude was young, he was insecure, and he started talking trash about his teammates. And I talked to him about it. I'm going to give you the strategy I gave him. I used it against him in a second, and he just was not getting it, was not getting it. And so I had to kick him out of the gym. I was like, you can't be here. Because first off, even if you have all these physical gifts, if everybody in the gym doesn't like you because you're talking about, you know, them negatively, or you're talking about tapping them, or that you're better than them, nobody's going to want to be around you anyway. So again, for you in jiu-jitsu, it's really hard to get good at jiu-jitsu when you don't have a team behind you. Simple as that, right? And so I had to get him out of the gym because that's a cancer waiting to fester. And also, too, if they stick around your gym longer and longer, new people are going to come in, and they're going to look at these people as they climb the ranks, and they're going to be like, oh, this is the way to be. We talk trash about our teammates, and we gossip about them. And, you know, if we can submit them, we get to talk trash about how bad they are. It's a terrible atmosphere to have. And so I kicked him out of the gym. Now, most of the other guys were pretty easy. And basically what I did with it, and this is what I do, anytime I see them doing some dumb stuff, some stuff that maybe I think they need to reconsider, I rarely come at people and, hmm, that doesn't mean I won't come up and bark at you sometimes. It doesn't happen too often, though. What I will do instead is I will ask you questions. Because a lot of times when I, if someone comes at you and they immediately start to dig into you, a lot of times it puts people on the defensive, right? I don't want to be, I don't want you to be on the defensive. I want you to think about what's going on. And this way I can bring you to my mode of thinking and, you know, what I think could be useful for you. And so a lot of times it would go to him, ask him questions like, hey, man, why are you talking trash about your teammates? Why were you talking about tapping out so-and-so? You got tapped out the other day, didn't you, right? He's not talking about, why would you talk about your teammates like that? Have you won everything there is to win in jiu-jitsu, right? I mean, there's always someone better than you. Why would you talk negatively about someone? And it's, again, you get the idea. I'm just asking questions. You can figure out the questions that pertain to your situation. But I would ask your student questions. I would ask that purple belt questions about that whole situation. This way they can get the wheels turning and they hopefully realize how stupid it is. And again, here's the cool part about jiu-jitsu. You got this young guy in his 20s, has probably very little life experience, hasn't done a whole lot. You're an older guy. You got older guys around him. It's a beautiful thing. Again, when we're young, we're stupid. I did a lot of stupid stuff when I was young. And I'm so grateful that I had these older guys, these elders around me that could see it in me and see the dumbness, this dumb stuff that I was doing. And they could say, come here, dude. Come here, man. Put a hand on my shoulder and say, stop being a dumbass. They could do that because we had that connection. And I'm glad that I had that because it's been one of the most valuable things that I've had in my life, that I had those older guys around me, this tribe of older guys. Because as a younger guy, when you're coming up, where do you have places anymore? I mean, if you go to church, you have church. But we don't have a whole lot of places where we can be, where the young guys and women too, can be with the older people, the people that have more life experience, where we can learn from them. Right. And so for you as a coach, that's a great opportunity to kind of like bring that guy over and make him learn that he's just being a knucklehead. That said, if he doesn't get it, you figure out what you're willing to put up with. But it's not something that you would want to be personally. It's not something you'd want to have in the gym for too long. And so that's kind of my experience with it and how I've dealt with it. Right. Ask some questions, you bring them over to the mode of thinking and generally gets them to soften a little bit. And usually that's been a, that's been the most powerful way that I can address it. And again, if it doesn't work, they got to go. So anyway, just an idea to chew on brother. Hopefully that helps you out with your situation. Thanks for the question. Talk to you guys next time.