Source: ThinkSteroids.com — Compound Profile
Compound: Melanotan Ii
URL: https://thinksteroids.com/steroid-profiles/melanotan-ii/
Speaker: ThinkSteroids Reference Database
============================================================

Melanotan II (also known as MT-II or MT-2) is an injectable peptide hormone used to promote tanning. MT-II works by stimulating alpha-melanocyte receptors, which promotes formation of melanin in response to sun exposure. When a substantial amount of MT-II has been taken within recent “memory” of the skin cells, an individual tans as if he were a genetically darker type.
When to use Melanotan II
Melanotan II requires cumulative dosing to be effective. Depending on the individual, needed cumulative dose will typically be from 10 to 40 mg, with fairer individuals usually requiring amounts at the higher end of the range. Depending on the total amount needed and the daily dosing suitable for the individual, MT-II injections will need to begin at least a week prior to a need for improved tanning. More typically, MT-II use should begin at least a month prior to such need.
Melanotan II can also be used on a cycled basis to maintain improved ability to tan.
Further, Melanotan II can be used on occasion for prosexual effect.
How to use Melanotan II for tanning
Melanotan II is typically provided in vials containing 10 mg of lyophilized (freeze-dried) powder. The vials are reconstituted with a convenient amount of bacteriostatic or sterile water, added to the vial by syringe. An example convenient amount of water is 2.5 mL. When this amount of water is used, the resulting solution contains 4 mg of MT-II per mL. If for example wishing to take a dose of 1 mg, a volume of 0.25 mL, or “25 IU” as marked on an insulin syringe, would be taken by injection. Injection may be subcutaneous, intramuscular, or intravenous, according to personal preference.
Injection typically is only once per day, but where a person is first trying the drug and judging tolerance, injection may be divided into two smaller amounts per day.
Typical dosage range is 0.5 to 2.0 mg/day, with a preferred range of 0.5 to 1.0 mg/day. However, it’s best to first assess tolerance with lower dosing of 0.25 mg at a time.
After reconstitution, a Melanotan II vial should preferably be consumed entirely within 30 days. Prior to reconstitution, MT-II should be stored in the refrigerator or freezer, but it’s acceptable for it to be shipped without refrigeration.
Use generally should be discontinued if MT-II, in the individual case, causes problems with increased growth, number, or darkness of moles.
Melanotan II’s effect is fairly long-lasting. It can even be the case that it takes a year or more for a cycle’s effect to largely disappear. Use of maintenance cycles can maintain effect indefinitely. As a rule of thumb, maintenance typically requires about 2 to 3 times as much MT-II per year as was needed for the first cycle. This can be taken either as a total of 2 to 3 cycles per year done in the same way as the initial cycle, or any more frequent dosing pattern providing this total amount of MT-II per year.
How to use Melanotan II for prosexual effect
Where there is no physical erectile dysfunction and where at least some degree of psychological libido exists, Melanotan II can greatly increase the tendency to penile erection. The situation can even become like the years of puberty, where scarcely even the beginning of a sexual thought or even nothing at all (perhaps an unconscious thought however) produces an erection. General physical fatigue can become irrelevant. These effects will not occur for all individuals, but do occur for many.
Prosexual usage requires injection at least about 4-6 hours prior to desired effect. Duration of action can be about 6-12 hours after onset of effect.
Needed dosage is typically about 1 mg, but for some even 0.5 mg can be effective. As a guide, dosage should not exceed 2 mg.
Because of the associated effect in increasing tendency to tan, frequency of MT-II use for this purpose is generally limited. If wishing this effect frequently, a better choice is to use PT-141 (bremelanotide,) an MT-II derivative.
Pharmacological class of Melanotan II
Melanotan II is in the class of alphamelanocyte-stimulating hormone (alpha-MSH) mimetics. Alpha-MSH is produced in the pituitary, and activates alpha-melanocyte receptors. MT-II works in the same way.
There are a number of subtypes of alpha-melanocyte receptors (MC1-5.) Melanotan II is generally non-selective and activates multiple types. Activation of the MC1 receptor promotes skin pigmentation, while activation of the MC4 receptor can enhance tendency to penile erection.
For comparison, PT-141 is selective for the MC4 receptor and therefore promotes penile erection while having little or no effect on skin pigmentation.
Potential side effects of Melanotan II
Melanotan II can have appetite suppressive effects, but rarely to a degree providing either a problem for bulking or much of an aid for dieting. Where hair is light colored MT-II use can darken it, though the effect on hair is much less than on the skin and generally is unnoticed. It’s also possible for feelings of nausea, light-headedness, or tiredness to occur. Any of these undesired effects, if occurring, will clear quickly. Increased growth, increased number, or hyperpigmentation of moles may occur. These side effects, if they occur, may last for a substantial period of time or even be permanent. Accordingly, effect on moles should be monitored.
Conclusion
Melanotan II is an effective injectable peptide product to enhance ability to tan. Dosing is typically 0.5 to 1.0 mg/day, and the total amount needed for good effect is typically 30-40 mg, though for individuals of medium darkness already, it may be as low as 10 mg for significant effect. MT-II can also be used to enhance tendency to penile erection, but frequency of such use needs to be limited to avoid excessive total effect on skin pigmentation.
About the author
Bill Roberts
Medicinal chemist
Bill Roberts is an internationally-recognized expert on anabolic steroids and performance-enhancing drugs (PEDs). He received a bachelor degree in Microbiology and Cell Science and completed the educational and research requirements for a PhD in Medicinal Chemistry at a major American university.
Bill entered the nutritional supplement industry prior to completing his doctoral thesis but his education was invaluable so far as being able to design/improve nutritional supplement compounds, since it was in the field of designing drug molecules and secondarily some work in transdermal delivery.
His education was not specifically "geared" toward anabolic steroids other than expertise with pharmacological principles having broad applications. This has allowed Bill to provide unique insight into the field of anabolic pharmacology with knowledge of points which he would not have known otherwise.