Source: ThinkSteroids.com — Compound Profile
Compound: Mod Grf 1 29
URL: https://thinksteroids.com/steroid-profiles/mod-grf-1-29/
Speaker: ThinkSteroids Reference Database
============================================================

Mod GRF 1-29 (also referred to as simply Mod GRF) is an injectable peptide used to increase GH production. This peptide is a growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH) mimetic, or analog. That is to say, it works in the same way as GHRH, and may be referred to as being a GHRH.
The principal use of Mod GRF 1-29 is to provide increased GH levels, which also results in increased IGF-1 levels. An increase in these levels can aid fat loss and in some instances can aid muscle gain as well. Generally, Mod GRF 1-29 is used as part of alternate plan to using GH, and only rarely is combined with GH.
The other principal GHRH product is CJC-1295. In almost all instances I recommend Mod GRF 1-29 over CJC-1295. The products differ in their duration of action. Mod GRF 1-29 has an approximately-ideal short duration of action allowing pulsatile dosing, whereas CJC-1295 has an extended duration of action preventing such dosing.
In some instances, Mod GRF 1-29 is marketed as “CJC-1295 w/o DAC.” This is a confusing misnomer. When you see it, just interpret it as Mod GRF. When a peptide doesn’t have DAC, it’s not CJC-1295.
Mod GRF 1-29 generally is not used alone, but most commonly is used in combination with a peptide of the GHRP class, such as GHRP, GHRP, hexarelin, or ipamorelin.
Combine Mod GRF 1-29 with a GHRP
Mod GRF 1-29 best shows its value when taken at the same time as a GHRP product, rather than used alone. For any given amount of added GH production, less of a GHRP is needed when the GHRP is stacked with Mod GRF. Or if using the same amount of a GHRP, a greater increase in GH production may be produced.
Example usages are 100 mcg of Mod GRF 1-29 taken at the same time as 100 mcg of GHRP or ipamorelin. Such dosings will provide at least as much GH release as for example 300 mcg of either of these GHRP products taken alone.
The combination of Mod GRF 1-29 and a GHRP is synergistic. The GHRP stimulates a pulse of GH release, and the Mod GRF amplifies it.
When to use Mod GRF 1-29
Wherever a moderate dose GH cycle might be considered, a combination of Mod GRF 1-29 and a GHRP may be considered as an alternate. Availability, cost, or personal preference could be reasons to favor the peptide stack. Another reason could be personal preference to stimulate the body’s own GH production rather than to substitute natural GH production with injected GH.
Reasons to consider using a peptide stack with Mod GRF can include increased fat loss, improved muscle gain when used in combination with anabolic steroids, cosmetic improvement of the skin, and improved healing from injury.
Mod GRF 1-29 does not need to be cycled. Generally it’s more efficient to target its use to times where accelerated improvement in body composition or muscle mass is desired. However, it can also be used on an ongoing basis where the goal is an ongoing increase of GH levels. I recommend that ongoing dosing of a Mod GRF 1-29 peptide stack should be at the lower end of the recommend range. Alternately, dosing can be full-strength, but only once a day, with injection timed shortly prior to sleep.
Relatively rarely, adverse side effects associated with excessive GH use, such as pain from nerve compression (such as carpal tunnel pain), excessive water retention, or reduced insulin sensitivity can occur from a Mod GRF cycle. The cause is stimulation of a greater amount of GH production than is suitable for the individual case. The solution is to discontinue use until the problem is resolved, and to reduce dosage of GH-stimulating peptides when resuming use.
How to use Mod GRF 1-29
Mod GRF 1-29 is typically provided in vials containing 2 mg of lyophylized powder, though the amount can vary. The contents should be reconstituted by adding a convenient amount of sterile or bacteriostatic water. If for example 2 mL is chosen and the dosing of the vial is 2 mg, the resulting solution then has a concentration of 1 mg/mL, or 1000 mcg/mL.
At time of dosing, an insulin syringe is used to draw and then inject the desired amount. In the above example, a 100 mcg dose would require a volume of 0.10 mL, or “10 IU” as marked on an insulin syringe.
Injection may be subcutaneous, intramuscular, or intravenous, according to personal preference. If desired, peptide solutions from other vials, such as a vial of a GHRP product, may also be drawn into the same syringe. This reduces the total number of injections required.
I ordinarily recommend a dosage of 100 mcg Mod GRF at a time, simultaneous with injection of a GHRP. For maximum effect, dosing is preferably three times per day at times of low blood sugar, for example about 30 minutes before a meal, but where use is ongoing, a common use is once per day prior to sleep.
Pharmacological class of Mod GRF 1-29
Mod GRF is in the pharmacological class of growth hormone releasing hormone (GHRH) mimetics. GHRH is also the name of the naturally-occurring hormone in the body, but the natural compound is not used in bodybuilding or as a performance-enhancing drug due to its high cost of manufacture and its extremely brief duration of action. Mod GRF is a modified version of the first 29 amino acids of GHRH, with the modification providing sufficient stability in the body for a useful short duration of action.
Mod GRF amplifies GH production in the same way that GHRH does, but administration does not initiate a pulse of GH release. Taken alone, a Mod GRF injection will increase GH release only if by chance the injection were taken shortly before a pulse. If so, the resulting pulse would be larger. But if no pulse had been about to occur at the time of injection, then the Mod GRF has nothing to amplify.
Factors decreasing efficacy of a Mod GRF / GHRP stack
A stack of Mod GRF 1-29 with a GHRP will have reduced effectiveness if blood sugar levels are high at the time of injection, if thyroid levels are low, or if IGF-1 levels are high, such as occur with when taking GH in amounts such as 14 IU/week or more, as an illustrative example. (There is no black and white dividing line or sharp cutoff.)
Mod GRF 1-29 and sleep
Mod GRF 1-29 taken before sleep can aid in falling asleep and sometimes has the side effect of increasing vividness of dreams.
The natural hormone GHRH also has been found in the scientific literature to promote sleep, so it is not surprising that this analog does so as well.
Conclusion
When using a GHRP product, addition of Mod GRF 1-29 can increase the resulting stimulation of GH production. Alternately, it can allow a lower dose of a GHRP to be used while still achieving at least the same total increase in GH production. Dosing is typically 100 mcg a time, taken at the same time as a GHRP product such as GHRP, GHRP, hexarelin, or ipamorelin.
About the author
Bill Roberts
Medicinal chemist
Bill Roberts is an internationally-recognized expert on anabolic steroids and performance-enhancing drugs (PEDs). He received a bachelor degree in Microbiology and Cell Science and completed the educational and research requirements for a PhD in Medicinal Chemistry at a major American university.
Bill entered the nutritional supplement industry prior to completing his doctoral thesis but his education was invaluable so far as being able to design/improve nutritional supplement compounds, since it was in the field of designing drug molecules and secondarily some work in transdermal delivery.
His education was not specifically "geared" toward anabolic steroids other than expertise with pharmacological principles having broad applications. This has allowed Bill to provide unique insight into the field of anabolic pharmacology with knowledge of points which he would not have known otherwise.