A while back, I released a breakdown of a big study looking at something called a vilpa, which is in basic terms an extremely short bout of intense physical activity, though not exercise, but through day-to-day activities like, I don't know, groceries or walking and plenty of other examples. It can literally last as little as just a few minutes. In that breakdown, we discussed how these bursts of physical activity have a noticeable impact at reducing all-c cause mortality as well as cardiovascular disease. So, I got to wondering how exactly that happens if it's such a small amount of work. That's where I stumbled across this study where people engaged in really simple exercise that simply stimulated the musculature for a few minutes at a time. Technically, they did this 20 times over, but I'm not as interested in the exercise done 20 times. I'm more interested in the first exposure lasting only a few minutes like a Vilpa. The researchers ended up measuring something called shear stress which is the friction to an area in this case the blood vessel. Think of it like a sliding force rubbing against the blood vessel wall. So what would that force be in the context of cardiovascular health? Well, your blood. It has viscosity. So it's thick and that blood rubs against the internal pipe work of your blood vessels throughout the body. But if you've been following physionic for a moment or two, you already know that your blood vessels aren't just well pipe work. Uh they're a mesh of live cells with an initial lining of cells called endothelial cells facing the bloodstream. Anyway, this shear stress is applied to those cells. So you can imagine that has some biologically relevant effect. Looking at the data, the dark dots are the physically active condition and the white dots are the non-physically active individuals. If the dot goes up, that means there's more shear stress applied to the walls of the artery. Obviously, in every exercise condition, there's a huge increase in shear stress. But like I said, what is most interesting is the initial exposure. So, the first few minutes because there's already a huge increase. Now, that doesn't sound too pleasant. A bunch of sheer stress, four to fivefold force being applied to the blood vessel wall, those poor cells. But your body ain't no wimp, and neither are those microscopic cells that make up your blood vessels. When the researchers measured what happens to those cells, they show why your cardiovascular health improves from this spike in sheer stress as opposed to beating them black and blue. The reality is, while endothelial cells, that first lining of cells, are small, they are mighty and crafty. when they get punched by the force of the blood ramming into them, they deform. And that deformation is one way they can sense to change their behavior. So to summarize real quick, short bursts of physical activity spike the force applied to the blood vessel cells like endothelial cells and changes their behavior. Okay, but exactly how and why is this not a problem? Inside your endothelial cells is an enzyme called enos. Enos is responsible for producing a potent molecule called nitric oxide. That nitric oxide when released from the endothelial cells interacts with the muscle cells in charge of squeezing or relaxing the blood vessel and convinces the muscle cells to relax the blood vessel. In so doing, blood pressure and likely shear stress is reduced. If we look at the data, if the bars go up, that means there's more of this ENOS enzyme present. And on top of that, it's been activated. And clearly we only see this increase in the physically active condition after the physical activity. If you prefer the visual image of a single cell, the top has enos fluoresing in red. Clearly there's more enos inside the cell post physical activity. So this would mean that there's a high probability that the cell is producing more nitric oxide thereby opening the blood vessel in response to the sheer stress coming from the physical activity and showing a greater ability to be dynamic. This all means this is one mechanism by which short bursts of physical activity could have an impact. Now to be fair there are some assumptions here since the type of exercise is different and the endothelial cell measurements of enos are after multiple bouts. Still clearly something is working and this is a quick mechanism that does fit. Still, that raises this question of, well, if sheer stress is so high after a short bout of physical activity and we see a beneficial molecule produced, why wouldn't something like high blood pressure, which might raise sheer stress consistently, also have a protective effect? Well, I'll bet you might be able to come up with the answer for yourself. But in the meantime, if you're interested in access to my complete analysis on Vilpa, which is vigorous intermittent lifestyle physical activity and how to use short bursts of regular daily activity, so not exercise, to your advantage in reducing mortality risk, check out the Physionic Insiders. My complete breakdown is there. Oh, and you also get access to my private podcasts, live sessions with me, weekly articles with actionable steps, protocols, and guides, and even more. Anyway, the point being it's an educational wonderland full of fairies. The link to join is in the description box. Hope to see you there. Now, in the meantime, let's get back to the problem at hand. So, there are multiple reasons for why physical activity shear stress is good and high blood pressure stress is bad. For one, I left out the word shear in the last sentence because high blood pressure doesn't always produce shear stress. It produces consistent vessel wall strain that is perpendicular to the vessel, not necessarily shear stress running along the wall. But assuming it did, there is a need to allow the cells to return to their original state. Constantly flattening the cells and expecting them to respond by widening the blood vessel is maladaptive. Physical activity sheer stress is temporary and of course leads to other positive changes. So, a simple study and certainly not all-encompassing in relation to why just a few minutes of not even exercise but physical activity can reduce our cardiovascular disease risk and by extension our mortality risk. Even short bouts can encourage increased levels of a potent enzyme called enos which associates with increased sheer stress and applied to the blood vessel wall cells. If you're interested in how to take advantage of all this for yourself, I'll link my video on a vilpas right here. So, vigorous intermittent lifestyle physical activity for you.