I do these annually as I did last year and here we are again to go over a list of supplements that I reviewed across a total of 62 studies. Last year I used a dual criteria for assessing supplements. So one the strength of the scientific evidence and two the magnitude of the effect. I'd like to do the same thing here, but instead of giving a single letter grade, it's better if we discuss them independently. As a supplement can have great evidence behind it, but have very mild effects. Anyway, as a final warning before we dive in, these supplements are assessed based on specific outcomes. So, if we end up discussing like omega-3s for the heart, that conclusion should be limited to that outcome. So heart health and should not be extended to other outcomes like I don't know let's say bone health for example. Okay as usual I'll link all my dedicated video investigations popping open the data and going over the mechanisms and such for you in the description if you want more information on any particular supplement. But let's get into these 15. Oh, and at the end I'll tell you which ones that I'd recommend focusing on. Not that this is personalized advice, of course. Bourberine for colon cancer. This was a recent investigation that really blew me away because the study was incredibly compelling. Actually, it was two studies based on a single randomized control trial. Essentially, compared to placebo, participants given bourberin had reduced number and severity of colon adenomomas, which are these abnormal growths. The most mind-blowing part was that after they stopped consuming bourbon, they still experienced a reduced risk of developing adenomomas even six years later. So because of that, we have to give bourbon a perfect A score for the effectiveness score card. However, because we're basing this on a single randomized control trial, which is an excellent source of evidence, it's nonetheless a single study with a follow-up based on the same data. So, until we get more evidence from other labs or just more studies in general, let's cool it on the strength of evidence score and give it a C. The dose used was 600 mg per day. Curcumin for arthritis. Ah, yes, the golden spice. This one was a mixture of clinical evidence in humans and mechanistic evidence in animals. Essentially, both forms of evidence indicated that curcumin has a mild pain relief and joint function improving effect. Now, I wouldn't consider this the I don't know the elixir of a painfree life or anything, but it has a noticeable impact. Of course, personal mileage will vary since we're discussing averages. Now, I'd rate the strength of evidence quite high, a B, and I'm even tempted to say an A simply because there's not just one or two studies, but over 30 studies on the topic, granted of varying quality. Now, on the other hand, the effect size is mild. So, I will put the score for effectiveness at a C. The dose used for standard curcumin was 1,000 to 2,000 milligrams per day. There's also other forms of curcumin that I discuss in my extended analysis exclusive for the physionic insiders research review which is linked in the description. Uralithna and immune aging. Now I covered this over a year ago once and then I covered it again I maybe about a month ago or so because a new study had published on this molecule called uriththna. It's touted as a molecule that relieves pain like in arth osteoarthritis. It's a mphagy activator. It improves exercise performance and most recently it combats the immune system decline as we get older. So in older individuals. So it sounds pretty impressive considering the scope is so wide. And there's multiple randomized control trials to back up some of these claims. However, the reality is far more bleak as I explained in my videos. But the bottom line is that the words are more impressive than the data indicates. Usually the studies don't focus on functional outcomes like actual improvements in joint function for example and tend to focus too much in my opinion on molecular mechanisms. Then the few times that function is assessed the effect is small. So, the strength of evidence I'll give it a B simply because there are several human trials. However, the effect size I'll give a D. Typical dose is 1,000 milligs per day. Omega-3 fats and dementia. Now, I covered omega-3 fats and their impact on our brain a long time ago. Now, covering, I don't know, like 10 or more studies, many eons ago, my boy. But a new metaanalysis released going into more depth in relation to dementia prevention. Now, it ultimately concurred with multiple other trials that omega-3s are important for reducing the risk of dementia, a generalized term for uh brain disorders. They also did some unique things in that analysis, including doing a small prospective study. But ultimately, what you want to know is if it works or not, and the answer is yes. The strength of evidence is good, though it could still use a little bit of work. And we can give it, let's say, a B, leaning towards an A. Again, also, the effect size is a tricky one because the immediate effect is quite small, but the long-term benefit could be quite sizable based on the evidence that we have. So, I'd give it a B. Doses can vary, and even low doses like 500 milligrams can make a meaningful difference. Though the greatest bang for your buck, remember that it is for the brain, not for the heart, is one gram of omega-3s. Lithium and Alzheimer's disease. So, staying in the puzzling world of cognition, a player that is finally achieving recognition is elemental lithium. There was a major study released this last year, but the reality is there have been multiple human trials using lithium as well. So, it's not exactly new, just kind of new to the spotlight. Ultimately, we have evidence that elemental lithium can play a role against Alzheimer's disease, helping stave off the disease. I wouldn't go as far as to say that you we don't need any more evidence. I'd like to see more, but we do have some solid evidence from multiple human studies as well as this new major nature paper. So, let's say the evidence is a B. Now, the strength of the effect, the effect size is quite substantial if you think of the long-term implications. I don't want you to think that lithium is going to cure Alzheimer's or anything, but it seems to have a pretty sizable impact. So, let's say the effect size is rated at a B, being conservative. The dose used in trials of elemental lithium is 400 micrograms. Collagen for skin. I've covered this before, but there was a big meta analysis that scared a few people off the collagen fork skin bandwagon. However, I and several others stood broad swords and hands staring the villainous dragon in the eye and defended their beloved collagen because it turned out that the meta analysis was properly misunderstood. And when looking at the studies independently, the vast majority reported benefits of collagen supplementation for skin. Anyway, there's plenty of bad studies in the collagen world. I've analyzed at least 12, and I still wouldn't be shocked if better evidence subdued our excitement some. However, so far, the strength of evidence is in the C range. A lot of studies, but only a few are of higher quality. The effect size is also decent, but not earthshattering. So, let's say it's also a C. The dose used in trials varies, but usually it's around 10 gram of hydrayzeed collagen. Mangaperin for the brain. This is a molecule that comes out of the mango. Funny enough, I think I I think I mispronounced it in every single time in my dedicated video on the topic. Still, it's a molecule that's believed to reduce inflammation in the brain, which leads to improved brain function. Or at least that's the idea. Unfortunately, most of the evidence is mechanistic and what human studies do exist are very short in duration. That means that for the strength of evidence, we'd have to give it a D. And for effect size, I'm afraid it's also going to disappoint the parents over the break until next semester, another D. If you're still inclined, the extracts of mangaperin are consumed at around 400 milligrams per day. Collagen for joints. Let us get into the joint, not the smoking kind, the kind that allows you to move around. And let's return to collagen. Now, for this one, I expected a bit more, but honestly, the effects were mild, though admittedly widespread. The unfortunate part is that most studies are in people who have serious joint ailments like arthritis. And if the effect is mild for them, what are the odds that we'll get much if we don't have major joint pain or function issues? I'd guess slim at best, but that's just speculation. So, the strength of evidence, not bad. Probably like a C, maybe a B simply because there are plenty of studies, but they're not all the greatest quality. And for effectiveness, we can keep it at a C as well. Keep in mind that likely gets devalued to a D or even an F if you don't have joint issues, you're young, and so on. It may increase if you're older and compound that with some form of arthritis. The dose used is typically at the skin dose of 10 grams per day or greater. Let's discuss magnesium for the brain. If you're wondering what are reputable sources for all these supplements and it'd be nice to have one place where everything is put together for you by dosing, disease, effect size, source across all supplements analyzed, not just these 15. Then check out my master supplement list. It just launched and will be updated regularly exclusive for the physionic insiders. There's also a new AI that I built that has been educated on all my analyses to date. So, you can ask your questions that get answers based on my work. Oh, and of course, you get all these perks right over here, like a private monthly podcast, articles that go with every video, live sessions with me, and much more. I put a ton of work into the insiders because it's a way that I can keep myself independent and offer quality work devoid of sponsor influence or perceived influence. Anyway, check it out by using the link in the description. Oh, right. Magnesium. So, this was focused on the health of the brain and the relationship to magnesium. Honestly, the evidence is quite convoluted. There's little evidence in favor of supplementation as it relates to the brain. And there's even studies indicating excess magnesium can carry risk. So, what to do? Just aim for the recommended dietary allowance. That's around 400 milligrams per day for men. and 320 milligrams for women. The strength of evidence is weak. I'd give it a D. And the effectiveness is so convoluted at present. I would give it an F. As I'm sure some people will ignore the previous warnings. It always happens. I am not saying that magnesium is not good for your general health. I am saying that the evidence for brain health and magnesium supplementation specifically is very weak. One thing that is often overlooked when discussing blood pressure and heart health is the inclusion of a particular electrolyte, potassium and heart disease. So, sodium is often the target for reducing blood pressure. But did you know that potassium, its sibling atom, is also a potent regulator of blood pressure? Well, in studies looking at potassium intake, there's good evidence that focusing on potassium intake can not only reduce blood pressure, but meaningfully reduce stroke risk. On the strength of evidence, we're talking about a solid B. And in terms of effectiveness, we're talking an A. This can really help a lot of people dealing with elevated blood pressure. Now, dosing is tricky because potassium can be also quite dangerous if it's over consumed. Generally, just keeping it in balance with sodium intake is a good overall step. Otherwise, if you use salt on your food, consider switching it out for a 25% potassium chloride salt. The taste is very similar, but the added potassium in place of sodium leads to improved cardiovascular health alone. Mediumchain triglycerides and arthritis. There's a trial that I covered looking at the impact MCTs or mediumchain triglycerides might have at improving symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis. Now, ultimately the study showed some benefit, but if you looked at the study a bit closer, there was bias therein which I'll leave for my full analysis which is linked if you're interested. Now ultimately we have one human study that indicates effectiveness of MCTs on rheumatoid arthritis. And considering some of the limitations of that study, I'd put the strength of evidence at a D, while I'd put the effect size at a D as well. I think there's a possibility for that to change as more research emerges, but this evidence didn't leave much for positive impression, though it does lean in the direction of MCTs working. The dose used, FYI, was 30 grams per day. The next one might catch me some flak, but let's discuss methylene blue and cognitive health. Now, there are randomized control trials, but they are few and far between. Yet, there are some scientific reviews that if you read them make compelling case for methylene blues potential. Unfortunately, that's the key word there, potential, because the studies are pretty poor quality with metal methodological issues or looking at inconsequential outcomes like blood flow to the brain. What other studies exist are mechanistic nature and there are some studies on dementia in humans, but the results are kind of all over the place. So, as much as some people swear by methylene blue, the strength of evidence is a D and the effect size is also a D until we can get more convincing data on the brain effects. I have reviewed the longevity and aging effects before as well, and I'll link that review for you. Keep in mind that just because we don't have good quality studies on something doesn't mean that it doesn't work. But what it does mean is that by the strict scientific lens, we can't fudge the truth and say that there's strong scientific basis for a supplement. Doing is really all over the place, too. So, for this one, I'm going to skip it. I'll combine these two simply because they're both related to muscle mass. HMBB or beta hydroxy beta methylbutyrate, quite a mouthful, and TMG or trimethyl glycine are two compounds that have been studied in several human trials. In total, both of these do just about nothing if they aren't paired with exercise, especially resistance training. However, assuming that you do train, both of these have modest benefits increasing muscle mass. The quality of evidence is fair and since there are quite a few studies, I'd say that the strength of evidence is at least deserving of a C. However, the effect size is small. So, if you don't train, well, the effect size is an F. And if you do train, it's a C. Both are kind of middle of the road. Now, I realize that you may be taking TMG, also known as betane, to reduce homocyine levels. That's a conversation for another time, though. dosing is around 2.5 to three grams for either. Now, let's get into the final one. Vitamin D and bone health. This one was a surprising one because it had some counterintuitive results. For example, vitamin D supplementation was beneficial for preserving bone in people who are vitamin D deficient. However, very high doses in the tens and even hundreds of thousands of IUs, that's international units, there's a signal that vitamin D actually worsens bone health. So dose matters. Low doses less than a thousand IUs was shown to be beneficial for those with vitamin D deficiency. There's pretty good evidence for all this. So I'll rate it a B on the quality of evidence. However, the effectiveness is tightly tied to a person's vitamin D status. If they have normal levels, supplementation for bone health has minimal impact. Maybe placing it at a D and not for vitamin D, but because it's just not that great. On the other hand, for people with vitamin D deficiency, as defined by regular blood panel values, vitamin D climbs up to a C. It still doesn't have massive effects. They remain pretty modest, but that could also be because bone mineralization takes years, and the studies don't all last that long, yielding an effect, though more modest. Now, I'll repeat this again, too. Blood values will be increased for the majority of people with a modest dosing. So, some people may need more. And we are again talking about averages. I would be cautious about over consuming though as mentioned. Okay, here we are. We've summarized a lot and I have hours and hours of me discussing all these topics in dedicated analyses that I sh burden you with now, but you're welcome to check them out in the description. However, what are the supplements that I recommend if I had to limit it to just a few? This is based on this year's worth of analysis, but also last year's analysis. Nothing has changed from my votes of last year. I have a short list of creatine, omega-3s, the combination of luteine and zeazanthin, and that's it. Creatine affects the brain. It affects the musculature. Omega-3s impact the brain and the cardiovascular system. And lutein and zeazanthin have excellent evidence for eye health. The choices change based on individual circumstance, but if you don't have specific issues that you want help dealing with and you just want to support your general health, those are great choices. This, of course, assumes that you're taking care of your overall nutrition, exercising, sleeping to the best of your ability, supplements will never overcome missing out on those three. But if you're looking for other supplements with evidence behind them for different outcomes because you just can't help but buy more supplements, then check out my last summary right over here. I hope this helped. Thanks for tuning in. I'll catch you in the next one. See you.