I have about 40 medical health nutrition journals that send me their daily and weekly releases of studies and I'll take a quick look at what releases to see if there's anything especially interesting or helpful to share here. Well, on one particular day in January, January 28th to be specific, three clinical trials released showing a burgeoning frontier of health can dramatically help combat cancer. What I found intriguing is that these studies come from separate labs, yet they were very close in their design and outcomes that they were interested in, which made this combined release all that more impactful, especially as they looked at different forms of cancer from skin cancer to lung cancer to kidney cancer. Anyway, one of the major issues in cancer is this dance between cancer cells and your immune cells that hinges on a receptor found on your immune cells called PD1. Essentially, some immune cells, especially specialized ones like cytotoxic tea cells, are like rabid dogs fletching their teeth at anything that looks out of the ordinary. So they come with this PD1 receptor on their membrane that when bound inactivates the T- cell, keeping it from attacking and destroying. It turns out that successful cancer cells have the binding protein that binds to PD1 called PDL1. So when TE-C cells get close to the cancer cell, the cancer cell just engages with the PD1 receptor using its PDL1 protein and inactivates the TE-C cell. a lot like playing a harp for Fluffy on the third floor of Hogwarts castle. Let me know if you understood that reference. Now, one of the major therapies that we use in medicine is to use imunotherapy, which strongly favors the dance towards TE-C cells unfettered attacks on cancer. Essentially, amunotherapies will bind the cancer's PDL1 protein and therefore block it from interacting with the T- cells PD1 receptor, therefore keeping TE-C cells active and attacking. There are different versions, but that's the common one. Now, I'm pointing all this out, but that's not because this is the frontier of health. It's to bring your attention to the interplay and heavy dependence of your body to be able to fight against cancer through a strong immune system. What these clinical trials show is that to support our immune system and supercharge its ability to fight cancer, we should turn our attention to our gut. Not necessarily the cells that make up our gut, the epithelial cells, but the microbes within our colon, the billions of them called the microbiome. Now, in all three of these clinical trials, participants were given pills that massively changed their microbiome. We'll discuss how in just a minute. Now, a great example is shown in this randomized control trial called the Tacito trial where people with cancer were given the microbiome altering pills or placebo with amunotherapy like what we just discussed. Then over the next several years, their survival from cancer was quantified. The blue is the microbiome altered participants and the red line is the placebo. The lower the lines fall, the more people died. Unfortunately, clearly under otherwise identical conditions, those with changed microbiome survived way more than those that are just using the imu the imunotherapy. In fact, around 80% of people were still alive after 3 years, which is impressive. What's even more impressive is that when researchers just focused on the data coming from people with poor prognosis, as in more advanced forms of cancer, less likely to survive and so on, they also experience similar results. So the point here being that if you improve your microbiome, you are far more resilient against cancer at least based on the initial human studies that pointed out what is an improved microbiome and what exactly are they doing to affect cancer on the kidneys or the lung or elsewhere? Well, as explained with the PD1 and the PDL1 lethal dance between TE-C cells and cancer cells respectively, the immune system is disregulated when fighting cancer. meaning fewer cancer killing immune cells are present or they're just less effective in some way. Now, apparently improvements in the microbiome lead to resurgence of cancer killing cells, especially a type of immune cell whispered in the back alleys of your body with a twinge of fear called the natural killer cell. So more and more active NK cells leads to larger specialized force invading into the tumors and destroying the cancer cells left and right. My point here is that we have early signs that the immune system becomes more robust when the microbiome improves thereby allowing the immune system better attacks against cancer. All right. So where does this all take us? What can be done? dayto day. Well, that's what we'll get into. And if you're looking for more depth, like more on a protein called DNA1 and the relationship to cancer or particular bacteria found to track with worse or better cancer outcomes based on these studies and more, then check out the extended edition of this video that you're watching. It's included along with an article, podcast, live sessions with me, physionic AI, and more. as a member of the Physionic Insiders. You can join via the link in the description. I hope to speak with you there. Here's the thing. Maybe in the future, these will become widely available, but the pills that these people consumed were poop pills containing the microbiome of other healthy people without cancer or people with cancer that had excellent responses to imunotherapy. I mean, think about it for a second. The only thing separating other people's poop from your mouth is an extremely thin capsule shell and you have to consume about 20 of them. Well, anyway, that might be an option in the future, but we have other options right now shown in this diagram that came off of one of the studies. We're looking at a mixture of future treatments and current options. The top is a version of what was done in the study, but we'd like to move from consuming poop tablets. So, from left to right, from most accessible to least, at the moment at least, we have nutritional interventions of which prebiotics are a favorite. Think fibers for example. Or moving on to supplementation like the fats that are produced by our microbes in our gut called shortchain fats. Then we get into more medical technology like bacteriaop phasages which are honestly an incredibly innovative approach to changing our microbiome that I can get into in the future if you're interested. And then finally an even more personalized medicine based on samples of microbiome showing poor micro number. Another important point to keep in mind is that many studies look at the microbiome and health focus on something called the Shannon index, which measures the microbiome diversity. There's definitely more to the microbiome than just diversity. Typically, most studies indicate that greater microbiome diversity is associated with better health outcomes, but in these studies, while some did indicate the same, others didn't. The reason is because we're early in understanding an ideal microbiome in relation to cancer. In fact, to confuse things further, the loss of microbes seem to play more impactful role than adding species of microbes shown here. Better outcomes came from some new microbes sticking around. So, i.e. grafting in grafting and the majority of the effect of changing the microbiome for the better was purging the gut of microbes shown in the lost not to be distracted by the 2000's show. So a lot of questions and although we have three clinical trials they're small with only one having proper control group since these were like phase one and phase two clinical trials still this offers us three lessons. So one, our m our understanding of the microbiome in relation to cancer is in its infancy. But an improved microbiome taken from people with proven highquality microbiome due to their ability to fight cancer leads to big improvements in fighting cancer. There is a gut connection here that needs to be explored. Number two, greater microbiome diversity. Purging particular bad bacteria and adding good bacteria. We aren't entirely sure what the trick is, but there's some mixture of those that creates an ideal microbiome for fighting cancer. And three, while poop pills are not widely available yet, they are an easy solution for the future. Until then, the researchers argue for more prebiotics like fiber and possibly more metabolites like short- chain fats. And speaking to both of those, I think they have a strong point overall because I've covered a ton of fascinating research describing far more details on both of those right here and right here. Microbiome research has really picked up steam. These three studies firmly identified that and I hope to cover more in the future. Thanks for hanging out. I'll catch you in the next one. See you.