This is a frustrating video to make, but I've been meaning to make it for quite some time. So, I'm plowing forward. In the end, I'm going to infect you with that same frustration. But I can tell you that we'll still come out the other end with actionable understanding on one, why low carbohydrate diets raise the risk of premature death, two, why it may not matter for many, and three, how to avoid it altogether while still sticking to a low carb diet. All based on these studies, including hundreds of thousands of people. I realize that when you pair uh low carb diets raises the risk of premature death and why it won't matter. That's a weird combination. Yeah, I don't really care if I die years earlier than I'm supposed to. Anyway, bear with me. I'll explain. So I analyzed five studies uh some of them individual studies and one meta analysis trying to find out if across hundreds of thousands of participants in these studies there is an increased risk of dying on a low carbohydrate diet compared to generally a high carbohydrate diet. Now there's plenty of definitions for what low carb and high carb are and we'll get into what that means but let me give you a brief overview of the results of these analyses. These analyses indicate reduced risk of premature death when people consume a low carbohydrate diet. And these indicate there is raised risk of premature death like we see here where we're looking at death rates over time. The higher the lines go, the more death. And each line corresponds to a certain amount of carbohydrate consumption. The purple line there, the Q4, is the lowest carbohydrate condition, clearly indicating increased risk of death. So, how do we square all that mixed information? Why don't studies agree? Before someone screams funding, I provide all the funding and conflicts of interest information attached to this video. Many of the studies were publicly funded with no conflicts of interest. But there's still plenty of good explanation for why these studies disagree and how we can apply this information regardless. For one, a low carbohydrate diet can be healthy or unhealthy, which one analysis delved into. Essentially, they broke up 37,000 people's data into two buckets, healthy or unhealthy. We'll get into what that means momentarily. When looking at people that were on a lower carbohydrate diet, yet the diet was made up of unhealthy ingredients, there was a consistent increase in mortality risk. However, when the low carbohydrate diet was made up of healthy ingredients, the reverse happened. People had reduced risk. So this could be an easy defining feature because if studies don't make that distinction, it could mean that the data is skewed toward harm or no risk reduction. That being the case, what qualified for each bucket as healthy or unhealthy? The unhealthy was qualified as high in saturated fat, animal protein, and a lack of healthy carbohydrates like fiber and nutrient-dense foods like fruits and non-starchy vegetables. The healthy was defined as well, the opposite. higher in unsaturated fats, plant protein sources, and reduced consumption of lowquality carbohydrates like added sugars and refined grains. Now, that might sound pretty straightforward, but there are also analyses indicating that animal protein can lead to reduced mortality. In fact, a clear illustration of that is here. If the lines drop below one on the vertical axis there, that means that there's reduced mortality risk. And we're looking at increasing amounts of animal protein and fat on the horizontal axis. Clearly, a little and even a moderate amount of animal protein indicates reduced mortality risk, which then rebounds back up, losing the benefit at higher consumption. So, how do we square that? One analysis indicates increased risk of death, and the other says, "Whoa, there buddy, it might be dose dependent. Some is good, too much is bad." Keep in mind that this is all done after adjusting for potential other factors like these. Well, while a lot of that mixup is echoed in other studies, most only break out total protein and also indicate increased mortality risk. But there is one study that I think is better in a few different ways and gives us far clearer answers, and that's this one. This one actually echoes what the others mostly say, but it addresses some methodological issues that I won't bore you with unless you're a physionic insider. In that analysis, the researchers compared more vegetable heavy versus animal-based food heavy low carbohydrate diets and showed the same result that less animal-based proteins and fat consumption but more vegetable consumption related to greater protection from mortality. But here's the kicker. In none of their group study did people eat no animal protein and fat. So there was a protective relationship of consuming some while prioritizing vegetable consumption. The bottom line is that in most of these studies, eating a small or to even a moderate amount of animal protein and fats on a lower carbohydrate diet was related to reduced mortality risk if accompanied by an emphasis on vegetables and other plant-based sources as well. I'll dive deeper into the details in just a minute. Now, there is one more massive gamechanging criticism of all these studies I'd like to address because it will change your perspective on how to think about what we've just been over and our takeaways that we'll get to shortly. I'd like to address that next, but keep in mind that I'm trying to keep these videos shorter based on feedback. So, I have a much more detailed analysis going over low carb cancer relationship, the cardiovascular disease relationship, if age plays a factor, physical activity, and more. That is in an extended analysis that's available for the Physionic Insiders along with an accompanying article and all these lovely perks right here, like a regular podcast with actionable takeaways, live sessions with me and the rest of the insider community, and more. If you're interested, the link to join is in the description box. Now, let's get back to your regularly scheduled programming. You know how we've been going on about low carbohydrate studies? I mean, you see the titles, right? The thing is, none of these analyses are in low carbohydrate diets like you're probably thinking of them. For example, this analysis, the lowest carbohydrate group is 46% of their nutrition was carbohydrates. Some analyses went lower than that, but none get close to what most people in the low carb community would consider low carbohydrate. In fact, even in this study that used the word ketogenic diet, the most suitable low carbohydrate diet seems to have included as much as 100 g of carbohydrates by my admittedly rough calculations. Now, I don't know about you, but that ain't no ketogenic diet on any planet that I've inhabited, and I've inhabited many. To be honest, either the messaging needs to change, like this study title, which uses the word lower rather than low, which is a relative term and correct, or the researchers just need to get a lot more granular with their data. That of course assumes that we have long-term data and people consuming less than 20 or 10 or 5% of their nutrition from carbohydrates. I really don't know. I would also like to point out that all these studies often compare against higher carbohydrate diets of varying quality. The comparison matters because the relationship with mortality will hinge on what you're comparing against. Another great example is when these lower carbohydrate diets indicate some animal proteins and fats track with a reduced mortality risk with lower carbohydrate diets. Yet that's compared against groups consuming more of these animal proteins and fats. So, what would happen when comparing the lowest group in these studies to, I don't know, vegans or vegetarians? I don't think that we'll get those answers because uh where are you going to find enough people who are mostly or fully plant-based who are also using a low carbohydrate diet? I don't think that the odds are looking uh too good. The overall point I'm making is that even though there's a lot of data here, there are limitations. some of which I can't spend more time on getting into right now. So, what I'm trying to say here is that these studies have massive limitations, even so, we can learn a few things that will have significant influence on how we adopt a healthy low carb diet. Here's the bottom line. One, while these studies don't look at low carbohydrate diets like most people use them, they still give us valuable information on the trend. As in, if you reduce your carbohydrate consumption, how should you go about doing that? Number two, even if point one is true, we can't say any of this definitively applies to people on a true ketogenic diet because these individuals tend to have a different physiological state that deserves its own study. Number three, those two points stated a lower carbohydrate diet can either raise mortality risk or reduce it. It depends on the quality of that lower carbohydrate diet. So, let's discuss that next. Four, you can choose to do one of two things. Ignore all the data here and dismiss it as just not applicable to a true low carbohydrate diet apart from possibly a ketogenic diet. I don't think that's reasonable. My guess, and it's just that, an educated guess is that these trends would scale even at lower carbohydrate diets, more in line with what people think of as low carb. Or two, accept the trends in the data. Basically, if you go low carb, some animal-based food is fine. The best analyses that I went over indicated around 12% of calories from animal proteins. That's 60 g on a 2,000 calorie diet. That number will increase if your metabolism is higher. And beyond that, deemphasizing saturated fats while emphasizing unsaturated fats, as well as making sure to fit plant-based foods in the mix. So, here's a list of the foods that would be plant-based but high in unsaturated fats. And a final point on food choices to slant your lower carbohydrate diet to be in line with reduced mortality. Making sure that you consume higher quality carbohydrates with the little bit of carbohydrate aotment that you have. If any things like these, especially fiber richch sources where possible. And five, finally, just know that there's a lot to still collect data on and refine. So, this isn't the end all be all analysis, but it's the conservative conclusions that we can make based on the current literature acknowledging its limitations. And if you're looking for more lowcarb content, I've got some right here going over more analyses. And I hope to speak with you over there. Thanks for hanging out. Bye.