I've been extremely skeptical about NAD in the past, or I suppose more specifically NAD supplements, and I'll touch on that in a bit later. But there's this major study that several people in the community have asked me to cover. And initially, I wasn't that excited because, well, I'm a little burnt out from the NAD angle. But after reading the study, there may be some hope that NAD could really play a role in this case against Alzheimer's disease. So, let me explain the highlights and then I'd like to show you an incredibly unlikely supplement and possibly a nutrition style that has evidence behind it not only improving NAD in the brain, but combating Alzheimer's disease. This is going to be so cool. This major study that everyone's been sending me to discuss tried to figure out if we raise NAD levels in the brain, does that impact Alzheimer's disease progression? So if we rewind a bit for context, you might be interested to know that Alzheimer's disease brain has a reduced concentration of NAD molecules relative to NADH molecules. This is data collected from human Alzheimer's diseased brain samples. The AD there, if it wasn't obvious, is Alzheimer's disease. So we know that there's either less of the NAD or more of the NADH molecules creating a lower ratio. This is seen as a bad thing. But why is that? Well, NAD is known to be involved in hundreds of enzyatic reactions within your cells. Specifically, it's involved in DNA repair, glucose metabolism, neurogenesis. That's a fancy term for more brain cells to form. And synaptic plasticity, a fancy way of saying that you're greater connections between your brain cells, which is a good thing to have considering that you want your brain cells to communicate effectively. And that's just a small list of the ways that NAD impacts your brain cells health. So you can imagine that a low brain level of NAD leads to more DNA damage, less metabolism function, less brain adaptability and well other stuff like that. So now that we know that NAD to NADH ratio is low in Alzheimer's disease, what might happen if we I don't know pump it up? That's what this study that we're focusing on did in this section in animals, but we'll be returning to humans soon. Here we're looking at images of brain cells and the green fluoresence there is a literal measure of DNA damage. So the more green that you see in the images the worse. It's also quantified on the graph on the right. The FAD condition there is the Alzheimer's disease condition. So as expected with lower brain NAD there's also more DNA damage. But here's the first sign of good news. That far right condition is when the same Alzheimer's disease condition is supplied with additional NAD and lo and behold there is a normalization of the DNA damage. Now technically this is a neuroprotective compound that boosts NAD but it isn't a direct injection of NAD and we'll return to that in a bit. The point here and I can conf confirm that it's also true for multiple other measures of brain cell health is that NAD boosting reverses many of the different internal problems of the brain cells and what they experience. So DNA damage, neurogenesis, recovery and so on. Still, and this is important to note, outside the context of this study, we shouldn't ever just look at the cellular experiments and assume that leads to improvements in actual day-to-day living with Alzheimer's disease. So, keeping that in mind, we should actually look at the functional outcomes, the functional measurements like improvements in learning, memory, and the like. Fortunately, we have plenty of access to that kind of work on measures of memory. The lower bars are, the worse the memory function. The lowest bar there is the Alzheimer's disease condition. Clearly, they're not doing so hot. However, incredibly encouragingly, boosting NAD led to a recovery of the memory function back to normal non Alzheimer's levels. To be crystal clear here, we're talking about complete reversal of Alzheimer's disease with NAD boosting in this model. Okay, now we're talking. So, all we have to do is boost our brain NAD and we're back in business. Alzheimer's banish to the depths of the netherworld. For that, the obvious would be to use what was used in this study. But it's an injection and it's not available yet. Definitely a shame, but there are alternatives and they don't require staring down the barrel of a tiny needle. For example, NAD boosting supplements like nicotinomide, nicotenomide monucleotide, nicoti nicotinomide ribocide uh are all precursor molecules that are converted into NAD and have become quite popular. Now, real quick, why not NAD directly? It's highly unstable and doesn't generally translate to effect. So, we use more stable precursor molecules. Anyway, like I alluded to at the very beginning, I've done a lot of analysis on NAD in the past, and the research has been extremely weak when it comes to human research. However, one critique that I also had in defense of NAD supplements, was that most NAD studies, I'm talking about the precursor molecules, are looking at measures like triglycerides, LDL, glucose, and things of that nature. The problem is these outcomes aren't exactly what NAD was designed to do mechanistically. However, now we have significant mechanistic evidence that NAD boosting reverses Alzheimer's disease. So, we can focus our attention on human studies that use these precursor molecules to investigate the effect on Alzheimer's disease. Now, we are incredibly fortunate that there are such studies and not just one but at least three. Now, you may have noticed that the subtitle or section title for this section of the video is called The Empire Strikes Back. This is the point of the trilogy after a new hope, i.e. NAD, gets a massive kick in the rear end. In the movies, the I shouldn't even have to tell you which movies I'm referencing. The rebels get their rear ends kicked in the battle of Hoth. So, what shall be the equivalent in the world of NAD and Alzheimer's? Well, it turns out that all three of these NAD boosting clinical trials show no effect against Alzheimer's, if that's a reversal or even a slowing of Alzheimer's disease. So, as Darth Vader said to the admiral, >> "You have failed me for the last time, NAD booster." >> Before he crushed his windpipe, we may have to move off the idea of NAD boosting through precursor molecules again. Are we then doomed to a life of angst trying to fight the empire, i.e. Alzheimer's disease, forever? Actually, no. because I was curious if anything else could boost NAD levels, particularly in the brain. And I was pleasantly surprised to find some human evidence in yet another supplement, one that might surprise you, which is why this next section is going to be called a version of Return of the Jedi. Before we do get to our savior, I glossed over the Alzheimer's disease studies, but there's several interesting aspects about them that I'm going to get into, like the changes in brain blood flow and something called the nodal stress hypothesis related to NAD boosting and even in the next supplement like how to use it more effectively or if genetics play a role and more. That's all to be included in the full video of the one that you're currently watching, which is included with my Physionic Insider membership, my research platform, which comes with all of these perks, too. And I don't have my new AI system up here yet, or my master supplement guide that I just released. All of that is included as a Physionic Insider. The value just keeps climbing because I keep putting tons of time and effort into improving the insiders. You want to join the physionic insiders using the link in the description. I'll speak with you over there. Now, Luke, the return of the Jedi is ketosis. Well, more specifically, the supplementation of mediumchain triglycerides or MCTs. Now, I know it's kind of out of left field, but hear me out. I was pleasantly surprised to find out that there are studies where human people, not to be confused with non-human people, are given MCTs and then there, and this is important, brain NAD levels of NAD to NADH ratio is measured. Usually studies measure blood and then assume the NAD levels are increased. But we're getting human brain measurements of NAD here. This is before and after the NAD ratio increases which is exactly what we showed here was diminished in Alzheimer's disease. So now we have proof that consuming MCTs raises NAD levels in the brain. Now granted this is a very shortterm experiment only lasting a few hours but guess what? Luke isn't done yet. Enter trials using MCTs against Alzheimer's disease. Yes, that's right. There are clinical trials using MCTs against Alzheimer's disease. I bet you didn't expect to be discussing mediumchain triglycerides in a video about NAD, eh? Well, unlike all the NAD supplement studies, both of these studies show a reversal of Alzheimer's disease with MCT supplementation. Take that, Emperor Palpatine. Then like the Palpatine voice, the dark side of Alzheimer's is no more. Okay, let me calm things down a bit. Yes, both studies showed improvements in people heading towards Alzheimer's disease, and yes, it was actually across multiple cognitive measurements, but the effect is still quite mild. Could this be because of the trial length? For sure. We can't expect to see an immediate elimination of Alzheimer's. I also think in general that it's a tall order for a single molecule to have a Alzheimer's evisceration effect. If you are interested in giving it a shot, the effective dose started at 10 g of MCT up to 30 g. And if you're looking for more details on different forms and more reputable sources and what to focus on, then check out my master supplement guide. It includes the MCTs and many other supplements included with my insider subscription and updated regularly. Of course, if the mechanism is ketosis, which is elevated with MCT consumption, it might mean that something like ketogenic diets could also be an avenue. The answer is possibly. Unfortunately, what studies exist are short and tend to be feasibility trials, which means that they aren't really designed for cognitive outcomes in mind. Honestly, there's more that I could say on the topic, and I plan on revisiting this in the future with a special emphasis on this ketosis angle, but until then, this is a fascinating initial NAD study. I'm still down on the NAD supplements, and we have early clinical evidence that Alzheimer's can be combed with the help of MCTs, which I think is a fun surprise. Now, typically I'd put the Star Wars theme here because it's only fitting, but I'll get demonetized. So, here's the next best thing right after I point you to the next video on NAD or this much more promising one on Alzheimer's disease right here. Thanks for watching.