I think it's understandable to be cautious or even dismissive of supplements. Many have little to no good quality evidence behind them. But fascinatingly, we have a brand new randomized control trial on cancer and how a supplement actually helps prevent cancer. And in fact, the initial study released several years ago, but I don't actually don't remember it getting many headlines. Now, however, a follow-up study has been published in a big journal, Cell Reports Medicine. Now, the supplement is bourbon, a naturally occurring molecule extracted from the barberry plant. So, what can we take away from this study? And I'll actually go ahead and tell you there's something pretty remarkable about this supplement captured in the second study that I'll tell you about. Initially, we I mean scientists looked at bourberine by conducting a randomized control trial by including almost 1,000 participants randomly assigned to consume bourberine in pill form twice a day or an identical looking pill that did not contain bourberine called the placebo. Now both groups were instructed to keep taking their respective pills for 2 years. Now, the outcome of interest was the development of adenomomas, meaning precancerous abnormal growth in the colon. These aren't guaranteed to grow into cancer, but they are much more likely because they share some, though not all of the characteristics of cancer. Looking at the data, you can focus on the graph for simplicity. The black dotted line is the comparison line. If anything touches it, it means that the result is not statistically significantly identified to have an effect. Now, if it moves to the left, there is an effect detected. I don't need to spell it out more than that. The Bourberine group clearly experienced fewer adenomas than the placebo over the 2 years of Bourberine consumption. This was confirmed in a variety of different ways. Ultimately, we're looking at a 23% reduced risk. The point here is that bourberin directly protects against precancerous growth forming in the colon. But it doesn't stop there because there are also severities of cancer progression. Now you've probably heard of stages one, two, three, and four for cancers. They describe severity. Now in colon cancer, looking at adenomomas, the size, the shape, the color, the structure determines if it's advanced or non-advanced. So the question is, does bourberine help reduce the severity of what gross do form? The answer is again yes. In fact almost 50% though the exact number is a bit in the air considering what are known as confidence intervals but based on these data yes a near 50% reduction in advanced adenomomas. This of course follows through with the non-advanced as well because the overall risk was reduced as we went over. Now, we're talking about bourbon not only being protective overall against precancerous lesions, but also reduces the severity of whatever lesions might still appear. Remarkable. Now, that's all pretty impressive, right? Like I mentioned, there's plenty of room for skepticism around supplements, but here we're getting some pretty solid proof that something that we don't normally engage with may provide some benefit. But what if I told you this first study isn't even the most impressive? The most impressive lies in this follow-up study and is all beautifully illustrated in this one image. But before that, aren't you the least bit curious on exactly how bourberin does this? Are we absorbing bourberin and then it launches rockets at precancerous cells? Is it befriending cancer cells and then stabbing them as they yell, "Hey, to Brutus." I like to think that, but that's probably not what's happening. Now, what's been proposed is that common tumores pathways, which means cancerromoting pathways within our cells, are inhibited by bourberine. So as bourberine is absorbed by these colonocytes, these colon cells, it interacts with proteins in our cells, preventing the signals from pushing procancerous. Even outside the cell, bourbon is believed to change the microbiome by changing the microbiome environment, possibly making it less hospitable place for colurectal cancer to grow. Now, I'd actually like to touch on this a little bit later again because I could envision a scenario where bourberine is ineffective for many people. Now, in short, bourberine is proposed to work directly at inhibiting cancer cell growth and indirectly by promoting an anti-cancerous gut microbiome. So, we've been going over the general effects of bourbon and cancer prevention, and there's much more in different subgroups like the effects based on age, history of cancer, other health issues, severity of adenomomas, and more. I'm covering that in the extended version of this video that you're watching along with supplement recommendations. If you're interested in access to it, plus all my work in video, written and audio form, all ad free, plus all these perks like live sessions with me and the community, get access by becoming a physionic insider. It helps me continue my work here, and it's a wealth of information broken down into actionable steps and additional nuances. The link to join is in the description box. Hope to see you there. Now, to this second study, I'll keep this as simple as I can. This is a followup on a randomized control trial that we covered. That means most of the same participants were enrolled and assessed years later after the study conclusion. So 6 years to be exact. Now I'm going to show you the graph again and then I'm going to drop a bombshell on you. A good bombshell if such a thing exists. Here it is. I feel like I should add angelic music to accompany as you'll understand shortly. You can ignore the table with the numbers. I'm including it for those that know how to read it. For those more visually and less numerically crazed, notice the 1.0 line running horizontally. That is our baseline risk. If the squares and lines move down from that line, there's reduced adenoma recurrence, as in reduced chance of adenomomas returning. Each datim is a different year. The two initial years of the trial and then six more follow-up years. You see it right? You do notice that with every passing year, we get tighter and tighter data indicating bourbon continues incredibly to reduce the risk of these pesky adenomas. So, this means there is a continued long-term colon cancer risk reduction. Pretty striking. But here's the bombshell. The participants were no longer consuming bourberin. That's right. The first two years they were, but the final six years as risk was still reduced they weren't. Now that's an incredible finding. I don't care what anybody says. So this means that bourberine consumption associates with long-term reduced risk of colurectal cancer even when consumption is stopped years back. You may have noticed I said the word associates and that actually wasn't a slip of the tongue. It's a deliberate choice of words to indicate that these data are no longer causitive. The reason is that because of the length of the study time, there was no randomization of the included participants, though they were originally randomized and there's no intervention anymore. I think someone could argue this is a bit of a quasi situation where we could make uh some claims to causation, but there's plenty of space there for other influencing factors. Now to be fair, the researchers did account for many influencing factors. So all these data are certainly exciting. We have good quality evidence that bourberin works here. But I did mention there might be one pause to the excitement. If we think back to one of the main proposed mechanisms of action and considering the long-standing effects, it is entirely possible that people who already have a healthy microbiome may not experience benefit from bourberine. The participant pool was entirely Chinese, so nutrition style may play a role in the effectiveness since nutrition is a heavy player in changing our microbiome. Would this apply to European cultural foods or African? Would it apply to people consuming a ketogenic diet, a plant dominant diet? We don't know that yet. Another limitation, though not as serious in my mind, is the fact that these studies focus on people with adenomomas in their past and have been removed. So would this still apply in people without issues with their colon? We don't know that yet. These data are not exclusive to people with colctal cancer past. But they may not be representative of a healthy population either, which may also speak to my first point further. What we do know is that accepting these limitations, 600 mgs of bourberine split into two doses was effective at protecting against colurectal cancer linked gross with a need for more studies to confirm these results by other researchers, other studies in different groups of people and so on. So where does that leave you? First, we saw good evidence that bourbon protects against the number and severity of precancerous growth in the colon. This effect may be longstanding, continuing for five or more years, even when no longer consuming bourberine. As for what to do, well, that depends. There were few side effects from bourberine supplementation across these studies. And if you have a history of abnormal growth in the colon, it may be worth trying verber. Now, if you do not have a history of colctal cancer, there's no data here that offers definitive evidence for you. But it wouldn't surprise me if this translated to people without a history of precancerous growth. So it may be worth a shot, too. The dose used was 600 mg per day. If you're interested in independently tested supplements, I offer a list that I'm not affiliated with in my Physionic Insider subscription. Keep in mind that this is still early days, but certainly nothing to ignore, even if we need more data to confirm and learn some of the additional nuances. There's some additional work that I've done on the benefits of bourberine which I cover right here too. Or if you're interested in cancer prevention directly, there's a powerful way simply consuming more of this nutrient. Of course, I can't tell you what that nutrient is. That would spoil the fun. Thanks for tuning in. I appreciate it and I'll catch you in the next one. Bye.