What if it was a simple mineral deficiency leading to people developing the brain disorder Alzheimer's disease? Well, there's new compelling evidence not just in animals, but in human research like here, where the researchers of a huge new study measured the brain levels of lithium in the brains of humans either without Alzheimer's with mild cognitive impairment, so progressively reduced brain function and finally ad there is Alzheimer's disease. The researchers identified a relationship between low brain lithium levels and both neurodeenerative conditions relative to the healthy non-afflicted brain. But correlation is not causation. So is lithium the anti-Alzheimer's mineral that we've been waiting for? Well, to create some sort of cause and effect relationship, the researchers used a common Alzheimer's mouse model and then either gave one group lithium and the other they made sure to remain deficient in lithium. Then they quantified the number of plaques. These are the clumps of protein that sit between our brain cells, our neurons, and interfere with the molecular communication between these cells. The researchers here labeled the plaques in green. I don't even need to annunciate that. You can clearly see in the lithium deficient groups of the DEF there, there's much more green indicating more of these disruptive plaques are found in the brain. Beyond that, the researchers also did a series of cognitive tests and confirmed worse performance. So, the takeaway here is that being low in the mineral lithium increases plaques in the brain, which are implicated in Alzheimer's disease. Okay. Then, do we supplement with it? Well, the researchers did exactly that. They gave the same mice lithium and were able to significantly reduce the amount of plaques found in the brain as well as improve their brain function. But this extends beyond animal data because there have been clinical trials that have also indicated effectiveness of lithium. Now why is lithium so low in the brain and could this offer a clue on how to supplement with it? The main clue in relation to how lithium acts on the brain is due to its low levels in the brain cells themselves. This was awfully suspicious to the researchers because what is happening to the available lithium? Well, they end up arguing that lithium is attaching to the plaques themselves. If that's the case, the brain cells can't access the lithium as it's bound to these unwanted protein bundles. So, this offers some clues on specific supplementation. In fact, before that though, the researchers also brought up how lithium can reverse Alzheimer's link plaque, several other mechanisms by which lithium deficiency hurts the brain, and also what they deem to be the best lithium type. And I also analyzed a fascinating study on long-term effects of supplementation on the brain. I cover all that in the extended version of the video that you're watching, which you get as a physionic insider along with all of these wonderful perks. The podcast, live sessions with me, weekly articles, and more. You can join using the link in the description. I'll see you on the inside. These clues on supplementation come from some further experiments where the researchers identified which lithium types are less prone to being sequestered by the plaques, therefore keeping them available for the brain cells. In those experiments, they identified a clear trend that inorganic lithium salts like lithium chloride, carbonate, and so on are less likely to be effective against Alzheimer's than organic lithium salts. The researchers even indicate significant reversal of Alzheimer's brain degradation from these lithium salts. To be clear, this is based on mechanistic data. Now the other important factor is dosing because while you might have heard of dosing lithium for something like bipolar disorder, the dosing is completely different. In this situation, we're talking about people trying to avoid cognitive impairment and Alzheimer's. The doses are on the microgram scale, a 1,000fold difference from clinical bipolar disorders. So where does that land us in some? This study directly indicates there is within brain lithium deficiency in people experiencing clinical cognitive decline on the path to Alzheimer's. Lithium supplementation reduces or eliminates cognitive decline with some decent evidence in humans as well. Lithium used in human studies are trace doses along the lines of 300 to 400 micrograms of lithium, but there's plenty more to be done against dementias like Alzheimer's. So, don't forget to click right here. But you wouldn't forget because you got your brain activated already learning about the lithium. So, might as well just keep that streak going,