I think it was two years ago that I released a video going over a couple of studies on uriththna, a metabolite produced by our gut microbiome. Now, it was brought up that uriththna is only produced by a minority of people because not everyone's gut microbiome is capable of producing the molecule. However, when supplementing with uriththna directly, the argument went that it improves aspects of health like V2 max strength, osteoarthritis, and more. and across multiple measures that seems to be the case. Even so, I wasn't bullish on uriththna for reasons that I'll get into later. Now, however, a new study released that shows effects against age related immune decline. So, has my tune changed toward the positive? Is uriththna now a worthy supplement investment? Well, this study certainly indicates multiple areas where ur uroliththan aid does lead to effects in humans. According to this newly minted randomized control trial, their focus was on change in the immune system. As the immune system changes in multiple ways as we get older from reduced numbers of immune cells to protect our body to greater inflammation as our common known as innate immune system shifts towards aggressiveness and pro-inflammation on a more consistent and unwanted basis. So when people in their 50s, men and women are given uriththna or a placebo for just one month, what changes can we expect? And are these changes of any real benefit? The answer to the first question is yes, we see changes. To the second, I am far less convinced. Now, I [snorts] mentioned there are reduced numbers of immune cells as we age. And one of those major groups of immune cells are called CD8 TC cells. They're highly destructive specialized immune cells. Think of them like special forces or green berets or the French Foreign Legion. You get the idea. They're given one objective and they are highly specialized to destroy the pathogen causing illness. Now, as we age, the number of these cells, especially naive cells, so meaning cells that have not been given instructions to destroy, so no orders have been filed, is reduced. This leaves us more vulnerable to viruses, bacteria and actually also things like cancer. So when uriththna is consumed by people, we actually see an increase in the number of these specialized important cells seen here. The higher the dots and the lines, the more of these CD8 tea cells are present. Now in green on the left we have the cells of the people on the eriththnne and on the right we have the date of the people on the placebo. Now statistically speaking there is a significant difference with those consuming uriththna experiencing a b beneficial rise. So the main point here being that uriththna improves the vitality and the number of our specialized immune cells. And in fact other cells especially cancer killing cells like natural killer cells are also elevated in number when people consume uriththna. Interestingly this does not translate to all cell types. One of the touted benefits of uriththna from previous research has been related to its mitochondrial effects. The good old powerhouse of the cell as they say. Now previous research has indicated that uriththna impacts mphagy the clearance of mitochondria as well as increasing the signals for mitochondrial production called biogenesis. So might this also happen in our immune cells? The more mitochondria, the more metabolic flexibility by ourselves. So mitochondrial biogenesis is controlled by a master protein within our cells called PGC-1 alpha. This protein, this transcription co-activator, which essentially means that it works in unison with other signaling proteins within our cells and encourages the cell to produce the proteins necessary to create new mitochondria. So when we consume uriththna there's an increase in this protein this PGC1 alpha it's pretty brilliant. So while not a direct measure of mitochondria we have evidence that uriththna raises a powerful mitochondrial growth signal in our immune cells. This same study also indicated an anti-inflammatory effect of uriththna supplementation as well. So this all sounds pretty great and clearly we don't just see changes, we see benefits seemingly abound from uriththna. Now I'd like to discourage you from using uriththna. Yeah, you heard that right. Discourage you. I'm going to present an argument against using it and I'll tell you how much is used across the studies if you still choose to use it as there's people who actually swear by it. like this comment that I received in my last analysis. And if you think that you'd also get benefit or you just I don't know want to learn more about it like its effects against a cancerpromoting protein called tox or how it stacks up against another molecule that I'm a much bigger fan of or its V2 effects and much much more then consider joining the physionic insiders. You'll get both of my full analyses on uraliththna in video form along with full articles. Plus, you can search my approved supplement list. And you get a researcher that dissects the data for you and assesses and explains the quality and strength of the evidence of all kinds of different health topics for you with actionable takeaways. Plus, all these perks right here. It's a steal, I tell you. The link to join the Physionic Insiders is in the description. So yes, we went over three instances here. Urithna is a benefit. It promoted an anti-inflammatory state. It increases the number of specialized immune cells that decline with age. It promotes a powerful mitochondrial production protein. And even so, my critique two years ago still stands just as strongly, if not stronger than before. Generally when I'm assessing the importance of a substance in this case the supplement uriththna I'm looking at a number of studies the quality of the studies and what effects that the molecule has in those studies. So the evidence is mounting in favor of urolithna as we now have multiple randomized control trials that indicate benefits across a number of areas of health. That means that the number of studies and the quality of the studies have increased over time which is an excellent argument for using uriththna. However, the effects of uriththna are not as impressive as they seem. I say that from multiple perspectives. One, the measurements are usually not functional endpoints. I'm making up an example, but if the claim is that uriththnache helps against arthritis, most people want to know if they'll, I don't know, feel less pain and be able to move more normally. These are functional outcomes. However, the studies done so far are typically focused on mechanisms and showing improvements in genes related to osteoarthritis. It's not a bad thing, but it isn't exactly worldchanging. or when function is assessed, the effects are very mild, as in yes, they are statistically significant, but they are small changes. For example, in a previous study that I went over, I'll link my previous analysis for you, they measured the strength of one part of the leg, and they showed a singledigit improvement. Or if you look at what we went over more closely, like the data that I presented to you here, you might notice that the absolute change is less than 1%. In addition, it's a change compared to the placebo condition, not against baseline, where the result was probably nothing. The comparison they used is the better one, but it doesn't change the fact that these effects are small. The point being although benefits are shown with uriththna supplementation the benefits are just very small. So then is it an absolute no for uriththna? Not necessarily. We know it has an effect assuming that we can trust the studies as most if not all are funded by a uriththna supplement company and many of the researchers are employees of said company and if we still accept it as that it has positive effects. We do know that it helps across a number of health metrics, not just immunity. So, it has a widespread effect, which is a good argument. In addition, the studies are short. So, could the effects continue to grow if used for 6 months, a year, several years? We don't know. But it's a perfectly reasonable possibility. Could it be effective for people who don't eat the healthiest microbiome beneficial diet? maybe it would be more beneficial for them than what we see here. Absolutely. So, just because I'm not a big fan still, which could change as more research emerges, that doesn't actually mean that arguments can't be made in favor of uriththna supplementation. Okay, doc, break it down into simple terms for me and shut up with all the waffling back and forth. We see that uriththna has a mild effect in improving our immune profile. Uralithna has effects across many health issues, but the benefits are often very small and likely not worth the money for most. If you choose to supplement, the effective dose used in the studies is 1,000 milligrams per day. If you want to learn more on uriththna, join my insiders program. I'll be discussing it on the next podcast, exclusive for the insiders, or check out this video on my other analysis. Hope this helped you make some decisions and I'll catch you in the next one. Bye.