pain, joint stiffness, reduce range of motion. Is it me getting out of a chair or is it osteoarthritis? We'll discuss the first one another time. This time, let's get into a fascinating new discovery related to how your cells are poisoning the tissue around your joints, causing the joint instability that people experience with age, but especially with arthritis. More specifically, researchers seem to think that our cells are using iron to poison the muscle around our joints. Why do they think that? And if it's true, is there anything that we might be able to do to stop it? Arthritis tends to strike in specific joints. So, the researchers of this massive study measured the muscle size around the arthritis affected joint and the muscle size around the unaffected joint of people with arthritis. In addition, they measured the muscle strength. So we can see both here. The orange dots are the arthritis affected joint and the blue the left side are the healthy unaffected joints. In both measures, muscle size or muscle strength, the arthritis affected joint did worse. That probably isn't a huge surprise. So why is that? Well, there's no denying that it could be to any number of reasons. If a person experiences more pain, they're less likely to favor that joint, which would lead to some mild disuse, reductions in muscle size and strength. I think that is a safe assumption. However, that's not the only explanation. For one, there's an increase in inflammation, total body. But they also noticed something peculiar related to the immune system. For one, while our immune system is made up of many cells, dendritic cells, T- cells, B cells, and many others, the only ones that were abundant in the afflicted joint were the common immune cell called a macrofase. The reason that's peculiar is that it indicates potential specificity, as in these particular cells are there for a reason that is unique to them without recruiting other immune cells. So to summarize simply, the muscle around the arthritic joint is smaller and weaker and there's a peculiar accumulation of a specific type of immune cell in that region. So what are these macrofase cells doing there? What does it have to do with the poisoning? And will this be turning into a Shakespearean play? Well, the cells are actually deranged. They're crazy, I tell you. But seriously, these immune cells are suffering from more gene damage and they're more scesscent. That means that the cells have more damage to the genetic material or the genetic information found within them. And they've turned into zombie cells where they shut themselves down. So these zombie macrofase cells are suffering from multiple problems causing them to be dysfunctional inside the muscle around the joint. Doesn't sound good. But how is that affecting the joint itself, the muscle? Well, the researchers took samples of muscle from people with arthritis and discovered that their affected joint, the muscle around it, has an unusually high concentration of iron in it. seen here. The orange is the arthritis condition. The blue is the nonarththritis condition. And the amount of iron is greater in the arthritis condition. The reason we're talking about iron here is because iron in its unbound form is highly reactive as in it interacts with the structure of the cell and does tremendous damage to it. Now, all that damage to the cell leads to a process called ferroptosis, which is an iron overload in the cell causing the cell to self-destruct. So the researchers hypothesize that the scesscent macrofasages, this is a graphic from the paper by the way, take up red blood cells containing bound iron in the form of hemoglobin. They liberate the iron from hemoglobin now making it highly reactive free iron and then kick that iron back out of the scesscent macrofase which then unfortunately gets taken up by the muscle cells inducing ferroptosis. muscle cell death from iron overload. Honestly, I'm only showing you the main highlights of the study, and there's a ton more that the researchers get into, like the removal of scinesscent cells, the impact of reducing a particular protein called BCL XL has, and even encouraging the production of a supplementable molecule has on protecting the muscle around the joint. I do cover all that in the extended version of this video that you're watching along with the full article that accompanies it. If you're interested including all these perks, join the Physionic Insiders. It's where the serious science takes place. Well, not too serious. We still allow the occasional mirth. You can join the uh Physionic Insiders using the link in the description if you're interested. Okay, we now know the detrimental effects these scesscent macroofasages have on our muscle, killing it, stressing it through poisoning via free iron and so on. What can we do? Actually, a number of things. some more general and some more specific. As limiting as osteoarthritis and arthritis as a whole can be, whatever exercise is manageable, that should be priority number one for an obvious reason and a nonobvious reason. All exercise will help maintain muscle mass and structural integrity around the affected joint. Zero doubt about that. However, exercise is also known to reduce scinesscent markers known as SASPs throughout the body and inflammation as a whole. So, if possible, strongly encouraged to exercise a few times per week. Second, there are anti-inflammatory diets out there. The Mediterranean diet is one example, a ketogenic as another. Both have good evidence reducing symptoms of arthritis. Third, a bit more specific, is to keep an eye on a blood metric called HbA1c, which is a measure of longerterm blood sugar levels. There is some evidence of a relationship with higher HbA1c and osteoarthritis progression, likely because HbA1c is a decent though not perfect proxy of AES, a molecule known to exacerbate scinesscent cells like what we've been discussing. So maintaining a lower HbA1c by the two points mentioned prior could help reduce inflammatory and proineesscent state of the macrofasages. I'd like to see direct evidence, but it certainly wouldn't harm. Finally, the researchers mentioned CoQ10 as a potential for benefit as well. They indicate across a number of experiments that CoQ10 reverses many of these negative effects. I go into a lot more detail on how CoQ10 is implicated. It's a fascinating mechanism for the insiders if you're interested. But the bottom line is that I couldn't find any studies in humans looking at osteoarthritis, but there are some in rheumatoid arthritis. So confirmed to a degree. I'll mention another supplement in a bit too. So all this put together, what's the short of it? The study indicates that osteoarthritis is linked to reduced muscle size and strength around the affected joint. This happens at least in part due to the accumulation of scinsesscent zombie immune cells that slowly poison the muscle cells by overloading them with free iron which is highly damaging and causes stress and death to the muscle cells. The mechanism is still hypothetical although some evidence exists even if it's incomplete. We can reduce the negative consequences of these scesscent immune cells and preserve muscle by a exercising as possible, b eating an anti-inflammatory diet, c keeping hbaw1c levels within normal range, and d possibly through CoQ10 supplementation, though that needs further evidence. However, one supplement that I like that I find extremely beneficial for several arthritis conditions is curcumin, the one that I go in depth right here. I hope this fascinated you as much as it did me. Thanks for tuning in.