About a month back, I covered a study that described an exciting relationship between the molecule NAD and Alzheimer's disease. Now, I won't retell the story here, but it eventually turned into a fascinating relationship between ketosis, elevated ketones, and Alzheimer's disease, where I pointed out two clinical trials that indicate a link between ketones and improving brain function. But I couldn't go much into it as much as I with as much depth as I wanted. So, I promised this. Honestly, there's more that I could say on the topic, and I plan on revisiting this in the future with a special emphasis on this ketosis angle. So, here we are to look at not one or two studies, but 13 studies, all in humans, that get into the benefits of ketones and cognitive health. What really shook me was the biggest study on the topic found no benefit. And yet there may be a very good reason for that result that may not preclude a conclusion for elevated blood ketones causing improved cognitive function. Let me show you what I mean as well as assess two different ways of raising ketones and how they both stack against cognitive decline. It actually all starts with this image. This is a wicked wickedly cool image called a tractogram. We're looking at two things here. So one those millions of fine fibers creating the mesh within the brain outline are the connections between the brain cells called neurons. The second and the more relevant to use is that this is a measure of ketone uptake into the cells before and after a person is on a ketogenic state. So a ketosis production state. The more green, the fewer ketones are taken up and the more yellow, orange, and red, the greater the ketone uptake by these cells. Apart from being a fantastic representation image of this study, it speaks to the key proposed benefits of elevated ketones in the blood. Ketones, I suppose I should have explained that earlier, are like essentially pre- metabolized fat molecules produced by your liver. And they can be used by your brain cells like your neurons to generate cellular energy via their mitochondria, obligatory powerhouse of the cell. Now, the issue is with many brain disorders that there's a shift away from this primary nutrient. The brain uses glucose, blood sugar. At least that's what's proposed here. In addition, even when glucose is present, the brain will use ketones in a concentration dependent manner, which means that if glucose is held stable, but you raise your ketones, the brain will preferentially utilize ketones. So the main point that I'm trying to get across here is that when ketones are low, like in a non- ketogenic state, the brain relies heavily on glucose. And when the brain reduces its utilization of glucose due to disease, brain disorders worsen as there's no backup energy substrate, ketones. And as we saw in that image, when a person is put into a position where their body produces ketones, their brain readily takes up those ketones. And to be clear, there's other ways that ketones are proposed to benefit the brain, but the metabolic aspect is a major one. But as I mentioned, there's a serious disagreement in the literature because larger studies disagree with what I've shown in the past indicating this unique benefit of ketones or at least hinting strongly in that direction. So, I originally showed these two clinical trials which both show that increasing ketones by supplementation improved Alzheimer's disease, better cognitive function. However, a larger study on the back of these two studies by one of the very same research groups now indicates no effect. Although the study ran for longer and had more participants, as we can see here, if the lines go up, that's improved cognitive function. If the lines go down, that's worse. And the dotted line is the placebo group, those not consuming a ketosis promoting supplement like mediumchain triglycerides. And the black line is the group consuming the ketosis promoting MCTs and that's mediumchain triglycerides. Again, since there's no divergence between the lines over the 26 weeks, there's no effect detected and we likely wouldn't detect an effect. Of course, this spits in the face of the other studies like this one where the same type of intervention is used as in MCT in red and placebo in blue. Again, the higher the lines, the better cognitive function. Notice how the placebo experiences a loss in cognitive function, yet the ketosis promoting group maintain their cognitive function. You may be wondering why the lines come back together at the end. That's because both groups stop their intervention, meaning that the intervention itself is the cause of this distinction, which is good evidence. Now, while there are many more studies that indicate an elevated ketosis does improve cognitive function, we should admit that some of these studies are poorly controlled. For example, this study has no control group and some studies are quite short, running only a month or so, or having only a handful of participants or the fact that many of the studies are industry funded or affiliated. Still, even slightly larger studies, including proper controls, less conflicted studies indicate there is a benefit here to be had. So, why the discrepancy and what to believe? Now, I'm going to get into that, plus comparing the natural ways of raising ketones versus the supplemented ways. But before we do that and get into the specifics, I'm covering more on the mechanisms of ketones, if APOE4 Alzheimer's status makes a difference, and even some work on pairing of two other molecules with ketones and the effect against cognitive decline. All of that in video, podcast, and article form are available as a physionic insider. And you get all of these additional benefits as well. If you're interested, check out the link in the description for the Physionic Insiders. I'd love to have you aboard. Okay, I'm not going to be the purveyor of absolute truth here, but my educated speculation, which is also mentioned by the researchers of this study indicating failure, is that participants did not reach a blood ketone threshold. What am I talking about? I'm talking about a minimum blood ketone threshold to reach before benefits set in. The study showed that people reached 0.27 27 mill mole ketone levels. This is quite low. In fact, most studies that indicate benefit reach double that blood level if not higher. So, it is completely feasible that this study fail to indicate an effect simply because the intervention didn't deliver enough of the nutrient of interest, ketones. There are of course other possibilities like participants dropping out or the effect only being present at certain early stages of Alzheimer's and cognitive decline or something entirely different. Still, I think that this failed minimum threshold is a probable cause and requires a search warrant for future investigation. So, the bottom line is this. Boosting ketones has inconsistent evidence indicating brain benefit, but almost all of the evidence suggests a protective effect. Now, allow me to take a step back because there's three more quick things to cover before we finish this off. First, many studies look at raising ketones in the blood via supplementation, those mediumchain triglycerides. Unfortunately, we can't technically attribute these benefits to ketosis, even if that is what is assumed considering the research on the mechanisms. It's not like we're knocking out the ketone production and seeing if that eliminates the effects here. I suppose in the big picture it probably doesn't matter but it does matter in how we discuss this topic. The assumption is that the main driver is through ketone production something that I may dive into with specific mechanistic literature in the future. And second, do we have similar evidence with something like ketogenic diets, other forms of raising ketones? The answer is yes. There are some studies looking at very low carbohydrate diets and they all point the same direction benefit. However, there isn't as much evidence or as quality evidence as for mediumchain triglycerides. Still, since we now have two intersection interventions, MCTs and ketogenic diets, it does strengthen the interpret interpretation that these effects are ketone related. This also means that supplementation is likely unnecessary. So if I wanted to implement this, it would depend on if I wanted to turn my diet to be ketone generation, so i.e. long-term very low carbohydrate diet, or if I wanted to maintain my higher carbohydrate diet, but add MCTs. Both would likely work as the evidence suggests. Okay, that brings us to a third point that's especially true here. MCTs can have some side effects like gastrointestinal issues. So that may factor into the equation for you too. Or certain ketogenic diets can raise cardiovascular risk factors as we currently understand the literature. So if you went that route, focusing on unsaturated fats may be prudent. But listen, all of this started when I was looking at a molecule called NAD and the relationship it has to ketosis and brain function. If you're interested in learning more, then check out my analysis right here. Or if you prefer to learn more about the potential benefits of ketones in general, then check this out right here. I hope this was informative. Thanks for hanging out with me and I'll catch you in the next one. See you.