I don't know about you, but this headline isn't altogether intuitive, considering that coffee generally contains caffeine, which certainly has an effect on our heart. Good thing my expectations are not mored in what I feel, but rather sway in the bewitching call of data. I'm talking about a brand spanking new study looking at the relationship between coffee consumption and a heart condition called atrial fibrillation. In fact, this atrial fibrillation is quite common with millions and millions dealing with it. In simple terms, it's a funky heart rhythm. In longer terms, it's where the top chambers of your heart that allow blood from the top to drop down to the bottom chambers of your heart don't function normally. There's certainly longer explanations getting into the electrical activity of the heart and beyond. But all you need to know is that the top section of the heart doesn't function uniformly. It doesn't function as it's supposed to, which raises the risk of clots forming leading to stroke. And this fibrillation can also lead to heart failure. So not good. So the researchers took two groups of people. I made that sound more sinister than it needed to be. They recruited, it's not like they kidnapped hundreds of people. They recruited and randomly assigned 200 people to either consume coffee or abstain from coffee. Then they tracked the number of atrial fibrillation events that occurred through a bunch of techniques, some in clinic and some dayto-day devices, even something as simple as an Apple Watch. Now, I'll return to this because there is an issue here that I'd like to get into in more depth. For now, we know the setup. What happened over the next 6 months then? Well, look for yourself. The vertical axis indicates the risk of atrial fibrillation based on the number of recorded events. So, if the lines go up, that's a greater risk, a bad thing. Now, the horizontal axis is time past. And the two lines, as you can see, indicate the two groups of coffee drinkers and those forced into an uncaffeinated life of barbarism. The abstinent. Clearly from the get-go, those who stopped drinking coffee almost immediately had greater risk of aphhib. That's atrial fibrillation. But I'm abbreviating it to fit in with the youth. No one says the full words to anything anymore. It's not invogue. So the main point here is that aphib risk is reduced when consuming coffee. Like I said, not exactly expected for me, but here we are. Now there are some things to consider some of which that the researchers pointed out too. For example, when randomized control trials are done, the researchers will also measure the baseline differences between the groups to see if there are any initial differences that might skew the study one way or another. Now unfortunately in this study the coffee consuming group included more people who had aphib ablation which means that the heart underos a procedure that essentially kills a small section of the heart to prevent this defunct electrical signal from continuing. Now obviously if you have more people that have had surgery to eliminate or lessen the number of fibrillation episodes that they have. Can we really credit coffee for being this magical elixir that protects against aphib? Hard pass. Miss me with that. The same is true in the opposite direction. So more people in non- coffee consuming group had a specific type of atrial fibrillation. So now we have two uneven factors that put coffee consuming group in a favorable position independent of their coffee consumption. The key takeaway here is that the study had some flaws that we need to address. And we can do that after the fact through what are known as a statistical adjustments. Essentially, we redo the analysis that we just saw. So this one, but we mathematically hold two issues. So ablation and the type of fibrillation constant, thereby leveling the playing field. And here are the results. Here the red line and dot indicate the results once the adjustments have been made. And if they fall to the left of the yellow line, it in it indicates a reduced risk of atrial fibrillation. So this means that the previous results stand even when correcting for the issues in the data. So great news for coffee drinkers. But I'd like to get into a bit more important information along with why coffee has this effect before we finish this out. And before that, if you're interested in understanding if age, sex, aphib seriousness, and atrial flutter affect what we're going over here, then be sure to check out the extended version of this video that you're watching, or you can always uh check out the article that comes along with all of my videos, and you get all these perks right over here. I'm actually going on almost two years releasing a monthly podcast that covers many topics on many investigations, all science-based and all focused on applicable takeaways. You get access to all of that that I just said, including live sessions with me and more as a physionic insider. Check it out and see if it's for you. The link to join is in the description box. So, good news. But how is this supposed to have worked? Well, it's not entirely clear, but the researchers point out a few possibilities, like some previous research pointing to adenosine molecules that are secreted by our cells throughout the day at increasing concentrations bind to our atrial cells. Those are heart cells that are involved in atrial fibrillation using a receptor on the cell surface. When it binds, it encourages a series of proteins inside the cell to bind potassium channels in the cell membrane. These potassium channels are critical for proper electrical signaling. Exactly what we're talking about here with atrial fibrillation. And these signaling proteins activated by adenosine bound to the receptor will open the potassium channel disrupting the normal function of this potassium channel by prematurely shortening the recharge time of the electrical signal. Okay. Why does this matter in the terms of coffee? Because caffeine in coffee, as is well known, is very molecularly similar to adenosine, meaning that it can also bind these adenosine receptors, known as competitive binding. In doing so, it stops adenosine from enacting its cellular role. In this case, a good thing. Now, I'm happy to go more into this if you're interested, but the bottom line is the caffeine molecule protects from irregular electrical signaling in the heart. Keep in mind there are other proposed mechanisms that make coffee unique like its polyphenol content, but I'll leave those details for another time. Now, the final three points I want to make sure that you're aware of are one, these results are exclusively in people who have a history of atrial fibrillation. That's not to say that coffee doesn't have other benefits for everyone else, but for this context, we're talking about special population, though a relatively common one. And two, the researchers assessment of atrial fibrillation was based on clinical measures and day-to-day measurements, like I mentioned before, but some of the wearables were uneven between groups. So if you're using a variety of techniques and one group uses one system more than the other depending on the quality of that system to detect aphib, it could bias the results one way or another, as in fewer API events are detected in one group over the other. Not because the other group doesn't have those events, but because they weren't detected. This is a slim possibility, but a real one. Even the researchers admit that limitation. And finally, those poor people who had to stop consuming coffee, only about 70% truly quit coffee for the six months. So compliance was understandably lower. However, while we could argue that this is a negative, it could also be a positive because it also means that the results may be slightly skewed in favor of the non- coffee drinkers. And that means that if everyone had truly quit, gone to the absolute zero, we might have picked up an even greater benefit. So the fact that a positive result was picked up regardless is impactful. So what are the takeaways here? The study indicates that if you suffer from atrial fibrillation, there is now some evidence that coffee is not only is not a risk for atrial fibrillation, but reduces your risk relative to if you abstain from caffeinated coffee within reason. But you know what else is a risk? Preparing your coffee the wrong way. It actually matters to your health. Find out how right here. Or timing your coffee incorrectly, that also affects your health. Find out how right here. Thanks for tuning in. Enjoy your coffee.