The title says it all. That's what we'll be discussing. It's been pretty well established that drinking coffee has a host of health benefits. I'll have a nice little twist for you at the end of this video on that statement. But by and large, it's true. Coffee is recognized as not only safe, but beneficial for our health. In a brand spanking new analysis, researchers confirm that reality. But they take things a step further by attempting to address if timing coffee consumption provides more or less benefit. In this analysis, researchers performed a prospective associative study, which means that they collected data over time from people who do not consume coffee, the heathens, and those that do consume coffee but at different times. The follow-up lasted for almost 10 years, and the researchers verified the results with another database. This is called external validation and can be quite useful since you're confirming the results across two different samples. If there's consistency, that's excellent news as it indicates generalizability and robustness of the primary results. Anyway, here's the breakdown of the 40,000 participants. The gray is the non- coffee drinkers, the blue is the morning drinkers, and the red is the all day. The comparison of the two coffee consuming groups across the day is below. There's a big spike for the blue morning drinkers and then almost nothing later, but a consistent amount for the all day type even into the evening. Now, if we quantify the amounts of coffee consumed, we see the increased consumption in descending order is on the left side. We're looking at cardiovascular related deaths and we're comparing against the black dot up top. That's the standardized risk. So, people who don't consume coffee like us addicts, if the dots and the lines move to the left of the red line, the standard risk, there's reduced risk of cardiovascular mortality. I won't bother you with the numbers on the right side because they're included in the lines and dots that we're focusing on. So, what do we see here? Well, clearly all coffee consumption, even over three cups in the morning, is associated with reduced risk. Interestingly, all day consumers do not experience this benefit because the lines those are called confidence intervals cross the middle line indicating we weren't confident enough in the results to identify an effect statistically speaking at least. Now, I realize someone has probably already commented that sleep is a major factor in health and people who drink coffee later in the day likely sleep worse than those that consume only in the morning. Don't worry, the researchers thought of that along with a lot of other things. We'll get into that shortly. By the way, here's the all- cause mortality data. That's including the cardiovascular mortality that we just went over, but also indices of like cancer, uh, kidney disease, and so many other killers. At least at greater than one cup of coffee and onward, morning drinkers again experience benefit, but again, no effect for all day drinkers. By the way, a coffee cup is defined as 8 ounces of black coffee. None of this uh frappe macchiato uh ultra latte foam six pump uh soy vanilla coffee. I'm actually not sure if any of those fit together, but you get my point. The researchers also did a dose response curve. The blue is the morning group and the pinkish is the all day drinkers. That 1.0 line is the standard risk. So simply stated, if the colors cross the 1.0 line, there's no reduced risk. If they go down, there's reduced risk in this case of cardiovascular mortality. Again, on the horizontal axis, there's the ever intuitive grams of coffee intake. Clearly, as coffee intake increases in the morning, there's a greater and greater reduced risk. That indicates that the more coffee you consume, the better. However, I should caution that that isn't an invitation to give yourself heart palpitations trying to uh meet some more is better goal. In fact, there's some sobering news on that front that we'll get into. But before we do that, I'm going to be covering the age effect uh caffeine versus caffeine-free coffee and some other uh continuations of this analysis in the full version of this video that you're watching. That full version along with all my work is part of the Physionic Insiders which is linked in the description if you're interested. That obligatory advertisement out of the way, there's more to say on this analysis because I'm sure there are some obvious questions that need to be addressed. So, several nuances here that we need to keep in mind. These are very important. One, the effect is generally modest to moderate. So, ranging from 15 to 30% reduced relative risk depending on the outcome and the statistics. So, I probably wouldn't uh clutch your coffee expecting it to clear out all the plaque in your arteries or anything. Although, I'd be happy to create a video scamming you into thinking that like I see all too often on social media if that's what you really want. It only works with my special autophagy super coffee. So, be sure to only buy from me. Two, I didn't show you the uh baseline values across uh three groups, but the non- coffee drinkers were in several respects quite different from the coffee drinkers. They were younger, had lower blood cholesterol, fewer, had diabetes as a few examples. So, could the effect be a bit bigger if we compared against people who are equal in age and health status? I mean possibly but likely only slightly because the researchers did adjust for a number of factors that I'm sure that you've thought of already like sleep. Now in associative studies researchers have to control or adjust for something called confounders. These are factors that may also track with the effect i.e. reduced cardiovascular mortality for example and may be the true variable causing the benefit not the coffee. An obvious one for those who consume coffee into the evening is sleep disturbance because sleep is vital to our health. Fortunately, the researchers uh rubbed two brain cells together and adjusted for far more than just sleep. Here's the list. They counted for age, sex, ethnicity, family income, education level, weight, diabetes, high blood pressure, high cholesterol, uh smoking, uh physical activity, diet, uh calorie intake, tea intake, caffeinated soda intake, abnormally short sleep, so like less than 7 hours, and trouble falling asleep. So after accounting for all that, we get the results that we just went over. In the end, is it possible that there's residual confounding as in some of these may still provide a small amount of influence on the analysis or that the researchers missed a confounding variable that applies to thousands of people? Yes. However, the researchers did a ton of statistics to address those issues from multiple angles. Admittedly, I would still like to see an analysis with many of those factors equal at baseline instead of focusing on adjustments, but none of this indicates a negative result for coffee, no matter how you slice it. Now, one more question to answer before we put this all together into some applicable takeaways. Why would consuming coffee throughout the day lose us all these mortality protection benefits, especially when controlling for sleep and sleep disturbances? Well, the researchers offer two interlin explanations. One makes more sense than the other, but you let me know your thoughts. One, our physiology works on a circadium rhythm, and that rhythm is dictated by many molecules secreted by your cells. Other studies, according to the researchers, have shown that later coffee consumption reduces melatonin, which is a key player in these circadian rhythms, just as one example. So interrupting that rhythm or somehow changing it for the worse could have seemingly imperceptible health effects. I think that's a reasonable explanation. Although we certainly don't know if it this is like the main mechanism to explain all this link. On the other hand, they mentioned that many cells release pro-inflammatory molecules in the morning upon waking and the added coffee consumption in the morning could reduce their prevalence unlike later in the day when we need it less because the pro-inflammatory molecules are much lower in concentration. Now, I'm not sold on this one, but it's not exactly a bad explanation. So, let me know if either or both or neither makes sense to you. Okay, so where does that leave us? What are the takeaways? The takeaway is that coffee is yet again shown to be a benefit to our life by reducing cardiovascular and total mortality risk. In addition, more within your personal tolerability indicates greater benefit. However, coffee consumption should be finished before noon because later consumption does not associate with benefit. At least in this study, you know, there are even doctors that claim coffee is killing us and they reference a molecule in coffee that's poisonous. I cover it all with many jokes in this next video. I'll speak with you over there.