All previous creatine research has a fatal flaw according to a brand new study. This has been sent to me by so many people willing to ditch their creatine due to this new research. But is that what the study actually indicates? And are there some critical nuances that change the scales back in favor of creatine? The first answer is yes. And so is the second answer. This is going to be fun. Buckle up. In this uh new study, researchers did what many many other studies have done before. Look at creatine's impact on muscle. But they did something unique that few other studies have done. And it's that unique twist that makes this study so influential. In a randomized control design, the researchers had people consume creatine or no creatine for 13 weeks. But instead of measuring muscle or a semi-precise measure of muscle known as lean body mass at the beginning and then again at the end, they measured again one week later. Then the participants underwent the exact same muscle building workout program for 12 weeks. This effectively keeps volume or total amount of weight lifted the same between groups. Other studies have just measured at the beginning and then again at the end. The reason this is uh important is to measure one week later again is because the creatine leads to water retention which gets picked up in lean body mass measures like those used in many studies. So are people actually gaining more lean body mass after taking creatine and lifting weights or is it merely initial water weight gain from the creatine in the first week that persists over time of the study? Well, take a look. You can see lean body mass change on the vertical axis and then three measurements. The baseline to washin indicates the measurements after one week of creatine. Notice that the creatine condition, the darker bar, is statistically significantly indicating creatine alone leads to increases in lean body mass without resistance training. And unless it generates half a kilogram, about a pound of lean mass, potentially muscle in one week, and we found something that's on par or more potent than steroids, this is likely water weight gain. So if we skip to the far right where we compare the first baseline measurement against 13 weeks later after resistance training again, creatine supplementation indicates a lean mass increase compared to the control. However, in the middle comparison, they've removed the first week and focused on the second baseline measurement, the one after one week of the likely water weight gain from creatine supplementation. Notice how creatine no longer offers an advantage. Well, that's what all the media headlines have been in a frenzy about. Plainly, it tells us that lean mass increases are only water weight, not an actual lean mass increase from the training effect on creatine. That's pretty shocking, isn't it? I mean, so many studies have told us that there's advantages to creatine. So, was all that research wrong due to such a critical error in study design? I wouldn't want to be someone who's been saying that creatine is effective for muscle and performance right now. Oh, wait. Uh, I am. Um, well, I uh uh it's getting uh getting pretty hot in here, isn't it? Um, okay. I guess I need to defend my honor. Unfortunately, I left my suit of armor with my horse. So, I'll need to use data instead. Talk about nerdy. So, let me rewind and let me remind you of something. But instead of measuring muscle or a semi-precise measure of muscle known as lean body mass, the researchers did use a measure that's extremely common in research, DEXA, for lean body mass measurements. But as I alluded to, it's only a proxy since lean body mass is made up of muscle, cartilage, and bone, and many other tissues that are nonfat. So it's assumed increases are largely muscle, but they may not be. That is a shortcoming of other research, but it's also a silver bullet of this study. But why if there wasn't even an increase in lean body mass? Isn't it a moot point? Well, not quite. Because the study used a 12week training program, which might be enough to detect muscle growth even in lean body mass measures. But is it sensitive to measure actual muscle growth effects specifically? Maybe not. But we don't need to speculate. I don't need you to trust me. Although, well, a little trust would be nice, but let's not rely on it. There are studies that measure muscle directly, not proxies. If we pop open that data, we can see that they make the same mistake as the many other studies indicating in fat-ree mass. So, FFM there, the creatine condition indicates greater fat-ree mass. But as we know, if we were to remove the first week of water that's sucked up into the musculature due to creatine, we might not see these effects. Fortunately, these researchers also took muscle biopsies and measured the actual size of individual muscle cells as we see that here. the one 2 A 2A B and 2B there are different types of muscle cells and clearly we see significant increases in muscle cell size. Now there's still two issues that we need to address but fear not my creatine dowsted honor shall be vindicated. I'm going to be covering more on creatine's impact on a muscle from this study, including some nuances of creatine that I think people aren't considering in the extended version of this video that you're currently watching. If you'd be interested in access to that along with live sessions with me to chat up some studies, uh, research reviews, and a whole library of different study analyses and videos with applicable takeaways, then join the Physionic Insiders. The link is in the description. Now, the first issue is that increases in muscle cell size doesn't actually speak to the contractile units, the functional proteins within the cells. I mean, we know that the muscle itself gets an outsized muscle size increase with creatine, but that could still just be water. Fortunately, there are many studies looking at the effect of creatine on these functional proteins like measin and other myofibrillar proteins and they still indicate a creatine advantage. So now across multiple lines of evidence, we still see creatine have a musclepromoting effect. But hey, why didn't we see at least some change in the main study that we've been discussing? Well, a number of reasons. One, for the reasons that we discussed earlier, lean body mass is imprecise for muscle gain, although often used. But more poignantly, when you're looking at a small difference from a single molecule, usually you need to do one or two of three things. Increase the precision of the test is one, but two is to extend the length of the study. And three, the researchers included enough participants to detect differences in lean body mass, but not necessarily by something like direct muscle measurements. There's a bit more on the topic that I'll discuss in the insider version if you're interested. So, where does that leave everything? Should you still be snorting creatine like Tony Montana? Well, don't snort it. But this study does illuminate a deficiency in previous research. It's still an important study. However, it does not inform on the effectiveness of creatine for muscle growth in as commanding a way as has been portrayed by many. The reality is even with this illuminating discovery by the researchers, there's still many lines of evidence, better evidence that indicate that creatine still promotes muscle growth. So, if you're taking it for that outcome, creatine is still a fantastic supplement. But what are you doing taking it for your muscles? I mean, don't miss out on some of its other benefits like those described here. Thanks for hanging out and I got to go snort some creatine.