I've never heard of this ethereal molecule before. How does one pronounce it? Is it creatine? Apparently, Dr. Rhonda Patrick had a creatine researcher, Dr. Kandow, on her podcast wherein he makes the argument for why five grams, the dose told to almost everyone, is not enough, and why creatine may not provide benefit for some, but provide noticeable benefit for others. Dr. Patrick in her usual fashion provides references. So, we'll pop open those studies and see what's what, as well as find out if 5 g really isn't enough. Let's listen in. Now, our brain is small from stature, but it uses 20% of our daily energy. And of course, as we all know, when you're really tired, sleep deprivation, running around, chasing your children, most people that I know are really metabolically stressed, primarily from a cognition perspective. And that's where creatine seems to have the best lines of evidence. sleep deprivation, hypoxia, I jetlag. I was up at 3:00 this morning and flew down. So, I'll be taking a really high dose today to hopefully offset the the chance of inflammation or uh cognitive decline. Um, so when we look at the totality of emerging evidence, it's split. Some studies don't see any effect, but the ones that do is in a population where they're either mentally fatigued, sleep deprivation, or during times of aging. And that's where memory comes into play. Well, I already have an issue with this, but in short, we're discussing the brain, which is a newer frontier for creatine research. Most research has been focused on muscle and physical performance, but now researchers have been realizing creatine's effects on multiple organ systems. The idea although this is a simplified version is that creatine gets taken up into our cells let's say brain cells like the neurons and from there the creatine molecule can be phosphorolated or tagged with a phosphate molecule in doing so it gets turned into phosphocreatine. This matters because the phosphocreatine is a reserve energy system inside your cells. when the cells need immediate energy it can rely for a few seconds on phosphocreatine to generate extremely quick cellular energy. So the more creatine molecules in the brain cells, the more phosphocreatine potential and the greater the cell's energy buffer. Dr. Dr. Kandow makes an excellent point that creatine's effectiveness in the brain is not generally detected in people who are not cognitively stressed, but it is detected in people who are doing cognitively stressing tests or they're older. So, generally over the age of 60. I've mentioned this in previous analyses myself. However, where I push back is using this reference as evidence. This meta analysis is not a good one. And we can see clear evidence of that here. This is a force plot with all of the studies included in the analysis. On the left side, they're comparing creatine groups against non-creatine groups on a measure of memory. That black diamond on the bottom indicates an effect because it doesn't cross the neutral zero line running down the middle. Great. Now, I'm a little confused, but it isn't explained why it moves in favor of the control, but the researchers clearly state that it's creatine that experiences the benefit. Maybe it's a timebased test, so longer is worse. Anyway, doesn't matter. Let's assume that it's correct. If we look at the studies on the left side, again, they made a massive mistake by including the same study over and over again. The most egregious example is the Alvis study and the McMorris studies. The reason they included the same study repeatedly is because they're including different measurements, but that's an improper inclusion because you're measuring the same outcome. So you're effectively counting the same group of participants seven times, which massively inflates the number of participants included in the analysis, and it finds an artificial effect when if we were to remove most of these studies, we'd likely see a complete loss of the memory effect. In fact, on other outcomes like processing speed and other cognitive outcomes, we see creatine has no effect according to the same analysis. So, the effect is likely only due to this hyperinflated data. Does that then mean there's no effect of creatine? No. I've covered other analyses that corrected for this problem and still found an effect. And I've also covered multiple independent randomized control trials that also show effects exactly as Dr. Kandell describes. Now, I just wouldn't use this previous analysis because it's just not a very good one. Okay. So, creatine helps those that are in cognitively demanding positions or older over 60. But let's get a little more into the how creatine causes these effects on the brain and then we'll get into dosing. And the common denominator seems to be the more that the brain is stressed, the more creatine seems to come to the rescue. Same analogy from a muscle and bone perspective. So uh we can talk for hours just on the brain and uh it's a very exciting area for sure. The idea behind creatine's effectiveness in a bit more detail is the fact that when we're using our old noggin up here, the brain mass consumes cellular energy called ATP. These ATP stores can drop within seconds when a neuron activates because millions of enzymes consume ATP to allow the neuron to function. As such, creatine through this phosphor creatine system that we described a bit ago can donate phosphates from itself to refphospholate or reattach phosphates to spent ATP molecules creating new ATP molecules. That means that the cells are able to activate again more quickly offering a cognitive advantage. Okay. So why is more creatine better? So the brain is stressed. So, so brain aging older adults. That's that's that's aging is a stress on the brain. It is. So, supplementing with how much creatine can improve cognition in let's say older adults. Yeah. As little as about five grams has been shown to have some potential. But this is interesting. I just you know 20 minutes ago said that the loading phase wasn't needed for muscle. The best studies for the brain look at 20 grams a day for at least a week. So now you're in a conundrum by looking at muscle, bone, and brain. And the theory here is that since the bloodb brain barrier is very resistant to creatine and unfortunately we have this really important gal cell called astroytes which are the most the biggest in in our uh central nervous system. It sort of acts as a filter from our blood into our cells and it really determine what gets in and it says hey foreign pathogens no you're not getting into the the neuron or the cell. Uh so unfortunately they don't have the creatine transporter or doorway. The reason five grams the standard dose up to now is insufficient is because the blood levels are too low to cross the bloodb brain barrier or at least make a huge difference on brain levels. That's because the bloodb brain barrier is walled off by cells called aststerytes. These astroytes have feet that extend down to create a barrier along with the endothelial cells facing the bloodstream. These aststerytes have limited or no ability to produce the creatine transporter according to this review and therefore can't allow creatine through. So then how does creatine still get through at higher concentrations when we consume more than 5 g? Well, that's the question. I don't think we know yet or at least I don't. And I did look for an answer in the literature. We know the first lining of cells, the endothelial cells do express the creatine transporter. So they can be taken up there, but that still leaves the astroite wall. It's possible that the barrier isn't completely impermeable if the creatine concentrations are very high. But we don't have a complete understanding yet. Where does that leave us on dosing then? You know, I wrote a book on creatine. I don't sell it anymore, but it is available along with a guide on how to approach creatine dosing in various situations. I'm including in the extended version of this video that you're watching. Both along with live sessions, podcasts, a library of videos, detailed articles, shortened summaries, is available over at the Physionic Insiders. You can join through the link in the description. But beware, you may need some additional creatine considering the sheer amount of learning that we do over there. I hope to see you there. So, what are the amounts to consume if not 5 grams? Well, I said this over two years ago in my analysis on creatine and the brain. I didn't have strong proof except that some other researchers were using upwards of 20 grams per day. Dr. Kandow mentions going up to 20 grams, maybe even more. And that's because you have to raise blood levels sufficiently to force some into the brain, assuming that we're discussing the brain only here. I will say I have also reviewed studies indicating five grams shows benefits even for the brain. But if you wanted to be on the safe side, 20 grams would be more consistent of an effect likely. So overall, when discussing the brain, there's some evidence, although I still wouldn't call it strong evidence, that 20 gram of creatine might be better than five grams of creatine. I'd like to see more research, research like that that I describe right here.