Hey, welcome back to the centerfuge where we spin out the BS from the sciencebacked claims made on health shows. In this episode, we're continuing in our guest tour of the J. Shedy podcast by going through some claims made by the fourtime best-selling author, eighttime successful entrepreneur, founder of Bulletproof Coffee, and most importantly, the father of biohacking. All according to his website, Mr. Dave Asprey. Now, in this episode, we'll be discussing a few things. The optimal amount of protein, animal proteins versus plant proteins, a particular type of animal protein that should be avoided at all cost, eggs, are they a great source of protein and fat, and the best plant-based protein? [snorts] and I'll provide a summary at the end. Without further ado, let's spin it. >> The challenge is, as we know with health and wellness, there's always a new fad, a new trend, a new kind of thing that comes up and everyone gets behind it and then afterwards a few years later, we realize that there was more research to it. I think one of those big areas is around let's there's two areas in the book that you cover really well that I want to dive into. One is around where we get our protein. We know protein is important. I mean, remind us how much protein we need to get every day. Like good protein because >> you need between 0.8 and 1 g of protein per pound of body weight. So, I weigh 200 lb and I'm about 7% body fat. And I that means I need about 200 g of protein a day. >> 7% body fat. >> Yeah. It's ridiculous. >> As a guy who is the fat computer hacker from the first Jurassic Park, [laughter] it's totally ridiculous. And in order to do that, if if you're obese like I was, you might say, "Well, if I weigh 300 lb, I had 100 pounds of fat." You really only need 200 grams of protein. You can subtract the extra fat from the number. But 200 grams of protein, >> it's a lot. >> Okay, let's start here. The claim is that the optimal amount of protein is 0.8 to 1 gram of protein per pound of body weight. Or at least that's how it started and then it shifted to a very different metric. But let's start with the body weight metric first. Now, typically you'd want to assign some form of outcome because the optimal protein for muscle growth is different from the optimal amount to live and is different from the optimal amount by age or even if you wanted to extend lifespan. So, we don't know the outcome of interest, but I know that they get into a discussion of muscle in this podcast. So, we'll focus on that and I'll throw in the amount necessary to live. There are a number of studies that look at the optimal amount of protein, which in my mind is defined as the amount needed to maximize muscular gains, assuming resistance training program in most cases. In this analysis, for example, researchers put together all the randomized control trials released up to that point, which included 42 groups, and tried to identify the relationship between protein intake and fat-free mass, which is a proxy for muscle, although it's imperfect. If we look at what they discovered, we see that fat-free mass on the vertical axis and the increasing daily protein intake on the horizontal. This is a breakpoint analysis. So the relationship continues until there's a statistically identified point at which there would be no further benefit of increasing protein as there would be no added fat-free mass increase. The dots are the studied groups. The lines go up through the data indicating that more protein yields greater fat-free mass until it suddenly straightens. That sudden straightening is called the break point. And if you're lucky, the second movie we'll be releasing called A Breakpoint 2: Wrath of Statistica. Bad joke, but oh well, it is what it is. Anyway, jokes aside, the Breakpoint is 1.62 gram per kilogram of body weight per day. So, that is about 0.74 g per pound of body weight. That is clearly not Mr. Asprey's answer, but I'd like to defend him because A, I have given numbers in the past that are similar to his, and B, I didn't pull those numbers out of unsavory orififices. I did have some scientific backing, which should apply to his defense as well. Notice how the break point is very abrupt. Well, that's because the researchers set the slope of the horizontal line to zero. So, it might not pick up more subtle improvements going over 1.62 g per kilogram. This study identified a breaking point of 2 g per kilogram and that's right in the middle of Mr. Asper's recommendations. The reason for the difference between these studies comes down to the study type, the study size, and what the studies were trying to measure. One was measuring fat- free mass and the other was focused on protein balance. Technically, the more robust analysis is probably the first one that we went over, but it has its own limitations. In the end, I plan on doing a deep dive into protein in the near future, but I think that we can at least agree that Mr. Asprey is offering some pretty reasonable numbers, especially as protein requirements may rise as a person burns off body fat, according to nutrition reviews like this one. Okay, then what about the amount of protein necessary to live normally? For that, we rely on bigger studies that include multiple groups of people like this old but influential study that influenced the current recommended dietary allowance or RDA. In said study, they were looking at nitrogen balance, which means that they were looking at the amount of nitrogen in urine and feces because nitrogen is an atom found only in protein out of our nutrients. So it tracks perfectly with protein requirements. If excreted nitrogen exceeds the amount consumed, then you you are in a negative nitrogen balance, meaning that you are losing protein from your body faster than you're consuming. That's not good. So what was established as a balanced level? Check it out. This is an old graph. It's over 20 years now. So I realize it's a little wonky. All you need to know is that we're measuring the amount of nitrogen needed. Remember, we get nitrogen exclusively from protein to maintain nitrogen balance. All those squares are the included groups and the bottom square is the combination of all that data. Ultimately, it sits on around 105 mg of nitrogen per kilogram of weight per day. Once calculated up to actual protein, that's 0.6 g. and they state this of good quality protein per kilogram of body weight. However, that number is what's known as an ER or estimated average requirement, meaning that it will only cover 50% of the population. So, scientists bump it up by what's known as two standard deviations to get this number that is enough for 97.5% of the population. That number is 0.83 g per kilogram of body weight. That's 0.38 gram per pound of weight for you Americans out there, he said standing in his black kettle with a black pot. Now, that number will change based on circumstance like exercise or age or if you're losing weight, but the majority of the non-intensely training individuals, that's sufficient to live. Okay. So, after all that, the takeaway here is that Mr. Asprey's numbers aren't far off and are actually pretty reasonable. If you're an active, especially resistance training individual, if you have no aspirations for putting on slabs of muscle, then his numbers are on the high side. Aiming for 1.62 g per kilogram of body weight if you resistance train is an optimal target. Aiming for 0.82 g per kilogram of weight or even slightly higher is fine for most non-ex exercisers. Now, a quick ad here. At the end, he mentions removing body fat from the equation is also fine, and it is, but it changes the numbers because you're basing it on lean mass, which is noticeably smaller, a noticeably smaller number than total body weight. It's up to you on how you want to go about doing this, but it's true that if you're severely overweight, your protein numbers are going to be grossly inflated. It's more difficult to pin down the exact number as studies are less commonly using this way of measuring protein. Though admittedly, it actually does make more sense. I think unless you're dealing with obesity, stick with the total body weight numbers. If you're dealing with obesity, then use the same numbers based on your lean mass, which you can find out using a simple electron electrical scale measurement called a bioelect electrical impedance. or if you want to get more involved then you can get a DEXA scan and the like and the accuracy for the first won't be great but it'll get offer you a ballpark. Anyway, let's move on to a juicy debate and protein isn't all the same. And this is something that >> that's what Yeah. >> Yeah. that the big food companies are trying to tell us cricket protein or gluten is protein. There's a company making keto cookies that are all protein. They're just gluten and canola oil. That that is not food. So a while ago the story was, oh, all calories are the same. So you can drink this, you know, high fructose corn syrup. It's just calories. As long as you keep your calories low, you can drink a diet coke and a Snickers bar. They cancel each others out. It doesn't work like that. Proteins the same way. So different proteins send different signals to the body. And there's something called amino acid availability score. And it turns out that animal proteins score much higher than plant-based proteins. And I say this as a former vegan, a former raw vegan, and you just cannot get enough protein from plants unless you're doing heavy industrial processing of the plants. And that comes at a cost. But even then, the highest quality plant-based protein powders don't hold a candle to dairy protein, which is vegetarian, or egg protein, which is vegetarian, or sort of the king of proteins is beef or buffalo or or bison. So, one major claim and one minor one that I want to touch on here. The major one is that animal proteins are just generally superior to plant-based proteins largely because of their amino acid availability. Now, I'll discuss that in a minute. The minor claim that I have a hard time letting go of because I've heard this so many other times in other podcasts, all calories are not the same. I realize that I'm going to get some flak for this because there's a small misunderstanding uh that balloons into a bit of a dogmatic perspective on calories. Calories, which are a unit of energy, are always the same no matter what food they come from. I've explained this in previous work before going into the science. Now, often people will come back with, "Then is AI don't know, Snickers bar the same as blueberries, and that's not the argument made." We're talking strictly about the term calories, the energy within equal energy foods. This is the exact same. However, the impact that that food can have on your body can be vastly different, including how those calories are liberated in digestion. So yes, all calories are the same, though all foods or nutrients in those foods are not the same. It may seem minor, and I don't want to drone on about this, but those details make a big difference when you're trying to understand nutrition and physiology. Now, to the bigger claim, protein and amino acid availability. Amino acid availability is two things. one, the composition of the amino acids that make up the protein, and two, the accessibility of those amino acids. For example, is the protein easily digested and absorbed? Scientists have quantified many, many foods this way and developed a system called a PEDCAST or PDCAS or protein digestibility corrected amino acid score. Here are a few examples. So, while beef is not the king here, it certainly performs well. However, the larger point, do animal proteins outperform? The answer is yes. Generally, we see eggs, milk, whey protein tied for better scores that are allowed on the pedcast. Soy, a plant protein, is also the highest rank. However, still, there have been some critiques of PEDCAST. It's good, but it's not perfect. For example, you saw that it capped the score at one, which makes it seem like all the proteins that hit this magic 1.0 know mark are equal but that is artificial. So if we remove the cap can we tease out differences between these top proteins that's where the DAS or digestibility indispensable amino acid score comes in. It turns out that milk proteins if that's directly from milk or as whey and casein are the top proteins. Now interestingly soy protein was still quite high as well. So the claim that the highest quality plant-based proteins don't hold a candle to animal-based proteins is simply incorrect. We see soy protein on the top of the PEDCAST and we see it among the top five in the DAS standards as well. In addition, there have been even randomized control trials that show plant-based proteins, in this case Pa protein, can be just as helpful as whey protein for muscle growth with resistance training. Honestly, there's much much more to say on this topic because there's a lot of nuances that we're glossing over, especially since we're focusing on muscle here. But a final few points here, if we shift to the amount of protein needed for regular life minus exercise, like we did with the RDA, since the RDA assumes good quality protein, which is defined as largely animal-based, it likely makes sense to slightly overshoot the RDA recommendation where you're consuming exclusively plant-based proteins. However, it is overblown to claim a person can't get enough protein from plant-based foods, especially if extending that claim to it being detrimental to one's survival. So, the takeaway that I want you to have here is one, animal-based proteins tend to be higher quality as defined by digestibility and availability, which likely makes them more efficient sources of protein. Two, beef is not the top protein as defined. It is milk-based proteins and eggs. Three, plant proteins, while you may need to consume slightly more, are perfectly fine options. That said, one more quick point. He mentions that different proteins send different signals in the body. And that is certainly true. There's a lot of overlap between proteins simply because they are all proteins. But it's true that proteins and protein sources change the signaling within the body. What does signaling mean? Well, it means hormonal changes. So the communication between cells, organs and it also means intracellular changes. So since thousands of enzymes interact within our cells to enforce an effect. So just as a single example, when we keep the calories the same, the total protein amount the same, but we simply switch out the source of the protein. If it's animal-based like whey, or if it's plant-based like soy, there's a different hormonal reaction. Here we're measuring the level of P Y or peptide Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y Y which is a satiety hormone after the consumption of animal-based casein whey or plant-based soy or pea protein. I realize this looks like a bunch of lines, but when we quantify the amount of peptide Y over several hours, the soy condition here in total leads to less of this satiety hormone released. The implications of that are beyond the scope of this particular video. But the point here is to validate Mr. Asper's assertion that yes, when all else is kept equal, protein source can change the signaling within the body. As a vegan, I had a problem with this because well, I was a vegan. I was in Tibet at a a monastery and Tibetan monks love to argue and they're trained since they're about eight years old or they have an 8-year-old sitting on the ground surrounded by older kids standing up all arguing at the same time doing these like aggressive things and it's to teach you to be calm in the face of argument so that you can still be at peace and it's beautiful to watch. So I knew this and so I'm kind of teasing the headl you tell me no killing but you have a yak skin on your prayer pole. Uh, so I think you're a hypocrite. And he starts laughing and he looks at me, he goes, one death feeds everyone. I'm like, mind blown because I had been a vegan until I went to Tibet. And I realized I cannot be a vegan in Tibet because there's just very little food. And if there's, you know, some yak butter tea or there's, you know, a little bit of meat, you just eat it cuz there's just not enough food. So I really thought about it and that led me to think about deaths per calorie. And as a guy's built a regenerative farm on Vancouver Island and raised all of my own animals for most of the last 8 years, I will tell you that a cow will feed you for an entire year. And if it's grass-fed and from a local farmer, no other animal died unless the cow stepped on a frog. I mean, it is literally one death. And if the cow was treated with respect and ethically, then you are killing fewer animals than an industrial plant protein. Because when they do those, the tractor comes through and it chops up every creature that's there, including the bunnies and the mice and the butterflies and all the ugly ones like worms that no one likes that are important for life. So, I feel really clean about it. But the most important thing that I can say if you choose to eat animal protein, which I do, is that practice gratitude before you eat. Um, I believe because of my shamanic training and because of all the spiritual work that I do that humans, our energetic field as a species made a sacred agreement with the animals that we've domesticated and they come here to nourish us in exchange for our gratitude. So, if you are going to eat meat, you practice gratitude because that's the deal we made. And if you disrespect the animal and you're eating industrial meat and you're eating it with mindlessly, I don't think that's a good practice. But I do think it's ethical to eat meat because I'm killing fewer lives when I eat beef than when I eat plant-based protein. And since that nourishes me better, which gives me stronger energy and stronger bones and it gives me more energy to put back into the world, including building better soil via farming of animals, I feel like it's a good deal and it's within integrity for me. >> But even in some animal protein you were recommending, and we'll talk about the plant proteins as well, but some of the animal proteins you were saying are not as strong and reliable. I believe you mentioned chicken, turkey, I think there were a couple of others in the book that I saw. >> Birds are not that they're dinosaurs. So, they're less like us. And the fat that's present in birds is similar to soybean oil. It's a lot of omega-6 that causes inflammation. And you would know this if you're in India and you're not feeling well, your grandmother's going to give you white rice and ghee, which is clarified butter. In the US, you get saltines and margarine or something and it doesn't work very well. But the reason is that ghee, that saturated fat, is very nourishing for you and that you actually need that. you don't get it from a chicken. And also, one chicken to get the amount of protein in, I'd eat a chicken a day. I'm killing 365 chickens a year, that doesn't feel very good. >> In addition to that, real chickens, the kind that I grow on my farm, take 9 months to mature. And their fat is rich and yellow and full of vitamins, even though it's not the best kind of fat, but the chickens that you're eating at the store, take six weeks to get that big because they're they've been modified and bred to have these incredibly large breasts, and they're terribly mistreated. So unless a chicken is pasture-raised and heritage breed at which point it's not affordable. Okay. Okay. Okay. There's a lot here too. Unfortunately, it isn't in my expertise or purview to discuss the ethics of kill per feed or whatever the example was. I know some people feel strongly against uh that perspective and some feel strongly for it, but it's not a science argument. So, it's a philosophical one. So, let me address what I can clarify. chicken meat as a whole being something to avoid and specifically because it contains omega-6 like soybean oil. So, let's break this up and address it from two different perspectives. One, the chicken. It sounds like the chapter of one of those indie movies. Chapter one, the chicken. If we take Dave's favorite protein source, beef, as our comparison, there are many studies that compare the two. In several cardiovascular measures, including cholesterol, triglycerides, and so on, they are equal to one another. And even when looking at blood sugar and insulin resistance, there's no difference. However, if we extend to hard outcomes like well, I don't know, death, the replacement of red meat, and granted this includes a few other types of meat as well other than beef, but it's representative, I think. Anyway, the replacement of red meat with chicken reduced the risk of death. This last outcome study is an associative study because it's usually required for these kinds of assessments. In addition, it is one of the highest quality for how it measures nutrition, length of time lasting decades, and it adjusted for all these factors as well. Finally, since we discussed muscle earlier, randomized control trials comparing the two also show no difference. To be fair, this was using hydrayzeed chicken and hydrayzeed beef, which takes the digestion aspect out of the equation some, but we see other studies using actual chicken meat and indicating improvements in muscle as well. This is a small sample of studies, but in short, when looking at chicken straight up, nothing supports Mr. Asper's perspective from a scientific standpoint. The second way that I wanted to address this is to look at the omega-6 angle. He mentioned that omega-6 fats are pro-inflammatory, especially like soybean oil. Now, if we look at soybean oil randomized studies, we can use uh studies that use normal soybean oil, but there are even some that specifically raise the omega-6 fat levels in soybean oil, essentially making them like a super omega-6 soybean oil. In such cases, in such studies which are triple blinded and a crossover design which means that all the oils have been given to all the same people reducing the risk of genetic differences muddying the results. The researchers measured many different inflammatory markers like C-reactive protein interlucan 6 clotting factors, cell adhesion proteins and even looked at DNA damage and they ended up showing comparing before and after consumption zero effect. Meaning neither the normal soybean oil or the one with the extra omega-6 soybean oil caused any inflammation even at quite high consumption. So, we're talking almost 20% of the participants daily food was oil. This is confirmed in other randomized control trials as well. So, no, soybean oil is not inflammatory as stated. Okay, we're going to get into eggs and also the best plant-based protein. However, if you can imagine yourself wanting a deeper dive, like many of the details on some of the studies briefly mentioned, actionable takeaways, then check out the extended version of this video. Yeah, can you imagine? There's an extended version. It also comes with an article and a summary for your convenience. It's all included for the Physionic Insider members, plus all these perks right here. Now, I put a ton of work into this and into the insiders, and I've received great feedback from members. So, check it out. The link to join is in the description box. Chickens exist to make eggs. Eggs, if you're not allergic, are really a good source of fat and protein. And when you eat eggs, you want to cook the whites and leave the yolk runn and then you get the most nutrients that way. So this one is short. Eggs are a good source of protein and fat. Well, we saw that from the PEDcast data. That is true. At least from a protein perspective. It's one of the best protein sources. From a fat perspective, it leaves a little bit to be desired as a good portion of the fat is saturated fat with the primary saturated fat being palmitic acid. And for those in extreme fear of omega sixes, eggs actually contain a good amount of omega-6 fats as well. Eggs as a whole being good or bad again depends on the outcome. For muscle, they're great. If you're looking at a relationship like with red meat earlier to mortality, the story changes. The analysis shows an increased risk of mortality when consuming many eggs, say multiple eggs per day. However, eating some eggs, like a few times per week, did not associate with risk. So, it's entirely possible that eating eggs occasionally is perfectly fine, but eating eggs consistently may have some consequences. However, I push back on that a bit because the analysis did not adjust for red meat consumption, and as we saw earlier, that also tracked with mortality. So, it leaves some room for further study as we might just be picking up another relationship independent of eggs. Overall, eggs are a great source of protein and could be a bit better on the fat front. Foods with better fats would be something like avocados or walnuts and the like, but they fail on the protein front. Ultimately, eating some eggs per week is probably fine, but going at it every day might introduce risk. So, eggs have their positives and their negatives. I also I need to say something at the end of the video that I think is important, so stick around. But let's uh finish this off with the best plant protein. >> And we talked about the plant protein from a ethical standpoint, but but even from a nutritional standpoint. I mean, I as so me and my wife are both plant-based, but plant protein is like not a big part of our diets at all. My wife's like not into eating any of the burgers or any of the meats or >> That's probably a good fake meat is not good. >> Yeah. Yeah. Explain why because I think that's slightly the challenge for a lot of people who try and make that switch and I feel everyone who turns to that then goes back because >> it's not satisfying. >> Are you plant-based to the exclusion of of dairy? >> Yes, I am. My wife, we have been for years. >> Yeah. And it's working for you. And by the way, if you're from India, you probably have the genes that are going to support that much better. >> Exactly. >> Uh and so if you look at what your great grandmother ate, that's going to be an indication of what you can handle. And if you look at you, your skin is really good. And that's unusual when most people go vegan because they eat a lot of industrial processed seed oils. Yeah. >> So if you're eating a diet that agrees with your body, and I totally support doing that, then what you want to do is you want to make sure that you're getting complete amino acids and you can do it from rice and beans. But here's the issue to get enough protein from >> It's definitely hard. I'm I'm fully like I'm thinking about it a lot. >> It's like 300 gram of carbs to get 20 grams of protein. So then your best bet for plant-based proteins that have the highest amino acid score, it's actually hemp protein with the fat removed >> because hemp oil isn't particularly good for you. So then what you end up doing is saying, "Okay, I'm going to do that and I feel good." I've also helped a lot of um a lot of vegans. In fact, this is at David Wolf's vegan conference. I explained the virtues of ghee where no animals die to make ghee and ghee helps to escort the nutrients from plants into the body so you make better use of the plants. So sometimes adding you know tablespoon of ghee a day gives you like a healthier skin glow and it it feels more nourishing and people can choose to do that or not choose to do that and I and people get mad because I tease vegans. Dude, I was a vegan. Like it's teasing, guys. It's it's not it's not a disrespectful thing. It's uh in my case it it actually harmed me. All right, the main claim is that hemp protein is the best plant protein. However, it was also mentioned that vegans tend to have worse skin when switching to a vegan diet. Honestly, I had no idea that there were any studies on the topic, but truly there are very few. However, there is one that I could find where people adopted a vegetarian, so not completely vegan diet to deal with dermatitis. So, skin inflammation. Here we see the results as assessed by a standard skin exam culminating in a score ad score. The higher the lines, the worse dermatitis. For the vast majority of participants, their skin health drastically improved. Now, while there's a ton more research needed, especially considering this study didn't have a control group or of a similar diet that was not vegetarian, this at least indicates that eating a plant dominant diet does not yield worse skin health. And there's initial signals that it actually does the opposite. I'd also add that uh these people were not consuming ghee. That does not mean that ghee wouldn't help, but I would find that unlikely. That's a speculation, however, as we don't have studies on consuming ghee and skin benefits one way or another. And remember, that's consuming ghee. As for the main claim, we already know that isn't true by the PEDcast score that we discussed. Mr. Aspir's assertion is that plant protein is the best plant protein because it contains high enough amounts of the amino acids that we need and other plant proteins that a person needs to consume several hundreds of grams to simply get a little bit of protein. Well, we know that from the pedcast data that soy protein has a great amino acid profile and hemp actually ranks well below soy protein on pedcast and the updated DAS at around 0.4. four to 0.6 or so depending on which hemp protein that you're discussing the powder or the seed or the heart and so on. So the hierarchy stands that milk proteins, eggs, soy protein are among the best proteins on amino acid profile plus digestion and absorption and hemp is kind of a middle tier protein. All right, allow me to say this because it's extremely important. We've covered a lot of topics and there's much more to say on each topic, but this kind of work just doesn't lend itself well for deep dives and nuances. So, as much as we've covered 20 plus studies, that still pales in comparison to what these topics need for due justice on their own. This is a cursory understanding. That disclaimer mentioned, what can we take away from all this? Well, overall Dave Asprey gets several things correct and several things incorrect. Unfortunately, A-50% hit rate as a rough estimate doesn't inspire confidence, but considering the studies presented, what's the bottom line on all these? One, the optimal amount of protein is dependent on the circumstances and goals. But for active individuals, especially resistance training, the optimal protein seems to be around 1.62 grams per kilogram of body weight. If you have obesity, use your lean mass instead of total body weight. For general life without strenuous activity and muscle focused goals, 0.82 gram per kilogram of weight, possibly slightly higher, especially for plant-based consumers, is a good target. Two, animal proteins are more efficient, meaning that you needing consuming less to achieve a good amino acid profile than plant proteins. The best proteins are milk-based proteins, eggs, and soy protein. Plant proteins are perfectly fine, but you may need to eat more overall. Three, while Mr. Asper's claims that we should avoid chicken, usually in favor of beef, but there is no evidence of that being true, chicken is a perfectly good source of protein, especially better compared against beef in some instances. Four, eggs are an excellent source of protein, but the fats leave a little bit to be desired. Some eggs, as in a few times per week, seems fine based on limited data, but there is a signal of potential harm consuming multiple eggs every day. For muscle growth, eggs are a great source. Number five, the best plant-based protein is not hemp protein. Hemp protein is fine, but soy beats it out by a good margin. And I didn't mention this before, but pea protein also beats out hemp protein by a hefty margin. So I imagine you're quite tired. I've just beaten you over the head with a lot of studies. And I would sympathize, but I need you to wake up because I have a lot more J Shetty guests that I've science checked right here. And otherwise, I have more here as well. I hope this helped clear some confusion. Thanks for watching the centeruge. I'll catch you in the next one. See you.