Hey, welcome back to the centerfuge where we go through the claims made on health podcasts and back it up or strike it down with a series of studies. In this episode, continuing the J Shetty podcast series, we'll be getting into the claims made by Alyssa Goodman, a gut cleanse expert according to J. Shedy, as well as a certified holistic nutritionist according to Miss Goodman's website. We'll be covering three main topics. One, a cleanse containing many ingredients including kefir, lemon, ginger, and more, and how these ingredients improve our health. Two, activated charcoal for a gut cleanse, including a few additional ingredients. And three, pooping three times a day is optimal. Anything under that is suboptimal. We'll see if that's true. So, without further ado, let's get into it. And oh, and all the studies are linked for you in the description. >> Walk us through. So, walk us through the core needs that people come to you with. So, you said they do a there's a gut cleanse. Walk us through the different cleanses that people need in their life. >> Um, so the regular cleanse is really I'll tell you a little bit about what's on it. Um, there's a detox tonic on it with coconut kafir, which is a probiotic drink. >> I love coconut kafir. I am a big fan of probiotics and I love coconut kafir, cocoa yo, and there's a lot of great products out there on the market. Then it has chlorophyll, apple cider vinegar, lemon, ginger in there. And then there's my homemade super seed bar. Um, then you basically get a bone broth or vegan broth. Um, our bone broth is really gelatinous and so there's a lot of collagen which I love. And then we get you get different salads for the week, different salad dressings, fermented vegetables, you get different soups for the for the night time, and then you get lattes for the evening. Then you also get digestive enzymes and you get magnesium. So to make sure that everything's working properly because people going from an animal protein diet into a plant-based legumes and beans can disrupt their stomach. It also a lot of vegetables can as well. So there's that one. There's a three-day. >> So with that one, how walk us through. So are you encouraging people to not have dinners in that? Is that like soup is dinner? Yes. >> Or they could have soup for lunch and do the salad for dinner. So, it's not super strict. Um, a lot of people who exercise a ton will add a little bit of animal protein, you know, to the meal potentially, and it doesn't take you away from the cleanse. So, again, you're just getting tons of vegetables, you're getting anti-inflammatory, you know, nourishing, nurturing foods. So, um, that, you know, that one is like my regular one that has been going on for 9 years. Sometimes it blows my mind because the tonic's been on there for 9 years. The bar has been on there. Like it's crazy that things are still popular. Um people buy the tonics and the bars separately. And then the gut cleanse has um activated charcoal on there. So, >> okay, there's a lot here. So, Miss Goodman went over a bunch of ingredients and usually we'd want to have some form of outcome like heart disease or dementia or something that we can attribute those ingredients to, but nothing was mentioned. So, I'm kind of flying by the seat of my pants here. That's actually an expression I don't fully understand, but we'll put that aside. We can just look at the general health. So, essentially use a wide net to understand if these ingredients are helpful in any capacity. And then I'm going to focus in on gut health since that's what we're talking about with cleanses. So, the first was coconut kafir kefir kafir kaf. Let me know kafir being a fermented milk. There are no studies on coconut kafir. I may actually change my pronunciation throughout because it's a very uncomfortable word for whatever reason. Anyway, on coconut kafir other than studies looking at its formulation and ingredients, but that doesn't tell us if it actually helps us with anything. So, if we broaden the scope to kafir as a whole, we get a bunch more results like positive effects in people with type two diabetes or people with fatty liver disease and more. To be completely honest, these studies aren't all that impressive showing mild effects or suffering from poor methodology. Still, that doesn't mean that kefir or kafir isn't effective. And there are studies showing changes in gut microbiome from consuming kafir. Now, I think I'd put it this way. There's no good evidence for coconut specific kafir, but there is some evidence across multiple randomized control trials that kafir kefir can be a benefit. However, the health effects up to now are very mild like improvements in insulin and insulin resistance. The next ingredient mentioned was chlorophyll. And frankly, again, like the coconut kafir, there's very little evidence using chlorophyll alone, except for one very specific use, which I was pleasantly surprised by, microtoxins and liver cancer. Essentially, there are several small studies that tested the consumption of chlorophyll or chlorophyllin, a more stable version of chlorophyll on the ability to prevent a micotoxin called aphletoxin, which honestly sounds like a bad AFLAC commercial from entering our bloodstream. Ultimately, this matters because there's been links to this micotoxin being linked to liver cancer in China. And since the toxin is found from molds found in many foods, the researchers wanted to know if they could prevent its uptake. The answer was yes. Chlorophyll binds this micotoxin and stops it from being absorbed. So, surprisingly, at least to me, there's a little bit of evidence in favor of using chlorophyll, especially as a protective agent against molds. However, I need to stress that this comes from only two small studies and there would need to be much more research before we could definitively say that it protects against liver cancer directly. Next was apple cider vinegar and I've actually done some analyses on this before which ultimately concluded in some mild effects lowering blood fats in insulin resistant individuals as one that I can remember. But when we look at gut specific effects, there's also some small studies indicating ACV, that's what the cool call kids abbreviate apple cider vinegar, by the way, [laughter] slows gastric emptying, meaning that the stomach has a sphincter at the bottom that controls when the food passes from the stomach to the intestine. ACV slows it down, meaning that the sphincter remains closed for longer, keeping food in the stomach. Now the GER there is a gastric emptying rate and if the boxes are lower that means reduced speed. So the ACV condition shows reduced speed. Granted the effect is pretty small. Plus this study was tiny and it was in type 1 diabetics. So is is this necessarily applicable to most others? Probably not something to really worry over. Alternatively, might I interest you in some studies on mice? No. Then possibly amput cuisine by looking at the impact that ACV has in shrimp. Yes, you heard that correctly. Shrimp, the water roaches of the world. The point here being there's definitely studies on apple cider vinegar and it probably has some mild health benefits, but there's very weak evidence at this point in relation to gut health. Another mentioned ingredient is lemon. Good old lemon. Now, I know this is a popular one among health influencers. They love that stuff. I like lemon juice and I add it to my water on a regular basis. But does that mean that it's actually effective? Possibly. In fact, there's studies looking at kidney stones. And in fact, there are bigger studies unlike the little middly pitily ones that we've been discussing up to now. And in this study, they discovered that lemon juice actually helped reduce the recurrence of kidney stones. Now, there's plenty of nuance that uh were kind of blowing past, like the fact that these people already had issues with kidney stones, so we don't know if this would necessarily apply to the general population. However, a bigger study in a prestigious journal, The Lancet, indicates that lemon juice may be a go on that front, too. One issue brought up is that a lot of people dropped out because of gastrointestinal discomfort. So, there's definitely pros and cons and probably only useful for people with kidney stone issues. Finally, if you're a person who is trying to keep their blood sugar spikes down, there's one study that looked at the effect of lemon juice on the outcome and showed a pretty substantial reduction in blood glucose spikes. But if you've seen the last episode of the centerfuge, then you know what I think about these glucose spikes. They're a lot less straightforward than glucose go up, glucose bad. I'd encourage you to check out that episode. I'll link it for you. And as for lemon juice, on the gut health aspect, there's no evidence. Yes, there are a few studies on extracts, but uh there are none on the actual lemon juice itself. So, the lemon juice angle is a bit of a dud. It may uh have some benefits, but they're incredibly niche and there's a lot more nothingness than there is of hard evidence. In a similar vein, ginger was another mentioned. Surprisingly, there are multiple studies for ginger and gut health. Instead of listing them all off, I'll just reference this one systematic review because it combines the studies and ultimately came to the same conclusion as I did. Not much there. [laughter] Ginger has been used against irritable bowel syndrome to assess changes in gastric emptying, the same thing that we discussed earlier, and changes in the microbiome. Across all of these, there's either mild or no effect. The most consistent finding was against nausea and vomiting. There is a signal on that front. But again, if we broaden that to overall health, there may be a bit more like mild effects on blood cholesterol, glu glucose levels, uh possibly on blood pressure. So again, some evidence though not blinding and mostly away from the gut health aspect. The second and last I will cover is bone broth. I know this is one of a favorites for health influencers, too. I have a bad news, though. There is a review that makes the argument for bone broth being helpful in gut health, which might mean that there's evidence, but it's a narrative review where the researchers make the argument, but not necessarily based on strong human evidence. In fact, they basically make the argument based on other research on specific sections of the bone broth, like the amino acids or the minerals. These aren't bad arguments, per se, but they can't point to human evidence because there isn't any solid evidence for gut health. This is one of those situations where someone might uh link a review and claim that the review is evidence for something. But when you look at the evidence presented within that review, you realize that it's a lot of wishful thinking, a lot of hypothesizing and speculation. It has value, but it isn't real strong evidence. That said, beyond bone broth, looking at collagen, which is a big component, I've covered those topics several times before, and I'm a fan of collagen regardless of the source. I'll uh link my deep dives for you instead of repeating it all here. In this context, bone broth has almost no scientific evidence other than the mechanisms and a little bit of animal research. No substantiative human research, however. Finally, let's discuss magnesium. This one has significantly more evidence in its favor like long-term studies indicating benefit against type two diabetes, inverse relationships with death as a whole, and more coming from randomized control trials as well. But when it comes to gut health, the most common and well-known role of magnesium is to, how do I say this delicately? Blow it out your backside. Magnesium oxide is particularly good and has been shown to act similarly to a laxative. If that's to be interpreted as a cleanse is a different story. It may feel that way, but as far as I'm aware, your body doesn't need to have you help it clear your colon for it to experience improvements in health. Still, I suppose some people feel that it helps and it definitely has an abrupt effect to put it mildly. Overall, magnesium may be one of the more sciencebacked minerals or compounds brought up. One last thing that I'll say before uh we move on. Notice how spotty the research is for most of this stuff. Now, I would think of all this in two actionable ways. One, you are a strict science person like me. And in that case, most of these ingredients leave mass amounts to be desired when it comes to gut health and even general health as a whole. Not much of this is strongly backed by science, and you may want to avoid this cleanse on that basis alone. Or two, if you're mildly interested in the science, but you'd be willing to experiment on yourself, this lack of strong scientific evidence doesn't bother you as much and self-experimentation is more worthwhile. They're both correct choices so long as you're educated on the evidence surrounding those ingredients. Now, let's move on to claim number two. >> Walk us through that. >> What activated charcoal? So, I love activated charcoal because it lowers bacterial loads in your gut. Wait, how do you eat activated charcoal? >> You take a pill, >> right? Okay. >> You can you can put it in a drink and you know, you could put it in the detox tonic um or in water or whatever, but you take it's a pill. It's a very strong pill. Um and I have found when I had insulin resistant clients who couldn't lose weight, you know, weight resistant clients, their insulin was high, their gut bacteria was too high. So, I would put them on five days of activated charcoal and lower their insulin levels, which was like fantastic. So, that's how the gut cleanse came about. So, they get activated charcoal, they still get the enzymes, they get the magnesium. Um, but they get chia pudding, they get sauerkraut, they still get the um detox tonic, they don't get the bar cuz a little too much sugar. Um, I don't want sugar for them because of the bacteria. And then they get everything else that's pretty similar. And the nighttime is a Tulsi tea. Um, you know that holy basil is one of my favorites. It's anti-inflammatory and great for the gut, great for sleep. Um, so that's my that's the other cleanse that I love. And so what I'm trying to do for people is really clean them out. Um, my those clients are the ones that have a little bit of constipation issues, like aren't going to the bathroom regularly. Um, and they're by the end of the week, they're going two and three times a day. >> Wow. >> Like it that's another crazy thing. >> Okay, this is a specific gut cleanse. Unlike the last one where I had to decide to look at overall health and gut, in this case we can just focus on the gut. The main ingredient is activated charcoal. So the question is, is there any scientific evidence for activated charcoal on the gut? This is going to be fun. I say that because we have studies on gas production as in are you gassy after a meal if you consume activated charcoal? In this study, researchers fed people a non-groucing meal or a gas producing meal which involved beans. Good old beans. However, they also fed them activated charcoal or placebo for the gas producing meal. And here were the results. Now, by results, I mean they measured the number of times that people farted indicated by flattus events on the vertical axis. Notice how one line goes up. That's the bean meal without the activated charcoal. However, the white box line is the same meal with activated charcoal. So, clearly activated charcoal worked in reducing gaseousness of the intestines. I never thought this would be a major discussion topic on physionic, but it is part of the body. So, here we are. Now, I'd be remiss not to mention that not all studies agree. Some studies find no effect. So, I'd put this in the same category of there isn't strong or clear evidence in favor of activated charcoal on gassing up those sitting next to you as you blame the dog. Still, gassiness isn't all-encompassing for gut health, and Miss Goodman discusses the microbiome. She specifically says it lowers bacterial load, and there's zero scientific evidence of that. I couldn't find any studies indicating that to be true. Though there are some studies that look at activated charcoal and gut microbiome and they show no effect over several days of consumption across multiple measures. This of course still doesn't mean that it doesn't work in other ways. For example, there's a study on its interaction with antibiotics which is actually pretty interesting. And again, nothing shows lowering bacterial load or even changing the microbiome meaningfully. In the end, that's about it. That's what we have. Some FART research, no signs of changes to the microbiome on its own, and little else up to now. So, the claims are scientifically at least unsubstantiated. But there's one more thing that activated charcoal apparently does. It lowers insulin resistance. According to Miss Goodman, that one is a big old goose egg and not a golden one. There are no studies backing that claim. So, I realize the second crowd from earlier might chime in here at some point with, "Well, I tried it and my blood sugar dropped 20 points." And that's all well and good, but the advantage of studies is that we can isolate things through single interventions. In this case, activated charcoal. So if we take Miss Goodman's protocol, unless the only thing that they changed was the activated charcoal, which we know isn't the case, then we can't say with any confidence that the activated charcoal is a reason for these effects. The disadvantage of studies is that they require a lot of time, money, and effort. So it's slowgoing even with literally thousands of scientists working on this stuff every day. In short, from a scientific perspective, there's no evidence currently that indicates activated charcoal reduces insulin resistance. And if we get into the three other ingredients mentioned really quickly, the chia pudding, which I assume is made of chia seeds, the sauerkraut, and the holy basil, which is basil blessed by God on the manufacturing floor. There isn't a ton on chia seeds in the microbiome, but there is evidence it improves bowel movement, so that's looking good. The sauerkraut angle is even more convincing with several studies that indicate that sauerkraut has positive effects on gut health, including the microbiome. For example, this study, the participants consumed two versions of sauerkraut and their IBS symptoms, irritable bowel syndrome or irritable bowel disease, excuse me, symptoms were marketkedly improved, as seen here. It's a little off-putting at first, but the higher the lines go, the worse the IBS symptoms based on the 500point scale. Both lines, blue and green, are sauerkraut conditions, but they both show improvements over 8 weeks. In fact, the effect size was pretty large, about A-50 point reduction. So, a solid, even if not life-changing effect. Finally, the holy basil. Well, it turns out that it's not too holy when it comes to gut function. There's no evidence out there, pro or against. However, I'd be doing a disservice to leave it there because there are many studies to my surprise on holy basil, also known as Tulsi. In a systematic review of 24 clinical trials, holy basil was identified as having benefits on blood sugar, blood pressure, lipids, and more. So out of many of these ingredients, while it is true that there's no gut related science, there's plenty of other reasons to use it. So on these last three before we move on, for gut, chia seeds seem decent, though not much on the microbiome, sauerkraut seems solid and no evidence for holy basil, though the wider effects of holy basil seem to be pretty robust on initial investigation. Okay, next. Miss Goodman discusses the optimal pooping frequency for good health. Now, I honestly never expected to get myself into so much crap. Get it? Do you get the joke I just made? Brilliant. Before that, I've made some cursory mentions to some of these studies like sauerkraut, activated charcoal, and antibiotics, lemon juice and extracts, chlorophyll, and detoxing. And I have a deeper dive on all these studies in the extended version of this video that you're currently watching. It's included with the Physionic Insiders membership, including more on applying all these ingredients if you so choose, plus all these perks right over here if you have aren't sold yet. In fact, I'm doing one of my live sessions this month. So, be sure to join the community event for that. Anyway, all my work in video, audio, and written format, plus summaries, is supplied to you as a physionic insider. Link to join is in the description box. Now, let's discuss some crap. >> Wow. >> Like it. That's another crazy thing cuz people go Yeah. Once a day. They >> That's considered constipated these days. >> It's crazy. So, >> walk us through that because that's always like an uncomfortable topic for people. It's something that people don't talk about, but I mean I don't think we've even we're getting to the point of understanding how important that the digestive system is. >> Yeah. >> And how often should be people going to the restroom? What what what should be the healthy way of um going about that area of their life? >> Well, you know, once a day is good, twice is great, three is perfect. So, we really because we don't get enough fiber, because we don't get enough hydration, because we're stressed because when we're stressed, our digestive system completely shuts down. Um, we are not being able to digest our food. So, al and also we're eating a lot of animal protein. So, it takes, you know, 14 hours to get through the small intestine, cow and and animal protein, and 90 minutes for plant-based food, which is crazy. So, we're >> Say that difference again. So for plant-based food, it takes 90 minutes to get through the small intestine. For cow and animal protein, it takes 14 hours. So we're, you know, we're eating eggs for breakfast and chicken for lunch and salmon for dinner. Like, so we're just like, not that it's bad for you, but we're just we're not getting hydration, we're not getting fiber, you know, we're stressed, you're not doing all the other, >> we're not doing the other things. We're not sleeping. Sleeping is very detoxifying and helping us with our digestive system. So um, yeah. So, we're we're supposed to be kind of like an animal and going after every meal. >> And people are a little bit like, "Oh, please don't tell me that." >> Yeah. Wow. Wow. >> I know. >> I just want you to know that if you only poop once a day, everyone is judging you. The poop elite, those at two and three times per day, are infinitely superior to the mono poopers. Sad to say, but that's the reality. you need to step up your in seriousness. Is there any truth to that claim? So, I'm going to go a little extreme and then rein it in because we don't actually know what perfect means because we don't have an outcome. So, let's start with your risk of death relative to the number of times that you poop. Again, a lot of new sentences for me today. in long-term studies quantifying pooping frequency of people per week and looked at the association to all-c cause mortality. Here the 1.0 there indicates a risk if you poop seven times per week, otherwise known as once per day on average. If the blue line goes up, that means there is a relationship with increased risk of death. Clearly, pooping less than seven times per week, more like four times per week, is linked to risk. However, pooping two or three times per day does not seem to offer an improved relationship over once per day, as indicated by the lack of movement when looking at 14 or 21 poops per week. You know what's interesting? There's even studies where more than once a day bowel frequency, that's pooping, is related to increased risk of death, which would certainly go against Miss Goodman's point. Now, the reason for that isn't quite known. This particular study was only in women and nurses at that. So could there be something unique about that population? Possibly. Is it due to some other factor not accounted for? For example, when weight and severe insulin resistance were accounted for, the relationship weakened. So clearly some of it is explained by other factors. The point here is that there's a good amount of data that indicates that there's some uncertainty on the specifics of the topic, but medical organizations like the Cleveland Clinic offer a broad range that of what's considered normal and healthy with the current data considered. So they say a broad range of three times per day all the way up to three times per week can be perfectly normal. In fact, they stress that the bigger tell of poor health may be the unexpected change in the number of times that you go, although there are no drastic dietary or lifestyle changes that have occurred or blood in your stool or excess fat in your stool or any number of very abrupt changes without reasonable explanation. So, in general, no. three times per day is a madeup number and has no strong scientific evidence yet for it being superior to two or once per week. So, we can accept the mono poopers back into our fold. I sincerely apologize for my elitist behavior from earlier. Maybe I'm just full of crap. Now, she mentions a few other things that I'm going to tackle in rapid succession. Your digestive system shuts down from stress. Simon says there's some truth to that stress can slow the digestive process though not entirely shut it down though it depends on the section of the gastrointestinal system as the stomach slows emptying and the colon may actually speed up. Number two, does animal protein take longer to go through your intestine than plant protein? Simon says not so fast. The reality is there's a lot more to this statement. For example, if you're comparing whey protein to casein protein, they're both animal proteins, but they're exceptionally different in how they move through your intestines. Many hours difference. I do like Miss Goodman's input on hydration and fiber. Those also change transit time. So, it's much more complex and it depends on too many variables when you're talking about two very broad categories, all animal proteins and all plant proteins. Number three, sleeping helps with your bowel movements. Simon says, "Yes, that's true. In fact, some fascinating research indicates that sleeping slows your intestinal function significantly during sleep, but upon waking, it supercharges it by tripling the speed of your intestinal passage. If you're watching the insider version of this video, I'll show you some fascinating graphs that illustrate this, but it's not necessary. The point is the same. Yes, sleep changes our bowel movements. All right, we really went over a ton of information here. So, how do we apply any of this? What do we make of all this? Well, I'll mention from the top that Miss Goodman's recommendations don't have much solid science behind them. Most have a little bit of evidence, but none would really meet the standard of most scientists. Does that mean that she's wrong on all counts? No. Keep in mind, science is often slower than the claims made in the health influencer circuit. Uh sometimes those claims end up being true as more evidence emerges and sometimes it just gets crushed under the weight of more and better scientific scrutiny. So then how should we apply all this? Well, it depends on what you want and how you want to think about it. If you are in camp one, where hard science needs to back something before you'll consider it, then for overall health, magnesium and even potentially holy basil. For gut health, sauerkraut and chia seeds, you might throw in some apple cider vinegar for both, too, but the effects are really mild, so it may not be worth it. If you're in camp two, those that would like to that would like some scientific backing but are willing to experiment, then the same options are mentioned, but maybe consider chlorophyll and kefir kafir, which are weak or niche in evidence but also underststudied. As for the claims surrounding activated charcoal, there may be some benefit and it is used in medicine for some purposes, just nothing really related to what we've been discussing. The gut health benefits are mixed and unclear and the improvement in insulin resistance is completely unsubstantiated. As for how often you should say hello to the bathroom for bowel appointments, three times per day has no strong scientific backing. There's more data that's needed on the topic, but generally the greater concern is the consistency of your poop. Any sudden changes in frequency, blood in your poop, and other such abrupt factors. If you're only pooping once per day or even slightly less, don't worry about it. It may be normal for you. And speaking of crap, there's plenty more science checking and context to be applied to health podcasts. And this series on J Shhatty podcast guest continues right here if you're so inclined. Thanks for tuning in. I hope you had a crapload of fun. Okay, I'll stop. I'll smell you later. Nicholas, stop it.