sign. Oh, my bad. What I was saying is it feels wrong to be stuck inside all the time around artificial lights. But could it not just feel wrong, but be wrong for our body? Well, a brand spanking new trial has finally tested if being indoors around artificial light all day is having direct impact on your metabolism and thereby your health. I'd like to walk you through the most telling findings, but then I'd like to also show you a very easy experiment that you can run on yourself to see if this would work on you, as well as some, well, maybe surprising revelations. The researchers did a fun experiment where they had a group of people come into an office building as you can see here. And they were told to work at a desk in a natural in a naturally lit room with big windows as seen here or in a pure artificial light like this. And then they worked in these conditions for 5 days. Now their nutrition was perfectly controlled throughout those 5 days as well. Then before and after the experiment they had a number of health measures taken. For example, blood glucose levels. Now I think the most striking visual is the difference in the light exposure is this one. The green and yellow is where the greatest light intensity was and the vertical axis is the wavelengths of light. The left is the natural light from the sun coming through the window and the right is the artificial light. So no sun exposure. It's striking. The artificial light supplies only a few wavelengths of light. The general idea here is that sunlight is the ultimate sight gaba which translates literally from German to timegiver which sounds like a grand force from a Marvel movie or something. Dad sight ga. It works to combat Doctor Strange by giving or taking away time for Doctor Strange to manipulate. And it manipulates him by only giving him dark times to work with. Yeah, there's something there. I know it, but well, we have to carry on. In physiology, your eyes detect light, especially blue light. So, this wavelength and as you can tell, there's plenty of it in natural light, but little in artificial light. Anyway, your eyes detect light through specialized cells called melanopsin retinal ganglen cells, which send a signal to a section of your brain called the super kaismatic nucleus. Now, don't worry about the names. This nucleus in your brain is responsible for releasing hormones and furthering signals throughout the body that change your body's temperature, but also control internal clocks within your organs like your liver, your kidneys, pancreas, muscle, and more. Now, if the nucleus sends strong signals, the entire body is in sync. Meaning that the clocks, which are genes encoded in your genome, will produce proteins that regulate your metabolism. For example, proteins, enzymes involved in blood sugar regulation will be increased in the muscle cells to take up more sugar glucose out of the bloodstream. I'm skipping over a lot of details here, but that's the gist. The main point here being that if we eliminate this wavelength of light that is supposed to activate cells in our eyes to then activate an area of our brain that controls all of our organ systems, internal clocks, are there consequences? It seems reasonable to think that. So what happened? Well, let's stick with the blood glucose. This is a continuous measure of blood glucose or more specifically the interstatial glucose, which is the glucose found directly around the cells. It comes from the blood, but it's not a direct measure of the blood. It's one layer deeper. Anyway, you can see that over the 5 days, the glucose levels are roughly the same and follow similar patterns. That alone is fascinating simply because it shows how predictably our body operates if all else is kept equal. In the end, while the red line, the natural light condition does seem to dip slightly below the artificial light condition, it never reaches statistical significance. That said, the researchers did compare the amount of time that glucose levels remained in the normal healthy range. And we see that the red dots are higher, indicating that when the participants were exposed to natural light, their glucose levels were better controlled. So that's pretty interesting because it tells us that there may be some subclinical effects that may be happening, things that aren't apparent on a simple one-time blood measure, but may be happening underneath everything nonetheless. Personally, what I found mo the most interesting was the impact on metabolism. So check this out. We're looking at calorie expenditure over the day. Notice how both lines are right on top of one another. That means that there's no difference. Or is there? Okay, fair enough. The calories used or expended are the same. But what about the source of those calories? On the left is the body's carbohydrate metabolism and on the right is the body's fat metabolism. Note that they are exact opposites of one another, meaning that the blue line exposed to artificial light tends to change metabolism toward carbohydrate metabolism while sacrificing fat metabolism. Those exposed to natural light experience the opposite. Their body uses more fat metabolism. Now, we can't necessarily make judgments on one being better than the other since they both serve a purpose, but in a quiet, relaxed state, it's generally seen as more normal to have fat burning for energy. But we do now know that light by itself changes our metabolism, which is a pretty remarkable finding. Beyond that, it was also shown that several sight gaba molecules and genes were changed with artificial light exposure. Now, we've gone over several changes, some quite intriguing, and considering the context that we're discussing, this all is based on simply changing a light source. It does leave an impression. However, there are a few things to point out here that I think are important. Before we get into that, I have a deeper analysis for of the study, including the impact that it might have on sleep, insulin resistance, related molecules, and more. It's available if you're a physionic insider, my premium research platform. In fact, all my videos get the full spa treatment there, including full articles, one paragraph summaries, an accompanying monthly podcast that covers everything, and much more. As you can see here, if you're so inclined to learn your body like never before and how to help it be healthier and higher performing, then join the Physionic Insiders. The link to join is in the description box. Okay, back to it. First, yes, there are changes, but I have to admit the effects we're seeing are pretty minor, sometimes a little chuckle worthy. For example, uh when we looked at the blood glucose levels, the researchers did a lot of usual measures for glucose and found diff no differences between the exposure. So then they started looking at more niche changes like the amount of time that glucose was below or above normal values within the day or looking at a series of genes and detecting only a few changes while many others are not impacted at all. I don't know about you, but I'm not impressed with tiny changes that we have to hunt through multiple experiments to find minor effects, especially as the study was primarily done in people with severe insulin resistance, diabetics. So, that critique mentioned, I can also offer a counterargument. The counterargument goes something like this. Yeah, but all I have to do is look outside and enjoy a nice view or at the very least be exposed to some natural light. It's not like you have to do a 60 sprints, a barrel roll over coals, lift a boulder over your head 10 times and squat an elephant. You just have to turn around and face a window. That's it. In addition, this study only lasted 5 days in each exposure. Could the effect grow over time? I doubt it would ever cure anyone of diabetes or something to that effect, but it seems reasonable that this small change could have a small, very low barrier to entry difference. So, even with the keep in mind weak results, it seems just about a no-brainer to still do it. Try to spend a bit more time in natural light rather than artificial light. But let's say that you're a person who wants to verify these kinds of things on yourself. What would be a way that you could do that? Well, the best way would be to use a continuous glucose monitor and run an easy experiment on yourself. You'd want to keep your nutrition identical throughout the experiment. And also consider running the experiment longer than 5 days for each condition. There would be two conditions. One where you're primarily exposed to artificial light, preferably with no blue light, but probably devoid of most wavelengths. And then the other condition is the obvious one, sitting next to or in front of a window with natural light coming in. Then you want to track two things. One, the average blood glucose over time and compare the two. Now, the study did not identify any differences, but those are total results. So, it's possible that there were meaningful differences for some participants. Plus, if you run the experiment longer, you may detect a difference. And two, where the study did find a difference was the amount of time spent in the normal glucose range. So for blood glucose in this study, it was a wide range of 72 to 140 mg per deciliter or 4 to 7.8 mill per liter. Why this odd range? Because the researchers weren't looking at normal fasting blood glucose. They were including values that would appear after eating as well. This is also why keeping your nutrition and as many var variables as possible the same is critical. Anyway, if you run the test on yourself, let us know in the comments. I'd be very interested to know if anyone detects a physiological difference. Yeah. Anyway, so if you're looking for another easy way of improving your metabolic health, look no further than this video right here. Click before the tight gaba gets you. I hope this was informative. Thanks for tuning in. I'll catch you in the next one. Bye.