Ever heard of good and bad cholesterol? That's how I was initially taught about the cholesterol containing particles in our bloodstream. And that's probably how it's still taught to patients and in basic physiology courses. But it's a lie. Well, maybe I took that a bit too far. It's not exactly a lie. Actually, nothing of the sort. It does speak to the evolution in science, especially as it relates to good cholesterol, known as HDL cholesterol. So, here's what I'd like to do. I've pulled seven studies on HDL, and I'd like to explain why the doctors of the past may have been wrong about HDL as it relates to heart health. It's not all that good of a cholesterol after all, and we have multiple lines of evidence proving that to be true. Then I'd like to explain why HDL cholesterol may be the wrong focus and something else might be on the horizon that may be significantly better. First, we should understand why scientists and doctors even thought that HDL cholesterol was a good cholesterol in the first place. I mean, they did have their reasons. Back in the 1970s and for several decades later, it was believed that HDL cholesterol or so-called good cholesterol may be protective against heart disease because it often tracked with lower heart disease rates. Said differently, the higher your blood HDL cholesterol levels, the lower your risk of having a heart attack. You might be aware of the saying that correlation beth not causation however or correlation is not causation. Essentially just because something tracks with an outcome reduced heart disease does not necessarily mean that it caused this protection against heart disease. One way to test if HDL cholesterol causes heart disease protection is to raise it independently of anything else. So you know like 10 15 years ago or so pharmaceutical companies and other institutions created drugs to raise HDL cholesterol. In the end they showed that HDLC did not cause a protective effect against cardiovascular disease like heart specific disease. Even using natural substances like niain which is vitamin B3 which is known to raise HDL cholesterol had no effect as seen here. The higher the lines go, the more cardiovascular disease occurred. Since both lines are similar, confirmed statistically over four years of treatment. The conclusion was that nascin, at least in this formulation, did not protect the heart, although it raises HDL cholesterol. Now, I should quickly mention because some people have been following my work for a few years now and may ask, there are trials that show that nycin is effective against cardiovascular disease, as I've covered before, but the doses tend to be higher and the formulation is different. So, it's possible and even likely that we can't blame HDL cholesterol for this lack of effectiveness. And in fact, there were other drugs that were tried, but these drugs designed to raise this good cholesterol actually showed harm causing people to die more when they were on them. So, is it the HDL or is it the offtarget effects causing this lack of an effect? Well, there's no doubt that the molecule used to raise HDL cholesterol makes a difference, especially since some some of those molecules have some additional effects, if you know what I mean, muddying the conclusions. However, better studies with better interventions like this one, where other blood fats like LDL cholesterol are kept stable still show no benefit of exclusively raising HDL cholesterol. So, in combination across multiple randomized control trials designed to study this one issue, no matter how you slice it, it looks like actually raising HDL cholesterol has no heart protection effect. Heck, we don't even need to rely on clinical trials, which of course have their methodological issues like what we touched on. We can turn to genetics. For example, did you know that there are people among us that have naturally high HDL cholesterol levels? They're people with a series of gene mutations that will raise HDL. So, we can compare their lifelong elevated HDL cholesterol to people without these gene mutations. People with normal HDL cholesterol. Now, of course, a common question comes up. Well, sure, their HDL cholesterol may be high, but you know what else is different? That's a good and fair question if you were thinking it. The way these studies are done, the researchers focus on genes that only raise HDL with no impact anywhere else. Beyond that, these studies are a lot like randomized control trials, but better because people are randomly put into a high HDL cholesterol group or a control group at birth. And when we group all the different groups of people with these mutations compared against those without, here we have 20 different studies. This is a forest plot. So the individual studies have their data shown in the black squares. So if the squares move to the left of the vertical middle line, there's reduced risk of myioardial inffection, which is a fancy way of saying heart attack. But all the data combined into one easyto read score is at the very bottom as the diamond. No matter how you slice it, if that's the pool data or even as the most individual studies, those with lifelong elevated HDL cholesterol do not experience protection from heart disease, at least by this metric. And make no mistake, other similar studies also show these results to be true. All in all, now the genetic studies confirm the clinical data that HDL cholesterol does not directly protect the heart. This is in opposition of the epidemiological evidence. So then is HDL cholesterol useless then? Well, not quite. In fact, it tells us several important things, including something that scientists have been relatively recently been discovering. Before I get into all that, you know that there have been these banners on the screen. Those are to let you know that if you want more information on each section, like the genetic studies or how two other blood markers relate to cardiovascular disease and even something called HDL dysfunction and how it's getting more and more attention and how to think about this new HDL dysfunction evidence, then check out the full version of this video that you're watching. You'll get an accompanying article including simple summary and much more as a physionic insider. The Physionic Insiders is my research platform and comes with all these perks like a private podcast, live sessions, and much more. If you want a deep dive analysis of your health delivered to you every week, consider joining. The link to join the Physionic Insiders is in the description. I hope to see you there. Okay, let's start here. This is the relationship between death and HDL cholesterol. And all you need to know is if the lines go up, that ain't good. Now, this shows an association between low HDL here and high HDL here being linked to increased risk of death. So, what I'm trying to say to you is if HDL cholesterol is very low or if it's very high, there may be a warning sign there. Something may be wrong. Consider it like a a yellow flag. not necessarily positive of harm, but it should raise questions as to why the values are so low or so high. Usually that's reflected in other health poor health metrics as well. Now, the other thing that it might tell us about is potential HDL dysfunction. Now, for us to get into this last part, I'm going to take a step back and uh because I've been making some assumptions up to now, like you knowing the difference between HDL and HDL cholesterol, which are actually two different things. If you're looking at me with a face of like confusion like this, then you're who I'm talking to. Unless that's always your face, in which case it's a tossup. HDL stands uh for highdensity lipoprotein and it's a particle that contains cholesterol. Easy peasy. So when we're talking about HDL cholesterol, we're talking about the measure of the cholesterol molecules found inside the HDL particle. They're related, but HDL cholesterol measures don't fully inform on the number or function of the HDL particles themselves. So, I'm bringing this up because while we've seen some considerable evidence that raising HDL cholesterol does not protect against heart disease directly, we do not know if raising the particle number, the number of vessels or the quality of those particles could be directly helpful. The actual particle can become dysfunctional, meaning that it doesn't work as effectively as it should. That also means that people with exceedingly low or exceedingly high LDL cholesterol may also suffer from HDL dysfunction. This is an area that's currently being investigated. I know I've been talking a while, but here's how I would approach this all based on the evidence. So, I would pay loose attention to my HDL cholesterol numbers. If they are within range, not too low, not too high. I wouldn't think about it more than that and move on to other health markers like uh I don't know fasting blood glucose, LDL, APOB and so on. If my values were very low or very high, I would not focus on trying to raise or lower them exclusively. I'd probably look at other tests like triglycerides, my fat mass, and other areas that of my health that affect my total health rather than focusing on the HDL cholesterol number itself, even if it's giving me a potential warning. The reality is your HDL cholesterol is more so a marker than something to directly target. I think calling it a good cholesterol isn't necessarily wrong considering that it doesn't directly contribute to risk, but it's more so a neutral cholesterol than anything. Now, you want to know another area that doctors had to rethink? Well, blood pressure and heart disease. I discuss it in depth right here. Thanks for tuning in. I hope this was helpful and I'll speak with you in the next one. Bye.