Hi, welcome to a physionic full study analysis. It's been about six months since we've done one of these. So today we're going to be going over a topic that is incredibly contentious, which is the effect that canola oil in this instance has on inflammation. So what I did is I pulled together every randomized control trial that I could find on the topic, which is I think either nine or 10 studies. And we're going to dissect each one of those studies and come to a conclusion on the effect that canola oil has on inflammation. Uh I realize that this video is going to be extremely long, incredibly in-depth. So if you'd like to quick skip to the conclusions, feel free to do that. They are located at the end and there are timestamps for you. If you're not familiar with who I am, my name is Nicholas Verhovven. I'm a PhD in molecular medicine and this is what I do. I open up studies, make them accessible to you so that you can look at the data, understand the rationale for how scientists came to the conclusions that they did, uh, understand my rationale for how I got to the conclusions that I did, as well as openly disagree. Obviously, if you see the data in a different light, then that way at least you can make up your own mind uh instead of just typing it into Google or following some health influencer that doesn't do this kind of stuff. So, if uh you're in for the ride, then welcome aboard. Uh like I said, this is going to take a while. I've actually been avoiding this study analysis simply because I find it an incredibly boring topic. um which I realize for videos is not the great way to start things out, but it is what it is. So, let's get into these uh 10 studies. And like I said, there are timestamps, so you can skip to whatever study kind of fits your criteria of what you'd like to learn about. And uh then we'll get to some sort of conclusion. So, here's a breakdown of what we're going to be covering. We're going to be looking at the immediate postconumption of canola oil on inflammation. Then we're going to be looking at long-term consumption on inflammation. And then there is a singular study. Keep in mind I've pulled together every single randomized control trial that I could find on this topic. And there are 10 of them to date. Uh if there's one that I missed, then please post it below. Again, it has to be an intervention trial and it must be looking at canola oil and it must be looking at inflammation specifically that looks at heated canola oil and the effect that that has on inflammation. And if you're part of my Physionic Insiders membership, then I'll also be extending this analysis uh to be looking at improving canola oils effects, if they're negative to a neutral uh situation or if they're neutral or positive, if you can potentially increase uh canola oil's potency. So, if you're interested in that access to the full version, then just uh pop on over to my Physionic Insiders membership, which is uh linked in the description box. So, like I mentioned, let's go over in the immediate measures of inflammation. Uh so, a big question that pops up often is the funding and the conflicts of interest and whatnot. So, you will find in the description of this video all of the funding sources and the conflicts of interest that I've looked into for each one of these studies. But for an incredibly short like a snippet of an understanding of the funding source, uh you'll see here that the funding is nonprofit funding for this particular study. So, this study is again an acute study. So, we're just going to be looking at uh single consumption of canola oil to see if uh it has some sort of an effect. And they have a bunch of different conditions. So, for one, they included 20 29 participants. Uh this is a single blind experiment. So, the participants did not know what they were consuming, but the researchers did. Uh there's no placebo. I don't think any of the studies that we look at in this investigation were placebolinded. Um mainly because when it comes to nutrition, it's kind of hard to do placebolinding, but not impossible, but it's uh usually less common than in, you know, for example, supplement research or some sort of drug intervention or whatnot. Uh like I said, it's acute duration. It's a crossover design. And so these 29 women uh ages 53 to 54 generally healthy and they included uh lean and overweight individuals. So we're going to be looking at that data and although it's a small sample size 29 individuals the beauty of it is the fact that it is a crossover design. So each one of these participants act as their own control. Uh each one of these individuals consume an olive oil meal, a canola oil meal, a potato meal, all brand meal, and a cream meal to identify what kind of an effect it has on these inflammatory markers. But we're not just going to be stopping at the inflammatory markers. We're also going to look at just a few other indices that I thought I'd just th go ahead and throw in here as well. Here's a breakdown of their nutrition uh in terms of the single meal that they consume. Keep in mind there's just a single meal. So the overall of course there are going to be differences. Just to be clear, they didn't actually do any statistics here. So I can't actually statistically tell you, hey, there are differences between these groups. That is statistically confirmed. I think we're pretty safe in assuming though that if we're looking at like the brand meal in energy intake, it's going to be uh less than this cream meal. the uh olive oil meal or the canola oil meal. Clearly, these are about equivalent in terms of energy intake and uh roughly equivalent in carbohydrate intake, roughly equivalent in protein intake. And then fats is where obviously these diverge quite a bit, but at least between these three, they're roughly the same. So, we probably shouldn't focus too much on these two meals simply because they don't tell us a whole lot of information in terms of what we're interested in, which is canola oil. And then we have these two other comparisons that are quite close to it in almost every regard except for obviously maybe some of the uh the saturated fats and unsaturated fats are going to be different between the groups, which of course makes sense because well, that's the nature of that specific oil. So, let's compare canola oil versus olive oil and cream. Here we're looking at the baseline characteristics. I'm not going to focus on this too much clearly here. We've got a bunch of statistical comparisons. Just for reference, uh, if you're not aware of how statistics works in a really basic sense, if these numbers under the p value, so the p value indicates if something is detected as statistically significant or not detected as statistically significant, then these p values will fall under 0.05 if they are statistically significant. So detected as statistically significant if is if the number is above that that means that we do not detect an effect. So you can see in the comparison of the lean women versus the obese women or overweight women you can see that there are clearly some areas where they differ from one another. It's not exactly shocking news. uh a person who is, I don't know, 50 pounds or 100 pounds uh over the weight of somebody else and has a lot more body fat on them. Well, that has to reflect in their BMI, for example. That has to reflect in their body weight. That has to reflect in their waist circumference and it's going to reflect in some of their other health metrics because typically these individuals are not as healthy as leaner individuals. So, it's not a shock that we see differences here. I'm not blowing blowing anyone out of the water here, but that's not actually what we're interested in. What we're actually interested in is closer to the actual metrics. So, again, I'm going to be ignoring certain aspects of these data. I'm showing it to you. Uh I'll explain it kind of just generally, but uh you can pause the video and look at this data for yourself. Um what I'm going to be focused on is specifically canola oil because that's really the only thing that we're investigating here. So here we've got our canola oil condition. We're looking at blood glucose levels, triglyceride levels, HDL levels, and insulin levels. And here we get to see it over time. So after consuming the meal, what happens to their blood glucose levels? So in general, not always, but in general, you see a spike in blood glucose levels. Again, all these diets have, if I can go back here real quick, all these diets have carbohydrates in them. So not exactly a shock that they would see an increase in uh in blood sugar levels. insulin levels of course compensate as well. They have to knock down these blood glucose levels so they'll rise as well. Uh triglyceride levels, you know, maybe slightly rise over that time. HDL doesn't seem to budge. But you don't have to necessarily focus on this. You can also look at what's known as the area under the curve, which is considering all the movement, all the change that's occurred in this graph can be displayed into a single bar graph. And you're going to see this a few times throughout this study. So, just focus on that if you want an easier time uh make, you know, determining the differences. The dark bars are the obese individuals. The white bars or the clear bars are the lean individuals. And what we're looking for is differences from baseline. Probably you're going to see differences between the two groups, right? Uh simply because well, we already know that physiologically they're completely they're very different from one another. So that wouldn't be much of a shock. And we see some of those differences as we keep going through this. But uh what we're most interested in is the differences from the zero here, which is the baseline. Are we going to be able to tell some differences in the canola that might be worrying in some some some form or fashion? And here we generally see, you know, a decrease in the canola condition. But again, we're comparing that against the olive oil and the cream condition. We're not just looking at the baseline. We also want to look at some of these other conditions that are good comparison conditions. And what we see is there's no difference across the board generally. Uh for triglycerides, there's maybe a little bit less triglycerides compared to like the cream condition. Uh for insulin levels, we don't see any changes whatsoever uh compared to any condition, but especially the two that we're most interested in. And for HDL, I mean, it already didn't show any differences just across the board. So, that's also the case for canola oil. Now, let's look at the actual inflammatory metrics. So when we're looking at inflammation, we can assess inflammation a few different ways, but one of the most common ways is to look at interlucan 6, TNF alpha, so tumor necrosis factor alpha. And then there's a bunch of other cytoines. These are proteins that are released by your cells. If that's your endothelial cells, your neurons, your micro ga, your macrofasages, monocytes, T-C cells, all these different cells, lit almost every cell in your body has the ability to release except for if it doesn't have a nucleus, which certain cells don't, but the vast majority of cells are able to release uh interlucan 6 or TNF alpha. And generally, these are called pro-inflammatory cytoines. are proteins that get released and they can attract immune cells to that region and activate the immune cells to then start to cause uh significant damage to the surrounding area. It's not like the immune cells are there to specifically do that, but because they're in this activated state, they start to kind of wreak havoc on everything around them. So typically when you have let's say chronic inflammation then you'll see these changes in 6 and TNF alpha they could have certainly looked at others as a matter of fact we do have a few over here like uh like interlucan 8 and in general we so let's I guess we'll focus on interlucan 6 first we don't see any changes here there are differences uh between the obese and lean so we've got the p values here comparing the fats comparing the carbs and comparing the obese and lean And you can see it's statistically significant for the uh obese and lean individuals. So the comparison between those two but again our focus is on canola oil and uh we don't see any effect on from canola oil across these three main conditions that we're comparing against. What about TNF alpha? Again canola oil just absolutely doesn't move at all. Uh so we don't see any change you know even by comparison to olive oil which may slightly decrease but statistically speaking we don't see any difference for the free fatty acids. So this is the fat molecules. uh we again don't see any differences and you'd be able to identify some of this stuff by the like asterisk or this study actually has a bunch of different comparisons that it does and uh it's it's pretty confusing to keep you keep track of it all but again I'm just focusing on canola oil and just trying to see okay well if we look at this bar graph is there a big difference compared to olive oil or the cream condition especially for the lean individuals but also for overweight individuals. And so, for example, here you might think, yeah, there's there's look at this one. It's so much higher than maybe this one over here. But if you look at the I believe these are standard error of the means. So, this tells you not only the spread of the data, but also the certainty of the result. And if these are really wide, that creates a significant uncertainty in the results. So the true representation or interpretation of this would be that there is no statistically significant difference between the conditions. Then again we're also looking at free fatty acids. So then you would have to go through another layer of rationale to understand okay well if free fatty acids are different if we were to assume that they are uh what does that mean? Well doesn't necessarily mean anything. So you'd have to understand some of the other physiology that's occurring and across the board interlucanate as well no differences. Uh canola oil does not seem to reduce or increase or anything uh on any of these inflammatory metrics. Now one of the critiques that is often levied and maybe I should have a separate section at the end of this video to uh discuss some of the critiques that have been brought up. One of them is definitely the heating of oil and in this scenario we're not talking about the heating of oil. It's just been applied to the foods. We see that uh the addition of oil in these conditions can lead to changes in the cell itself. So, not just increases in the cytoines that might be released from the cell, but one of the critiques is well, you've got the subclinical uh argument, the subclinical inflammation that occurs. So, the to be completely honest with you, I don't fully understand what that means. This is coming from somebody who has a PhD in molecular medicine. Words get thrown around sometimes, and I honestly just don't think that people even understand what they mean. Uh because I've asked people in the past like, "Okay, so what does that mean?" And nobody's been able to give me an actual answer. So I'm going to answer it the best I can from a PhD perspective that's done cell biology, molecular biology, and that would be something like the oxidation of the lipids or the fats that are found inside of the cell. So oxidative stress is a situation where the cell is producing large amounts of these damaging molecules called reactive oxygen species and a small amount is actually beneficial to the cell but having an overacrruel of these reactive oxygen species can ultimately lead to damage to the surrounding structure of the cell. So that could be your mitochondria, that could be the cell membrane, that could be the different proteins, the different enzymes in uh in the cell. And in this situation, we're talking about uh lipids. So lipid peroxidation, which is the oxidation or the damage of lipids. That could be in the cell membrane, that could be within the the membranes of the organels, that could be throughout the cell. It doesn't really matter. The point being that you're getting damage to the structure within the cell. And we're measuring here again with canola. Same situation. We see no differences. So there's no effect on lipid peroxidation. And then uh they threw in a measure for cortisol. Again, no differences uh for for cortisol. It seems like all the meals, I guess you could say, decreased cortisol. But the main point being that there are no differences across the board. I suppose uh one more quick thing to jump in on here with uh to describe. I should have done this before, but let me do it right now. Um to give you a little bit more specifics on these meals. So yes, each one of these meals was dominated by olive oil or potato meal or all brand meal etc. Um let me give you a bit more specifics. So the potato meal is literally just potatoes. uh the all brand meal is removed the mashed potatoes and replaced it with all brand and milk. And again, they're trying to equate the calories as best they can or the energy as best they can, but they're just switching out the components uh to make up that meal. The cream meal is 1.6 g per kilogram of body weight in cream. So, if you weigh 100 kg, you'd be consuming about 160 gram of cream in that one meal. And they also include the mashed potato, but uh they made it with more water to adjust the calories. The olive oil meal was 0.6 g per kilogram of body weight in oil. So, again, that would be 60 g of olive oil. And the mashed potato is also made with more water to adjust for calories. The canola oil meal was identical to the olive oil meal in that it was about 0.6 gram per kilogram in body weight of oil. So if you weigh 100 kg that would be again 60 g of uh this canola oil that's added to the meal. All the meals were the same. So mashed potatoes plus two eggs uh with the addition of each condition. So just a standardized meal. And as we saw, they try to standardize the calorie consumption as much as possible. Okay, let's discuss long-term consumption on inflammation. This is where the uh bulk of the analysis is going to be focused on. We've got eight studies to go over, I believe. So, I'm going to go through them relatively quickly and uh each study has different uh aspects about it. You know, some are in like older individuals, some are in overweight individuals, some people have metabolic syndrome, etc., etc. So again, I encourage you to check out the one that fits your profile the best. And just be aware that each study is going to have strengths and limitations. So we'll start out with study 402. This is internal funding. Keep in mind that these people have ulcerative colitis. Quick correction on this drawing. So there's no sunflower oil condition. Uh some of the other studies look at like sunflower oil or safflower oil and some other types of oils. We're only focused on olive oil and canola oil here. So, just ignore this condition. In this scenario, it's 32 men and women, mostly women, 35 to 36 years old with ulcerative colitis and they were overweight. It's not placeboc controlled, which of course is ideal, but uh unfortunately in it's not common in nutrition studies to have a placebo control. It's single blind, so the participants did not know what they were consuming, but the researchers knew uh the assessment. There's a three-week treatment. So, uh because it's crossover design, so in this situation, this is a extra virgin olive oil. And if let's say 11 of these people were randomly assigned to olive oil, then they would consume that olive oil for three weeks. And then from there they would be consuming 50 milliliters of uh extra virgin olive oil or 50 milliliters of canola oil just to be clear. And then so let's say 11 people out of these 32 get randomized to olive oil. They consume the 50 milliliters of olive oil every day. And then uh they do a twoe wash out to essentially bring them back down to baseline and kind of wash out whatever residual effects might be occurring from olive oil consumption. And then after those two weeks of the wash out period, then they uh get put on the canola oil. And then they do the same thing, three weeks of canola oil for 50 milliliters consumption. And then they take measurements throughout that period. So it's a crossover design. They've got a smaller number of participants. Definitely an advantage. You get to control for the genetics, for example. you get to control for bunch of other things because the the same person is their own control which is uh very nice to see. Um there are advantages and disadvantages to to that. Um in fact I've covered them in my course on how to read studies if you want to check that out. It's also linked in the description. Okay so let's get into the specifics of how they went about this. They randomized 40 individuals into the canola oil condition or the extra virgin olive oil condition and they did lose a few people on followup. Um so they ended up with the 32 individuals that I mentioned earlier. Now let's go into the groups in their order. Um again keep in mind it's the same individual. So in the first 3 weeks, the group that was in the in the um EVVO first and then canola oil or canola oil and then EVVO, there were uh no differences across the board. So this is just looking at some baseline uh characteristics to identify hey maybe maybe this baseline difference between the groups is the real reason why uh we see some sort of change. But in this case, we don't see anything of that nature. All right, let's get into it. Uh, I realize this looks like a bunch of numbers. Don't worry about it. It's actually very easy to read here. Um, so I'm going to detail these for you. Right here, we've got three different P values. The P values correspond to different comparisons. The PAT here corresponds to the treatment effect. So, is there an effect in general? uh not specific to canola oil, not specific to EVO. The PBC condition here is a comparison of uh within each group. So looking within the EVO or within the uh canola oil condition. Then comparing between the groups is the PCP. PCP. Oh man, it's a it's a bad combination of letters. uh hopefully they don't get too high. Okay, so PCP over here is the comparison of the EVO versus uh canola oil. So you see the P values again the cutoff is 0.05 where here's a quiz question, here's a trivia question. Where do you see an effect? It's over here right in this column. And it's just these two situations over here. So we're looking at the PAT which is an overall just is there an effect and here we're looking at ariththraite sedimentation rate which is a metric of inflammation. Uh we also have high sensitivity uh C-reactive protein another measure of inflammation. We're aware of tumor necrosis factor alpha unless you skip the last study. Uh so we've got the three measures right here and for these two we do see that there is a difference. So something occurs uh but is we don't have enough statistical power here at least to identify any sort of difference if it's the EVO or the the canola oil and there's no difference between the two groups. So on and that's also true for TNF alpha. So across the board and if anything if anything uh we see yeah we just don't see any changes whatsoever. I mean you also have these uh massive standard deviations. If those are standard deviations, let me quick check. Yes, those are standard deviations. So they are pretty massive I will say. I mean having a value 17.89 plus plus or minus standard deviation of 85.6 six. That indicates to me that uh they needed a lot more either a lot more participants or they needed better uh measurement of the uh TNF alpha values or or you could have a group of individuals that are experiencing a higher or lower TNF alpha versus another group which creates a lot of uh deviation in the results. We don't see as much when looking at the EVO condition here. uh but we do see it in some of these other metrics as well. Anyway, the point being statistically speaking, there are no differences in uh inflammation. Okay, let's get into the next study. I'm going to have to make a correction here as well. Um I don't actually make my PowerPoints anymore. I put out a uh description of what I need put together and uh someone else actually puts it together and unfortunately they made a few mistakes which I should have caught. So I'm going to correct them uh in this discussion right now. So, uh, study 403 in, uh, this study is publicly funded, uh, and has no conflicts of interest, no direct conflicts of interest at least. Uh, in this situation, we've got an olive oil condition. So, this is refined olive oil versus canola oil. And in this situation, they're talking about 25 milliliters uh, consumed. This is a longer study. It's a six-w weekek treatment, so that's all correct. It was also randomized. However, it and it was no blinding. So, no placebo, no blinding. Um, however, these people did not have ulcerative colitis. So, I think this was from the previous uh description. These people had uh cardiovascular disease and were overweight. So, this is the part that needs to change. Uh also this uh was 48 participants and it was mostly men. Just to be clear, this is not a crossover design. It's a parallel design. Uh meaning that you have one group that only consumes canola oil and then the other group only consumes olive oil and then they do comparisons across the board. Uh this was a six week treatment, so about double the length of the previous study. Okay. Uh the composition of the oils, I don't really need to go through it. Obviously, there going to be differences. They're different oils, so they're going to be differences. Um, but here you go. You've got a breakdown of the composition, the way it was like the actual flow, the diagram of how things worked out. They had 48 individuals that they randomized, 24 to one group, 24 to another group. They lost a few on follow-up, 22 were analyzed, and 20 were analyzed in this one. And ultimately, that led us to these baseline characteristics. I already explained why why a person would want to look at baseline characteristics to see if there are any inherent differences between the groups. This is especially true if you're looking at uh parallel groups and we see the p value here no differences across the board. So the groups are roughly the same. Uh so then we can look at the comparisons of what happens when you consume canola oil versus olive oil, refined olive oil. Uh so in this situation we're looking at uh body weight at baseline so before consuming the oils and then 6 weeks later and we can see that there are no differences. Uh so and there are no differences between the groups either. So largely body weight stayed the same. Uh BMI obviously is going to stay roughly the same. Physical activity is another kind of important metric that people might be interested in. Uh again no differences. Now, here is where we're looking at the overall dietary intake of these individuals at baseline. Then six weeks later, we're interested, which is a good question as to if there are differences between the groups in their nutrition. And now, if you have enough participants in a study, uh it usually all that stuff kind of washes out because everybody kind of just follows the mean or the average. uh but or corrects to the mean or corrects to the average. But in this scenario uh with a smaller sample size when you're talking about you know just 40 individuals um you know it's it can be important to look at their nutritional profile and see if there are any differences. So it's a good thing that they looked at this. Uh in fact these little crosses here are not religiosity. They are uh changes from baseline. So the p values here indicate changes between the olive oil group and the canola oil group. But the crosses here indicate changes from baseline to 6 weeks later. So like total fat for example increased slightly for the olive oil group and it also increased for the canola oil group but ultimately there were no differences between the groups. Now, obviously, that's not too much of a shock, right? If uh 25 milliliters of olive oil and canola oil, uh yeah, it's going to have an impact um on your your fat consumption considering they're both complete fat. Um the other change let's see monounsaturated fats you know again not a shock considering both of them have uh different compositions of fat especially olive oil is well known for its monounsaturated fats and that's it you know that I mean you see these changes but generally oh I guess omega-3s um there was in omega-3s for the canola oil condition but not for the olive oil condition. Uh however the end result was the same that there were no differences in uh omega-3 consumption between the the two groups. So equivalent at the end. Okay. So let's look at these values again. We've got some values here that are not necessarily related to inflammation, but there are also some that are related to inflammation. Here we've got the delta. So okay, I'll I'll break this down. total cholesterol, LDL cholesterol, small dense LDL, got HDLC, total cholesterol divided by HDLC, triglycerides, LPLA, which is this uh inflammation marker lipoprotein associated phospholipase A2 and then we've got interlucan 6, which we've already gone over and then we've got complement components. So these proteins are also involved in the immune system and play a big role in the compliment system. I'm not going to explain what the compliment system is. Uh yeah I yeah I won't explain it. It's it's a it's in very basic terms it's a a series of proteins that can work together in complement essentially and uh activate the immune system. So, they're kind of this uh other pathway by which our immune system functions. Believe it or not, uh immunity and inflammation and whatnot are incredibly complex processes. That's why you have people that study it exclusively, immunologists. So, but for our purposes, what we need to know is that these are also inflammation. So we're looking at different metrics of inflammation other than this uh interlucan 6. And then we've got our olive oil group, canola oil group, got our baseline 6 weeks later. And then the delta value. So the amount of change from one to 6 weeks later, from baseline to 6 weeks later. And then we're looking at differences uh between the groups. If there's again a cross, that means there's differences uh at baseline compared to 6 weeks later. But the actual p value here indicates the differences between the olive oil group versus the canola oil group. Okay. So what do we see? Well, let's focus on the canola oil group here first. There's only uh one change and that change is a decrease in interlucan 6. Uh if we look at but there are no changes on like this uh lipoprotein associate phospholipase 2. Again, just to confirm that's another factor involved in cardiovascular disease, but also inflammation. And then the compliment proteins don't change. The canola oil group, we look down here and we see that there's a statistically significant uh decrease in this inflammation marker, this lipoprotein associate phospholippase A2. I can never remember the name of that. And there are no changes in interlucan 6. So uh there's you know a non-significant decrease but it's technically we should say that it's there's no difference. On the other hand when we compare between the two groups there's no differences across the board for the most part except for some of the inflammation markers. So like interlucan 6, there's a statistically significant difference between canola oil and olive oil indicating that uh the canola oil uh had I guess you could say worse results than the olive oil. I just want to contextualize that correctly. Yes, technically that's true, but it's not like uh canola oil increased inflammation. It just kept it neutral. Uh on the other hand, the olive oil was the one that actually decreased the inflammation from this one metric. But we can do the exact same story when we're looking at this LPPLA too. In this case, it is statistically significant difference and the olive oil condition actually doesn't see any change. Slight increase, but in all reality again, we would interpret this as no difference and or a neutral effect. And here we see that there's a reduction uh with the canola oil. So the same story is just flipped to the other side. But again, we're not going to extol all the we're we're not going to suddenly blame olive oil and say that that has tremendous negative effects on your inflammation. So they kind of uh they kind of flip sides, you know, both ways one way or another. uh there's a a decrease in an inflam inflammation marker for olive oil and there's a decrease in inflammation marker for the canola oil condition. All right, ladies and gentlemen, let's go on to the next study. Study 404. Internal funding, as far as I'm aware, no direct conflicts of interest either. Uh this one was correctly laid out finally. Um, so we've got 81 women, uh, 58 years old, uh, were overweight with type 2 diabetes, uh, so not in great metabolic health. They were randomized. This is non placebo control just like most of the others, and no blinding. So the participants were aware of what they were consuming. They were consuming olive oil, canola oil, or sunflower oil, and they consumed 30 grams of each every day. Uh, this is parallel design. So, we've got a group of people in the sunflower oil, a group of people in the canola oil, and a group of people in the olive oil. And they were compared against each other at baseline, and then again at the end of the 8 weeks, so uh two months later. Here we've got the 81 individuals randomized. And here we've got the number of people that ended up coming out in the end. um you can see why some of the people were excluded over that time. If we look at the fatty acid composition, I'm actually not really going to go over this because you can read it for yourself. Saturated fats, monounsaturated fats, poly polyunsaturated fats, different carbon chain lengths. Uh so if you rec if you were to type in like C16 for example into like Google or AI or whatever, then you would end up with a name for that fatty acid. that fatty acid is palatate and so on and so forth for each one of these. Um here we're looking at polyunsaturated fats. Here we're looking at monounsaturated fats. But here we've got everything in conjunction kind of together. Uh again this is obvious stuff. Obviously there there's going to be differences in the composition of fats in olive oil, canola oil, and sunflower oil. That's what makes them unique. Okay. Now in terms of the baseline characteristics here again we've got the three groups we've got the p value here and we can just quick look at this scan it for any sort of differences you know maybe a getting close to statistically significant for polyunsaturated fats maybe dietary fiber intake maybe the canola oil might be slightly higher than than the sunflower oil but uh it's still not statistically significant uh polyans saturated fat. Again, that kind of stuff is not that shocking because, keep in mind, they're consuming completely different fats. Uh, not maybe not a whole lot. 30 grams, it's it's a good amount, but it's not a massive amount, but it's probably enough to shift some of these values. Okay. Then the actual changes that occur in relation to these different fats including with uh diet with the status and cons in consideration. Okay. And here we're looking at the values during the study. So this is a baseline and here we're looking. So I guess what I should have said before is that these values were not including the oils. So I misspoke earlier. Uh this is the updated. So during the study, this is while they're consuming or after they've consumed the oils. And here we do see that things are statistically significantly different. However, uh nothing else is. So the fiber actually becomes non-statistically significantly different. But uh only the percentages of these different fats monounsaturated and polyunsaturated lead to changes which is expected. Okay. Now here the researchers do something that really annoys me. Uh they make it incredibly difficult to read this and the reason why I mention that is because they don't report any p values and on top of that they don't give us any sort of symbols or anything to indicate what's statistically significant. is really is a pet peeve of mine when it comes to reading research because then you have to sit there and dig through uh what they wrote and try to figure out what you know P values correspond to what. But what I can tell you is well I guess I'll walk you through this first. We got fasting uh blood sugar here first and then we've got uh the how do you pronounce that? uh malendahhide there we go my malendihide or MDA which is a metric of lipid peroxidation so kind of a byproduct of uh lipid peroxidation which is what we discussed in one of the previous studies so this is an indication of what I would consider again nobody's ever really defined it but what I would consider as subclinical uh evidence of uh inflammation or damage that's occurring to the cells because you have this oxidative stress that's occurring. So greater levels of MDA would indicate greater oxidative stress and greater damage to the cells. Then you've got insulin homir insulin resistance uh measure which includes fasting blood sugar as well as insulin and then C-reactive protein which we've gone over before. So just from the what the researchers write, I can tell you that the olive oil, canola oil, and sunflower oil conditions, none of them changed for any of the metrics except for CRP. Uh for CRP, if I could quick check my notes here, olive oil and canola oil saw changes in C-reactive protein. So this change here, minus3.2 and minus 2.5 are reductions in the C-reactive protein. But as far as I'm aware, well actually we can actually look at that next. Uh this is looking at the exact same metrics but now they're breaking it up by intergroup analysis p value. So looking at uh the olive oil baseline versus after baseline. So after 8 weeks of being on olive oil, you know, same thing for canola oil, same thing for sunflower oil in each one of these conditions. And that's where we get this uh effect of uh this change has a p value attributed to it but for some reason they decide to separate it out and put it into this uh table instead of putting it in here. Yes, I find that highly annoying. Anyway, statistically significant differences reductions in C-reactive protein. And then they do another analysis which is between groups. So doing the comparison of olive oil versus canol can canola oil versus sunflower oil and we see it is statistically significant here as well. They find AI guess technically they find statistical significance as well for homir but uh it's just barely there and this C also indicates that it's a non-parametric result which means that oh man do I really want to go into that. Um, it means that the data is skewed in a nonnormal way. I realize that for somebody that doesn't really have a statistics background, that doesn't really mean anything. Um, it just means that you need a specialized statistical test to detect an effect. And they do detect that there's an effect between the groups. But when you compare at least baseline to and then when you look at the intergroup as in looking baseline versus 8 weeks later there's no difference across the group. So you know it really just depends on like which test is more appropriate to interpret and whatnot in this situation. We have clear results for C-reactive protein and we have really dubious results when it comes to home IR but you know anybody with a statistics background could easily disagree but for sure I don't think anybody would disagree that C-reactive protein at least decreases with olive oil and canola oil and that's confirmed again by the between groups comparison. Okay, let's get into study 406. Uh for this one this is uh industry funding so just be aware of that. You can check out more details in the description. Uh here's a breakdown of the study how it was done. It is again randomized, non placebo, no blinding. Uh this is a crossover design. So it's three different conditions and it's crossover design. So it's a little bit of a complex design in terms of like what they consumed and whatnot. Um but the participants consumed a standard western diet as a base diet which was about 15% protein, 50% carbohydrates and 35% dietary fat. And then they consumed each oil for four weeks, did a wash out for four to eight weeks. So it says four-week wash out here, but it's four to eight weeks of wash out. So a minimum of four weeks we'll say and then return to include a new oil. So back to that standard western diet including uh the the next oil. Again they were randomly assigned to the high oleic canola oil, the flax seed oil plus canola oil or the butter plus olive oil plus vegetable oil plus sunflower oil. Uh which is this blended and they tried to do like a one to one. So basically equate the same amount of oil in each condition. They did consume a pretty sizable amount. It was something like with let's say 100 gram of fat consumed, they would consume about 70 gram of oil. So the majority or a good portion of the fat that they consumed throughout the day was from these oils. Uh this was in men and women but mostly women 47 years of age overweight with high cholesterol uh as their one notable uh metric of ill health. And again here we're talking because it's a crossover design. It it slightly makes I shouldn't even say slightly. It does a good job of making up for the fact that we've got a small sample size. Still, you know, it'd be great to have even more individuals, of course. So, just from the get-go, I'd like to say this is kind of a messy study. I mean, they're adding butter, olive oil, vegetable oil plus sunflower oil, flax seed oil plus canola oil, or high oleic canola oil. I mean, it's kind of like it's just kind of all over the place. This is not a very well-designed study. You can tell immediately from this alone that it's not a very well-designed study. But hey, I said that I'd include all the studies, so this is what I'm doing. Here's a breakdown of the western diet. Then the addition of the high oleic or rape seed oil diet and the flax seed and high oleic rape seed oil diet. Okay, let's get into the macronutrient breakdown for these uh diets. So just to be clear, this western diet here is the butter plus olive oil plus uh vegetable oil. This like blended oil condition. Um, I don't know why they're calling it specifically a western diet, but I mean obviously the background is largely a western diet, but uh that's also the case for these other conditions. So again, it's a messy study and it's about to get messier. I can promise you that much. So these are the baseline values. Uh if you're hoping for statistical analyses on these, none were given. So we're just going to have to look at it and say, "Yeah, there are no, you know, there are differences. there are no differences uh etc etc. Um baseline characteristics here we've got everyone remember it's the same individuals so we don't have like three separate groups we just have the same individuals they're looking at age body weight height BMI total cholesterol and some of the metrics that we've already looked at LDL cholesterol HDL cholesterol and trial glycerols or triglycerides C-reactive protein for inflammatory metrics interlucan 6 we should be well aware of that VCAM ICAM and E selectin Those are all proteins that are found on like endothelial cells that line your blood vessels and they're heavily implicated in inflammation of your vascule. So the more of them typically that means that you have greater uh it's linked to greater inflammation and is linked to greater risk of cardiovascular disease. And here they also did some corateed intimidia thickness measurements. I have to say I find this absolutely laughable. Um, but they did it anyway. So, we get a measure of their plaque buildup in their arteries. I'm going to explain why it's laughable in just a little bit. Uh, looking at the values after, like at the end of the four weeks of each diet, you see the uh, cholesterol or total cholesterol levels. And you you can obviously read it for yourself. uh but ultimately we're looking for this p value to indicate differences between the groups. So here again we're seeing some comparisons and we're seeing that there's drops in total cholesterol LDL cholesterol that's why we've got statistical significance. Uh I guess to interpret this if the the letters here are the same as the other groups that means there's no difference. um if they're different then that means there is a difference and so this p value indicates there's an overall statistically significant difference then you could look to the letters to identify okay where is that difference because we have three conditions so we need to know which condition is different from which condition uh if we had just two then we would know that there's a difference so we can just look at the comparison between the two we don't need the letters so for example for LDL cholesterol we see that there's an A here we see a B here and we see a B here. That indicates that these two are the same, but they're different from this western diet condition. There's a drop in LDL cholesterol with this high oleic oil condition and the flax seed high oleic oil condition. Uh HDL, you can do the same thing. There's no difference between these two. there is a drop in HDL with the flax seed plus high oleic uh and you can see that statistically confirmed the same is true for looking at some of these ratios nonHDL cholesterol uh we see that there's a a drop in so these are all different right A B C that means that this is at the highest point so this one didn't change or at least presumably didn't change this one did change it dropped so in high oleic condition. So the high the canola oil condition, we see that there's a drop in non-HDL cholesterol, which isn't a shock because we already saw a drop in LDL cholesterol. And then there's a slightly greater drop in the flax seed plus high oleic uh condition or canola oil condition. Same thing as rape seed, by the way. It's just that the name's been changed because rape seed sounds incredibly aggressive. uh we can look at the exact same values but now in bar graph form and again across the board. I don't even need to really define what each uh graph is. I guess I will real quick. So this uh dark one is the western diet. This one is the high the gray one is the dark or the high oleic rape seed oil or canola oil. And the white one here is the final one. So the uh high oleic acid plus uh flaxseed oil. So the third condition and across the board we see I mean we already went over these data. So uh when you do comparisons some of them are the same some of them are different but overall the point is that the western diet tends to do worse uh across the board. But what we're most interested in is obviously the effect that we see on inflammation. So what does inflammation tell us? We've got a bunch of metrics here. C-reactive protein, interlucan 6, and these three different markers or proteins that are found on typically endothelial cells in our vascule. And we see that there's uh no difference across the board, you know. Oh. Oh, I guess I'm sorry. There's one difference the E select in here. So A, A, B and B. So the canola oil only condition uh was kind of in the middles maybe a slight uh decrease in this e select. reduced inflammation in this situation but uh not oh I'm sorry actually this is uh this is dropped the lowest um and then the flax seed and high oleic condition was different from the western diet uh just further just a little bit higher than the just oleic condition or just canola oil condition. So canola oil outperformed the the at least the western diet um even if it might not be exactly different from uh the uh flax seed condition. Now as for the IMT the intermedia thickness the reason why I find this laughable is because we're talking about a four-week study. I I mean I got to admit this it's just like ridiculous to me to even do this. Um, I know that IMT is pretty sensitive. When you're measuring corateed IMT, you can do some sensitive metrics that indicate changes over, let's say, a year, maybe a little less than a year, but four weeks. I mean, unless you're expecting canola oil or flax seed or the western diet to increase plaque appreciably, like just supercharge plaque production in in your arteries in just a month. Um, it every study that's been done on corateed IMT has not looked at four weeks or at least no serious studies that have looked at corateed IMT have used four weeks. So, I just I don't know. There's a bunch of things about this study that I just find irritating and uh poorly done. But the conclusion here based on this poor data is that uh the canola oil or at least the other two oils. So canola oil or the one with flax seed tended to outperform the uh the one that was western diet plus the other oils that was added in mixture. All right, let's get into this next study. Study 407. It's public funding, but uh there are some direct conflicts of interest. So, check those out in the description. Uh here we've got a bunch of conditions. Again, it's crossover design. Uh we've got a bunch of different like hybrid systems of uh looking at canola oil. This one is heavily focused on canola oil. So, we've got canola oil condition and all of these. So I guess to give you a background on the diets these are isocaloric meaning that they consume the same amount of uh calories uh across the board on the base diet which was a standard western diet 50% carbohydrates 35% dietary fat 18% of that fat came from these oils. So that's the amount given and 15% protein. Canola oil was here. Then they've got a high oleic version, so more monounsaturated fats in this canola oil. Then they've got a canola oil plus the addition of omega-3, so enriched with docoexoninoic acid, which is an omega-3. And then they've got this corn saff, which is the corn oil plus an equal proportion of safflower oil. And then flax saff, which is flax seed oil plus safflower oil. The oils were consumed in smoothie form. So 30 grams per smoothie and consumed uh twice per day. So I guess in total about 60 gram of each oil. Must have been delicious smoothies for sure. 101 men and women 49 years of age overweight borderline metabolic syndrome. So kind of like definitely pre-diabetic and beyond. uh four weeks treatment with a two to four week wash out uh at least a minimum of two weeks and up to four weeks of that wash out period before jumping onto the next diet. So we'll see see them in four-week increments. Here we've got a breakdown of the individuals. 170 randomized uh 130 individuals were assessed for eligibility and 101 were assessed uh were actually included in the study itself. And here we've got a breakdown of uh the diets for each condition. Here they're uh breaking down so this is the baseline metrics and they're breaking it down by men and women. And believe it or not, shockingly, uh, the men weigh more than the women. The waist circumference is bigger for the men than the women. I mean, not exactly shocking news on that front. So, uh, yeah, that doesn't that doesn't exactly uh really tell us a whole lot. It just tells us that men and women are different, which is not a revelation. Um, the height is funny because they measured it in meters and they don't see a statistically significant difference. I wonder if they had just changed this metric or I don't know what happened here, but it's seems odd that there's not a statistically significant difference in the height between men and women when we know on a population level that men are uh taller than women. But maybe this sample was just very similar in that regard somehow. So interesting, but something to point out. Okay, so I just wanted to quick add this. This is overall fat mass or I should say android fat mass, which is a type of fat mass that tends to be more inflammatory and more destructive. And we can see here again, you're comparing these different letters and you can see the statistical significance indicated by the the asterisk here. But uh the point being here that these two are roughly the same. So the men and overall which isn't going to be a huge shock because uh the men make up what how much of the study half of the study participants and the women although it's not statistically significant you can see that they also seem to decrease their android fat mass. And that's for the canola group which is probably the most telling group. Uh, I understand that we've got other canola groups here as well, but really we should be probably focused on this one because this one has been, you know, they've added monounsaturated fats and this one they've added uh omega-3s and generally we see not huge differences across the board, but again we're talking about four-week consumption and we're looking at this random metric of android fat mass and just kind of okay, I guess we we see a little bit of changes uh that happen more for men than they do for women, but uh doesn't really seem to matter all that much. Okay, this is a bit of a complex way of showing if canola oil or any of these conditions have an effect on inflammation. Uh the only metric that they really measure for inflammation is C-reactive protein. are also included including Android fat mass or the delta in Android fat mass or the change in Android fat mass and all they're doing is finding an association. They're not even trying to find if it really has an effect here. Um I'm assuming that the answer is that they didn't really have an effect. And if you look at the association, so here we've got an associative marker or uh an indication of the correlation, the association between CRP and each one of these different conditions. So canola canola oleic etc etc. So if this is very low so let's say below 0.1 then there's essentially no association but if it's anything above that 0.2 definitely 0.4 definitely 0.6 0.8 would be a really strong association so on and so forth then typically the p value will also indicate that it's statistically significant. So for example, CRP is associated is weakly associated because this is above 0.1. It's, you know, 0.28, which still isn't super strong, but it's a weak association. There is an association. It's just weak. Uh, and it is statistically significant. So Android fat mass at baseline is associated with C-reactive protein. Not a huge shock. We've actually known that fat mass, the more fat the p person has on their body, the more uh their inflammation metrics tend to increase. Uh however, once we start looking at some of these other metrics, looking at like uh canola oil or whatever it might be on and including changes in android fat mass from baseline, we see that this association is just about nil. I mean, we don't see any association. Even this, which you know could potentially be a weak association, is not statistically significant. They don't actually report the the P values here, which I find interesting. Uh but whatever the point is that there's no association between canola oil and reducing C-reactive protein. And that's really the big takeaway here. Again, why they focused on associations and tried to add this other metric of android fat mass, I don't really know, but that's the the choice that they made. Um, in addition, they only used 54 individuals from this uh from this group. Remember, they had, I believe, and yeah, 101 individuals in the study, and they only ended up including 54 for this associative data. So beats me. I don't know. But the point here being the overall point is that CRP is not reduced with canola oil or is not associated with reduction uh from canola oil consumption. All right, let's get into uh one of the final studies here looking at study 409 as internal funding and no direct conflicts of interest, but it's still a pretty bad study. Okay, so in this situation, we finally have a placebo group, and that placebo group is canola oil. Uh, this is kind of a weird study. It seems just like a complete waste of money, but maybe I'm just being overly negative. I don't know. Um, so we've got 50 men and women, mostly women, 35 to 60 years old, overweight with type two diabetes, and they're randomized to either consume a enriched canola oil with tootrienol, which is a type of vitamin E or a subclass of vitamin E, 15 milliliters a day of this canola oil, or they were randomized to placebo, which is canola oil without this subclass of vitamin E had and they consumed them for 8 weeks and it was double blind which is great. So the the rigorousness of the study design is great. It's just the point of the study is difficult to figure out uh because they're comparing canola oil versus canola oil. So the actual study aim in this situation is going to tell us if T3, this addition of this tootrienol has an effect on canola oil or the whatever effects that we experience with canola oil, is it going to improve them or worsen them or whatever? But the point is that this study is designed to identify an effect of tocotatrienol, not to identify an effect of canola oil. Why did I add it? The question might be, well, I added it because we can at least still eyeball some differences from just canola oil. So, you know what's funny is we're not that interested in this condition. We're actually interested in what happens in the placebo condition as we'll see. Okay. Okay, so the baseline uh characteristics between the groups, there are no differences, at least based off of the measures that they uh used here, which is pretty standard. Uh then we've got the dietary intakes uh before and after the 8 weeks. And uh we don't see any differences here. This is kind of messy, but there's no differences across the board uh between these different uh conditions. And here we're looking at the or a few different metrics. We're going to focus on the ones that matter the most like Nitric oxide which is extremely important in cardiovascular disease. Nitric oxide will open your blood vessels and will tend to reduce blood pressure. uh on the other hand uh serum high sensitivity C-reactive protein uh tends to is this uh this inflammation marker that is often used. There's CRP and then there's a high sensitivity version. It's become a lot more common to use this high sensitivity uh version. And then we've got these other metrics that really just don't matter that much, at least not for uh inflammation like micro albammen and urine volume and urine creatinine. Maybe in like severe pathology, you might be curious about that kind of stuff. If you're let's say a physician and you're interested in like kidney health, for example, then you might be interested in the albumin levels or the different protein uh excretions or the urine volume, things of that nature. But for looking at inflammation, uh, this doesn't tell us a whole lot of information. So, we'll focus on these two areas. So, for the serum n, we've got our p values here. So, looking at the differences uh between these conditions. Yeah. So, P1 is the within group comparison. So looking at week 0 versus week 8 and then we've got our P2 which is over here uh which is the between groups comparisons. So looking at serum N O we see that there's no difference you know week 0 to week 8 for the enriched canola oil or for the pure canola oil then and then obviously no differences uh when we're looking at the between groups comparisons on the other hand when we look at the high sensitivity CRP we see there is a statistically significant decrease in high sensitivity CRP in the enriched condition and we do not see that effect in the pure canola condition and in fact the between groups condition indicates there's statistically significant effect between these two groups. So the enrichment of canola oil actually slightly improves the reduction in high sensitivity CRP. So, I just want to be clear here again because just because we don't see a statistically significant effect in one and we do in the other, that doesn't mean that canola oil doesn't have or doesn't mean that canola oil has a negative for us. I just want to be clear on that. So, what it actually trends towards is an improvement. But again, statistically speaking, there's no difference. So the takeaway here from this rather odd study is that uh canola oil does not seem to increase inflammation and uh that enriching canola oil with T3 uh leads to slightly improved reductions in inflammation or actually leads to reductions in inflammation from uh canola oil consumption. Okay, we're on to our final study uh for before we get into heated canola oil and see if heating canola oil to an extreme degree uh leads to changes in inflammation as well. So, study 410. This is mixed funding and did uh include some conflicts of interest. So, again, uh check that out in the description. All right, so we've got our uh two conditions. Well, I guess no, I guess we only have one condition actually. uh we're looking at an experimental diet and this experimental diet participants consumed similar food items uh to the control diet. So there's no placebo group but there's actually a control diet. That control diet is just regularly commercially available food items with a standard fat composition. That's what the study has to provide. The difference so I guess what we're taking away here is that we've got two diets. They're identical except for the experimental diet in addition to consuming those particular foods also consumed or replaced saturated fats in that ex in that diet in the control diet with polyunsaturated fats and uh mostly with canola oil mostly with uh polyunsaturated fats. So it creates uniformity except for the fat composition in the experimental diet. Kind of explained that poorly, but hopefully that made sense. Uh we've got 115 men and women uh between 25 and 70 years of age. Uh they were o and the average was 55 overweight and uh had mildly high uh cholesterol, blood cholesterol levels. There was no placebo but there was a control group which probably should have been shown on this end. Uh and it was double blind. So the researchers did know uh the participant conditions and the participants didn't know which condition that they were in. Uh this was 8 weeks and it was parallel design again control versus experimental. So, anytime you see experimental, just know that it has more of these uh unsaturated fats, these uh uh omega-6 unsaturated fats. And here we've got the different uh basis for these different diets. Uh again, I'm not going to go through every single aspect of this. Uh you can see there's some similarity and then there's some areas where they replaced it. So, like liquid margarine versus butter, for example. uh the canola oil versus olive oil, like stuff like that. But for the most part, everything else was the same. I I mean, really, you look at this and you just think to yourself, why? This just looks so messy. It just looks so bad. I Maybe it's just me. Let me know if you if you've like completely checked out. I just be curious if you haven't. uh when you look at this, does this does this immediately seem intuitive to you? Because it doesn't to me. So, you have to sit there and be like, "Okay, what am I looking at?" All right. So, we've got all the metrics that they measure here for baseline characteristics, age, uh sex, smokers, BMI, you know, all that stuff over here. We've got some of these uh these uh different like uh high sensitivity CRP which is going to be the main one that we're going to focus on as well as some of the the liver enzymes looking at inflammation. And we've got the average result here. And then we've got the uh standard deviation or the overall spread of the data. And then here I guess they've got percentages or whatever doesn't have a mean gets put in the middle. Just weird. and it just gets worse unfortunately. Uh in terms of the dietary intake during the intervention, you can see some of the changes, you know, like protein levels were slightly higher in the experimental diet. Um the saturated fat was obviously lower because that's what they specifically switched out. Monounsatur I guess polyunsaturated fats were increased. Um carbohydrates were just a tick lower for the experimental condition. uh fiber was was higher in the experimental condition and uh yeah I guess that's just it fiber in gram form or in percentage form now unfortunately I mean this does create a lot of confounding unfortunately we can't now say because you're seeing differences in fiber for example you're seeing differences in carbohydrate intake you're seeing differences in protein intake that does suddenly start to create some confounding where it's like well I like how can we make any sort of conclusion specifically about canola oil even though they use canola oil to be one of the constituents of the ex this experimental diet. Yeah. I mean again just bad design if that's what you're trying to figure out. Okay. So now here's our data from the the baseline versus 8 weeks later. And we see baseline and eight weeks later reflected here in this P1 for the control diet and for the experimental diet. So P1 is the within groups comparison, baseline versus 8 weeks. The P2 is for the experimental diet, baseline versus 8 weeks later. And then we've got P3, which is the between groups comparison. That's where we should be focused our attention on. We can then look at the within groups if we want to. But the point is here that we do see a slight increase in body weight in the control diet and we see no change in the experimental diet but it is statistically significant. So the control diet saw an increase in body weight. Um various ways of interpreting that uh but it just again you could argue that it's kind of feeding into the confounding of the study. You could argue that that's just a part of the diet. It just leads to to more weight gain, which would may be harmful. You could go a bunch of different directions. Overall, however, on the control diet, we don't see any other changes except for, I guess, triglycerides increased slightly as well. On the other hand, when we look at the experimental diet, we see that total cholesterol was decreased. LDL cholesterol was decreased in Apo B. So, a more sensitive marker of LDL uh was also decreased and it was statistically significant between groups. It's also the case for the tri triglycerides if I remember. Yeah, for triglycerides as well. Finally when we look at the actual so some like TNF receptor I I okay interlucan 6 high sensitivity CRP uh interfuron gamma these are all four of these are inflammatory markers and none of them change in any of the conditions nothing changes so the point being that this kind of bastardized version of this canola oil diet uh led to no it led to only improvements in health uh across a few different metrics, but uh the inflammation metrics did not budge. So, no improvement, no worsening, and there's where we can leave that. Okay, let's get into the heated canola oil on inflammation. So, this is going to be different from the other studies. And there's, as far as I'm aware, there's only been one study up to this point, I should say randomized control trial that's been done, or intervention trial that's been done on this topic. And it's study 408. You can see that it's a mixed funding. You can also see that there are a number of different conditions. So the researchers are com comparing virgin olive oil, sunflower oil, or a grouping. This is a bit of a Frankenstein version of a study where they used mixed seed oil. So this mixed seed oil is 70% canola, so largely canola, and 30% sunflower oil. And then they've added either these natural phenols to protect as antioxidants or they've added dimethyl polyeloxane. Okay, so I didn't know anything about dimethyl polyeloxane, but apparently the researchers write it down as an antioxidant. And then I looked into it and I have a really hard time finding it as a normal antioxidant. I've seen uh very few reports as it as an antioxidant. So I'm a little doubtful of how that's being framed. Uh what I have found related to it is that it's often mixed with seed oils especially in the frying process to lessen the frothing that occurs or the foaming that occurs from the uh seed oil processing. So it is uh a realworld scenario I suppose in that uh a person might be consuming uh very tiny levels of this dimethyl polyeloxane uh when consuming a processed or highly processed I suppose I should say more like fried and highly processed version of uh seed oil. So, it does have real world applicability, but I just don't know if I'd necessarily agree with the framing that the researchers use of it being an antioxidant. There's some kind of kind of sideways, indirect ways that it could potentially be an antioxidant, but it's not an antioxidant in the terms like these phenols are, which are direct antioxidants. Uh also just as a final thing from my reading on on dimethyl dimethyl polyiloxane is that it is absorbed in very tiny amounts into the body. The rest of it is excreted. So the primary effect would uh happen throughout the intestinal tract. Okay. So we can see that there's no placebo here but it is randomized and there's no blinding. It's kind of difficult to do when you don't have a placebo. It's a two-eek treatment and it's also a crossover design as in we have the same 20 participants 49 to 63 years old old obese but don't have any other uh health issues other than uh being overweight. And these same individuals get exposed to each of these conditions. And to walk you through the heating process, what they do is they heat the oils up to 180° uh 180° Celsius if I remember correctly. Yeah, 180° C. So, it's about 356° Fahrenheit for 5 minutes in a deep fryer. And they do that uh 10 times each day for 2 days, resulting in a total of 20 heating cycles. And then they give this uh this highly heated 20 times over uh oils which happens to all these conditions to the participants to consume and then they measure over 4 hours what happens to their inflammatory profile. So that's what we're going to be uh going over. All right. To explain this, this is uh the IAPA IAPA beta pathway. I guess we'll we'll we'll just keep it pretty simple. Um there's this complex of proteins that's found within your cells and they're upstream of a protein that is called NFCAPPA beta. And this protein when it's set loose, when it's free to move around your cells, it will what's known as transllocate. So it'll move from the cytool so where it's captured uh and then when it's released like uh the genie out of the bottle it will move to the nucleus where your genes are kept and typically not always but typically it binds to pro-inflammatory genes meaning that then this NFCappa beta once free will then bind to these genes and lead to greater expression or production of uh the proteins that are associated with those genes. So we've looked at other pro-inflammatory proteins like interlucan one uh interlucan 6 TNF alpha things of that nature. That's what we're talking about here. So this NFCAPPA beta would enter the the nucleus bind those genes lead to greater expression. So the production of more of these proteins which would then lead to a more pro-inflammatory state. These proteins are upstream of that NFCappa beta and typically if they're increased there's a lot of nuance here and typically you would want more data than what we're looking at here but if these are increased that indicates typically that you have more of this free NFCAPPA beta. So the NFCappa beta can then act as this pro-inflammatory. And to walk you through, there's a bunch of different comparisons, but ultimately, uh, we're looking at the comparisons between like baseline and 4 hours later, and some of the comparisons are like 4 hours versus 2 hours later, things of that nature. So, the VO is the virgin olive oil. Then the SFO is the sunflower oil, and keep in mind that's just sunflower oil alone. Then we have the mixed seed oil which is primarily canola oil with this dimethyl polyeloxane which I'm going to now call the D molecule because I don't want to keep having to repeat that name. And that's the SOD condition here. And then the SOP or SOP is the same mixed seed oils plus uh the addition. So without the D molecule but including these phenolic compounds. uh and the these phenolic compounds by the way also come from olive oil. So residue from from the olive oil. So this is uh with the traditional antioxidants. And what we can see here is that the sunflower oil and the uh sod, so the canola oil plus sunflower oil plus this de molecule tend to see increases not in every situation but tend to see increases in these inflammatory proteins, these intracellular uh proteins. On the other hand, when you look at olive oil or if you consume this uh canola oil plus the addition of the phenolic compounds, we no longer see that elevation in these inflammatory proteins. So, this is uh pretty interesting, but again, this is intracellular proteins. We probably want to look at some more of the factors that we looked at earlier. again the actual proteins that cause this inflammation itself which to the rest of the body which is like interlucan 6 and things and proteins of that nature. So here we are. We have interlucan 1 beta, interlucan 6. Those are the two that we've seen before. And then they've also looked at MIF and junk one. I'm not going to focus on these as much uh simply because they are again uh we're generally talking about signaling within the cell. These are signaling outside of the cell. Not that they pro they probably have intracellular effects as well, but uh we're most concerned with their extracellular. So once they've been kicked out of the cell. Also keep in mind that we're looking at gene expression. So this is not measurements of actual protein. I've said this many times before, but there are instances where you can see increases in gene expression and then see no changes in protein. Typically that's not the case, but I'm just throwing that out there because I've said it multiple times before. When we just look at gene expression, it's it's we'll say 90% of the time it'll lead to increases in protein expression or protein levels. but not always. Okay. So that said here they do a comparison for interlucan 1 beta and they do indicate that with this sunflower oil condition that we see increases in uh interlucan one beta uh at the 4hour mark unlike the 2-hour mark. So comparing the 2hour versus 4hour we see an increase. uh you might you could maybe argue that that would also be the case if you were to look at this canola oil condition uh simply but again we've got 20 individuals you can see that the standard error bars are pretty wide so is it possible that if they'd had more participants that they would have seen an effect yeah it's definitely possible I'd be open to that argument um but as it stands what we know is that that the sunflower oil when that is heated repeatedly without any sort sort of antioxidants added that it leads to this increase in interlucan 1 beta and the same is true when looking at uh interlucan 6 and we see similar stories when it comes to uh the mif and junk one or jk1 uh that typically we see increases and this one seems to be a lot more uh in relation so this is an intracellular protein just to be clear it's it's a little bit like these proteins um so it's not as telling as these two proteins over here. But it is still a signal that we should pay attention to. And we see that the canola oil condition plus sunflower plus uh this D molecule seems to have an increase in these inflammatory profiles. Again, in every instance, however, the olive oil and the canola oil plus the antioxidant added to it, the phenolic compounds, we do not see uh these effects. So interesting and certainly speaks to the potential that uh heating oils over and over again can lead to detrimental effects. Of course, this study doesn't have particular controls. That would be nice to see. Uh for example, you would want to see a comparison versus like a cold canola oil. Uh a cold safflower oil. Uh you would like to see less of a mixture of these oils. I mean, it's really difficult to tease out differences between them. I would have also liked to have seen a canola oil condition where they heat it without any sort of additions like the final compounds or the de molecule uh just because it's hard to tease out uh where the effect is if it's directly related to canola oil. My impression is that it's you know canola oil or or another thing is that this mixture of safflower sunflower oil sorry and um the uh canola oil we see that in the sunflower oil we see increases in these uh interlucans. So is it the 30% sunflower that's in that mixed combination and then the canola oil has no effect. It's you know a lot of these things are tough to tease out when you don't have proper control. So, this is, as I said, it's a bit of a Frankenstein study, and it's kind of just mashed together. Uh, I I think that if they had done if they tried to do less but tried to do it better, I think this would have been a better study. Still, regardless, we can definitely say that heating these oils over and over still leads to an increase in these inflammatory molecules. This still doesn't tell us if we have changes in outcomes, which is something that we would love to see. uh some other markers that they didn't test. Uh they just looked at these particular proteins, which again still tells us something, but I'd like to see a lot more. Another question that's on my mind is what happens when you just heat one time? Most people when they cook, most people when they uh use these oils, then they're going to be cooking it just once. They're just going to be using it once. So, do we still see these increases? I don't know. I mean, we're looking at 20 times uh being heated over and over and over again. So, there's a lot of outstanding questions uh coming from a uh kind of poor study design. That said, one final thing I'll quick point out is potentially with the frying process that occurs. I don't know how often in uh like fast food joints or whatever that or kitchens in general that commercial kitchens I'm talking about that they replace the oils. maybe they don't replace them often at all and in that situation this would be a lot more applicable still a poor study but still a lot more applicable and in that situation yeah it does indicate that we see uh increases in some inflammatory profiles which is interesting so uh the vast majority of intervention studies keep in mind we've just been focused on intervention studies indicate that canola oil is either neutral or reduces inflammatory markers in humans so we're talking about cold canola oil. Uh, and then there's this one short-term study over 4 hours that indicates when repeatedly heated that the canola oil might raise inflammatory markers. Uh, again, really tough to isolate there because the poor study design and the fact that they're mixing canola oil with sunflower oil. But still as it stands uh this does indicate that if you repeatedly heat 20 times over uh canola oil or a mixture of this these seed oils canola oil plus sunflower oil without any phenolic compounds so no antioxidants that you would experience an increase in these inflammatory molecules which is interesting. One more thing I'll quick add here. Uh, so I guess to to make this more applicable, let me quick turn to just me real quick. So to make this more applicable, um the way that I would frame things currently based off of these intervention trials and I've looked at uh long-term trials which are epidemiological, but specifically focusing on this looking at canola oil and looking at these intervention trials, it indicates to me that consuming cold canola oil will either be a positive or neutral to your inflammatory state. On the other hand, consuming with very limited evidence, but still indicating that way that if you consume canola oil after you've been he consistently consume it uh when it's been heated over and over and over again, that would probably be something that you should consider avoiding. Um, and where's that probably going to be the case? When it comes to like restaurants and whatnot. Um, so the other final thing that I'll point out is that we didn't see even with this uh this repeated heating of the canola oil. Keep in mind that when you're consuming food, you're not just consuming uh canola oil, which in this situation they fed it through, I think muffins was, and before people say, well, maybe it's the muffins that are causing this issue. Um, the muffins were identical across the board except for differences in these uh in these fats. So, it seems unlikely that it's the muffins themselves and more so that it's the actual oils themselves. The actual canola oil and the uh the sunflower oil. Yeah, muffins and skim milk uh were prepared with these uh oils. Okay. So, if you consume these canola oil that's been heated repeatedly, but you're also consuming a high antioxidant diet, a high antioxidant meal, let's say, let's just focus on the meal. Uh, there's a potential that you wouldn't see any of these negative effects. I don't know that for a fact because still this study, I'll repeat it for like the third or fourth time. It's just such a poor design that it's hard to extrapolate that. What we do know for sure is that the co-conumption with antioxidants seems to get rid of all these inflammatory situations. So this seems like a hypersp specific situation where you're you're maybe if you're going to a restaurant, they're heating it over and over and over again. You eat it as you're probably not going to eat just straight oil, which is highly unlikely, right? um after it's been heated. You might eat straight oil if you're going to use it for like a salad or something like that, but at that point it's not been heated over and over. This is cold. So, we've already addressed that. That's not an issue. But the issue is when it's heated over and over, then uh if you're consuming it as just straight fried food, if you look at your plate and it's just all fried food with like fries and u I don't know, fried chicken or whatever. I I'm just like coming up with random foods, but it can be a whole host of different foods and there's no antioxidants there, then yeah, this would be a lot more applicable. Um, however, if you're looking at your food and one of the foods has been fried in canola oil and the other foods or lots of greens, I don't know what your plate looks like, but if you're consuming a lot of greens, we have some indication that that might not be as much a risk from a canola oil perspective. I'm still not I'm certainly not saying that fried food is good for you uh or that you're eliminating the negatives of fried foods, but from this angle, the inflammatory angle of canola oil, that may not be as much of an issue. So hopefully that's somewhat clear, hopefully that offers a little bit of uh clarity to you. And uh if you'd like to continue this investigation with me, I have an extended version of this video uh for improving canola oils effects and that's in the physionic insiders as you well know if you've been following my work. Um we'll have to see what future studies hopefully we can get more studies on heated canola oil specifically looking at canola oil instead of doing a mixture and uh then we'll get some some greater clarity on the topic. But you know, so far at least we have one study that indicates that that uh there may be some reason for caution in specific instances. Okay. Well, if you're going to be joining me for the extended version, then uh click the link below uh for the and join the Physionic Insiders. You'll get access to this plus a ton more. A ton more, like a ridiculous amount more. And otherwise, I'll catch you in the next one. Thanks for hanging out.