Ever since I started discussing creatine over a decade ago now, the same question has popped up over and over and over again. Does creatine cause hair loss? Unfortunately, there weren't any studies discussing the topic. So, no one had any definitive answers. And even more unfortunate, the one study that I was aware of that was going to answer that question was cancelled. I believe it was supposed to start in April of 2020. And we know people weren't going anywhere during that time. Yet, I was pleasantly surprised to find out a different trial was underway to answer this plaguing question. So, let's get into it. The idea behind the creatine causing hair loss stems from a study that released in 2009 that has nothing to do with hair loss. Are you confused? So, are most people that know about this study because somehow it was twisted into creatine likely causes hair loss. Now, to be fair, the mechanism behind the headline makes some sense, and it's related to this study. Prepare to jump some hoops. The study indicated that creatine increases the rate of conversion of testosterone to its much more potent brother molecule, dihydrotestosterone, DHT. The reason this is applied to a hair loss is that DHT can bind to receptor and create a complex that allows the hormone to bind genes inside the nucleus of your follicle cells in your skin. The nucleus is where the majority of our DNA or genes are kept. As a result, this binding to specific genes can lead to the expression or the production of new molecules. Unfortunately, DHD encourages the production of cell death and hair growth suppression genes. So that's where the idea came from that creatine reduces hair growth. Although, and this is important, hair growth was never measured. There's one more critical piece of information on this that we need to discuss, but I'll get to more of that in a bit. For now, let's pop open the new study that's actually measuring creatine's impact on hair loss. In this study, the researchers randomly allocated people to consume a placebo, a non-creatine substance, or creatine for 12 weeks. Then they tested their blood as well as importantly hair growth and hair density to see if hair grew more slowly or shed. Interestingly, they did see an increase in the ratio of DHT to free testosterone, meaning there's more DHT relative to free testosterone than there was before. The bluish line in placebo and the reddish line is creatine before and after. But a few things here. One, if we look at the DHT levels, there's no increase. And in fact, the change occurs from a drop in free testosterone before everyone freaks out and starts accusing creatine of castrating people. The second caveat here is that the placebo condition experience the exact same effects. So this is nothing unique to creatine. Okay. What about hair loss, though? Here we go. On the left, we see the hair count and on the right, we see the density of hair. The individual dots are the individual results of each participant. And the average result, all data combined, is where the lines lead. I'll just uh spoil it. There's no effect on hair count, hair density, and although I'm not showing it to you here, other metrics like of hair growth and different stages of hair growth were unaffected. No matter how you slice it, creatine has no effect on hair. After 15 years, I was wondering if I was a, you know, maybe a thinning up here. But there is one major consideration that this study doesn't address, which could still hold the door open for the possibility. I suppose I should disclose that I'm a creatine shill. I snort it. I bathe in it. I pay my taxes in it. So much so I wrote a book on the molecule and although I don't sell it anymore, it is available for everyone with the Physionic Insider membership. That's right folks, we're here again. The Physionic Insiders, where we laugh and love and sleep on creatine pillows, but also you get access to all my research reviews, a whole video archive, a private podcast, a live sessions with me, myself, and I. And you can join using the link in the description. I'll see you over there. And yes, I'll bring the creatine. There are three things to consider in relation to this study. Numero, this study looks at people in general, but I think one of the arguments for creatine hair loss angle is the fact that it might affect people who are genetically predisposed to hair loss, a specific type called androgenic alopeescia. So, this study doesn't exactly answer if people with a family history of balding are going to speed that process up with creatine consumption. Specifically, those with a family history of their hair loss due to androgenic exposure. That's testosterone and dihydrotestosterone that we discussed earlier have greater local or scalp activity of the enzyme responsible for the conversion of testosterone to DHT called five alpha reductase type 2. Unfortunately, this study because it was a small sample, so a small number of people and didn't do any genetic testing or family history checks can't answer if these people are still more susceptible to creatine. Numero do the study was only in men and considering the subject of hormones, it makes this impossible to extend to women as well. We'd need another study for that. Numeiro Tua. It's a 12-week study, so it may not be long enough to detect an effect. Now, I don't believe that because considering the measurement, hair growth, and hair number, we'd likely see an effect even in a small sample across 3 months. So, will your hair fall out if you consume creatine? The answer is finally here, and the evidence now leans moderately strongly to no for most people. and an uncertainty remains related to people who may have a genetic predisposition, but there's also no direct evidence suggesting that it would affect them either. I did mention that I'm a creatine shill, and you can be too if you simply learn of all the incredible effects creatine has in your body. You could start your indoctrination right here. See you there.