I may be a bit late to the party, but I did bring my favorite whiskey to share. And the party is the CAC party or the coronary artery calcium party. And it took social media by storm a few years ago already. But while many health influencers have been urging their viewers to put immense faith in this one test to assess their risk of dying from heart problems, the reality is a bit more sobering. In fact, in my own community and in emails that I receive, I've had people tell me that they have a CAC score of zero, which should be exclaimed with pride because it is a good thing, but it isn't absolution from coronary artery disease. In this video, I'd like to walk you through six studies on the coronary artery calcium test and why we should sober our interpretations of it, including why a CAC score of zero isn't a free health pass and why a high CAC score may be better than a low CAC score, as weird as that sounds. In addition, I'd like to introduce you to a better test, a more predictive test to your risk of heart related death. If you're not familiar, though I imagine most of you are if you've clicked on this video, a coronary artery calcium test is a literal image and assessment of calcium deposits found in and around your coronary arteries. The arteries feeding your heart blood, thereby nutrients and oxygen and the like. Generally, the progression goes something like this. And FYI, this comes from this scientific review. Generally, your artery wall thickens as it begins filling with fats and cholesterol particles. Then there's usually a mixture of immune cells among other cells that infiltrate and often die in the plaque buildup in the artery wall. During this process, you can have some calcium that gets deposited creating a mixture of cholesterol cells uh other proteins and calcium. Then as the plaque develops, it also develops a necrotic core which is especially dense with dead immune cells and is usually capped with a protein cap called a fibrous cap. Then in the final stages, cells release enough calcium to create sheets of calcium across the plaque. This is a simplistic explanation as the review goes into more detail on the different types of cells and their involvement as well as the release of vesicles that start this process and more. But we get the general evolution of calcium and plaque. Now, by that description, you've probably noticed that plaque is usually present before or around the same time as calcium. So, it stands to reason that if your coronary artery calcium score is zero, that's indicating no calcium in and around your arteries, therefore there is no plaque. This is how it's often communicated across social media as if a zero score is a stamp of no risk. I think uh Dr. Peter describes this quite well. Um my problem is not with the calcium score. with sort of a school of thought that says, well, a calcium score if it's zero means nothing matters. You know, you're sort of scot-free. And that's, you know, unfortunately that's just categorically untrue. And the data bear that out. So a negative calcium score meaning a a calcium score of zero absolutely means actuarially at the population level a lower risk of a coronary event. And when we say coronary event, we're the term mace is what we use to describe it. ma a major adverse coronary event or cardiac event. So, heart attack, stroke, or cardiac death. Um, but it's not zero. He's right. And we see that in studies like this where coronary events are quantified in people with a low CAC score or a score of zero shown here. Essentially, if the lines go down, that means that some people out of the 4,000 asymptomatic people followed up on experienced a coronary heart disease event like a heart attack. Keep in mind these people are asymptomatic. They do not have any symptoms of heart disease. In addition, the red line is people with a very low CAC score and the blue is the line with people with a CAC score of zero. Unlike many other data comparisons on physionic, we actually aren't that interested in the difference between these lines. We're more interested in the fact that the blue line, the people with a perfect or as Dr. IAS stated negative CAC score experience heart disease events if they were perfectly protected. The blue line would never dip down. Add on top of that that this study only followed people for around four years. So a relatively short period of time. This is also corroborated in other studies as well where CAC of zero in other groups also still shows risk for some. Now all this leads us to a better test which we'll get to shortly. This all leads to the conclusion that a CAC of zero while a great sign is not a free pass some people consider it to be. There is still risk. That raises this question of well then why? I mean if calcium tracks with plaque in our arteries why would a CAC of zero not be a perfect test for future cardiovascular disease? Well there's actually a few reasons. One of them is that the way that the coronary artery calcium score according to our initial review is analyzed it is a combination of the volume so the size and the density of the calcium deposit. One can actually be beneficial to our health all else equal and the other tends to track with worse cardiovascular outcomes. Having more plaque volume is generally seen as a bad thing. Yet having more density can be seen as a good thing. So when combining both of these criteria, you'll get a CAC score that may not be fully reflective of the true risk. In fact, speaking of true risk, there are molecules in drugs that stabilize plaque, meaning that they reduce the unstable necrotic core that we briefly discussed earlier, and they accelerate the calcification. This is a net benefit because the dangerous soft plaque is then stabilized. Although the CAC score may suddenly shoot up which might be interpreted altogether as a bad thing which may not be fair in that scenario as the alternative would be to have a low or zero CAC score but have significant unstable plaque. So speaking to that further, the risk is not in highly densely calcified plaque which would register as a greater CAC score but in a low density calcified plaque as the non-calcified plaque is more prone to rupture and create clots that block the blood flow in downstream blood vessels. Now in the end the point is context matters. Low or high CAC score does not automatically mean low or high risk. Still, in general, a low CAC score is a great sign. However, it's probably only a great sign in the context of other risk factors. If you have a CAC of zero, but you're overweight, you smoke, you're diabetic, and so on, then a CAC of zero may actually be a bit worrisome instead of positive news. However, if you have a CAC of zero and you take care of yourself, your blood labs look normal and so on, the CAC score is likely an additional good sign. Like I said, context really matters. Okay, then we've discussed how interpreting a low or high CAC score is highly context dependent, though generally a low or zero CAC score is a good sign. But then what might be a better test? Let's get into that next. Before that, if you're interested in more detailed breakdown of the mechanisms of calcium deposits or blood markers that track with a CAC score or how age affects what we've been discussing here and even more around this next test that we're about to go over, be sure to check out the full version of this video that you're currently watching. It comes with an accompanying article, a one paragraph summary of the main points and more. And it's part of the Physionic Insiders research review. And you get all these perks right over here, like live sessions with me. If you're interested in my entire catalog of analyses delivered to your inbox, videos, articles, podcast, product recommendations, and more, consider becoming a Physionic Insider. The link to join is in the description. Anyway, this other test is known as a lowattenuation plaque burden or as you might have heard of it as a CCTA, a contrast coronary CT angioraph. This type of test is superior to the coronary artery calcium test because it includes soft plaque, the actual plaque that causes harm like in this image where the orange is highlighting the soft plaque in the artery. That soft plaque is also called low attenuation, hence the funky name. So instead of measuring the calcium that tracks with plaque, but as we discussed may not always appear in plaque, which yields these potentially misleading results, you'd be measuring the plaque itself. plus a CCTA can also identify calcified plaque as well. So it's a more complete picture and measuring low attenuation plaque tends to be uh more robust in predicting risk. An additional advantage of measuring soft plaque over calcified calcified plaque is the reversability of soft plaque. Generally it's considered easier to reverse soft this like mushy plaque compared to hardened plaque. So, you aren't just getting a better indication of your risk, but you also get a better idea of what can be reversed. Now, I realize that was a lot of context and a lot of science applied to something that you may have initially thought was super simple. I have a score of zero on this bad thing, so I'm good to go. And then the mean scientist comes in and tells you that there's more to it than that. So, I feel responsible for a bit of clarity so you don't leave mean comments because you're upset with my fancy unwanted complications. This is how I'd think about CAC score. First, if you can opt for a CCTA test over a pure CAC test, it's better. But I also understand that isn't always possible. So, if you do a CAC score, uh, use a two-step approach. Step one, is my score low? Is it near zero? If yes, great. Step two, if I have a score of zero, what do my other health metrics look like? If I have a score of zero in spite of smoking, being overweight, not being physically active, working a stressful job, having a high blood pressure, and or having poor blood tests, then the zero should be downgraded in its ability to wash away worry. It is not necessarily accurate to your real plaque status. On the other hand, if you have a score of zero and you're doing well in all the previous risk factors and others, then the zero score is probably real and comforting. It probably still isn't a perfect prediction, but your risk is probably very low. Like I said, context matters. Anyway, if you're interested in more on your health, I'm happy to annoy you further right here. Thanks for tuning in. I appreciate it. I'll catch you in the next one. See you.