This therapy called triple therapy has been shown in a randomized control trial to far exceed the current standard for diabetes treatment. In fact, it's so effective a prominent diabetes researcher, Dr. Ralph Defrrono believes it should be the first line of care. So, is there any truth to that claim? What is the triple therapy and why is it so cheap? I was introduced to triple therapy through a podcast interview that I heard Dr. Defranszo give on the Peter Aia podcast. So instead of me explaining the details of it, let's listen in on the bold claims and then we'll pop open the study and see what the data actually shows which to me should change the entire approach to treating diabetes. It's called the edict study. And in the edict study, what we did is we used triple therapy right from the beginning. And my my my point of the banting lecture, the ominous octet. If you have eight problems, and there I'm sure going to be more to be found and I can give you a few more if you want. But if you have eight problems, why in the world do you think one drug is going to correct eight problems? It ain't going to happen in our lifetime. So the point was you need to use drugs in combination. So we said we're going to use what and we uh what we think are the best drugs at the time. So we started with metformin with eenitiide an oldtime GLP-1. This is not the kingpin. This is the pre luraglutide. Yeah. Exactly. Cuz that's what was available. That drug was useless, wasn't it? No, it's a good drug. Sure. It's not semlut, but you have to start somewhere, right? Yeah. Let's let's pay it its dues as being the gen one OG version of that drug without which we might not have we wouldn't have seagglutite. Yes. So it's kind of an old-timer in and poglitone that was the triple therapy. Okay. Uh and then we said every diabetic patient there 315 people in this study. I realize they only spoke for a minute but there's a lot here already. So to clarify the triple therapy is metformin eenitide and poglitazone combination. So Dr. Defranszo is arguing that if you have a multiaceted disease like diabetes, it makes little sense to use just one drug that will only address part of the problem. And these three drugs are able to address many concerns that arise from diabetes. So we'll get into the data in a moment, but let's address what these drugs, these molecules do first. Menformin has been an extremely popular drug for a long time now. And it works through a ton of different mechanisms that we can't go over now, but simply it inhibits your liver's ability to release glucose or sugar into the bloodstream, thereby reducing your blood sugar burden. On the other hand, exenide is a molecule that mimics a hormone in your body and it too has multiple mechanisms of action. Chiefly, however, it binds receptors on the pancreas and stimulates them to release more insulin. Since insulin then binds peripheral cells like muscle cells, kidney cells, and many other types of cells, it will then take up the glucose out of the bloodstream, thereby again reducing blood glucose levels. So at this point, we have less glucose going into the bloodstream from the liver and we have more glucose being taken out. So a double action. However, now the third drug poglitazone is a par gamma activator. That means that the master protein found in many of our cells, especially fat cells and muscle cells called par gamma is activated when paglitazone molecule diffuses across the cell membrane and binds directly to par gamma. So par gamma then travels to the nucleus of your cells and activates the expression or production of metabolism proteins like glute proteins that then go to the surface of the cell and create channels for blood glucose to enter the cells. In addition, par gamma binds inflammation genes and represses them as in deactivates them. So through multiple mechanisms yet again a drug can reduce diabetes burden. Okay, now that we understand these drugs a bit better. And trust me, there's so much more to be said on each of these, let's get into the study and why any of this matters. There 315 people in this study. They're having insulin clamps, hypoglycemic clamps, muscle bibs. No one in the world can do this study. 315 people follow for six years. Okay. So, we said this is what we believe is the appropriate therapy. And then we said we'll use the ADA approach. The ADA approach is you start on metformin okay and when you fail even though not explicitly said the next drug that's used is selfuras and then the third drug that's added is insulin and we said uh that the goal of therapy was an A1c of 6 and a half okay uh and that if your A1c uh rose above 6 and a half uh either on R triple therapy or on the stepwise treat to fail approach that the ADA says. ADA says start metformin, you fail. You add cell phone, you fail. You add insulin, you titrate the insulin, basil insulin up to 60 units. And we said 60 units is really well, we'll cap it because yeah, you're already at 2x physiologic. Yeah. And that now you have to now split the dose of insulin. You have to be adding rapid acting insulin. I I think this is quite reasonable. Six years later, okay, 29% of the people with the ADA approach have failed. Their A1c is above six and a half. Six years later, with our approach, 70% of the people have an A1c that's less than 6 and a half. Why? insulin clamp huge improvement with our therapy. Okay, this is the eating study. The the three-year data published the six-year data. We're writing it out. How much improvement in insulin sensitivity with the ADA approach? Zero. Okay. So, the ADA or the diabetes association has a standard treatment of metformin first and then when it begins to fail to control diabetes, add a sulfonal ura drug, something that we haven't discussed. And when that fails, start adding more and more insulin to force the cells to take up glucose and keep blood glucose levels stable. This triple therapy approach attacks the issue with a powerful opening salvo to knock diabetes on its heels and decimate its troops. That explained, is that actually what happened in the edict study? Well, here it is. These are the three-year results because the six-year results haven't been published yet. The aim is to keep HbA1c, so a marker of glycation, which is a fancy term for glucose molecules bound to proteins and cell membranes, reducing their functionality. The higher the number, the worse. Anyway, the goal is to keep this number less than 6.5%, which is no longer diabetic, but pre-diabetic. not perfect, but if people go above 6.5%, they're considered a failure and shunned by society until they go out in the world and prove themselves and are then invited back to their high school reunion where they give a speech about never giving up even when your teachers don't believe in you. Okay, maybe that analogy went a bit off the rails, but the main point is if they are deemed diabetic again, it's marked as a fail by the intervention, the standard ADA intervention or the triple therapy. So, what happened? If we pop open the first bit of data, we can see the three years on the horizontal axis and the HbA1c on the vertical. Remember, if that goes up, that's bad. Clearly, both interventions worked really well at dropping HbA1c immensely. But you can see that over time the average HbA1c for the triple therapy is less than six and the conventional ADA intervention is hovering around that fail line of 6.5 over the 3 years. In addition, if we doubleclick I just triggered a bunch of consultants on the triple therapy and look at its effectiveness based on where people start in their diabetes. We can see that even if a person starts at very high around a 10 or higher HbA1c, the triple therapy is still able to crush HbA1c to around six. It seems highly effective no matter your starting point. To be fair, the same result is also seen with the conventional treatment. So, both therapies beat back diabetes significantly. But what about the actual failure rate? as in what was the risk of hitting 6.5% or higher over time and what else changed that might indicate an overall improvement in health from one therapy over the other. We'll get into it, but I'd like to also mention that there's information on the effects on the pancreas, the insulin releasing hormone, and on plaque in the arteries, which was also assessed by the researchers, including some additional details that we won't have time to get into here, but I do include them in the extended version of this video and research review. If you're interested in full access, be sure to join Aphysionic Insiders. And by the way, this also includes live sessions with me and an exclusive community, a private podcast, and more. The link is in the description box. The failure rate data is shown here. This is a Kaplan Meyer plot. So, if the lines are higher, that's better. It means that fewer people failed. Clearly, the triple therapy had a lower failure rate. The exact amount is roughly 33%. Yet, the conventional therapy had a failure rate closer to 60%. And why might that discrepancy be there? In day-to-day measurements, can we foreshadow the difference between the therapies? Well, yes. Here we're looking at two measurements based on an oral glucose tolerance test, which is simply an experiment where participants consume a set amount of sugar and the researchers measure what happened to their blood glucose and insulin levels. Those are the two measurements. On top we're seeing the blood glucose and on the bottom we see the blood insulin levels. The left side is the conventional therapy and the right side is the triple therapy. We see a baseline measurement that's 3 years ago before diabetes was treated and the white dots are the after treatment. If we look at the bottom measurement first, insulin or more specifically ceptide which is the product of the cleaving of immature insulin molecule into its mature form. For the most part, insulin rises around the same for baseline and 3 years later for either therapy. Technically, there are some nuances to discuss here too, but we just don't have time and it takes away from our objective of understanding this. No doubt though, the biggest difference is the top data, the blood glucose. It's evident that the conventional therapy reduces blood glucose, but it still rises substantially. However, the triple therapy is extremely effective at keeping blood glucose lower after consuming sugar. This speaks when insulin levels are roughly the same to insulin sensitivity. insulin sensitivity is simply put when the insulin molecule binds to your peripheral cells as we described earlier. there's a stronger activation of the cell to allow blood glucose into the cell. So per molecule of insulin, you're taking in more glucose, thereby removing glucose from the bloodstream, and that's a good thing. So the better one's insulin sensitivity, the less diabetes. The researchers used an index based on data that we just went over with the oral glucose tolerance test called a Matsuda index. Here we see the two therapies with baseline and three years later. If insulin sensitivity goes up, that's a good thing. And it likely doesn't need annunciating, but insulin sensitivity only improved with the triple therapy, indicating it likely improves whole body insulin sensitivity and therefore uses that to lead to better results than the conventional therapy, which does not improve insulin sensitivity. That's a huge win in favor of the triple therapy approach. Okay. Now a bit of context to add to this all before we break it down very simply. First is as always the case it this is just one study and although Dr. DeFranzo is likely highly respected in his field the study was not blinded. So the researchers and the participants were aware of what they were taking. This could introduce bias. Second, there were some side effects of the drugs, especially in the conventional therapy because adding insulin at the end can lead to hypoglycemia, meaning too low blood sugar. Third, some people gained weight and some people lost weight over the 3 years. However, regardless if a person lost or gained weight, triple therapy outperformed conventional therapy. Fourth, anytime drugs are the subject, people retaliate with pitchforks demanding a mention of diet and exercise. So, allow me to mention that the discussion of one does not exclude the other. The discussion is around this therapy, which did not include lifestyle modification. But no doubt many diabetes related benefits can be had through lifestyle modification even without said side effects. It just isn't the topic of this study. But I'll acknowledge it before I get sent to the goolog. So where does that leave things? Well, Dr. Defranszo is right that the edict study clearly shows after 3 years that the triple therapy of metformin, eenitide, and poglytoone is better than the conventional step-wise introduction used in usual care. So, if you've been newly diagnosed with diabetes and lifestyle changes are not an option, consider discussing the triple therapy option with your physician. I'd also add that there are other ways of handling diabetes like those mentioned in this next video.