 rygid, eaten. Amino acids from protein are used differently based on your circumstance. The unique properties of omega-3s and trans fats. Glucose, sugar being vital for life. And finally, fructose sugar is addictive. This will be a pretty lengthy one, so I'll supply time stamps and I'll offer you a summary of the most important points at the end. Studies I'll be referencing are also attached for you. Let's spin it. Well, I think people are very interested in what to eat, what not to eat. And we'll start off simply talking about what most everyone believes and understands, which is that a calorie is a form of heat energy that's given off during the processing of some food bit or something. If that's mysterious to people, just understand that a calorie is a unit of energy. And I was taught and still many, many people worldwide believe that a calorie is a calorie. Meaning if I consume more calories in whatever form than I metabolize by thinking, feeling, moving, exercising, et cetera, then I will gain weight. And if I consume fewer calories than I burn, I will lose weight. And we could talk a lot about where that weight loss comes from. Does it come from adipose, body fat stores or from muscle or from protein or muscle of course is protein, et cetera. But let's start off with, is a calorie truly a calorie when it comes to the processing of different types of calories. Everyone thinks that obesity is about energy balance. That is calories in, calories out. Therefore, two behaviors, gluttony and sloth. Therefore, if you're fat, it's your fault. Therefore, diet and exercise. Therefore, any calorie can be part of a balanced diet. Therefore, don't pick on our calories. Go pick on somebody else's calories. This is actually what the food industry uses to assuage their culpability for the change in the food supply and the rise in obesity and chronic disease like diabetes. Now, it is true that a calorie is that unit of energy that raises one gram of water, one degree centigrade. And so therefore, a calorie burned is a calorie burned. I don't argue that. That's true. That's, you know, the first law of thermodynamics. Let me jump in here and quickly acknowledge Dr. Lustig's point about a calorie being a calorie. I've been fighting this fight for quite some time, so I completely agree with him here. Oftentimes, we confuse nutrients or foods as the same when we're simply discussing the caloric value of those foods, which can be the same even if the foods are not. I would likely contextualize that, that not everyone simplifies it down to calories in, calories out being the cause of obesity. Yes, this is the necessary foundation for obesity to occur, but the reason for the imbalance in calories is acknowledged in the literature as multifaceted. It's not like all the obese people are simply lazy, gluttony, and sloth, as Dr. Lustig is illustrating it. Maybe to many people who aren't educated on the topic, it could be argued that way, but most researchers in the field would take a more understanding and multifactorial approach to describe the mechanisms of overconsumption. For example, in some scientific reviews, researchers point out that metabolism, i.e. the sloth aspect, or caloric expenditure side of equation, can slow down to weight loss itself through hormonal changes, literal body mass changes, and more. Now, a concept called metabolic adaptation. If some people have more of this adaptation, that puts them at a disadvantage when losing body fat. Researchers also offer different models to explain the adaptations of metabolism. For example, like the set point model, the settling point model, and the static model. The point here is researchers are unlikely to blame obesity merely on the lack of physical activity and overconsumption due to gluttony. There are many physiological factors that contribute to this accepted imbalance in calories, and similar calories in foods does not make the foods equal in their physiological impact. But that doesn't mean a calorie eaten is a calorie eaten. That's not the same. And that's where people get it wrong. So let me give you some examples of how that calorie eaten is not a calorie eaten. You like almonds? I do. Me too. Almonds are great. You eat 160 calories in almonds. How many of those do you absorb? 130. You eat 160, you absorb 130. Where'd the other 30 go? In the processing of that food energy? No. Turned out, the fiber in those almonds, both soluble and insoluble fiber, and by the way, fiber is sort of the key to the kingdom in this story, forms a gel on the inside of your intestine. The insoluble fiber, the cellulose, forms a fishnet, if you will, a latticework on the inside of your duodenum. The soluble fiber, which are globular, plug the holes in that fishnet. Together, they form a secondary barrier. You can actually see it on electron microscopy, a whitish gel. And that prevents absorption of those 30 calories. So yes, 130 get absorbed. But many of them don't. They end up going further down the intestine to the next part called the jejunum. And that's where the microbiome is. Now, everyone knows about the microbiome nowadays. You know, it's all the bacteria. You know, we always say when women are pregnant, you're eating for two. Well, we're always eating for 100 trillion. Now, they have to eat. Well, what do they eat? They eat what you eat. The question is, how much did you get versus how much did they get? Well, if you ate almonds, they're getting those 30 calories. So even though you count the calories at your lips, that doesn't matter. What really matters is counting the calories at your intestinal brush border. Okay? And they're not the same. So if you feed your gut, that's a good thing because then your gut will take those calories and turn it into things like short-chain fatty acids, which end up being protective against chronic metabolic disease, acetate, propionate, butyrate, valerate. Those are actually good. They're anti-inflammatory, anti-Alzheimer's because you fed your microbiome. So even though you ate 160, you absorbed 130. So a calorie eaten is not a calorie eaten because if you ate it with fiber, it wasn't for you. It was for your bacteria, but that's not the way you count them up. So that's problem number one. Okay. So here we're beginning to discuss the concept of a calorie eaten is not a calorie eaten. Dr. Listic is using an almond example, which is perfect because we have studies on almonds and their absorption compared to the stated energy values of the calorie value. In this study, participants were fed a controlled amount of almonds with a controlled meal, and then researchers measured the amount of energy calories remained in their fecal matter, their poop. If we have 100% absorption, we'd expect no calorie containing nutrients to be found. But when measuring the fecal matter, you can see at the very bottom that calorie rich nutrients were still found with more in the almond consuming groups. This means that Dr. Listic is absolutely right, that the calories consumed as food are not perfectly absorbed. So the actual amount of calories containing nutrients absorbed in the bloodstream and used in our cells is sometimes less than what we measured at the nutrition label. The reason for that could be multiple reasons. In fact, one of them is immediately described by Dr. Listic as fiber. So fiber, which we saw is also excreted more in the almond condition, can definitely interfere with the absorption shown in many studies. We see images like this of the intestinal wall. It's tough to see, but those are microvilli after exposure to fiber, and they've expanded slightly as a reaction to the fiber. The point here is that fiber changes the absorption of calorie metabolizable nutrients, which changes the energy actually extracted from the food. Even if the calorie value, the energy value is higher on the food label. And that's not even considering Dr. Listic's point about the microbiome and how it will also take up fiber and convert it to different fats. The ones that he mentioned, several, so like butyrate, propionate, and so on. And these fats can then be taken up by the colon cells and used for energy or passed on to the liver and other cells of the body. And while I won't go disease by disease on their effects here, they have generally recognized as a net positive for our overall health, some of which I've covered in the past. This all comes together to give a thumbs up to Dr. Listic's points. He's spot on, especially about the intricacies of it all. I'll be discussing all this in more depth at the end, because there's some actionable steps on how to use this information that I'd like to touch on. Problem number two, amino acids. So we all eat protein. Let's say you eat too much protein. You have the porterhouse steak. Now, if you're a bodybuilder, those amino acids might go to muscle and you might increase your muscle mass because you're a bodybuilder, because you're putting excess force on those muscles and you're growing those muscles. Okay. But let's say you're not a bodybuilder. Let's say you're a mere mortal like me. Or let's say you're a kid going through puberty who's synthesizing a lot of muscle, not because they're lifting weights, because they're in gross. But because testosterone is making it happen. Yeah, absolutely. But let's say you're not. Let's say, you know, you're just, you know, just slump off the street like, you know, Joe Schmoe. And you eat that porterhouse. You've taken on all these amino acids. There's no place to store it other than muscle. So your liver takes the excess and deamidates that amino acid, takes the amino group off to turn it from an amino acid into an organic acid. And then that organic acid can then enter the Krebs cycle, the tricarboxylic acid cycle, what goes on in the mitochondria in order to generate ATP, the chemical energy that your body needs in order to power itself. Okay. Now that's a good thing. It takes double the amount of energy to prepare that amino acid for burning as it does to prepare a carbohydrate for burning. Or fat. Because when I asked about – when you asked about almonds, why the 160 versus 130, I thought it was the processing. It turned out it was fiber. You're saying for protein, let's make it realistic for a really nice big porterhouse steak, which I love by the way. Let's say – Me too. Let's say 800 calories. Yeah. Well, it turns out – How much of that is – so that's what goes in your mouth. Right. My mouth. Right. How much of it is actually eaten to stay with the – your calorie eaten is not a calorie eaten. In the processing of that, what percentage actually goes into your total caloric intake? Right. So about 10 percent of everything you eat goes to just maintaining body temperature. It's called the thermic effect of food. But when you're eating protein, you actually generate more heat. And the reason is because it takes two ATP to phosphorylate that organic acid as opposed to one ATP to phosphorylate that carbohydrate for consumption. So you actually have a net loss of energy because it was an amino acid versus a monosaccharide, a sugar. Now, you brought up fat. Fat doesn't need to be phosphorylated. So it actually doesn't have any thermic effect of food at that point. So it depends on what it is as to whether or not you have loss. The next example put forward by Dr. Lustig is the idea that the amino acids that you consume from proteins are actually used differently based on your circumstance, like being a bodybuilder versus being sedentary. Now, here again, he brings up a good point because the building block molecules that make up the proteins that we consume called amino acids do get integrated into our body differently, like if you're exercising or not. So scientists use tracer experiments where they literally follow the same amino acids consumed in exercising versus non-exercising individuals as these amino acids travel through the bloodstream. Then they can trace if the amino acids, because these amino acids have been tagged, are integrated into the muscle tissue or not. This means that they're then used differently if there are differences between the two groups. Ultimately, this tells us that amino acids are likely not metabolized equally. They do depend on circumstance. Now, another point is that amino acids need to be converted to usable molecules for energy. These molecules that they are converted to then enter the mitochondrion, that whole powerhouse of the cell, which then converts them to usable cellular energy. This whole process requires energy input, making proteins less efficient to be metabolized for energy. When Dr. Lustig is discussing phosphorylation, he's saying that the cells of your body are taking the cellular energy molecules, adenosine triphosphate, so ATP, that your mitochondria produce, and taking a phosphate off of that energy molecule, ATP, and applying it to the amino acids once they've been converted to an intermediate molecule. Now, he argues that creates a net loss of energy because carbohydrates like glucose take one ATP as opposed to two that amino acids do. Frankly, we're getting pretty into the weeds with the biochemistry here, so this applicably makes almost no difference. But he's somewhat incorrect here, as some amino acids produce the same net amount of ATP as glucose molecules do. Now, I'm saying some because it depends on the amino acids. Some enter the mitochondrion at different stages of metabolism, making some amino acids more or less efficient at producing cellular energy. So, i.e. this ATP, then glucose. I'm going to stop there because this is a massive, nerdy rabbit hole that won't serve you. If you want to hear a bit more about the nuances, then check out my extended insider version of this video. If we zoom out and focus in on the thermic effect of food, which is the metabolism expenditure that we experience from simply eating food, regardless of all the biochemical pathways and the yields of ATP, which we can actually put aside, it is true that protein causes a greater thermic effect of food. So, your metabolism, calories expended, will likely be greater by eating protein. That is because, as Dr. Lustig also pointed out, that the preparation of amino acids for energy production or the synthesis of new functional proteins within our muscles and other processes, to be honest, simply cost more energy with protein. The point here isn't for you to memorize all the differences between amino acids. The point is to simply acknowledge that the final energy yield relative to carbohydrates varies depending on which amino acid that you're discussing. In addition, yes, the direct impact of protein on metabolism is greater than for the other nutrients, carbohydrates, or fats. Now, before we continue, let me acknowledge that this can get pretty deep into the murky waters of physiology and biochemistry. Here's the good news. You don't need to know any of it to create actionable steps for yourself. This is more so an exercise in teasing out what is correct and what needs tweaking. At the end, I'll have some things to say on how to easily think about all of this and how to apply it. Don't worry. Now, let's take the third. Let's take fats. So over here, we have omega-3s, heart-healthy, anti-inflammatory, anti-Alzheimer's, save your life. And over here, we have trans fats, the devil incarnate, consumable poison because you can't break the trans double bond. You don't have the desaturase to break that trans double bond. So it basically accumulates, lines your arteries, lines your liver, causes chronic metabolic disease, causes insulin resistance. Omega-3s don't even get broken down for energy because they're so important. They stay intact because your brain needs them. Your heart needs them. Whereas trans fats can't be broken down because of that trans double bond. One, save your life. Other one, kill you. They're both nine calories per gram. If you explode them in a bomb calorimeter because a calorie burned is a calorie burned. But a calorie eaten is not a calorie eaten because one will save your life. One will kill you. Dr. Lustig is getting into the differences between fats. He focuses in on trans fats and omega-3 fats. These are both unsaturated fats, meaning that they have a kink in the structure of the fat. That's important to know because he mentions that trans fats are highly damaging and overall destructive to health because they can't be metabolized. The reason? That kink that he calls a double bond. That can't be removed and therefore the fat can't be metabolized. Now, this is a bit puzzling because he mentions that we don't have the enzyme called desaturase to break the double bond. Again, that's the kink in the structure of the fat. However, desaturase enzymes do the opposite. They introduce double bonds, not take them away. Either way, let's assume a slip, which everyone has. It is also incorrect to say that we can't metabolize trans fats, as there are studies testing that very question and reporting convincingly that trans fats, like those in the industrial processing, can be metabolized. Unfortunately, Dr. Lustig also misses the mark on omega-3 fats. The body does use them as signaling molecules and they're related to many positive health outcomes, but they are also metabolized for energy as well. We see that in human studies as well. So, for this section, Dr. Lustig gets a lot wrong. But, in the overall points, trans fats are negative to health and omega-3s are net positive. He's certainly correct. In the end, the takeaway here is to avoid trans fats and focus on omega-3 fats. There's more that I could say, but let's move on. In fact, I know that we've covered a lot, but if you're looking for a deeper dive on all the studies referenced so far, like the experiments on trans fats or fiber or more on the mechanisms of amino acid metabolism and much more, consider the extended version of this video, if you can stomach it, that is. The extended version is included for the Physionic Insider members, along with a company article, a shortened summary, and I'll even send an email your way every week, as I do with all my analyses. Running past, must be, 100 health topics analyzed and increasing every week. Plus, you'll get all these perks right over here. It's a steal, I tell you. The link to join the insiders is in the description. Hope to speak with you over there. All right, so, glucose fructose. Glucose is the energy of life. Every cell on the planet burns glucose for energy. Glucose is so damn important that if you don't consume it, your body makes it. So it will take an amino acid and turn it into glucose. That's gluconeogenesis. Gluconeogenesis, that's right. It will take a fatty acid and turn it into glucose. And specifically, the glycerol portion of the triglyceride will turn into glucose. So, the Inuit, they didn't have any place to grow carbohydrate. They had ice. They had whale blubber. They still have serum glucose level. And the reason is because you had to. You have to have a serum glucose level in order to power your brain, in order to power your heart. Yes, you can use ketones. Of course you can. But, you know, only if you're in a ketogenic state will you use exclusively ketones. And you also need glucose for structural changes in specific proteins and particularly hormones. So, glucose molecules will stud TSH, LH, FSH, different pituitary hormones in order to increase their potency. It's one of the reasons why aging leads to defective hormonogenesis. For instance, hypogonadism, hypothyroidism is the loss of glycosylation on individual peptide hormones because of the inability to add glucose. Because of insulin insensitivity. No, no. It's an aging phenomenon. Okay. Now, we enter the realm of carbohydrates. Dr. Listick is discussing how critical glucose, a carbohydrate, also known as a monosaccharide, is to our survival. And he's spot on. The reality is, if we don't have glucose in our blood, we fall into a coma and die quickly. No ands, ifs, or buts. He then mentions the need for glucose molecules to stud hormones. This is known as post-translational modifications. After a protein is produced into a mature form, like a hormone, it undergoes further processing or maturation by having modifications made to it inside a compartment of the cell called the endoplasmic reticulum. One of those modifications is called glycosylation, and it involves the attachment of glucose molecules. Without it, the hormone or protein is less functional. It's definitely important, like Dr. Listick mentions. The main point here being that your blood sugar is critical to your existence, and your hormones and other proteins aren't fully functional in certain situations until they've been modified further within your cells through the attachment of glucose molecules to those proteins. Now, let's get into the big one, fructose addiction. Fructose, on the other hand, this sweet molecule, the molecule we seek, the reason why the food industry studs every food in the grocery store, 73% of all items in the American grocery store have added sugar on purpose. For the food industry's purpose is not for yours because fructose is addictive, activates the nucleus accumbens, the reward center of the brain in the same way that cocaine, heroin, nicotine, alcohol do, and drives dopamine receptors down just like nicotine, alcohol, cocaine, heroin do. So that molecule, fructose, is number one, completely vestigial to all vertebrate life. There is no biochemical reaction in any vertebrate that requires dietary fructose. That's number one. Number two. OK. Sorry. I'm going to just – so you're saying that even though we can process fructose? We have a limited capacity to process it in the same way we have a limited capacity to metabolize alcohol. Now, if you have one drink a day, you're OK. If you have two drinks a day, it depends on how big you are. You and I can probably – I would argue two drinks a week is the maximum but let's not go there. OK. But in terms of – you're saying – when you say fructose – processing of fructose is vestigial, what you're saying is that we don't need to do it. That's right. It's like the appendix. It's an organ for which it has no function. Exactly. And fructose has no function in the human body. Period. You don't need it. You don't need it. OK. Don't need it. But our diet is replete with it. In fact, our fructose consumption has gone up 25-fold since the beginning of the last century. I have to ask this now. I love fruit. I eat berries galore, especially since the price of berries seems to have come down. It used to be that you only get them certain times a year. I'm what you call a drive-by blueberry eater. So I'll just walk past and just take a fistful. You can't put them in front of me without me eating them. This is even difficult for me when other people I don't know are eating them. So I eat lots of blueberries, strawberries, blackberries if they're in season. I love them. No problem. Loaded with fructose? No. Plenty of fiber. Low fructose? Low fructose. In berries? Berries are the lowest fructose of all the different fruits. I was so worried about asking you this today. Not okay. Thank you. OK. And fruit is OK because of the fiber. So the molecule, the fructose molecule is the same whether it's in a berry or in a banana or for that matter in a Coca-Cola. The fructose molecule is the same molecule. The difference is that in the berry, it comes with a whole lot of fiber. In the banana, it comes with a whole lot less fiber. And in the Coca-Cola, it doesn't come with any fiber. And the fiber is what mitigates the absorption. So when you consume the fructose with fiber, so your blueberries, you're feeding your microbiome. That fructose wasn't for you. The major claim here is that fructose is addictive. Though some other points were also brought up too. Like fructose having no function in the body or that fruit is fine. Though it may also contain fructose. And we'll get to those. First, is fructose addictive? And is it addictive in the same way as cocaine? This is a tough one to tease out for multiple reasons. One, I don't have a neuropsychiatric background, so I'm not educated on the detailed definitions of addiction. Two, there aren't many studies measuring addictive-like behavior with fructose, as far as I can tell. Researchers in the field seem to disagree with Dr. Lustig, saying that there is insufficient evidence to characterize anything related to sugar addiction. In fact, they say there's little to no evidence indicating that in humans. And what animal studies exist are highly context-based. As in, after food deprivation or intermittent access to sugar, which can lead to binging. Then, when we look at cocaine research, something Tony Montana might know a thing or two about, researchers focus a lot on the dopamine aspects. As in, reduced dopamine function, a common brain molecule, is involved in the addiction cycle. Now, there are studies using fructose that indicate dopamine function is reduced with fructose consumption. Now, behaviorally, there's some evidence in humans that fructose can lead to increased appetite compared to glucose alone. Yet, when we compare foods with no fructose to foods with fructose, there's no additional consumption of food when allowed to consume unlimited food after exposure to fructose or not. Now, this could be because participants didn't have access to foods containing fructose. Like a cocaine addict might want more cocaine. However, there are studies that look at that too, indirectly. People drinking the same amount of glucose, fructose, or water only were then allowed to eat as much as they wanted. And you would expect that the fructose consumers would eat more of the fructose-containing nutrients, like the supplied cookies and sugary drinks. But they didn't. They actually ate the same amount as everyone else, including the water condition. In fact, the researchers even pointed this out. They say it is noteworthy that subjects ingesting 197 calories of fructose showed almost perfect regulation, reducing food intake by about 225 calories relative to subjects who had zero calorie preload of water. On the other hand, subjects with the glucose preload showed potentiation of intake, leading to about 450 more calories overall than the water subjects, after ingesting both the preload and the buffet meal. So, that means in this study, the fructose-consuming group had better consumption regulation, control, than the glucose condition, which is antithetic to Dr. Lustig's point. If I can take a step back for a second and look at the whole picture, it would take a lot more detailed reading and analysis of the literature to really tease out the harm of fructose from a consumption and addiction perspective. But what we can take away from this is that it is highly unlikely that fructose is as addictive as cocaine. It is also highly unlikely that fructose is strongly addictive in general. And finally, even if it turned out that it was mildly addictive, the effect is clearly so weak that it is inconsistently found in human studies. So, is it really something to worry about? I would argue no. Then, does fructose have a role in the body? It actually does have a role in the body. However, because our body produces fructose, it is unnecessary to consume in our diet. In addition, many of the roles of fructose can also be handled through other metabolic pathways, like glycogen synthesis, a storage form of glucose molecules in our liver and muscles. However, there is a unique role of fructose in a strange place. Men, listen up. Your sperm need fructose. Specifically, the seminal secretions contain large amounts of fructose because fructose is used in energy generation for the movement of sperm. In fact, it may be preferred over glucose, which most other cells use. I'll be honest, I did not know that. I learned something new doing the background research for this. However, make no mistake. Fructose consumption is still unnecessary. Though, there are biochemical reactions, metabolic pathways, that use fructose molecule, and it does serve a limited purpose. It just doesn't need to be consumed. It can be produced within your body. Finally, what about fruit? It contains fructose, but as Dr. Lustig pointed out, it seems fine simply because it's consumed in combination with beneficial molecules, like the fiber that we discussed earlier. This is a tough one to cover because using terms like fruit is okay is such a general expression. It really just isn't defined like berries are beneficial for reducing cardiovascular disease risk. It's specific. So, plenty to say here, especially with so many different fruits, but researchers largely agree with Dr. Lustig, as across many studies, fruit consumption is strongly related to many improved health outcomes. There may be many reasons for that, which are beyond the scope of what we're doing here, but no doubt fiber is one of them, to Dr. Lustig's point. Now, we've covered a ton of material, and in truth, all of these topics deserve deeper dives, as there's much more to say on each. However, we can take some things away from this instead of keeping it to an intellectual exercise in critiquing claims. First, I did promise to pull some of these elements together into some actionable takeaways. For example, when we discuss a calorie eaten is not a calorie eaten, or that certain amino acids provide more energy than others, or how fiber blocks our absorption, it can seem pretty hopeless on how to approach nutrition if there's just so many factors at play all at once. So, here's how I think about it. The physiology is fascinating, and it's true, as we've gone over. Yes, the calories in your nutrition labels are not going to be accurate to the calories absorbed in the intestines as nutrients. So, here's my advice. Chuck it. I mean that earnestly. I don't worry about any of that stuff when I consider my own nutrition. If you're a calorie counter like me, then keep using the nutrition labels as your guide. Why? Because regardless of what happens inside your body, they still offer an excellent foundation to adjust your behavior accordingly. If I eat 2,500 calories at my mouth, but only 1,900 calories get absorbed as a calorie-capable nutrients in my intestines, then I'll eventually see that reflected in my energy levels, my weight, my waist measurements, and more. So, without knowing the amount that I'm actually absorbing, I can change my behavior by simply eating more if I want to gain weight or stop weight loss, or I can eat less if I want to lose weight even more. I don't care what my body does, because the actions to change it one way or another are identical to if I knew the exact calorie consumption in my intestines. Now, I'm focusing on calories, but we also don't have to focus on calories. We can focus on nutrients or foods as a whole. More or less of particular foods will also work. If you're not a calorie counter like me, then simply focus on foods that raise or reduce your satiety, depending on your goals. Proteins tend to be more satiating, so de-emphasize them if you want to gain weight, and emphasize them if you want to lose weight. Then, as you track your progress through your body measurements, journaling, whatever you choose, you simply crank it up or you crank it down. Like I said, all this physiology and biochemistry is fascinating, but we only really have a limited number of levers that we can pull that actually cause change at the body level. So, instead of worrying about the specific foods blocking absorption or what have you, just focus on moving the totality of your diet in a direction, and make sure to measure on a regular basis to get feedback on if your diet is serving your direction or not. There's plenty more I could say, as you've heard me say a few times now, but instead of worrying about the tiny things, just ignore it all and focus on the big things. How do I feel? Is my body performing or changing the way that I want? How can I increase my total protein or total fat or total fiber or whatever you want? Those are the more actionable questions and points. Not being hyper-focused on the fact that you ate viscous fiber with your omelet, therefore you should only count 88% of your calories from the omelet because you predict that fiber will block 12% from being absorbed. Instead, you would eat like you normally do, and if after two weeks your measurements come back the same, although you wanted them to change, you just crank it up or crank it down in some aspect of your overall nutrition, like eating a bit more fiber with that omelet or eating a smaller omelet. You do those adjustments consistently, your body will respond, and you will have worried about none of the tiny details. Anyway, speaking of those details, what's the hit rate on Dr. Lustig's points? Well, overall, a lot of good points, like the importance of blood sugar or the fact that our absorbed calories are different from our eaten calories for many outlined reasons. However, there were also some exaggerations and some incorrect information, like the addictiveness of fructose or trans fats not being able to be metabolized. One, calories in versus calories out. While explained simplistically, it has a lot more complexity behind the scenes, considering hormones, impact of specific nutrients, metabolic effects, and more. Two, yes, for the last time, calories on a nutrition label do not necessarily reflect the amount that's actually absorbed. For example, some fibers can block or change nutrient absorption. Three, amino acids in proteins yield different amounts of energy, depending on the amino acid. Applicably, it's not something to worry about. Number four, omega-3 fats are related to better health outcomes generally, and industrial trans fats are related to worse health outcomes. However, they are both capable of being metabolized by our body. Number five, glucose is critical to life, from our brain metabolism to acting as a signaling molecule within our cells and between our cells. Number six, fructose is unlikely to be highly addictive, but it also isn't necessary to consume. However, some foods that contain fructose, like fruit, are related to better health outcomes because of the other nutrients that come along with fructose. Even if fructose in isolation or close to it, like in soft drinks, is generally still neutral or harmful to health. Now, I'll get out of your hair now, but if you're interested in another Centrifuge episode, check this video out right here. Thanks for tuning in for another episode. I'll catch you in the next one, and I have to get my fructose fix now. Bye. Bye. Bye.