Welcome back to the Centrifuge, where we apply studies to back or refute claims made on health shows. In this episode, we'll be doing a continuation of Dr. Robert Lustik's take on fructose. Now, there is an earlier episode, but you don't need to have watched that one to watch this one. In this episode, Dr. Lustik, a guest on the Huberman podcast and professor of pediatric endocrinology, makes a few strong claims. One, fructose blocks three critical mitochondrial enzymes acting as a mitochondrial poison. Two, eating fructose long-term leads to death. And three, fructose causes a longevity tax, shortening our life. Now, as usual, you'll find a summary at the end, studies linked for you, and chapters to skip through for your convenience. Let's spin it. &gt;&gt; And let me tell you why it's problematic. We haven't gotten to that yet. We're just talking about whether it's vestigial versus needed. Now, let's talk about what fructose does. Turns out fructose inhibits three, count them, three separate enzymes necessary for normal mitochondrial function. Now, I your mitochondria make ATP. Your mitochondria have to work at peak efficiency. That's what metabolic health is. Is mitochondria working at peak efficiency? Well, there are three enzymes that are inhibited by fructose. Number one, AMKinase. All right. Now, AMKinase is the fuel gauge on the liver cell. It's the thing that tells the liver to make more mitochondria, fresher mitochondria. Because if your AM levels are high, that means you've defospholated a bunch of ATPs and you have to regenerate them. So, you need some more mitochondria. So, it's a negative feedback pathway. Well, you need that AMP kinase to generate that mitochondrial biogenesis signal. Except that fructose, a metabolite of fructose called methyl gyioxil MGO sits in the active site of the gamma subunit of that ammp kynise and actually binds to arginines in that active site rendering that uh u enzyme now dead. It's an irreversible inhibition because of the covealent bonding of that methylioxil that aldahhide to the arginine and now that enzyme is dead. &gt;&gt; Okay. So it basically acts like a key that doesn't turn the lock but prevents the the key that you want in that lock from entering the the lock. &gt;&gt; It's like it's like gluing a lock shut. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Got it. All right. &gt;&gt; So that's one of the enzymes. &gt;&gt; That's one. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; Second one. AAD L asal COA dehydrogenase longchain. So this is necessary to cleave two carbon fragments off fatty acids to prepare them for u uh metabolism. So inhibits that one. And then finally it inhibits carnitine palmol transferase 1. Now CPT1 now that's the enzyme that regenerates carnitine. carnitine is the shuttle mechanism by which you get the uh fatty acids from the outer mitochondrial membrane through to the inner mitochondrial membrane so that they can be beta oxidized for energy. So if you don't have that C uh CPT1 you're basically carnitineless and therefore you can't generate um beta oxidation. The claim here is that fructose inhibits three specific enzymes critical to mitochondrial function. The first enzyme is a famous one called EMPK. It walks the red carpet in everything. No, but it is well known in cell biology because it plays a significant role in controlling many aspects of cellular function. It is often considered a master regulator simply because it's involved in so many areas of cell function. You can actually see that in this illustration right here. You can see AMPK is in the middle and then the various enzymes connecting to the various cellular functions. So Dr. Lustik is spot on when he says that EMPK is involved in mitochondrial function and yes it definitely is involved in the production of new mitochondria called mitochondrial biogenesis. Now the real question is does it get inhibited by AMPK? Dr. istic mentions a metabolite of fructose called methyl glyioxil MGO sits inside thempk and blocks it like the wrong key sitting inside a lock. To explain that a bit further, enzymes have active active sites essentially a groove or pocket within the enzyme that binds to its specific substrate and converts it to another molecule. It's how the enzyme actually performs its main function. What Dr. istic is saying is that the metabolite of fructose MGO sits inside that pocket bound to arginine particular amino acids found inside the pocket and blocks the real substrate of AMPK from engaging with AMPK since MGO is blocking the way this effectively neutralizes AMPK so I tried finding evidence of this and I couldn't find any I did find a publication that discusses it but the discussion was purely hypothetical this hypothesis does indicate MGO binding EMPK and it does indicate binding at the arginines. You can see that the enzyme structure on the left and then the structure split into three domains. And then zooming into the gamma domain like Dr. Lustik mentioned is the pocket with the arginine residues. So that all checks out. But again, there's no definitive evidence that this occurs and the paper never discusses fructose as far as I could tell. So, while the exact mechanism described may not be backed by firm evidence, that doesn't mean that Dr. Lustik is wrong about fructose inhibiting AMPK as a whole. Unfortunately, I'd love to tell you a cleancut story that fructose inhibits AMPK activation. But while there are studies that indicate that to be the case, there are also studies that suggest that fructose enhances AMPK activation. Why? is likely contextbased depending on the tissue that you're testing, the conditions and more. Now, in the end, when it comes to cell biology, things get pretty complex. And there's another way to probe this that's more definitive, which I'll get to later. For now, let's just say that fructose has mixed evidence on whether it inhibits or encourages AMPK activation. And the discrepancy likely depends on a variety of factors like tissue type. Let's go on to the next enzyme before we circle back to a more definitive answer. The second enzyme is called AAADL L or ASL COA dehydrogenase longchain. Forget the name, it doesn't matter. This enzyme, as Dr. Lustik pointed out, takes fat molecules and begins cutting sections off the fat molecule to feed them into a wood chipper that we call the mitochondrian. The mitochondrian eventually uses those cleaved fat fragments from the fat molecule and you utilizes it for energy generation. Now, interestingly, again, it's not a simple story because the studies looking at the impact of fructose on this enzyme, they indicate that a non-fattening diet plus fructose has no effect. Yet, a fattening diet plus fructose does indicate inhibition of the enzyme. This is also shown in other studies as well. I'll quick cover the last enzyme. It's called CPT-1 and it's basically a gatekeeping protein. It interacts with fat molecules and allows them into the mitochondrian so long as they have a tag like an ID. Obviously, the mitochondrian can't break down fat for energy if the fat molecules aren't allowed in the first place. However, here again, the same studies indicate even less convincing evidence that fructose has no impact on CPT-1 inhibition. The impact is solely driven by a fattening diet independent of fructose. Look, ultimately, while there is evidence against Dr. Lustik's claims, I should point out again that cell biology is incredibly complex and it is highly dependent on the context being studied. So, I wouldn't consider this a settled case. I think it's always better to define the context that you're discussing and then leave room for studies that might butt up against that context. For example, if I say in the liver in a junk food diet, fructose may reduce the activity of an enzyme AADL, then I've defined a narrow band that is true to a specific study that I've read. However, if I use much wider interpretations of fructose always inhibits a L, then I'd be wrong if I go to different tissues like the heart or the brain. and I'd be wrong every time a study shows otherwise. That's why I like how a lot of scientists talk. The data suggests I've seen instances in the liver under these specific circumstances there is evidence that it leaves room for development. But you probably don't care about that. You just want to know, does fructose harm my mitochondria, punk? Give it to me straight. This is ultimately what we care about, not the enzymes. We want to know the actual effect. Well, if I take some of my own medicine, which tastes like Pepto-Bismol, I'll put it to you like this. Very simply, there is some evidence that fructose does reduce mitochondrial activity as well as mitochondrial biogenesis. In the end, we end up at the same destination. Fructose probably isn't great for mitochondrial health, though the mechanisms are a bit all over the place and likely depend on more context than what we can cover here with due diligence. But Dr. Huberman asks a very important question which ties into the long-term effects of fructose consumption. &gt;&gt; You said fructose inhibits all three of these enzyatic pathways. Yeah. &gt;&gt; As a biologist, I have to ask, you know, how potently does it inhibit them? I mean because there's there are drugs that block receptors and then there are drugs that block receptors with in unbelievable affinity. So you know I mean mechanistically in a dish meaning in vitro you can see all sorts of things but how how significant is this for like for obesity for mitochondrial function in vivo in us. All right. So, look, you know, the the dose determines the poison, right? Paraselis 1537. Um, there are toxins that are parts per billion and will kill you like sarin, rice, cyanide. By the way, cyanide is a good analogy because it's working on mitochondria. It's basically causing mitochondria to be completely defective. &gt;&gt; All right. Then there are um intermediate toxins like arsenic and carbon tetrachloride parts per million and they take a little longer to work. They're not going to kill you on the spot. &gt;&gt; That's why I can eat an apple seed that has a little bit of arsenic in it but I'm not going to die. &gt;&gt; Right? And then finally there and by the tobacco smoke goes in there. And then finally you have um uh weak toxins. All right. And you know where it's not one exposure that will kill you. It's, you know, 10,000 exposures that'll kill you. Like alcohol &gt;&gt; or toxic people. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Toxic. Well, some &gt;&gt; sometimes it only takes one. &gt;&gt; I couldn't resist. Sorry. Sometimes it'll mildly toxic people. &gt;&gt; Anyway, the point is that fructose is in that last category. &gt;&gt; So, it's not what you do one day that kills you. It's what you do every day that kills you. And if you basically eat ultrarocessed food high in sugar for 10 years in a row, it's going to show up in terms of your coorbidities and ultimately yeah, it will kill you. This is an important concept though probably on some level obvious. The issue is how potent of a poison is fructose. Obviously, it isn't on the same level as cyanide with instant death. And this is a good point where Dr. realistic pulls back and points out that the poisonous nature is mild. I like and appreciate this reframing by both. But this raises a bigger issue then. Does fructose kill us in the long term? Well, there's plenty of evidence looking at fructose or fructose adjacent relationships to all cause mortality. There are some issues with these types of studies in singling fructose's relationship to mortality, but the evidence definitely suggests fructose increases our risk of death from all causes. And I will add that the the effect is mild, which would speak to Dr. Listik's point that it is not potent, but could be drawn out over time. I will quick add here that if you were to only focus on randomized control trials, you would find mixed results. some finding harm of fructose and some finding no harm. This usually depends on the outcome tested in the study methodology. In the end, I think it's pretty safe to say that fructose consumption is a net negative for health and studies lean in the direction of increasing mortality risk. All of this confirms Dr. Lustik's perspective. Ultimately though, Dr. Lustik points out how fructose affects our entire population and the impact that it has on our lifespan. So, let's get into that. Now, before we do, if you're looking for a deeper dive on these concepts, like understanding how the master enzyme AMPK works or how these enzymes interact with our mitochondrial health or how fructose raises our risk of mortality and more, then check out the extended version of this video that you're watching. It's included for the Physiionic Insiders, my research platform, including well over 100 health analyses with accompanying videos and articles, summaries, a monthly podcast that puts everything together for you, live sessions with yours truly, and more. Now, I put a lot of work into this, and there's more that I'm not mentioning. I added an AI, a master supplement list, and more this year, too. Anyway, I'll shut up, but if you're interested, join using the link in the description. &gt;&gt; And we have the data to show, you know, how many years you will lose. So, right now in America, we pay an 8-year longevity tax. If you look at Japan, who uh they have a mean age of death of 88. We have a mean age of 80. Okay? We're paying an eight-year longevity tax just by living here. And we're talking about the healthy people. Now, if you have metabolic syndrome, it's a 15-year longevity tax. And uh sorry, if you have obesity, it's a 15-ear longevity tax. And if you have metabolic syndrome, it's a 20-year longevity tax. That is primarily, not completely, but primarily sugar. &gt;&gt; So, the claim is that we Americans are experiencing an 8-year longevity tax relative to Japan due to sugar. In fact, the numbers are a bit different. But let's not quibble. He's right that Americans live on average a shorter lifespan than the Japanese. It's about a 6 years difference. Now, it is definitely true that the gap expands with coorbid co-orbidities like diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular disease and so on. The big aspect of the claim is not if the gap is there though, but that it is at least primarily caused by sugar consumption. Now, considering the previous data that we went over, it is perfectly reasonable to blame fructose as contributing to a shortened life expectancy. However, there are many differences between Japan and the United States that could not only contribute but be major factors. For example, Americans consume 200 to 300 more calories per day, about 50% more saturated fat on a percentage basis, and a bit less dietary fiber. All three of these are major factors. So, isolating fructose as the main factor is presumptuous. I think that it would be most accurate to say yes, Americans have a shorter life expectancy compared to Japanese people and yes, fructose consumption may be a contributing factor, but there are undoubtedly several other factors that likely contribute significantly. Okay, all that stated, what are our takeaways here? Well, Dr. istic is on target with some like fructose being detrimental to our health, but does overstate others like fructose being the main reason for shortened life expectancy or the cellular mechanisms of fructose harm. But here's what can be said. There's evidence fructose is harmful to mitochondrial health. Fructose is a negative to our health and mildly raises our mortality risk. Fructose consumption likely contributes to American shortened life expectancy, but there are highly likely several other unadressed factors that also contribute. And now that we've been discussing fructose in isolation, but what about in food, like fructose found in fruits? Well, Dr. Listik discusses that in this episode of the centuge along with much more on fructose. Check it out. I hope this was informative and I'll catch you in the next one.