According to a particular doctor, there's a green powder that you can add to your coffee that supercharges your fat loss by 600% or more. Welcome to the Centrifuge, where we apply studies to verify or debunk health shows. I'm talking about Dr. Living Good, who every time I read his name, I think to myself, it sounds like the title to a 1980s song of some sort instead of Dr. Feelgood by Mley Crew. We're talking about Dr. Living Good. Anyway, Dr. Living Good is a doctor of natural medicine and holds a doctorate of chiropractic according to his website and is also an Amazon best-selling author. That said, in this episode of Theuge, the main claims made by Dr. living good are the addition of a green powder called moringa to coffee causes six times more body fat loss. Molecules called isothiocyanates that's going to be tough to say block liver release of glucose thereby helping with fat loss. And these same molecules, isothiocyanates, speed up fat release from the liver and slow the speed at which fat cells are produced, reducing future fat gain. And there are timestamps for you to skip and a recap of the most important points at the end. Without further ado, let's spin it. The final upgrade. Let's talk about a plant that many nutrition researchers consider one of the most nutrient-dense foods on the planet. Gram for gram, it contains far higher levels of certain nutrients than many of the foods that we eat every single day. Analysises of its leaves have identified more than 90 different nutrients, 46 antioxidant compounds, and because of this, the plant is often called the miracle tree. Talking about moringa. What made researchers start paying attention to moringa wasn't just the nutrition. It was the results they started seeing in weight loss studies. In one clinical trial lasting 16 weeks, participants lost as much as 2 to six times more weight than the placebo groups, even when diet and exercise were similar. &gt;&gt; The main claim here is that moringa coffee made people lose six times more body weight than placebo, the non-maringa coffee consuming group. In the full content, which I'll link below, Dr. living good describes this as the most potent of six different coffee additives for getting rid of body weight potently. So he mentions some impressive sounding information like 90 different nutrients and 40 plus antioxidants. And it is true that moringa is full of those nutrients. The punchier and more applicable aspect is the massive body weight loss from consuming moringa coffee compared to a group of people who didn't consume the coffee. Now, as is often the case, there were no citations provided except for this graph, which certainly looks incredible. The moringa coffee clearly indicates huge improvements not seen in the placebo. However, with no citations for the study, I can also create a graph that looks impressive. Those who watched more physionic videos were more miserable than those who did not. Oh, wrong graph. Uh, this one is what I meant. Those who ate state fair fried alligator balls gained 1,000% more muscle than the placebo group. Now, I'm poking a bit of fun, but truly, if you mention study results, you should probably cite it. That said, I think that I was able to track down the study because there aren't many studies on moringa in people compared to a placebo looking at weight loss over exactly 16 weeks. So knowing those clues, we find only one study, this one. And sure enough, looking at the data from the study here, which I've transformed as a graph here, we can see that it is true. The moringa containing condition did have much more weight loss and likely fat loss. However, if you'll notice the difference, the graphs are similar, but there is no moringa coffee used in this study. The intervention called LI85008F contained moringa but not in coffee form and also importantly not in isolation. So the claim that moringa is the reason for this increased weight loss is premature as the study cited does not isolate moringa. So therefore we can't attribute the effects to moringa. I'd like to return to this because there are some moringa isolated studies I'd like to lean on later that get us to a real answer. For now, that has to be our conclusion. There are, however, three ways that moringa promotes fat loss. Let's get into those. Results like that made scientists start looking much more closely at how this supplant affects the metabolism. Turns out, moringa works through several fat loss pathways all at the same time. Your liver naturally releases sugar into the bloodstream in between meals. That's going to block fat loss. But the isofothiocyanates in moringa can block that sugar production by as much as 60%. &gt;&gt; The claim here is that the molecules found inside moringa called isothiocyanates block the liver from releasing sugar into the blood which would otherwise block fat loss. The mechanism that Dr. Living good I promise I'll stop is describing is definitely plausible. It's true that our liver releases glucose or sugar molecules when prompted, like during fasting periods. It's not quite as simple as describing this release of sugar as blocking fat loss, though. For example, this sugar release happens during fasting. But when we measure fat metabolism, so fat metabolism tends to be increased during fasting. So, while I'd argue there's some truth, there's a lot more to the scenario than described. In fact, studies indicate that a rebound in fat metabolism just a few hours after eating, right in that window being discussed. The point here being that this mechanism is unlikely to be a big player in affecting fat metabolism. Regardless, do isothiocyanates reduce the liver's production of glucose? The answer is actually yes. Again, no citations for the 60% reduction, but this study indicates that to be exactly right. Shown here, the tall bar is on the left is the control condition. So, normal production of glucose by the liver, and the MC conditions are the moringa with the isothiocyanates. Clearly, there's a huge decrease. And in fact, it is exactly 60% if not more. So it should probably be pointed out though since we're you know kind of seamlessly moving from human data to these data that these data are in cell experiments and animal experiments. So the direct translation of 60% is unlikely. Still mechanistically we should agree with Dr. Livein good that isothiocyanates from the moringa do reduce liver production of glucose though the exact amount of the effect in humans is unknown. Now for the final two benefits of isothiocyanates. Second, those same compounds appear to help break down stored fat faster. And third, moringa seems to actually slow the creation of new fat cells. In other words, it doesn't just help burn fat, it could also make it harder for your body to store new fat in the first place. The claims are that these same isothycinates speed up fat release from the liver and slow down new fat cells from being created. Now, there are no human studies that I could find that corroborate these points, but the mouse study that we looked at earlier does offer some signs of reduced liver fat when exposed to moringa shown here. The smaller the bar that we're measuring liver fat is the moringa condition. As for blocking or slowing the production of new fat cells, there's also evidence for that. However, again, even more so than the last study, we're talking about cell studies, so not in humans and not even in another greater organism. So, yeah, we can say that moringa may help purge the liver of fat and it may slow the formation of new fat cells, but all the evidence is in the earliest stages of research, not clinical. Look, ultimately, we still have the most outstanding question. Does moringa lead to these sizable weight and fat losses? I think you'll be surprised by the results, but you won't be surprised to know that I have a deeper analysis of these studies that we've been going over, including another study that uses a completely different set of molecules and has better evidence for its effectiveness in coffee. If you're interested in the more expansive full version of this analysis that you're watching, then check out the Physionic Insiders. It's my premium research platform which includes an article, a one paragraph summary of the biggest takeaways, a private podcast, live sessions with me if you can tolerate it, a supplement guide with approved supplements, and much more. If you're interested, check out the insiders using the link in the description. Now, we had one study cited, this one, but believe it or not, there are several other studies on the topic. Unlike the cited study which combined many different ingredients, these studies use only moringa, therefore isolating the effects. Unfortunately, there's no clear effect because some of the studies indicate a small weight loss effect and indicate and some indicate no effect. So, it's not only calls into question if moringa is the real reason for this super result that we saw in Dr. Living Good's graph or if one of the other ingredients was the bigger driver. In the end, this is how I'd take the current data across multiple studies that are more appropriate to evaluate moringa. There's either no effect or a mild weight loss effect of moringa. I think Dr. Living Good should have used more appropriate studies instead of focusing on the one study that showed the greatest effect yet is impossible to pin to moringa. I'd also point out that adding a graph that says moringa coffee and then exactly zero studies looked at moringa coffee is misleading is a classic case of cherrypicking and poor communication. Not that it isn't clear, it's just clearly wrong. That said, the mechanisms hold some truth to them. And when we refocus on the other studies isolating moringa directly, what are more appropriate conclusions? Well, for one, moringa most definitely does not lead to six times more body fat and weight loss, but it could yield a mild weight loss result in the best case scenario. Moringa may work through mechanisms outlined, so like the increased fat release from the liver, uh blocking the liver from producing sugar that spills into the blood and so on. But these mechanisms are completely based on early incomplete evidence. So, if you're interested in more centerfuge episodes, then check them out right here. And I suppose that just leaves me with one last thing. Dr. Living Good. If only Moringa would hit it, Johnny. See you next time.