A little while back, I covered the sprint study, which unlike the name, has nothing to do with running, but a lot to do with blood pressure. Essentially, it was a highly influential study from back in 2015 that made us readjust our blood pressure recommendations for reducing cardiovascular risk. However, soon after that analysis released, I was flooded with comments telling me the study was garbage. And that another analysis, a far bigger analysis by the esteemed Cochran Review indicates the sprint study is wrong. And then I realized where these comments are coming from. A recent video by the low carb espousing internal medicine physician Dr. Bos with a powerful title, the great high blood pressure scam came and slapped me across the face. I mean figuratively, of course. So, why don't we see if this has any merit and what this is all about by hearing Dr. Bos's interpretation of the data and then adding some what I think is much needed context. As an FYI, Dr. Bos did a lengthy deep dive which will be uh linked, but since the video is really long, I've sped up her parts so that we can uh get through it more quickly and I don't like talking quickly as is already apparent. So, first let's get to a bit of context on the issue at hand. Uh, so this is this uh this review that came out in 2022. Um, and it is looking at blood pressure targets for treatment of people with hypertension and cardiovascular disease. All right, I want to skip down and review uh a couple of things that I do not want people to miss. Um, number one is um it's not an accident that I have a have a video out there that a million and a half people have looked at. High blood pressure is the most preventable cause of premature death and morbidity meaning making your life less lovely. Uh high blood pressure, hypertension is the leading risk factor for the global burden of disease. It is a major risk factor for stroke, heart attack, heart failure, chronic. I'm not arguing that. Nobody's arguing that. What the question we're asking is how how low should we push it. Right? So as Dr. Bos pointed out, we know high blood pressure is a major problem in many cases of heart disease. But the question is what is considered high? That part I don't want anybody writing into my channel saying Dr. Bos said that I should stop taking my blood pressure medicine because it doesn't matter. That is not what I'm saying. I am saying how low should we treat it to and and why. So, we're going to go down to um this this is the objective that this this group of smarty pants at the Cochran Library says. We want to know if uh uh lower blood pressure targets of systolic and diastolic that less than 135 less than 85 are associated with reduction in mortality or and morbidity as compared to the standards which was this 140 over 140 to 160 over 90 to 100. Again, that's a range because of the years of the changing rules um from the treatment of people with high blood pressure and a history of cardiovascular disease, stroke. All right. Of course, what's in the back of my mind is how I to a a million and a half people used the sprint trial to explain that lowering their blood pressure was going to save their life. And the question is, well, was I wrong? Completely agree. I think all at least a majority of health practitioners and researchers would argue high blood pressure is a major risk factor for heart disease. Then the question in relation to the sprint trial which indicated that keeping your blood pressure if you have cardiovascular disease below 120 over 80 is superior to keeping it below 140 over 90. Those are systolic and diastolic numbers that you get tested at your doctor's office for example. However, the Cochran Review the gold standard for scientific evidence includes six more randomized control trials in addition to the sprint trial. And what did they find? Some results that might indicate this is all a scam. Ooh, how juicy, how tantalizing, how ever so clandestine. Well, let's uncover the scam. First of all, I like to point out that the the potential biases, and again, this is fun to see. uh not fun to see. It's just is what should be in every trial, but humans are human, right? Uh they do things that aren't exactly what we wish they would reveal to us. All right. So, the biases, there's several places where they said, "Yeah, these people had biases. These people had biases." But these other ones are what I thought was very interesting. Some of the um some of these had a pharmaceutical industry bias. That's the the hot trial and the AASK trial. And then this is a very other curious one where there's early termination meaning they they thought the results were so profound that they didn't finish the study and it causes a bias. There's a this is again important because that's the trial that I was quoting you on. Right. I do think it's important to look at the bias assessments performed in these analyses. They tell us a lot. However, they don't tell us what Dr. Bos explained. A bias assessment like a Jad scale or a ROB 2 are standardized checklists researchers use to assess the potential for bias that doesn't inform on the actual bias of the study or the people involved in the study directly but the potential for bias to be a factor. So like Dr. Boss pointed out two of the studies were funded by the pharmaceutical industry. So the meta analysis will upgrade those studies to some potential bias instead of low risk of bias. On the other hand, all the studies in this analysis had some bias because none of them were placeboc controlled because it's generally unethical to not help people with cardiovascular disease just for a study. So the comparator in this analysis and all the studies included was a standard blood pressure treatment to keep blood pressure below between 160 and 140 systolic and the intensive blood pressure treatment group kept the systolic blood pressure under 135. They used drugs to achieve that and therefore no placebo. Finally, in relation to why the sprint study was stopped early, that's true. It was again an ethics board that the researchers have to work with will sometimes call for a study to end early because the effect is obvious and keeping people on a standard treatment might be unethical or the results are obvious and the trend of the data has been consistent for a few years within the trial. So continuing it just doesn't add any more value to the interpretation. In fact, stopping a study early for those reasons, yes, is a bias because it includes a decision to stop collecting data before the predetermined endpoint. But it is a good thing in this context because the effect is so profound. Okay, so let's go a little bit further and we're going to look at um we're going to look at relative risk and that's where it leads me to the next slide. I'm going to gracefully change slides. There we go. Oops, not to the Fouchy one again. We're going to go to the next one and the next one. All right. A few months ago, I think it was last summer, I used this slide to talk about breast cancer and relative risk. We said yes, the people that had were in the control, uh, those had 30 cases of breast cancer in the control group, those were the people who didn't take the estrogen. And there were 38 people who were taking hormones and they got breast cancer. Both groups got breast cancer, but boy, there were more breast cancers in the HRT in the PE in the women who were taking that estrogen. And it was a big scare and they they stopped the trial and they said, "Yes, it's a 26% increase in risk. you've got to stop taking the breast cancer and you got to stop taking the estrogen because of breast cancer in these women. And they were playing a dirty trick and this is going to be really important when you look at some of the numbers I'm about to go through. They were talking about a relative risk that sounds harmless. Uh like, oh, it's a risk, right? And it's 26%. I don't want to increase my breast cancer by 26%. But that's not that's not an absolute risk because when you look carefully these numbers were 30 in 10,000 of the women not taking estrogen got breast cancer and 38 in 10,000 were taking estrogen and got breast cancer and that is an absolute risk and it shows you that a 0.08% increase is the risk that that woman was undertaking. Okay, a lot here. This is a concept that's often misrepresented and I definitely wouldn't want to call it a dirty trick. Although it could be used nefariously. In fact, I'd argue many people in the health influencer world use the opposite argument. Absolute risk hyperfixation a bit, let's say not accurately to put it mildly. Okay. So, what's going on here? One, Dr. Dr. Bos is explaining relative risk because the results are reported as relative risk as they often are in riskbased studies. Her explanation of the numbers is spot-on. You can see a 30% increase in risk and generally they're discussing relative risk. So it's relative to the other group. In this case there's more or less risk of dropping blood pressure below 135 systolic than keeping it above 140. So in a given scenario, a 30% increase risk seems scary. But when we look at the absolute risk, as Dr. Bos correctly pointed out, the absolute risk is much smaller because you're no longer simply comparing against the other group, but taking into account the number of people in the study, and the absolute risk is often very small. Now, if we stopped there and we'd walk away thinking that absolute risk is all that matters and that if absolute risk is something like 0.1% increase risk, I think I'll just ignore this all. But that would be a mistake and here's why. Absolute risk might be tiny initially, but keep in mind that absolute risk is also constrained by time. So if the study runs for three years, the absolute risk might be tiny, but the absolute risk tends to increase as time passes. So that tiny number begins to balloon into a life-threatening one. Unfortunately, randomized control trials can't be effectively done for 30 years. So we look at a snapshot risk at the trials end, the relative risk. No doubt it's good to have both including number needed to treat or N&T a topic for another time. But you can see that if you stop the explanation at absolute risk is a tiny number so you don't need to worry about it is misinforming on an incredibly important aspect of study analysis to understand. Unfortunately, I see this often in certain circles. I'll likely make a video explaining this concept in more detail. Stay tuned for that. Anyway, let's move on and show you. Here's the relative risk for um well, that's serious adverse respect. Let's go to this one. This one says total mortality. See that? Okay. So, here's the total mortality of all of these trials that those Cochran uh folks were looking at and they've got, you know, one one two three four five six seven trials that they looked at and they're looking at just lowering um the to get to the lower target. That's that less than 135 over less than 80. And then they compared them to the old old-timers, the you know 140 to 160 over 90 to 100. And they're looking at well what are the what's the total deaths? This is hard to screw up people. You shouldn't have a tough time figuring this one out, right? And you look at this relative risk. Um by the time you add up all of these trials, meaning they were very similar. Uh the larger the number of the study, the better we can be confident in it. And you get to the bottom and you say, "Huh, so if we criss-cross that one and you move the decimal point two points, we're at a, you know, 5% relative risk. pretty tiny actually and especially when you realize it's not an absolute risk, it's a relative risk. So they're trying to show the noise trying to show is there real data here. Is there really something and when you look at you know hazards ratio relative risk anytime it crosses the one you should be like we we're not going to be very confident in this data. I mean we're not going to be like you should be worried that they don't have a really good signal from this information that they're kind of guessing. Yeah. So I would describe things slightly differently but I agree with Dr. Boss. One, total mortality is a great outcome because unless we're in Salem's lot, dead people don't come back to life, which means that we can count pretty easily. However, if the data pass the middle line, that doesn't really speak to the certainty or the confidence in the data. There's other tells for that, like the actual confidence intervals themselves, but it does tell us there's likely no effect of dropping blood pressure to that lower level, that 135 over 85. Yeah, here's uh total cardiovascular events. We're going to get to the data here in a second, but 14 fewer cardiovascular events per 100,000 in the lower blood pressure targeted group. uh the results showed that 565 out of the 55 5300 um in the lower targeted groups versus the 535. So again, it's it's a really big math equation which is why we rely on things like uh that um hazards ratio or or relative risk. Um let me go to the next one down because I again go through the numbers here looking this this one says it's a 08 for the lower group and a one for the regular group. Uh is there a difference? That is the cardiovascular mortality I think is that right? Yeah. No, this is cardiovascular. Did they have a heart attack? Did they have a stroke? Um, I just want to chime in for a second and mention that was 14 out of 1,000, not 10,000. An understandable misspeak. Just important to distinguish because that's a huge difference. Anyway, let's let Dr. Bos finish her main point here. Here's for those of you that are just trying to say, "What's the punch line?" And please don't give up on me. It really is worth thinking about because you can't believe how many doctors make the decisions based on, you know, trusting uh these these outcomes. So, here's the chart. what they looked at from all of these um trials again we've got 10,000 patients about 9600 patients with all seven trials and they looked at um well what was the total mortality uh the study pop in this study they said you know what the relative risk here was 1.05 05. That's 5%. And they said, um, but it ranged. And did they did they have a benefit for lowering the the blood pressure? Um, you know, did they did they do better? And you're trying to say, well, this is a range from below the one where it says no, they didn't do better, they did worse to above the range. And then they took the average, which was the 1.05. Okay. So the next one down was these serious adverse effects. And again, they said, well, the range of our our confidence is it was below the one. So that means it didn't make a difference and that was uh right above the one and you're like, "Oh, it did make a difference." Real quick again, usually when discussing risk, the lower number is the better one. So the 0.94 would mean that the greater blood pressure reduction reduces risk, not the other way around. However, her main point is spoton. Nothing seems to indicate improvement with greater blood pressure reduction. Is the high blood pressure scam true? We'll find out shortly. And then of course they give you a 1.01. That's so mean. Um so total cardiovascular deaths. Um they have again a point8. The last one was okay. So maybe maybe and again seven randomized control trials. Um uh they do grade themselves looking at several things. I want to point out the two moderate ones. Cardiovascular mortality and total mortality. Deaths they do a good job of. There's a good end point. It's when you start getting wiggly on what's a cardiovascular event, what's a total uh um serious adverse event. Okay, Dr. Boss briefly misspoke again in relation to cardiovascular mortality and events. Not a biggie. I do it too, but I'm mentioning it because the differences between those end points matter. So, to be clear, let me pop open the data for you. The lower blood pressure had no effect on total mortality, serious adverse events, and cardiovascular mortality. We know that because the estimated effect is close to one and the confidence intervals clearly overlap with the one. However, if you look at the cardiovascular events which is heart attacks, stroke, sudden death and hospitalization or death from heart failure, the confidence intervals barely touch one. This is very important. Keep that in mind because I'll be explaining the significance of this in a bit. Also, one more quick reminder. The certainty of evidence that Dr. Bos describes is the certainty of the quality of the evidence based on the potential bias that we discussed earlier. It doesn't speak to the certainty of the end points like death. You can have a low certainty of evidence of death and a higher certainty of cardiovascular events for example. But let's get to the punchline, the conclusions Dr. Bos makes off these data and then I'd like to bring your attention to a few things. What did these smartypy pants and the Cochran Library say in the end? They said the evidence of all these seven trials include the blood pressures that uh were more frequently achieved in the standard blood pressure group than in the lower. Okay, that's pretty easy to think about. When you're trying to lower the blood pressure even further, it was easier to get to the to the ones that weren't as strict than the than the lower ones. And they used a bunch more prescription medications to get there. What they did uh want to what I want to point out is they detected no benefit for total mortality or cardiovascular mortality. And those are the two places where they have they had confidence. Moderate to high confidence that we all don't think you should be pushing blood pressure that low. If you do you're doing it for reasons that were not quite like you here's some there's a downside. Did you see the downside? Hey, I'm getting to it. Um we also found no difference uh with regards to the total cardiovascular events meaning heart attacks, m strokes, sudden death, hospitalization and death from heart failure. And the the total serious adverse events uh were also they found no difference. Most withdrawals were due to the adverse events occurring in the lower targeted group. Uh meaning you were more likely to withdraw when they were pushing your blood pressure lower. And that's where they had the lower confidence in this. Uh that's where the lowest confidence was in there. But uh it is not to to be um um um uh that that's not to be ignored. That that's actually really important part of when you're looking at the sum total of what we're trying to do with lowering that blood pressure. The patient's coming to the doctor saying, "Hey doc, I know blood pressure is a big deal. what number should I get to? And they're trying to, you know, they're trying to help you in a healthy relationship. The patient's going to help you get the outcomes that you're telling them to get to. And what we're saying is, I can push like hell. I have two really good examples from this morning's pinchasers that I'm going to use to drive home the point. Well, what is the punch line? What would I do now? We can see that with these the this review again coming out in 2022. This is a few years old, and I'm I'm a little embarrassed that it took me this long to find um to get to what um to really slow down and review this information. Um, but I'm also like I follow a few smarty pants people that are influencers and hardly anybody talked about this Cochran review. This is an incredible review that says, "Do you really need to push blood pressure down that low? Am I really helping them?" Because there are some adverse events when I push them down too far. And if I'm doing that in the name of stopping a heart attack, well, for heaven's sakes, I'm going to show you how to do that. We're going to figure out how to prevent those adverse events. But if you're telling me we didn't stop any we didn't stop any deaths from heart attacks, we didn't stop any overall deaths in these patients and we we really didn't change the morbid, you know, their the quality of life unless you're counting adverse events from lowering their blood pressure too much. And then we started to say, well, the net gain is you're hurting the more patients and you're helping. Okay, first off, in defense of Dr. Bos, not knowing about an analysis isn't anything to be embarrassed about. There's so much research out there, it's unrealistic to think that you'll be up to date on everything all the time. Now, to her points, I'd like to address her first point last because it's a vital piece of information that's being glossed over. So, to address the other points, yes, it took more medications to achieve the lower blood pressure target. And even though there was this lower blood pressure target, no mortality measures total or cardiovascular specific indicated a benefit. That's all true. That's what the Cochran analysis indicates. No debating it. Okay. Now, I held back this entire time, but now it's time to contextualize these results appropriately. One, the first point, more people hit their blood pressure targets in the standard treatment than in the intensive treatment. On the other hand, it might indicate it's more difficult to take multiple drugs and there might be side effects that led to more withdrawals from the study. That's a critique of using multiple blood pressure medications, for example. However, what else does this tell us? It tells us that the people who took the medication more often were the people in the standard treatment condition. So what do you think happens to the results when one group takes their medication and achieves the target blood pressure more than the other? Right? That group will have an outsized advantage. Only about 64% of those in the intensive treatment achieved the target blood pressure. On top of that, one critique that the researchers mentioned is that the difference between the two groups was only set to five units. Remember it was 140 over 90 and 135 over 85. So the overall amount of difference is small although still clinically relevant and beneficial. Now there are three primary levers that researchers can use to determine if something is effective or not especially when it comes to diseases that take decades to present. Yet you only have a limited number of years with which to run the trial. The three primary levers are one, time, the length of the trial. The longer that you extend it, the closer you get to the actual lifetime exposure of the disease. Number two, the effect size, the magnitude of the effect, as we discussed. If the effect difference is small, you'll need to use the other two levers to detect a difference. If the effect is large, which is more true for shorter disease progressions, this lever can be pretty powerful. Three, the sample size. The number of participants in the study. If you increase the sample size, the other two levers can be diminished somewhat and you can detect an effect if there is one. Okay, so this analysis included seven studies, which means over 9,000 participants. Seems like a lot. However, keep in mind that cardiovascular disease is a disease of decades. Yet, these studies lasted an average of about 3.5 years. Now, keep in mind that the effect size was relatively modest. In fact, the researchers addressed that last point by doing a subgroup analysis here where they only included studies that had at least 10 point difference in blood pressure. I love the idea, but they've paid one lever by robbing another. Look at the sample size now. It's less than 30% of what it was originally. To be clear, they found the same effect, or should I say a lack of an effect as the main analysis. Okay. So, why does any of this matter? It only matters if there's a chance that we're missing an effect that might actually be present itself. If we have more or better data, here's the thing. We have some evidence of that being the case. Remember this. Remember the cardiovascular events were extremely close to being statistically significant. In fact, if you look at the forest plot, even the statistics as reported indicate an effect as the p value is 0.05. I'll bet this was reported as not statistically significant because there might be some other numbers uh that are after the five that are cut off or it needed to be 1/100th under 0.05. 05. So, do we now make groundbreaking conclusions off data that barely misses statistical significance by a hair? Well, don't take my word for it. Even the researchers state, "We cannot state these results are conclusive and then later mention multiple other studies are in the works to fill in some of the data for this analysis. Kindly, they supplied all the study names." So, I did a bit of soouththing and here they are with their updated results as of early 2025. Three trials are ongoing even now. Two trials I couldn't find. One study indicated no effect of further blood pressure reduction and two trials showed improvements in cardiovascular events with greater blood pressure reduction. Now, this is speculation, but if we were to input the three trials that we have now, it seems likely to me that we'd reach statistical significance in the cardiovascular events outcome, indicating further blood pressure reduction is beneficial for reducing cardiovascular events like heart attacks and strokes in people with cardiovascular disease. But that still leaves one outstanding question. Assuming that we see improvements in cardiovascular disease events, why don't we see that reflected in mortality end points? Well, if you'll give me a bit more time, I'll explain that, too. But there's also more to say, and this video is way longer than I wanted it to be. Yet, I have more to say than that. So, I'm leaving the rest for, believe it or not, the extended version of this video, included for the Physionic Insiders, along with all of my analyses, a private library of videos, articles, podcasts, live sessions with me to ask questions, and much more. You can access that by joining the Physionic Insiders in the description box of this video. I hope to see you there. And I'd be shocked if someone wanted even more of this kind of deep dive, but it's there if you want it. I'll see you there. Now, why a potential difference in cardiovascular events, but not mortality? Well, the answer is actually really simple. Death is a great endpoint, except for those involved, but it also has a higher threshold to achieve. That means if a person has a heart attack, they might not die. Which means many more people have heart attacks than die, which reduces the amount of data input for the mortality data, thereby reducing the power of the analysis. So the correct interpretation is exactly what Dr. Boss said. There's no effect of further lowering blood pressure, but we shouldn't jump to the conclusion that may not change in the future. It's likely a reason the researchers said this analysis, while robust, is not conclusive. Okay, then enough babbling. I'll leave the rest for my extended video for the insiders. What's the takeaway here? The takeaway is that this analysis does indicate different results from the sprint trial, which means lowering blood pressure beyond 140 units over 90 units if you have cardiovascular disease is not warranted to prevent mortality or even events by the strictest letter of the analysis. However, and a big however, I think and the researchers acknowledge there's more data that's needed to make a definitive statement. So, opting for lower blood pressure, especially through non-farmaceutical means, is likely the more prudent way to go right now. There is a lot of wiggle room for things to change. If you're interested in a more detailed look at blood pressure and this sprint trial, check out this video. and otherwise I explain nonfarma ways of reducing blood pressure right here too. Thanks for hanging out with me.