We're back for another episode of The Centrifuge, where we spin out the BS from the real information discussed on health shows. My name is Nick. I hold a PhD in molecular medicine, and I'm tired of listening to health podcasts that don't supply studies to verify what is correct and what is BS. So, here we are. I'll do it for you. Today, we're going to be focused on the amino acid glycine as discussed by proclaimed glycine expert, Dr. Joel Brind who is a professor with a PhD in biomedical sciences like me and has a lot of work in the specific field of endocrinology. Now he was recently on the Rethink Health podcast with Dr. Autumn Smith who has her doctorate in holistic nutrition. So in this podcast episode I stumbled upon Dr. Brian discusses these topics. One, the problem with current day science. Number two, why vegans tend to be healthier and why carnivores might achieve the same if they eat nose totail. And three, obesity and cardiovascular disease are caused by glycine deficiency. Now, you'll want to stick around for the last one because you'll be shocked but by what I found on that front. Anyway, you will find all studies that I'll be going over in the description. Now, without further ado, let's spin it up. But I just want to highlight to the implications like you said where is the state of the research in terms of you know you have to establish a lot of things is there an association people with lower levels do they have higher risk of certain things and then you have supplementation like tell us about what you think are the strongest pieces of evidence pertaining to actual conditions we might experience like heart disease or dementia I've >> Oh yes there's some that are you know uh that are probably uh very telling about the the stat the status of science. So what I would say now is there's a lot of research that's been around for a long time which really shows what the truth is which really uh evidences what the real actors are and what they're doing. But the the state of science is not very good. Why? Because the state of sec technology is great. People may have noticed in other realms that as the technology improves the competence of the core field declines. Right. The >> more you have AI, what do you think is going to happen to writing skills the more AI takes over? >> You know, I I can't even get into my email that it doesn't say, "Oh, hi. I can help you write this. Excuse me. I think I I think I can say, "Thank you very much." [laughter] >> And a few other simple things in an email without AI popping into my screen and saying, "Oh, let me write this for you." No, but anyway, that's what happened. So in science there used to be uh science pure science was you start you make an observation and you think something's going on you have a so you have a question and an answer to that question you think of a hypothesis so then you have to think of how you're going to test this hypothesis and then you run think of an experiment you run the experiment you get the data and then finally you have your answer. Well, uh, nowadays they call that hypothesis-based science. In the old days, we used to call that science. Nowadays, they have what they call databased science. They have all these all these disciplines, all these tools they call omix, metabolomics and genomics and proteomics and lipomics. What are those? Those are are uh devices. There's systems now where you can measure hundreds of things at the same time. So instead of trying to test the hypothesis that substance XYZ may be a good marker for diabetes and so let's test people's blood for substance XYZ and maybe a couple of other things. Well, okay, maybe we'll get a grant to fund the research and we'll run the experiment. We'll do it. That's fine. Nowadays, you can me well we'll measure 300 different metabolites at the same time. We'll measure hundreds of different gene products. We'll do you know metabolomics and genomics and we'll and then we'll compare let's say people who don't have the disease with people who have diabetes or some other disease. Throw it all into the computer and let the computer decide what's significant and what isn't in terms of differences between the the patients and the controls and then let's try and figure out why. So they start with the data and that's really not science at all. what they call database science. In the old days, they used to call that a fishing expedition. And nobody would ever pay to do a fishing expedition because you you couldn't have enough money and enough blood to test for all those things you need to test for cuz you don't really know what you're looking for. You're just on a fishing expedition. I'm including this because I wanted you to hear Dr. Smith's question and I try not to edit things out when a person is speaking. A lot of this, as you know, is opinion. I think that Dr. Brian brings up some good points. For example, he's right that in the past before we had the technology that we do now, we had to be a lot more linear about things. I think X will happen if we manipulate Y, i.e. a hypothesis. However, recently to Dr. Brian's point, we have these wonderful technologies that allow us to take blood samples or a tissue sample and then we can measure across thousands of molecules what is present or not present and the amount between a sick population and a healthy population. Now, it doesn't surprise me that someone might call that a fishing exped expedition, which means that you're just shotgunning many bullets in the dark and hoping that something hits. However, this type of research has sped up research progress immensely, multiple orders of magnitude, because it just makes sense to use what's known as unargeted omix data, which supplies thousands of data points. And then the few molecules that are the most different between the healthy and the sick people are then the targets for manipulation. I mean, think about the alternative. The alternative is that you don't know the molecules, thousands of them. So, you look at each one individually, and that could literally take you years, what is now done in just a few days. Now, it's incredible technology, and I'm of the mind that it's massively improved our ability to target particular molecules that are most suspiciously different between groups. It just makes sense. Either way, I can respect Dr. Brian's perspective, even if I disagree. Although, as a quick nod, I can also certainly see how AI can get in the way of developing personal skills like writing. Still, that's beside the point. Let's move on to carnivores and vegans. This won't be inflammatory in any way whatsoever. >> So, now is lots of things of fishing expedition. So one was in the uh the uh the so-called epic trial European uh physiology some some acronym for a very big set of studies done with a European consortium of many universities and one in the UK were studying amino acids and so they wanted to say what's the difference between vegans lactovearians fish eating vegetarians and omnivores meateers what's the difference in their amino acids so they measured the amino amino acids of 100 in each cate category. How many of each amino acid do they consume every day in their diet which they followed very carefully and measured very closely. And then they measured the blood serum, the blood plasma of everybody to find out what were the amino acids in the blood. And so guess what? The ones who ate more lysine had more lysine in their bloods. The one who ate more uh histadine had more histadine in their blood. And it all seemed to work out fine except when it came to one little pesky amino acid, glycine. And what was that? Well, for some reason, the meateers who had more of every amino acid because they had a much higher protein content in the diet, a much higher protein intake, guess what? They had the least amount of glycine in their blood. Remember, more methionine uses up glycine. >> They didn't think about that, even though that was in the literature also. And guess who had the most glycine in their blood? The vegans. >> No. >> This explains why decades and decades of research have shown, oh yes, it's much better to be a vegan than a meat eater because the protein content is different and plant proteins are better for you and all that. Well, it's just because when they do the animal proteins, they throw out the bones and the connective tissues. But when you eat the whole animal, you don't get those effects of glycine deficiency, more inflammation, more heart disease, more cancer, and earlier demise because you have the whole protein in there. But these people, they could not explain why the vegans had more glycine in their blood and the meateers who ate more glycine than anybody else had the least amount of glycine in their blood by about 20%. These are substantial differences. Okay, this is a big one to cover. The claim is multi-layered. One part is that vegans have more glycine in their blood, this amino acid Dr. Bryant focuses on, which gives them better health outcomes. Now, the second layer is that people who eat meat, like carnivores, could narrow the health playing field if they just ate nose totail. Meaning, not just the meat, but the tendons, the ligaments, the bones, and well, I mean, everything. The natural step is to open up this study because Dr. Brian kindly offered a citation, a rare thing in many podcasts, though it's sometimes not feasible off the top of your head. Anyway, I found the study, the EPIC study, and sure enough, it shows a comparison of four different groups, exactly like he described. If we look at the blood levels of all the amino acids between the four groups listed up top, you'll see a bunch of numbers. Now, don't worry. We can ignore most of it. We'll just focus on this line, glycine. The researchers have used the meateers as the reference group. The other three groups are compared against. All we need to know is that the vegan group had a blood glycine of 452 and the meateers had a value of 390. And yes, the differences were statistically confirmed. So this confirms Dr. Brian's point that vegans, at least in this study, have greater blood glycine levels. Now, it's also true that generally people who eat more plant-based foods, as vegans do, tend to have lower risk of a series of different diseases. However, one major issue, if we return to this overwhelming table, you'll note that the glycine is not the only amino acid difference between the groups. So, this study does not provide any evidence that glycine is the main factor for why mostly plant-based consumers have relatively lower rates of disease and death. It was also never designed to assess that question. Of course, it's not like Dr. Bryant is making a statement based on this study alone. Now, to loop in a second related claim related to meateers, would be better off if they didn't restrict their intake to just meat, but actually ate more glycine through bone, cartilage, and the like. Now, the reason that Dr. Bryant is mentioning this is because there's this idea that another amino acid methionine uses up significant amounts of glycine. This has been known for several decades now. For example, this study where methane given to animals completely rob their liver of glycine. This is all important because there's some theories out there that center around the overabundance of methane in the cells leading to faster aging and the risk of disease. And since methane is in high concentrations in many meats, this would be the reason for this increased risk of aging and disease. So Dr. Brian's suggestion is that we should increase glycine intake, which can be found in bone and collaginous tissues like cartilage. This increased glycine would protect us from having too much methane if you're consuming a primarily animal-based diet like carnivore individuals are. Now, as far as increased glycine, reducing methane levels, there's some truth to that. As we went over, the issue is that the assumption that the cause of these diseases and mortality risks are due to insufficient glycine alone are a far stretch because they're hyperfocused on one amino acid. Yet, as we saw, many amino acids are different between meat eaters and vegans. And that's just considering differences in amino acids from protein sources. We're not even discussing differences in fat content, iron, and plenty of other molecules that are different between animal-based foods and plant-based foods. Just as an aside, these reviews that I'm citing here aren't proof that I'm correct. They're just proof that many researchers identify and describe other mechanisms that are at play. That's all. So, is it possible that a carnivore or generally anyone who eats meat could have a better health profile if they ate more cartilage, bone, and the like compared to if they didn't? Absolutely. However, that still doesn't mean that glycine is the one missing key. The point here being that the claims extend beyond what the research would agree with. It's possible that glycine could play a factor, but it is unlikely that it is the only factor. And in fact, we're about to see why in our last section, which had some pretty shocking discoveries. Now, before we touch on that, I'll be getting more into the methane connection to glycine, as well as getting into more detail on several studies on glycine in the extended version of this video that you're currently watching. If you're looking for a one-stop research shop, then check out my premium research platform, including all of these perks right here. It's called the Physionic Insiders. The link to join is in the description. >> So, this is one of the problems is so there it is. It was what they needed to know to connect the dots. They were in the literature already. But, you know, for like 20, 30 years, but they but these people are just interested in amino acids and they're so specialized. Everything is, you know, we used to tell a joke back in the in our high school days, you know, that with specialization is that you as you as you go on in your educational career, you learn more and more about less and less until you know everything about nothing. And this is this is what the practice of medicine has become and nutrition nutrition more has more people who think holistically you know like you know you're one whole individual and you're eating all these things and everything needs to be integrated together the way your body does it. So that's one of the one of the pieces of research that I like to highlight as a particular thing. But there lots of papers show the connection with diabetes with obesity now some of the most exciting research and it's exciting because I'm starting to inter interest the cardiologists in my family. >> Nice. And that that is a big deal because some uh cardiologists at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota and also in Jacksonville, Florida were studying childhood obesity epidemic, right? Childhood obesity in this country. And um and so they had a very interesting hypothesis. I said you know that of course obesity is associated with all manner of you know uh morbidity you know uh and heart attack and stroke and diabetes and all of that but you know when they're kids they don't get it. So, let's see if we can look for markers in their blood of these obese kids and see if we can find something if they're the same patterns that we find in older people who actually have diseases like heart disease. In this case, they're looking at cardiovascular disease. So, cardiovascular disease is characterized by a number of metabolic markers. and let's see if we can find the metabolic changes, the biochemical changes in the blood of these kids while they're kids and before they have any of these cardiovascular diseases. And guess what? >> Glycine. And that with other literature, other experiments that people have done are showing that obesity shuts down glycine synthesis. So yes, your body makes it, but it doesn't make enough. But also, when you're obese, you're making less. So your glycine deficiency is exacerbated even more. All right, the claim here is that glycine deficiency is linked to diabetes, cardiovascular disease, obesity, and more. Now, Dr. Bryant again references some research, thankfully, where he mentions the Mayo Clinic and the fact that it's in obese kids and they were looking at heart disease markers. Now, I did a bit of soouththing and I believe I may have found the study and confirming Dr. Brian's point. Low blood glycine was associated in children with greater concentrations of known cardiovascular risk factors like insulin resistance. You can see that as the line moves to the right that's greater homir which is an insulin resistance measure and the vertical axis is the blood glycine concentration. Okay, fair enough. But we're actually butddting up against the same problem as before. We're looking at associations that are not properly controlled. And there are many other factors that also associate with increased insulin resistance. But instead of restarting the previous argument, let me show you some less than comforting signs related to glycine and health. I'm talking about studies like these that show an increased risk of stroke related mortality from greater glycine consumption. This would certainly fly in the face of this argument that glycine is the defender against disease and would even mean that greater glycine consumption is related to more harm. Not exactly comforting. My point here isn't to scare glycine consumers half to death, though maybe their glycine is already doing that for them. No, I kid. My point is Dr. Brian's confidence in glycine is whole and unwavering. Yet, the research indicates that there's questions yet to be answered. So, should we put all our faith in this, in my opinion, relatively arbitrary amino acid, I'd argue against it. That said, to quiet some of the grumblings coming my way, there are direct lines of evidence that glycine is beneficial across multiple randomized control trials. So, should you overly be worried about uh this one study linking glycine to stroke risk? probably not as more evidence points towards glycine's benefits. So in the bigger picture, Dr. Brian's points about glycine are consistently focused on associative data, which is fine, but are difficult to control for all other potential factors when you're looking at a single amino acid. So yes, low glycine may track with cardiovascular disease risk factors and other diseases, but that likely does not account for all the other factors that also contribute to these diseases. In the end, we can go part of the way with Dr. Brian's assertions, but not as completely or as assured. This is what the data shows up to now. One, yes, people who eat plant-based nutrition tend to have greater blood glycine levels. Two, even if glycine plays a role in why people struggle with diseases, it is unlikely to be the only factor. There are many others that researchers offer and these factors tend to have much more research behind them. Three, glycine supplement supplementation is even with several holes in the literature that need to be patched likely beneficial for our health based on several randomized control trials. In fact, some of those benefits like on sleep can be found right here. Or if you want more analysis from this podcast on glycine, I have another episode launching next week which I'll put right here when it releases. Links are also in the description. Thanks for tuning in to yet another episode of the centeruge. I'll see you in the next one. Bye.