I've covered fasting as a form of intervention against cancer before, but the reality is that in a clinical sense, there just isn't that much data. So, it's not like there are many studies that we can then point to and say, "Yes, definitely fasting helps fight off cancer." And I think one of the barriers is the length of many fasts. Now, typically for more involved fasting, we're talking about a full day or more, but all of that may be changing because a recent study used a mixture of animal and human experiments, including a small clinical study to assess if more manageable fasting that lasts less than a day can have potent anti-cancer effects, like what I'll be explaining related to this image of a person with cancer regression Here, for example, intermittent fasting led to an increase in anti-cancer signatures within immune cells shown in the blue violin plot. In the less science speak, that means that intermittent fasting increased the number of proteins and behaviors by immune cells that are consistent with being aggressive toward cancer. And it reduces the number of proteins produced that inhibit anti-cancer behavior. Now, I'm not going to bore you with all the data, but this was confirmed across multiple other measures like immune cell exhaustion, uh, where immune cells are inhibited from attacking cancer and more. Well, one more for good measure because I think it's just such a cool image and it tells a cool story. The little bright dots in the images are individual cells and as they're grouped together, they are more similar in their gene expression. Meaning that the more of the same genes are being read and ultimately produced into proteins. That white circle there is identifying a key population of cells unique to fasting. See how the control the non-fasting condition is missing that group compared to the fasting? Well, that's because it doesn't have them like fasting promotes. So, why does that matter? Uh, are you kidding me? Do you not know who these cells are? They're like the delta force of immune cells. I'm dying to get their autograph. Anyway, they're called Terra, which is an even more specialized form of T- cell, a powerful anti-cancer cell. The big picture here is that intermittent fasting changes the body to be primed against cancer. Still, there's bigger and better things to cover because this study, as I mentioned, was in a mixture of human and mouse research. And some of the data that we went over was in mice. Let me ask you, do you think that fasting a mouse for a period of the day is the same as a person fasting for the same length of time? The answer is no. So, how can we even trust the mouse data to be even remotely representative of humans? Well, we can't innately unless we test it directly. And the researchers did the same experiment in mice as they did in humans, comparing a profile of cancer related molecules between different fasting periods shown here. Now they're grouping the overall results into these little circles with the purple at the bottom being the unfasted mice and the unfasted humans. Then by direction, 12 hours of fasting leads to some changes in these cancer related molecules relative to the unfasted conditions because the teal color are in a different spot in the graph and then everything shifts over with the 16 hours of fasting. The point here isn't to understand what all this means, but to simply recognize that there's a very similar pattern between mice and humans when comparing non-fasted versus 16 hours of fasting. This doesn't prove that humans are just like mice or vice versa, but it provides some evidence that in the context that we're discussing, there's similarity. So that means that the title of the study is not just some random number of hours fasting beyond the common nature of 16-hour fasts, but that 16 hours of fasting, even in humans, leads to changes in molecules produced in the body related to cancer that are not produced with shorter fasting. And in fact, remember these data? I didn't mention it, but that's in humans with colctal cancer. So they were able to show intermittent fasting has an effect on the immune system as well, not just changes in cancer related molecules. The point being 16 hours of fasting is the number to implement. Actually, we aren't limited to immune changes either. Next, I'd like to get into some more impressive human evidence and add some context to this all. But if you're looking for more depth into how intermittent fasting manipulates cancer cells into a deadly exchange of amino acids or how intermittent fasting may have a unique effects on cancer cells not shared by immune cells or even more on the mighty Terra cells, then check out the full version of this video that you're watching. It's an extended analysis including an article, a one paragraph summary of all the most important points and more. Plus, you get all these perks right over here, Sunny. Access to it all is through becoming a Physionic Insider. The link to join is in the description. I hope to see you there. Allow me to introduce you to these CT scans in people using intermittent fasting on the bottom and those not up top. The red circles identify the cancer location. So you'll notice that the person who was intermittent fasting experienced a reduction in tumor size that was not present for those not fasting. Now remarkable especially for such a simple fasting protocol and when repeated across small groups of people with colctal cancer. The red is before and the blue dots are after. We're measuring tumor size. Those not fasting did not experience any average change, but those that did fast experienced significant reductions in tumor size. So this all means that in preclinical and early clinical research, intermittent fasting for 16 hours paired with imunotherapy beats back cancer tumors not seen in identical scenarios missing fasting. As always, this stuff will be context dependent like the type of cancer, the stage of cancer, and more. But it's one of the very few studies to actually show intermittent fasting isn't just a weight loss technique, but can impact the body in wonderful ways that are beginning to extend into the cancer realm. That's for exciting times. But here's the thing. Yes, not many studies on fasting except I cover a more wellstudied form of fasting that has stronger clinical evidence against cancer right here. I'll catch you over there. Thanks for tuning in. It's always appreciated. And I hope that you learned something of value. I'll see you in the next one.