Well, hi Physionic community. Welcome back to the Physionic Podcast, which is my semianual, semi- inconsistent podcast that I release on particular topics that I find especially interesting um that I've covered over the last it's usually about every six months or so. So, if you're watching the video version of this, uh you might notice that I'm semi outside as well. That's because uh currently I'm taking care of my mother who had uh surgery. She's doing quite well. And um I thought, you know, it's such a beautiful day outside uh at at the house that I might as well take an opportunity to record outside for once. So, what are we going to be covering in this episode, which will be surely several hours long, as they tend to be. I think, as I've mentioned last uh last time, my record is I think 5 hours. And I think I've got only about 5 hours of recording on my actual uh webcam. So, or on my camcorder. So, it won't be lasting longer than 5 hours. I can tell you that much. Uh so the topics that we'll be covering in this episode are bourberine as an anti-olarctal cancer supplement, five tests to ascertain your health and to achieve better health, try to improve those five tests. Then we'll be getting into restricting glycine, that glycine that led to the reversal of cancer. I will be getting into my favorite anti-aging hack which will be highly relevant to uh being outside. If you haven't seen that analysis, I'll be covering my lithium revisited which actually was not a very popular topic, but it garnered a significant blowback on me. So, I wanted to cover some of the comments that were uh thrown my direction as well as obviously the the overall uh analysis and the results and whatnot. Then I'll be going over vitamin K against cardiovascular disease. So, that was another one of these analyses where I got a lot of push back and uh some some questions that I wanted to clarify as well. I've also picked out some uh the top comments uh under each one of those particular videos on YouTube so that I can address uh some of those as well. And then I'll just be doing a little bit of housekeeping. I I'm going to leave it on a positive note uh where I discuss a little bit of an exchange that I have with Michael Johnson. So, Michael, if you're uh I don't know if you're watching this or listening to this, um I'd like to kind of highlight our conversation, which I thought was rather lovely. So, without further ado, I think we'll be ready to go. I've got my Jovio mug right here. I'm actually at the Jovio quote unquote factory. So, if you're not familiar with what Jovio is, it's my dad's mug that he invented. I'm not going to go into the whole spiel. If you want to check it out, I'll put a link in the description, but I'll be sipping on this throughout. All right, so let's uh let's get into bourbin as an anti-olarctal cancer. Actually, before I get on that, um I've turned off as many ads as I possibly can. You know, all these different media platforms. It depends on which media platform you're on, but they have their different advertisement systems. Sometimes it's fully automatic, so I can't do anything. for YouTube. I have some control, not complete control. So, turned off as many ads as possible so that you're hopefully not going to have an interrupted sleeping experience. Uh, that said, I think that's all I wanted to Oh, you can also skip. I've got um I know that these episodes are super long. Uh I will supply timestamps so you can skip to each section that you're interested in. But uh also honestly if you want the most in-depth then just check out the actual analyses which are posted on YouTube. I've got them on LinkedIn. I've got them on I' I've actually started posting on Instagram. I'll talk about that a little bit later on. And uh my free public community. I also upload all the articles and videos there as well. So if uh if you want access to everything, you can literally just type in the topic. So in this case, we're going to be talking about bourbon and colctal cancer and it should pop up in my public community or my email list if you're part of my email list. Again, that's also free. Then you also get everything just delivered to you. Okay, that's it. That's that's enough of a spiel. Let's get into it. Okay, bourberin anti-ol colctal cancer. So, I ran across this study that came out in cell I don't know if it was cell metabolism. I don't think that it was but some sort of cell adjacent journal. So, some journal that is kind of a subcategory of cell if I remember correctly. Don't quote me on that. And within this study which was a follow-up study if I remember correctly I think yes that that part is correct. So it was a follow-up study of participants that had undergone a randomized control trial where the researchers had separated people to placebo group or to consume bourberin. The amount of bourberin since I'll cut to that answer is 600 milligrams and it was split in two. Uh for I said it I think just like that and for some reason a lot of people were confused. They thought they were they were asking if it was 600 mg twice. It is not. It's 600 milligrams. So 300 milligrams and 300 milligrams. And so this group took bourberin for I think a year or two in the initial study and then for this cell follow-up study uh what they did is they did a follow-up where six years later they tracked if people still had a reduced risk of colurectal cancer and more specifically they were looking at precancerous growths. So they were looking at things like uh adenomas or some sort of abnormal growth that was happening within the colon. And so they did that for the first two years in a randomized control trial setting. And then after that it was no longer technically randomized control trial, but they did a follow-up for an additional six years to see if when people stop consuming bourbon, do you still experience benefit? As in do you still have reduced risk? Obviously the way I'm talking you should know that by now that in the randomized control trial they showed that there was a reduction in neoplasms and adinomomas and these again these these are kind of technical terms for abnormal growth that are kind of precancerous and are on their way to becoming cancerous becoming colurectal cancer. So in the first two years they found an effect I think it was something like 20% and then but then they had another outcome that they were interested in in figuring out uh more aggressive forms of these adenomomas and uh numbers of these adenomas and both of those were also reduced I think it was on the order of like 40 50% reduction compared obviously this is relative to placebo and then after the six years I'm just going to repeat this one more time two years on bourberine. Then they stopped consuming bourbon. No longer on bourberine. Six years later, they still had reduced risk of these adenomas, these these growths, these abnormal growths in the colon. So this is pretty exciting, right? Like that's that's a pretty astounding finding. Now, of course, there's always cautions with these studies, right? The study was very well done. I'm not I have nothing I have nothing really negative to say about the study. Um the study was pretty large for a randomized control trial. Well, again, these things are pretty expensive. But, you know, even so, and I say this about other supplements and other really just any study, uh, when there's a single study that comes out, I'm extremely excited and I will report the data as it is, but there's always a want for some level of replication, right? We don't I don't really want to to have this assumption that it's going to carry continuously. So, we're still waiting for some sort of replication. I say still waiting, I mean it's been what, like four months since the study released. So, it's uh it's probably going to be a few years before we have any sort of replication of this study unless they're already working on something. Um, which which could certainly be the case. Uh, the same thing is true for like GLAC when I covered glycine and an acetylcysteine. Those studies um that all those studies come out of a single lab, right? They come out of a very reputable lab, Baylor Medicine research facility, which is great, but that uh that doesn't mean that we wouldn't like to see other research groups come out because the Gleak literature is just so like it's so impressive what they were able to pull off in in older individuals. So, the same thing applies to this Bourburn study. But I didn't want to leave it just there, right? I wanted to cover uh some of the mechanisms like how is bourbon having this effect. So I did find other studies by other research groups that look at the mechanistic relationship of bourberin on colctal cancer. So these are studies where the researchers are given or not the researchers the participants are given by the researchers uh bourberine or uh a placebo and generally they focus more not on like actual outcomes. So we're no longer interested in outcomes at this point like as in clinical outcomes I should say. uh they're more interested in the outcomes of like cell viability or uh cancer growth like applying bourberine to cancer cells that are taken from humans or uh they apply it to mice that are that have colorectal cancer uh or are prone to colurectal cancer and then doing a variety of different measurements. So when it came to the mechanisms, one of the mechanisms was a reduced reduction in glucose uptake inside the cancer cells. So when you take uh these colctal cancer cells and you apply bourberin to them and then you measure for example the amount of glucose that goes from outside of the cell so the extracellular meu to the actual inside of the cell. you can measure that and what they found is that when exposed to bourberine these cells took up much less glucose and it was a concentration dependent manner. So if the more uh bourberine you added then there was more and more reduction in the cancer cell's ability to take up glucose. So that's certainly one possibility. Now, of course, when you're looking at in vitro work, which means that you're looking at it with cells like what I just described, actually applying bourberine directly to the cells, uh, you know, the the translation of that is very difficult. So, there's always a little bit of wiggle room there because yes, that could be a mechanism, but the amount of bourbon that we're consuming is 600 milligrams. So, does that translate to the level that's applied in vitro? Is that what's actually being delivered to the cancer cells? Um, and often the answer is no. It's not going to be a direct one to one, but at least we know that bourberine isn't just inert. It doesn't just do nothing to the cancer cells. It does have direct impact as in it reduces this glucose uptake. So sugar uptake is reduced. So that's one mechanism. The other mechanism or another mechanism is that it changes the microbiome uh to be less hospitable for colurectal cancer. So for this this was in uh mouse experiments if I remember correctly. where uh they applied bourberine or a control substance to the mice. So they fed them uh a control subst basically regular chiao regular food. Uh or the other group was given the chowo plus bourberin in addition and they showed that one obviously colorectile cancer um occurrence was lower in the bourberine group but in addition to that uh they also showed that the microbiome changes and uh they specifically pinned it on a particular bacterium. Now, I don't want to want you coming away thinking that it's only one bacteria. One bacteria is causing all colorctal cancer. It's not the case because of how strict the study design is. They only looked at some bacterium and they just focused in on this one. Um, that doesn't mean that there aren't many other factors that also contribute, but they showed that bourberine reduces this one bacterium and this one bacterium is linked to colctal cancer. And they show actually if I I'm pretty sure this is correct that uh when they exposed the mice that were that were predisposed genetically predisposed to colurectal cancer when they exposed them to this bacterium that they developed colctal cancer at a faster rate. So there is a link between this bacterium and I don't remember the exact name. You'll have to go back to the analysis and all that stuff. I don't have that level of detail in my notes um in front of me, but the the big picture here, the big takeaway here is that bourberine has a direct impact on the cells, the colctal cancer cells and it also has a indirect effect on the colorectal cancer cells by essentially remove like changing the environment of the colorectal cancer to be less hospitable to the colctal cancer by modulating the microbiome. the gut microbiome. Okay. And then in the end that leads to as you apply more bourbon to these colctal cancer cells, their cell viability decreases. And it's kind of in a step-wise manner. So as you increase your bourbon concentration, there's a reduction in uh the the cells can't live as in it's not just that they don't take up as much glucose, but they also just can't survive. they undergo apoptosis which means programmed cell death which is a good thing right we want more of that when it comes to cancer cells okay so let me take a step back here because I I always try to be as careful as I can be when communicating this stuff this does not mean that you should mega dose bourberin I just need to pause there for a second because people will understandable right you hear oh well greater concentrations of bourberin led to more cell cancer cell death. So therefore, I will mega dose bourberin, but that's in an in vitro system. There are no consequences for that, right? You're just applying it to cells and then you're seeing do the cancer cells die? Yes. Great. Now you apply it to an invivo system, an animal or to to us humans and I don't know, who knows? Maybe you grow a third eye or you you know like there's all kinds of different things that could happen. So it's not it's not a a immediate relationship where we jump on as much bourburn as possible. The only tested dose is 600 milligrams split into two doses. Okay, just to just to be clear on that. Okay, so that's where I landed on bourbon and its anti-colctal cancer mechanisms. Now, there were a few comments. As I said, I pulled a few of the top comments. Um, some of them are kind of funny, like uh I think it's spelled or pronounced shy or sherry. C H Y R E. The auto captions say borberin as in like kind of like bourbon. I conclude that this means bourberin and Uh, too bad my preference is scotchin. That's a good one. Um, I got so many of different comments related to like the captions saying bourbon or bourbon. I just don't have the resources to go through all my videos and just like correct all the captions. That just takes it's beyond me. Beyond me. Um, but it does make for some some comedic relief regardless. So, that was one comment. Then Mike's m i snz. These largely come from YouTube, by the way. Is bourbon only for colon cancer? What about other cancers? So, that's a good question. The answer is up to now all that I've seen that's been of any convincing data, especially, you know, having a throughine between clinical data, uh, mechanistic data, and maybe kind of in between of like associative data, although I didn't really look at that, uh, to to much degree. Uh the answer is it's only colorectal cancer up to now. Um could there be improvements you know in the future with other types of cancers? Absolutely. Um I'd like to see this these data be reproduced but I'd also like to see other types of cancers affected or see if they're affected by bourberin. Now, of course, with colurectal cancer, there's an advantage, right? Because colurectal cancer is right like when when I was taught during my PhD, the way we were taught is that the body is if you were to split the body into different sections and whatnot, the internal and the external section quote unquote of your body. Uh the way to think about it is that your gastrointestinal system, the actual lumen as in the opening of your gastrointestinal system from your mouth being open like a tube down to your stomach, the stomach then to your small intestine, small intestine to the large intestine, so on so forth, and then back out your your anus. That is all part of the exterior of your body. Um, and the interior of the body is where you have this barrier between your blood system and the the this quote unquote exterior of the body, this tubing that that makes up your gastrointestinal system. So the advantage of bourberine is that you get a direct impact and that's the same for like fiber that's the same for really any nutrient that has colctal cancer effects is that we can directly attack those colctal cancer cells because we're getting a direct exposure or a very near direct exposure to from the substance that we consume if that's a drug or if that's fiber or if that's bourberin to the actual colctal cancer. So, it's much easier to target. Um, and it wouldn't surprise me if we were able to just in general target those cancer cells much easier than we can uh other cancer cells. On the flip side, well, let me finish that thought. So, on the difficulty is that then for others like breast cancer that's inside the body, right? That again quote unquote inside the body. It's I'm not saying like technically people could easily argue okay my gastrointestinal system sure the tubing might be quote unquote outside the body but in reality it's still affecting me right and that's a fair point but the way it was taught I'm just pointing that out so if we go back to the inside of the body it has to pass this this epithelial layer the actual gastrointestinal system if you were to use a drug or bourberine or whatever it might be has to go into the bloodstream has to travel the bloodstream and end up at the site of cancer. So if you're talking about breast cancer, brain cancer, brain cancer is even more difficult because you've got this uh this special layer that separates uh the other parts of the body from the brain as well. Uh bone cancer, whatever it might be, muscle cancer, uh there's there's all kinds of different barriers that the drug has to get through and then it has to target to those particular areas which makes it ultimately that much more difficult. Now the one negative of colorectal cancer is it's actually surrounded by epithelial cells. So if you have a growth of these abnormal cells that you know these cancer cells that are obviously fast dividing the other cells in that area also fast dividing you you're constantly recycling through these epithelial cells that make up your intestinal lining. So it does make things pretty tricky. Uh right because now you're trying to target this colorectal cancer and you can directly target it. That's great. But what happens to the other cells that also behave a lot like cancer cells? They're not cancer cells. But and you don't really want to attack those, right? Because those cells are actually serving a purpose. So there's there's always trickery. There's always difficulty when it comes to uh cancer research and that's that's what makes it uh just such a difficult disease to deal with on multiple fronts beyond what I'm discussing here. So Mikeson's uh the answer is currently only for colurectal cancer as far as I've been able to find. Okay, the next topic is five tests for better health. This came about from a centrifuge episode, which I've been having a ton of fun making these uh centrifuge episodes, which if you haven't seen any of those episodes, uh they are in simple terms a centuge. What it does is that it spins out one thing from another thing. And the idea behind the centerfuge episodes that I release on for physionic is that we're separating out the BS from the truth. Uh the reality, the sciencebacked information. So what I do is I take health podcasts, health shows, and I I used to want to do like the entire podcast that I can't express to you how much work goes into some of these episodes. uh because I'm trying to be as accurate as possible and I try to be give as much leeway as possible because I also don't want to be seen as unfair. So when a person says I don't know it can be some some like small comment I have to spend hours trying to fact check that one small comment which is like what 30 seconds for them to just say it and then it's hours for me to have to go back and make sure that that comment is correct and I can know the answer right I can know the answer but the point of the centeruge is not for me to pit my credentials against somebody else's credentials. That's that's just that's just relying on authority as opposed to what the point is is for me to show you, okay, here we've got evidence and here we have no evidence or we have evidence against that claim. Right? That's the point. It's not for for us to rely on Nick has a PhD therefore he is correct. That's not the point. So anyway, the centerfuge episodes take a really long time, but that's not what we're here to discuss. The reason why I'm mentioning that is because I did a two I think two centerfuge episodes on Dr. Casey Means. Uh Dr. Casey Means is a she has her doctorate in medicine. I don't think that she's practicing. I'm pretty sure she's not practicing. Uh, and I believe she dropped out of a residency near the end of her residency, but anyway, she she's put out some a lot of different content. She has this book uh I don't remember the name of it but she has a at least one book that's out and she was making this podcast tour and she was on the J Shetty podcast and in that podcast she was talking about what five tests would free or preferably free tests she would suggest that anybody get to make sure that they are uh above board on their health like their health is is doing Well, so her list, I'm going to go through her list first. Her list was fasting glucose, so fasting blood sugar, triglycerides, blood fats, HDL cholesterol, that's the third one. Fourth is waist circumference, and then finally blood pressure. Okay. So then I went through and I picked out you know I went through these five and I did a bunch of research did you know found different studies from different uh universities and different um different systems different governing bodies and whatnot and try to corroborate you know what the correct reference ranges were. if this particular uh factor, this particular test was the mo the the most recommended uh based on the most current literature. And there were some inconsistencies. I'll just put it this way. So, for a lot of it, she was spot on. And keep in mind that this is free or just about free. I mean really the the main focus was it on being free as in it's covered by your insurance and you don't need uh to to get a special additional test added on. So this is from a basic blood panel that you would get from like your physical your yearly physical. So fasting glucose is a good one. Um it's not as good and I know people mention this well what about HbA1c or some of these other measures that would be better? What about insulin? Um, and that's all fair. That's that's all true, but usually I know some people were saying, "Well, HbA1c is really cheap where I am." Still, that's an additional cost. That's an additional test on top of your basic blood panel. Uh, for most people, at least that's been my experience. That's been experience that I've seen across the board on like LabCore or if you do Quest Diagnostics or any of those. So, I think blood sugar is fine. Uh, fasting glucose, the number for that. So I'm going to give you the numbers is less than 100 milligrams per deciliter. That would be considered uh in within the healthy range. Anything above that you're getting into pre-diabetes and diabetes obviously if you go far above that. Okay. The next one was triglycerides. And triglycerides was an interesting one. It's not that I necessarily disagree with that one. It's just that there's much less importance that's placed on triglycerides. And she did make an she did make a point in one of the episodes that the reason why we don't focus on something like triglycerides is because we we can't or we don't have a drug to treat it. So that's why it's kind of fallen out of favor. And I have to say I completely disagree with her on that. um the I didn't know. So, first off, I didn't know the answer. I didn't know like I knew that triglycerides had kind of fallen out of favor. I'm not saying that it has no importance, but it's definitely not one of like the the main ones that you should definitely be checking. Um the reason why it's quote unquote fallen out of favor is because there have been drugs that have actually been implemented and tested and whatnot and they showed no impact. So, I don't know about you, but like if I'm a pharmaceutical company and I create a drug and I test it in thousands of people and then I see no benefit, how like first of all, the FDA is just going to laugh in your face. They're going to be like, "Absolutely not. You're not allowed to release this." Um, but secondly, why would I continue to invest money into that, right? Like, what's what's the point? And beyond that, a lot of the other research that's come out that's not drugrelated, that's just shown like links with triglycerides, when you control for other factors like uh particle number of of LDL particles or VLDLDL particles or just apo in general, suddenly triglycerides play much lower if any role whatsoever. Um, and I'll explain that a little bit more in in just a little bit. Uh but for now just know that triglycerides are not very high up on the list. Um I'm not saying that so for example if you have diabetes there's a chance a pretty good chance that your triglycerides are really high but does that mean that you should target your triglycerides specifically? The answer is probably not. You should target the diabetes as a whole and that will probably reduce your triglycerides. Uh, but if you were to target your triglycerides but still have diabetes, guess what? You're probably still pretty screwed. Sorry to say. But, you know, to put it bluntly, you you should focus on the the the thing that has the most evidence, which nobody would dispute that diabetes is going to shorten your lifespan, inc massively increase your risk of mortality, cardiovascular disease, all kinds of different factors. So, that should be the focus. Okay. All right. The next one that she mentions is HDL cholesterol. And I just happened to do a full analysis on HDL cholesterol. And this is a similar story. Um, in fact, it's I think even even more of a story than it is with triglycerides where triglycerides there could be some arguments made, but HDL cholesterol is so to describe what HDL cholesterol is. Uh, you've probably heard of LDL cholesterol, uh, low density lipoprotein cholesterol. This is high density lipoprotein cholesterol, HDL. And LDL has been linked to cardiovascular disease across many many different studies to varying levels of strength. And there's multiple reasons for that. But the focus on HDL, she mentions this focus on HDL. And maybe about 20 years ago, researchers and physicians and the governing bodies and whatnot. When I say governing bodies, I'm talking about like the society of lipidology or uh the European society of atherosclerosis, you know, like those kinds of governing bodies. Um they have you so 20 years ago or so they did mention yeah having higher HDL is a good thing to have and low HDL can be is linked to all these different disease states diabetes cardiovascular disease all those different uh disease states. However, re in the last like 10 years, 5 to 10 years, pharmaceutical companies, the ones with a ton of money, obviously they're trying to make money, right? Uh so they developed these drugs and they thought, okay, well, if HDL, if increasing HDL is what we need to do to improve health outcomes, then that's what we should do. we should focus on HDL. So they developed several drugs, I think like three, at least three different drugs from different pharmaceutical companies that targeted HDL and and and kind of artificially increased HDL independent of everything else or at least that was the idea. And they showed repeatedly there was no effect. So if you increase HDL but keep everything else the same and then you compare to another group of people that do not raise HDL and they also have every everything else the same. So talking about LDL, talking about blood sugar, talking about insulin levels, talking about let's say triglycerides, talk about your general health, they're not diabetic, all that stuff. All everything else is the same across both groups being compared, but one group has this drug that, you know, increases their HDL. There's no difference in mortality, cardiovascular events whatsoever. So that's one huge line of evidence. But of course, there are problems with that, right? Like there there's possibility that the drug has offtarget effects. And in fact, there was one drug that did have offtarget effects that ultimately led to more deaths as in its offtarget effects. It's its side effects led to more deaths, which is obviously horrifying. And that they stopped that trial and they said, "Okay, I think we'll we'll back away from that one. I think uh I think we'll pass." um which is what they should do because again if you were to try to push that through the FDA they would laugh in your face. They would say absolutely not. We won't even we won't even entertain the discussion. So then but then there were some drugs that did not seem to have any side effect or I shouldn't say didn't have any side effects but compared to placebo didn't have any extremely detrimental side effects that would affect the outcome and ultimately they still didn't show a benefit. Okay. So but that's still one line of evidence that still doesn't necessarily mean that uh we should do away with HDL. What about all these correlational studies that showed that HDL was linked higher HDL was linked to better cardiovascular disease mortality and whatnot? Well, again, there were other studies that were done after that, you know, adjusting for some of the new information that we knew, like for example, APOB levels um and looking at blood sugar, insulin, etc., etc. And suddenly the the effect was far more muted. There is still a relationship between extremely high HDL like over a 100 milligrams per deciliter verse and very low HDL like I don't know like 20 milligrams per deciliter and how there's still there's kind of this U-shaped curve where people that are very low or very high still have increased risk of mortality but mortality is kind of a dirty metric right it's a good metric in general like it's informative but it's Not it's not as informative as people like to scream about which sometimes I get comments people saying well let's just look at mortality uh overall total mortality all cause mortality that's the only thing that matters well okay let me ask you this how would you determine the difference between a drug that has an effect it improves cardiovascular disease right so therefore mortality would decrease total mortality would decrease as a result of improvement ments in cardiovascular mortality. But what if that drug increase cancer mortality? Now if those are roughly equal in the number of people that they save lives on the cardiovascular disease mortality but they increase the risk of cancer mortality the same number of people roughly the same number of people die from cancer that the total mortality benefit would be neutral. So now you've lost the nuances of that measure, right? So that's why I and this is like I is something that's really important for people to understand. Just looking at mortality is not the end all beall just because you don't see changes. And there's other reasons why you shouldn't just look at mortality. Now to be clear, I still love mortality data. That sounds that's honestly that sounds awful. Um, I don't mean it, and I know you understand that. I don't mean it as like, yeah, people died. That's definitely not my point. Um, it's it's awful that people died, but I'm just talking about the data itself, the the actual outcome itself is fantastic, except it has shortcomings and and those can be addressed by by being more specific about what you're looking at. If you expect something to improve cardiovascular disease mortality, then that is what you should look at. You can also look at total mortality. But don't be shocked if total mortality does not budge, but cardiovascular disease specific mortality does budge or cancer mortality, whatever it might be. So I just wanted to quick point that out. So with HDL there is still this like U-shaped curve where really low or really high like absurdly high levels uh is linked but that that doesn't necessarily mean that it's causing and that's where we're getting into a whole new phase of understanding HDL because now we're starting to look at the particle quality and that's something that uh I discussed a little bit for the insiders in my my analysis but we're still pretty early on in understanding particle quality and its relationship to uh cardiovascular disease and just health in general. So that's the second line of evidence. We we started looking more at the correlational evidence and we started adjusting for more things that we understood tracked that actually caused cardiovascular mortality and suddenly the relationship weakened significantly. And then there was a third line of evidence where if you looked at the Mandelian randomization trials, which is essentially people where their genetics indicate that they have elevated HDL that is independent of anything else. So they are automatically randomized. So they're randomly assigned to having high HDL or not having high HDL because of their genetics. And we can look at the relationship that that gene has to other uh other molecules, other factors. And if we isolate to just the genes that we are reasonably confident only affect HDL and we just look at those groups of people versus the people that have normal genes, quote unquote normal genes and don't have this elevated level of HDL, then we can compare over a lifetime if the people with high HDL have an abnormal protection from cardiovascular disease. And the answer is no. So again, uh there's no difference between the two groups over a lifetime of having elevated HDL. So we've got three lines of evidence and we've got more, but those are three massively powerful I mean that's like huge amounts of information telling us that HDL is not what you should be targeting. So hopefully I've somewhat explained and convinced you that HDL is not something that you should be super focused on. I'm not saying it has no importance, but it should be pretty low on the list. Okay, the next one was waist circumference. She mentions waist circumference. I think this is a good one, right? Like, so it's a it's a proxy metric for, you know, being overweight, being over fat, uh having high visceral fat. I think this one's perfectly fine. And then, of course, blood pressure. Uh I think she threw out some numbers that were above what the standard recommendations are currently. the recommendations I guess hold on let me go back to waist circumference waist circumference the the numbers were below 40 in or 102 cm for men and 35 in or below 88 cm for women. Okay. Uh blood pressure was the the current recommendations are below 120 over 80. So 120 systolic which is the top number and then 80 uh as the bottom number. And there are many many many many many studies that show that if you reduce your blood pressure there is a point you know where it could be dangerous. But like if you're anywhere like 110 or even 100 or 120 you're you're not there's not much risk there. But if obviously if you're going like way way below that then you know there may be a conversation to be had with your physician. But as it stands, uh, having blood pressure in like the 140s and comparing that to people that have their blood pressure in the 120s, no matter how you reduce it, if that's through lifestyle or if that's through drug intervention or whatever it might be, or if the supplements, whatever, okay, we'll just we'll just move on. We'll just say sure, whatever. Whatever the reason is, whatever the intervention is, you use it and it drops your blood pressure, you are far better off and you will have uh improved or reduced cardiovascular disease risk. Now, let me circle back using that good old consulting speak. Let me circle back to the HDL. Okay, so my list did change. My list was different. my list again with the caveat that these have to be largely free or covered by insurance uh basic insurance or like something you would get at a physical. So fasting glucose is fine like yes would I love to have you know more information like HbA1c or insulin levels all that stuff? Yes, for sure. But as it stands, fasting glucose, triglycerides, like I I was having a tough time really figuring out one to maybe replace that with. Maybe you could make an argument for like C-reactive protein, um, CRP, but triglycerides are fine if you know how to think about them in relationship to the next one that I'll mention. So, because I said HDL is not that great of a marker, HDL cholesterol, let's remove that one and let's put in honestly it's exact opposite nonHDL cholesterol. Non-HDL cholesterol is a measure of the cholesterol. So, remember how I said low density lipoproteins, so LDL and HDL, so high density lipoprotein. Well, there are others, right? They're intermediate density lipoproteins and they're very low density lipoproteins and those get all combined into your total cholesterol. So the actual cholesterol that's found inside of these particles. So if you measure the total cholesterol and then you subtract the HDL cholesterol then you're left with only the LDL, the LDL and the VLDL. So these these kind of major components of cholesterol that are in your bloodstream, then that gives you an indication of your risk because those do track and have been shown over and over to cause cardiovascular disease. So, it's still not a perfect metric, but it tends to be better than just looking at something like LDL cholesterol, which LDL cholesterol has some association and some relationship and is causitive, but because it's not pime, it's not the only factor. It's not as good of a marker as something like nonHDL cholesterol. So that's why I say non-HDL cholesterol which the metric or the the range for that should be less than 130 milligrams per deciliter. Now another thing that I'll quick point out is that some people pointed out and I I was okay with waist circumference but some people were saying well what about waist to hip ratio which which can give you a more uh more targeted approach can give you a more uh exact answer. And I think that's that's a really good uh that's a really good suggestion. Waist to hip ratio the pro the only problem with it is that it's less common. We have less data on it. And although when compared from my understanding which I haven't done a deep dive on this but from my understanding is when you do compare it against waist circumference alone there is a better predictive ability of waist to hip ratio. Um, however, that doesn't that doesn't necessarily mean that you have to do waist to hip ratio. You can still do waist circumference and get a lot of really important information. But considering that it's free and you could do it, I think there's some measurement error that could happen because when you're measuring the hips compared to the waist, um, you know, that could introduce some error, but yes, waist to hip ratio is a is a perfectly reasonable uh alternative to waist circumference. And of course, blood pressure is fantastic. So, my list, fasting glucose, triglycerides, I would put it probably at the very bottom of that list. And I might even switch that out for a C-reactive protein because it might tell you some more information related to other issues that may be going on that are not necessarily cardiovascular disease, non-HDL cholesterol for sure, waist circumference or waist to hip ratio, fine, and blood pressure. Those would be my five. And of course there are better tests that are out there as well that you can do for if you want to pay extra or do more uh with that. Okay. So comments uh William Light had this to say. Uh I was chief resident. I taught interns and residents the details of how to interpret laboratory results. This is not taught in medical school, but you learn how to practice and such during internship and residency. Okay. So why is William talking about this? William is talking about this because Dr. Casey means made a a a quick comment saying that uh doctors are not taught how to interpret uh medical result shouldn't say medical results blood lab results which I did find incredibly peculiar. Uh but my understanding is that keep in mind I'm a PhD. So I went to medical school for my PhD, not for my actual hands-on uh you know blood testing and all that stuff. Uh so like a clinician would, a physician would. Uh so I don't have any firsthand experience to to be able to speak to that. I can say from firsthand experience during my master's program during kinesiology, exercise physiology, we did have to do blood draws and we had to do um analysis of like lab results. We had to do EKGs. We had to do all that stuff. So we were taught I can say that much. Um but I just can't speak necessarily for physicians. But I'm I'm hardpressed to say to like I find it very strange that a physician would not be trained in medical school how to read lab results or what lab results mean. Um William is saying something kind of in the middle right uh saying that okay it might be true that we were not taught in medical school but you are taught somewhere along your medical journey. So, uh, before you become an attending, you will be educated on these different lab results and whatnot, which is fair enough. I still find it really hard to believe. I mean, look, again, I I don't have any firsthand experience, so I can't say. Um, and if you're a doctor and you're listening to this, I'd be curious if you had learned about your like just lab results in general, how to read lab results in medical school or was it later? Was it actually in your residency that you learned that? And regardless, it doesn't really matter because ultimately you can't uh as far as I'm aware, you can't get like an actual job and and and practice with patients without having gone through some level of additional training after medical school. So, um yeah, I'd just be interested in in your take, but thank you for commenting, William. Uh, DAB R1 had this to say. I want to be proactive in addressing health concerns and I like a and I like a lot of these influencer types because they focus on prevention, nutrition, exercise, sleep, etc. These are big categories that we know are important. However, there are a lot of specifics where I have big questions. Eg. supplements, fasting, very specific timing for eating and exercise where you could do a lot of good by checking for evidence. Thank you for this series. I appreciate it. Um, and thank you. Yeah. So, yeah, the influencer types. I I mean, I've I've I could probably talk about this topic for hours. Um the influencer types, yes, they do they do put a lot of focus on sleep and exercise generally uh and the basics which I I do appreciate and I think that there are certain areas especially with the different stories that I've heard that you know some physicians I don't I certainly don't want to alienate physicians as a whole some physicians you know don't put enough emphasis on some of these lifestyle factors that you can improve. Um and there are multiple reasons, myriad reasons for for that. So the influencers coming in and saying like oh you know focus on your sleep and and make sure you know there's research saying that you can improve like if you do highintensity interval training that can be extremely beneficial for cardiovascular health or uh your the age of your heart and things of that nature. Then yeah I think I think from that perspective absolutely I think that uh health influencers have been a positive in that regard. I think the tricky part is where we start getting into more speculative categories like supplements uh like fasting, let's say, or specific timing of eating like you mentioned. That's where you're starting to rely on much smaller trials because they just or much smaller studies. So you'll rely on studies of like 12 people in the placebo group and like 14 people in the intervention group. Meanwhile, the pharmaceutical companies can pull together like 3,000 people for their trial. So they, you know, so we're we're and I do this, right? Like I still cover those studies. Um, but it's it's always a bit of a cautious story because with small studies, you know, is it really can you broadly apply it to everyone? Probably not, right? But we just don't have those nuances because they're just isn't the money to to be able to to actually do those trials to do the trials on the level of the pharmaceutical industry. Um, and the pharmaceutical pharmaceutical industry, they they definitely have a lot of really high quality studies that are out there. Um, you know, let's put aside the fact, you know, the the whole like funding and like the bias and whatnot. Um, I know people some people are kind of on a on a spectrum in relation to their their level of trust related to the FDA and pharmaceutical industry and whatnot. And that's fair. I But I'm not going to go down that rabbit hole. But if you're looking at small studies, suddenly you're you're like, "Okay, so they found an effect." Great. But, you know, is it powered enough to to really determine if there are serious side effects? Did it run long enough? You know, all these different things that would be required of the pharmaceutical industry. They are required if they're going to offer a drug to do multiple studies on that drug to have increasingly large sample sizes to invest millions and millions and millions of dollars into something. Um and then they have to present that data to the FDA. They have to to give over their data. um the FDA has a very specific um set of criteria that the pharmaceutical industry has to meet and so you know with pretty good certainty because the FDA is pretty strict about a lot of things when it comes to the packages that are delivered um how the pharmaceutical industry packages their their information all that stuff. But with supplements or with fasting studies or any of that stuff, you you don't have those restrictions. There are there's no FDA sitting there saying, "Oh, well, you didn't do the the fasting experiment a certain way, so therefore, you know, you can't do it or we're not going to approve it or whatever it might be." Um because they're just not focused on that kind of stuff. Um we have what's it called? inter I think it's called internal review boards IRB where they'll they'll they will so you have a panel of people that will assess if a study should be allowed to be conducted in the first place for ethical reasons. Are there, you know, potential safety considerations or ethical considerations that need that, you know, restrict a study design or whatever it might be? And that's obviously incredibly valuable to have and that's we absolutely have to have that. But, you know, on the back end, you know, are you going to get front end and back end, are you going to get, you know, billions of dollars to study like even a super popular supplement like creatine? uh from different different avenues. Like for example, creatine like there's tons of uh research on creatine and muscle and you know uh performance and whatnot. But now we're discovering okay maybe there's a potential that it could help our brain as well. But you know that started with like pretty pretty small studies and then we've we've kind of built onto that literature and just continued to come out with these different trials. But it's not like because for example the pharmaceutical industry they know that there's no special creatine formula that they can patent and then make a ton of money on. So of course that aspect of the pharmaceutical criticism is definitely true where of course they're not going to invest millions of dollars into creatine and creatine research um because it's pretty cheap to get and you just get the cheapest version, right? you just get creatine monohydrate. So, are you going to get the funding for like a study with 5,000 people in it where they look at like brain health with creatine supplementation and they look at, you know, primary outcomes, secondary outcomes, they look at side effects, all that stuff like no, right? You're not going to get that. Um, so that's where I think the reason why I'm mentioning all this is that I think that's where the influencers they they kind of make these false equivalencies of like the drugs that are out there saying that the supplement has just as much evidence. And sometimes, and I think for nefarious reasons, I think sometimes we demonize drugs and focus so much attention on supplements and because we we're trying to like create this narrative like the the drugs, the pharmaceutical companies, um they're they're only creating damaging things. They're only creating this profitering kind of mentality, which there's some truth to the whole profit aspect, right? Like I mentioned, they're not going to fund studies that they can't make money off this particular molecule. Fair enough. But we also can't be communicating about supplements and whatnot, most supplements, as if they have the same level of evidence that a lot of these drugs have behind them. And that's where health influencers really just make these false equivalencies or again they just downgrade the drugs. Oh, don't worry about the drug. Yeah, pharma that's bad. But this drug, this supplement on the other hand is topnotch. We have two studies in 13 people, you know, and it's like, dude, you you if you were to stack those two together, you it it is ridiculous how much effort and data is on the drug and how little is on the supplement. Um, and I I honestly I think I probably need to do a better job of that myself. It's not to say that the supplements don't work, but people are so focused on supplements and so they want to know more about the supplements. They want to know more about the fasting. They want to know more about just basically anything alternative to the things that have been rigorously tested over and over and over again. Um, which you know again is fair and there's a lot of excitement there and I get excited about certain molecules like the Bourberine thing for example. That's why I always point I try to point out like hey we have one study or Galinac. Uh we've got multiple studies but they all come out of one lab. Um and the effect size is huge for like GLAC. Like it's pretty remarkable. I'm still a pretty like big fan. I'm just kind of cautious about the fact that we it's all out of one lab. Uh so and it doesn't go through this like special testing and all that stuff. So yeah, I'll I'll close it with this. Just health influencers, yes, they've had some positive impact. I just think that sometimes it gets pushed beyond the positive and it definitely turns into a negative and it can create a lot of uncertainty and it creates a lot of false equivalency between like you know different supplements saying oh well this works for this and this works for this and this works for that and now we can stack all these supplements and it's like we don't have any evidence evidence that you can stack these four things together and suddenly you'll just be better off than if you had done this other thing that's got tons of research behind it, but it's just not as sexy. Um, but you know, we as humans just like to be, you know, for some people, they just want to be cutting age. They want to be the the person telling everybody, "Yeah, I'm taking green leaf extract out of a monkeykey's butthole, and it's just like the best thing in the world." You you got to stop the ozic. You got to stop the statins. You got to you know that's that's old news, man. It's all pharma stuff. Monkey butthole green leaf extract. That's that's going to be the new frontier. Uh meanwhile, if the pharmaceutical companies sniffed even for a moment that that worked, they'd be on it. They would be on it. Um, and you know, there's certain certainly discoveries like the uh the new I'm gonna pronounce it correctly this time, reta tride uh peptide, which I have more content coming out soon uh on I mean that I think that I'm pretty sure that was at least partly funded by public funding, so NIH funding. And that is I mean that is an incredible peptide. Uh I mean I'm sure there's going to be side effects with it because it's so potent. Um but in terms of the effect related to side effects like aside from the the the normal side effects that you experience with a lot of these like different uh GLP-1 receptor agnus peptides which are gastrointestinal discomfort uh nausea maybe vomiting and whatnot which isn't fun. Let's like we need to acknowledge that that's not fun. Um, but if you dose it correctly, like reta trutide has some incredible like some effects that are beyond what we've ever seen before. And I'm very excited to cover that. So definitely look for that. I've already finished my uh research into that. I've already done all the the notes for my video and all that. So I'll in the article and I'll I'll put all that out in uh several weeks. So yeah, there's there's definitely discoveries that we're making that are kind of unexpected and then, you know, uh pharmaceutical industry jumps on it and tries to figure out a way to patent it, right, to make money. Uh but ultimately it still leads to significant benefit. So um yeah, it's just I I'll get off this, like I said, I could talk about this for hours. I've got many opinions uh on the topic, but I'll I'll leave it there. Um, in short, health influencers have done some good. They've also done some negative. Uh, and in terms of supplements, fasting, very specific timing and all that. Yeah. I mean, I'm going to continue to cover that stuff because that's what people want. People want I mean, I have to follow what people want to a degree. Uh, but I also, you know, I have to always check myself and make sure that I'm doing it responsibly. Uh because telling that information like you want to weave a story, you want to get people excited, but you also want to hit them with like honest truth like hey look uh this is a study in 12 people or there's no placebo group here or I don't know any number of different things like we don't have safety data on this like this was in a mouse like whatever it might be. So you have to be honest with with that kind of stuff too. Okay, the next topic ladies and gentlemen is glycine. Restricting glycine led to a reversal of cancer. Okay, this was a hot topic. Uh so there was this phase one clinical trial that released I believe in December maybe November and I covered it in December and in this study they showed this was a cell metabolism study. They showed that people that were put on a specialized diet where they ate basically no glycine and basically no serarine. So those are two amino acids that they experienced significant reversal of cancer. And there was this really punchy image of this person with colurectal cancer had this massive tumor and after being placed on this diet and it was actually I think only like nine weeks. So after 9 weeks they they showed the image of that same tumor that same site and it was just gone which is just like what just by restricting two amino acids. Of course this is with amunotherapy. So basically all cancer research you're almost never going to get research that's just like hey what happens if we just restrict this one amino acid? Good luck. Hope you don't die. Um it's it's definitely going to be here's our standard protocol and then on top of that would you be interested in trying something novel something new to see novel new I just said the same thing to see if um if that could have additional benefit and of course it would help scientists and if there's any sort of harm that we you know detect that there's some sort of harm we'll stop of course because again ethics uh incredibly important So they showed that when these people it was it wasn't a big trial right it's phase one so uh these people were on this restrictive diet some of them were on for only 3 weeks some of them were on for six weeks some of them were on for the full nine weeks and they showed that there was for most people at least some regression in cancer and some people were able to see huge decreases in tumors like tumor size to essentially it being undetectable um by the the by visual by the eye. Okay, so cool. That's pretty that's pretty impressive. I mean that's actually I would say incredibly impressive. But then of course because glycine is such a popular supplement people were and I knew this was going to happen. So I added in my initial analysis I said does this mean that you should stop supplementing glycine? The answer is no. So that seems weird right to say well hold on if I restrict glycine I get rid of cancer but I shouldn't restrict glycine. I should keep supplementing with glycine. Okay so the reason why I mentioned that was multiple reasons. Initially it was for one main reason. And then that reason grew into multiple other reasons as I went over some more literature. So the answer was that one if you don't have cancer then this doesn't apply to you right like we're talking about we're talking about a pathology. So in that situation if you don't have cancer then supp you know continue supplementing with glycine. There are multiple studies indicating benefits. I went over gleac a little bit um and there are others as well. So no reason to stop for that. It's not at no point was there a claim by the researchers or by me that glycine causes cancer. Like if you increase your glycine intake that now you you are more likely to develop cancer. So no one was saying that. So for the vast majority of people cool. Then even if you have cancer, now we've got two amino acids that were restricting at the same time. And people could argue, well, they should have only restricted one. Well, you have limited resources and you have to make a choice. And based off of the pre-clinical data that had been done before that, they had restricted both amino acids. So, they can't get to the clinical data and be like 5050, guys. You know, maybe it's the maybe it's both have to be restricted. Maybe it's just one that has to be restricted. Like, are we going to take a gamble and guess like which one we're going to restrict and just kind of hope that it does something? Um, no. They just followed what the pre-clinical data did and they translated it to humans. So, they restricted searing and they restricted glycine at the same time. So, even if a person has cancer, like we can't jump to any conclusion. We can't say, "Oh, well, uh, yeah, you should stop glycine." This is a phase one trial. There's no control group. Uh, so we don't know what would happen if we controlled for people that were just on the imunotherapy. This included multiple types of cancer, colurectal, breast, like a bunch of different types of cancer. And it was very heterogeneous. So, as in like some people experienced significant improvements and other people did not experience improvements as in some people still progressed in their cancer. The problem is we don't have a control group. So, we don't know if they progressed slower in their cancer than people that were in the control group because there was no control group. So many different questions. So, we don't change behavior based off of early data. I mean that is a risk that you as an individual can take but no physician and I'm not a physician but I wouldn't say oh now just start start cutting all your glycine because uh this one study that cut two different amino acids uh said you know there might be a benefit that it's just not responsible communication. So, um, so yeah, for cancer there's a lot more uncertainty, but at least what we can also say is that there's research that's getting further along that's looking at this and seeing if there may be certain cancers that may be susceptible to glycine restriction and serarine restriction. So, the combination. Okay. Now then I revisited the topic because then I was curious and I asked myself well is it the glycine restriction or is it the serene restriction that's causing or is it both and I found some other studies that were preclinical so we're not talking about clinical research anymore where they applied a dual restriction to animals as well as to cells. And what they found is that when they fed the cancer cells or when they restricted both serereine and glycine, they were able to repeat the experiment. What we saw with the clinical data that uh cancer had more difficulty uh growing significantly greater uh difficulty growing and would die more and was just generally more stressed. Then they did additional experiments where they separated the two, right? Where they only restricted serarine or they only restricted glycine. And when they restricted glycine, there was no reduction in cancer. But when they rest restricted searing, there was a reduction in cancer. So now this tells us or at least it gives us some clues that the effect is not driven through glycine. It's driven through serarine. It's the serarine restriction that's most likely causing all these effects that I just want to pause here. It still doesn't mean that we should now restrict serereine. We are talking about preclinical. We're talking about less than preclinical. We're talking about cell studies. But it's teasing out the mechanisms of how this works. Then there was a specific study that did all these tracing experiments where they literally tag molecules of glycine and tag molecules of serereine and they watch not like by eye but they measure through many different experiments what happens where these tag serarine molecules and glycine molecules end up in cancer cells in a variety of different cancer cells. And they showed that there if you restricted searing or if you increased glycine. So you increase glycine, not restrict but increase glycine is that there's a pool of glycine that builds up within the cells that reverses a particular biochemical process. So I'm going to break that down. Typically what would happen is searing inside your cancer cell but also inside your regular cells would convert serereine to glycine. Okay? So that's all you need to know. Searing gets converted to glycine. In that conversion process there is a loss or a a production we'll call it a loss of a carbon atom. So that car carbon atom will then go down a different pathway. So, we've got serarine to glycine and the the conversion from serarine to glycine means that a carbon is removed off of the searing molecule. And as a result, that carbon molecule goes down a different pathway which ultimately results in greater production of nucleic acids. What are nucleic acids? Nucleic acids are involved in the production of DNA. So in the building blocks for DNA. So obviously if you have a dividing cell that needs to replicate all of its DNA, then those carbons are incredibly important, right? You're getting more of these carbons shuttling off into this system that then you know gets used for DNA synthesis and then therefore you get more cancer cells. So the cancer cells get to grow. So if you restrict serarine, well obviously then you don't have any conversion to glycine because well there's no serarine. Okay? So none of those carbons are going across because they just don't exist. But on the other hand, if you up glycine then the pool of serene is smaller than the pool of glycine in that scenario. So now the reaction goes in the reverse. So now instead of losing a carbon down this pathway, you are taking carbons from that pathway and putting it onto glycine to create serarine. So what does that do? Well, now you're instead of adding things to it's like it's like instead of adding things to a house that you're building, you're now taking different elements from that house every time that you need something and putting it somewhere else. So, is the house being built or is it being destroyed or is it being broken down? Obviously, it's being broken down. And that's the same with the cancer cell. So, now the cancer cell no longer has this reservoir or this pipeline, I should say, of carbon. Okay, I had to pause there for a second because a trash truck just went by and made a whole ruckus. So, hopefully I didn't lose my train of thought too much. But essentially, as I was saying, hopefully I was saying that you have this carbon that no longer then um gets sent down this pipeline and ultimately you get this uh stopping or slowing of the cancer growth because the cancer cell no longer can rely on those carbons to go down and produce these nucleic acids to produce these DNA um these DNA pieces that are put together. So that's the idea of the searing restriction or the potentially the increase in glycine which is definitely in pre-clinical models as well. So we don't have clinical data on that aspect. So based on early data cell work some in vivo work so in animals uh we have evidence that the real culprit is searing restriction. that is the one that's going to be beneficial and not the glycine restriction and maybe we'll get that in uh clinical trials in in the future but as it stands that's where we are. Um, is this actionable? Like I know this this is always really tricky because people are often in uh stressful situations where they have to deal with cancer and whatnot. And I I can't give you advice. Like I it's just it's one I'm not your physician. Like I I simply cannot and I refuse to tell people, oh yes, definitely do this and definitely do that and then do this based on exactly what I was just railing against before about, you know, these like early signs of data and then I'm not distinguishing what is rock solid evidence we have and what is kind of like ah we're not sure or we're early or we're we don't have any real clue what we're talking about in this category. Like, so sometimes people reach out and be like, "Hey, I have leukemia or I have uh skin cancer, I have melanoma, or I have like whatever type of cancer." And I just can't like I I always respond the same way. I I can't tell you what exactly you should do. It's it's not ethical for me. And it's uh again, I'm not your physician, so I don't know all the details of your special circumstance and whatnot. And all I'm going to ethically tell you is that we're very early in the research. We at least have one cl like a little bit of clinical evidence, which is great. Um, and if you wanted to do it, I mean, that's on you. That's, you know, your choice that you need to discuss with your physician. I know everybody, there's a lot of people that sc my physician, he they don't know, you know, what they're talking about or and like it sucks. like if you have a a bad uh relationship with your physician, uh I can't, you know, again, it's out of my out of my wheelhouse. Um but if anybody ever wants to get more experimental, it's your body. Uh but you my only advice ever is to at least consult with a physician that actually knows your circumstance. So is any of the stuff that I just went over actionable? No. Because at the very top we have a phase one clinical trial. No one would base huge like yes we have definitive evidence based on a one a single phase one clinical trial which by the way also still had some people progress in their cancer. The majority didn't and a lot of people had regression but some people still had progression. So there's a lot of uncertainty still. So anyway, I I'll get off my soap box, but let's go over some uh comments here related to the topic. And the takeaway here is that glycine is probably not the issue. Okay, so if you're supplementing with glycine, my estimation based on early data and with no data on specific cancers, that's a big caveat there, that glycine supplementation is unlikely to be the issue. Okay, so Hawk Driver said, "I'm down to celery and lemons. Everything else seems destined to kill us." And it does feel that way, right? Uh yeah, it it does feel that way. You get told on social media by health influencers, myself included, that uh you should consume more glycine because, you know, it'll turn your gray hair back to their normal color. you take glycine and your immune system will be supercharged and like all this stuff, right? You you just get told all kinds of different things. And I'm not even necessarily saying that some of those videos aren't correct. Like some of them can be right. They can be focused on uh evidence. They present that evidence and it's all it's all above board. Um, I think the I think it's the fault of both sides, honestly. And I've been saying this for a long time now and I'll probably continue to say it for the rest of my life that on one side the health influencers myself included have to constantly be working on how we communicate and how how do we communicate ethically? How do we communicate correctly while still and I will like in defense I will say like if your livelihood is on social media and uh science or just communication health communication doesn't even necessarily have to be science communication um just giving information just like all the information right at the get-go like right at the beginning people really complain about that like oh well why did I have to watch an 8 minute video to to understand this and it's like well for me there's two reasons one is what I'm talking about we make no money so we just go extinct so all the benefits from like having health influence and and stuff just goes extinct if we don't have a story that we can tell and the other aspect is like honestly I don't I don't like people that don't that aren't curious that that don't want to understand how these things work, aren't asking questions, and if if you're the type of person that just wants the answer and then like I'm just thanks, see you. I I you and I are not the same type of person. I just don't like that. I don't want to be I don't want to foster content that's just here's the answer. Just believe me because I have a PhD. Just believe me because I I flashed a study. Look at this study. And meanwhile, I'm not demonstrating to you, hey, look, I read this. I analyzed it. I I know what I'm doing. Here are the statistics. Understand some. I'm not saying like the whole thing because I realize that that can be a bridge too far. That can be a little too far where it it gets too into the weeds. But, you know, still it should be on me to present to you and to say, look, this is what the evidence shows. This is what the evidence doesn't show because if I give you a quick answer and you run with it, that's the problem. That's where we end up with I'm down to celery and lemons. Everything else seems destined to kill us because now I'm not doing like you're not doing your due diligence of like having a bit of patience and understanding the context around what we're talking about. So let's return to this glycine scenario, right? The glycine scenario is like okay it can be beneficial let's say against insulin resistance like mild insulin resistance or it can be uh beneficial in glyac right for uh the combination of glycine plus an acetylcysteine and it can improve uh muscle function or mitochondrial dysfunction or whatever like just whatever just it can be a number of different things but let's say there was this study that also showed that glycine is a negative if you have melanoma. Very specifically, let's just say, and I'm not stating this as is as if there is a study to be clear, but let's say there is a study that says glycine fed to people that with melanoma made melanoma grow more quickly. Okay. So, does that now mean does that translate that glycine is now something to be avoided by everyone? No. Right? No. No one in their right mind would actually say, "Oh, well now uh I can't take glycine." It's like that's that's not how this works. That's not how nuance works. That's not how an educated person thinks. Like an educated person thinks, okay, check one. Do I have melanoma? Answer, no. Therefore, does not apply to me. That's I mean, that's how you typically think about things. So like, and I see this so often, people just cross off an entire nutrient or an entire food group or an entire exercise or whatever because a single study showed that there is a negative for a very specific group of people and they don't fit any of those criteria, but they just cross it off. And then and then we get these complaints of like, well, one day they say this and then the next day they say that and then the other day it's like I don't know how many times in my videos that I've pulled together like 10 different studies and eight of them say kind of something in the same realm and then two of the studies disagree. And it's like if you were to actually read all those studies, you would understand, oh, maybe those two studies were in particular like they they were in let's say women and the eight other studies were in men. Okay, so maybe that's the defining feature of maybe this is uh a negative for women and it may be a benefit for men. Wow, look at that. We have nuance now. We have some understanding of it. It affects people differently and you have to understand your circumstance. Does that actually apply to you? Do you fit the bill here? And if you don't, then don't worry about it. Don't this doesn't apply to you. Uh don't cross it off just because there's a study or or a few studies or whatever it might be. Now, on the other side, the the health influencer has to do a good job of explaining that, hey, this was an overweight people. this was in people that were in their 60s. Uh the there was other studies in people that were in their 30s and it had no effect or whatever it might be. Like that's where the health influencer, the communicator has to be better. And this is something I'm constantly working on to give all the information that's pertinent that needs to be said so that a person can make that that categorization that that that you know like oh do I fit in this bucket or not as opposed to just saying moringa powder is the best thing in the world. You put it in a coffee and your visceral fat gets cut by a,000%. Not possible, but by a,000%, you turn into a you turn into Brad Pit and like all these different things. It's just like the best thing ever. And then the next video, uh, glycine supplementation, that's the thing that's going to cure your insomnia and like all these different things. And then people try it and then it's like, okay, maybe it worked, maybe it didn't. There's just so much to be said. So that's where like picking the the people that are going to be more nuanced and actually have those discussions uh is critically important and for the viewer for that person to really sit and think and like okay does this apply to me in this situation? Um and generally the answer is no, right? Okay. Anyway, party DM party DM me. I'm pretty sure it's party DM. I swear every time I start something for supposed health benefits, YouTube pops up a video showing how detrimental it is. What the hell? Okay, so I'm not going to repeat it, but same story again, just context. Following people that will actually sit down and explain, you know, okay, maybe it might affect these people. It's probably not going to affect these people. So, you're probably okay. Uh, and at the same time, the viewer having the patience to sit there and be like, "Okay, I'm going to sit down for this 10-minute video and watch it and a help this this content creator continue to be ethical and all that, you know, do the right thing, which they should be doing regardless. And at the same time also I'm going to learn I'm going to put it upon myself to learn this context and understand everything that needs to be said uh so that I can make those distinctions so I'm not in this like what the hell kind of scenario. Sabrina said I'm truly confused. I thought glycine was an anti-cancer and anti-aging and antioxidant. It seems that every other week that we get conflicting information. I feel that anything is cancerinducing at this point. I think the best way to live is just to enjoy life and to avoid any obvious toxins such as tobacco, alcohol, and drugs, including sugar, and leave it to the man upstairs. The more I educate quote unquote myself, the more I feel that I have no idea what's going on. Okay, this is kind of in the same vein, right? But in addition to that, I agree with Sabrina that you know just focusing the the big levers, the huge levers uh to to pull on are definitely Yeah. just enjoy life. Avoid obvious things like tobacco, alcohol. It's not like there's going to be a study that's going to come out and say say like, "Hey, tobacco, we were wrong about tobacco. Tobacco is actually uh really good for you. It's absolutely fantastic for you." Nobody's going to say that. Like there's certain things that are really it wouldn't shock me if we had a study that showed that a particular group of people that have this particular gene expressed may not experience the negative effects of tobacco. Could that happen? Yes. But does that then translate to everybody, hey, tobacco is no longer an issue? No, you're not going to see that. So, yes, to Sabrina's point, like the big levers, exercise, nutrition, making sure you avoid tobacco, um, you know, smoking, vaping, uh, alcohol, drugs. Of course, I don't know if I'd necessarily include sugar. Like, people kind of talk about sugar like it's like some specific thing that's not really a nutrient when in reality it gets broken down inside your body. The exact same. If it comes from white bread, if it comes from wheat, if it comes from uh fruity loops, whatever like cereal, whatever it is, um ultimately gets broken down into glucose and that's what gets absorbed into your bloodstream. So, it's a whole another conversation and there's certainly some nuances there to also be had. Would I put that on the same category as like actual drugs like I don't know heroin or something? No. No. Not not even close. And in fact, you can check out I did one on fructose uh centerfuge episode fructose and Dr. Listik who's huge against fructose and you know there's some some reasoning for that. Um but so I'd encourage that you check that out. But yeah, I mean these comments again like they're they're among my top comments, you know, and so this this sentiment is continuous. People really feel strongly that, you know, health influencers saying one thing and then they're saying something completely different the next day, the next week, whatever. I I totally get that. I and I'm I'm not I'm not uh immune. I I definitely understand that and I get frustrated. Why do you think I started the centerfuge? Like it's so much work. But I'm I feel so passionately that people are just miscommunicating. And I'll even say it as far as malcommunicating. The distinction in my head is miscommunication could be like, you know, they don't know any better. I'll be honest. I really think I'm not going to name any names, but I really I get the impression that some health influencers are actually like they don't care if they hurt people because it's not direct. It's just oh, I'm just providing information. Uh but like the the gross negligence in certain scenarios and especially when people get get called out and said, "Hey, uh you missed this thing and it's like a huge thing or you missed like all these different factors or the study that you that you were talking about didn't conclude any of what you just said." Uh, I mean that kind of stuff like if you I understand people have like sometimes they have such big platforms like I miss a lot and that's why I've got like a critique page so people can click on the link and send me a direct critique. People abuse that all the time. But aside from that, I have received critiques and I take great pride in the fact that I will read that comment especially if it comes from a researcher or a physician or or but it can be anyone, right? As long as they provide proof like evidence that I got something wrong or whatever. I remember once I royally messed up on a metaanalysis and I've learned a lot uh since then, but there was this metaanalysis researcher researcher that actually conducted metaanalysis and she really laid into me. I could tell she was just really frustrated uh with with just like bad information being put out there. Um, it wasn't like, you know, I was misleading the public or anything like that, but just like there was a few statistical things that I was explaining in certain ways that she didn't agree with. And she was more of an expert on the topic than I was. So she sent me this long thing and at the end like she was like I don't even know if you're going to read this which like I again I understood like it was her feel the thing that she was really passionate about and she wanted she was just like letting me know and I I'm glad that she did. I'm really glad that she did because I reached out to her the next day. I was like hey do you mind if we hop on a on a video call? Um, and she ended up like apologizing for like being so aggressive towards me and everything. And we had a lovely conversation and she taught like she she taught me and I and I said like, "Hey, in the future in the future uh maybe we can have more of these conversation. I'd be happy to pay for your time." And we've had like we've had other conversations just like spoken in general just on on video chat and email and whatnot. And it's Yeah. I mean, and I I took I took the video down. I posted a uh like a a notice, like an amendment um for whatever needed to be fixed. And then I I contacted her about like a few different resources that I could read uh to learn more about the topic. So, this was like on um this was on a very particular like statistical modeling in in meta analysis. And she was really kind. She sent me a few resources and I ended up buying a book and honestly it's dense. I've gotten about like 3/4 of the way through it and I'm probably going to have to go through it again. But it's a wonderful resource. Anyway, the the short story of this is that it's incredibly important for me to get things right. And if I get things wrong so that I can get things right, then I'm willing to do that. That is perfectly fine. and I'm not above uh like my pride isn't going to jump over the potential that I could be harming other people. That that that re that that will never happen. Um and you know since then because again I'm I'm growing and I'm trying to improve. I've hired statisticians before to check over some of my work. Not you know not every video but like for some of the things that I'm not quite sure on. Uh and now we've got AI. I know that AI can have its issues and of course I fact check that information too. Um but it's just important. So when I see some health influencers just post information and again just to repeat I understand some people have millions of subscribers so they're not going to get every email but when you have a ground swell of people that are like hey this person screwed up and here's the evidence and like they they clearly didn't read the study or whatever whatever it might be. It could be anything. um and that person doesn't, you know, address the issue. I'm not talking about like, hey, I don't like the way this person talks or whatever. I'm talking about scientific evidence, like they're they're just not addressing data. They they got a lot of things wrong. All that stuff. That is stuff that you should address. If you're a science communicator, that is something that you need to take down videos. You need to send, you know, post amendments. And that's why under my videos sometimes I'll post uh minor amendments if I get something wrong. I think recently I did one on uh polyunsaturated fats being converted. So I I accidentally had an image of a saturated fat being converted to an omega-3. And I do check my comments uh in the first like hour or so of posting. I try to engage as much as I can. And somebody pointed that out and said, "Hey, you messed this up," which I'm glad. So, I checked and sure enough, I had a saturated fat being converted to, I think, an omega-3. And that can't happen. That doesn't happen in the human body. What happens is you have unsaturated fats that are elongated into omega-3s. So, I posted an amendment and I added it to my articles and all that stuff. So, again, the the point here is that there's a lot of health influencers. They're putting out just trash information. And honestly, I think some of them know that it's trash information and they just don't care. So, when I get comments like the ones that I just did that I just pointed out, it's not people saying like, "Hey, uh, so, you know, I heard glycine is good for this." It's like they're just expressing their frustration that there's so much information out there that one day they say this, one day they say that. I'm with you. Like I'm on I'm on the same page. Uh and I think that the issue is two-sided. The health influencers and some viewers. So some health influencers and some viewers. Uh not everyone obviously. Um so yeah. Anyway, I I'll move on. All right. The next topic that I wanted to get into is to get into my favorite anti-aging hack. And this anti-aging hack is an incredibly simple one. It is sunscreen, which I know isn't all that exciting, but it is important at least uh from an aging perspective and certainly you could argue from a uh cancer perspective or at least skin cancer perspective. So, I released this analysis where I I just did this not because this is some miraculous discovery or anything like that. Certainly not. But I did want to cover this simply because I am a pretty big sunscreen fanatic and I was just curious as to what kind of impact wearing sunscreen on a daily basis like right now I'm wearing sunscreen of course certainly when I'm outdoors but uh I even wear it indoors what kind of impact that sunscreen would have on aging metrics. So, I found a number of different studies on the topic and admittedly those studies are not very high quality, at least uh some of them. But all of them point the same direction and and probably isn't too much of a shock uh to know that sunscreen can significantly slow and in one study actually completely stop uh visible signs of aging. And I've been a pretty big fan of sunscreen since I was about 28. And I am now closer to 40 than I am to 30. And I think, at least from my estimation, I think that it's it's helped. Uh I'm not saying that it stops skin aging or anything of that nature, but I think that uh it definitely has a significant impact. And I don't think that it's something that we should overlook. uh even though it may not be very sexy, right? It's not like taking some super supplement or something like that like NAD boosters or anything like that uh that's suddenly going to rejuvenate your cells back to their 18-year-old versions. Um but it if you especially if you jump on it early in life, I think you can have a really substantial impact on uh the way you look at least. Certainly that doesn't necessarily speak to your liver health and your heart health and all these different other aspects and in that regard you probably have to do other things obviously exercise being one of them and there's even evidence and I've covered this before that exercise can be helped or sorry that skin can be helped through exercise as well as in if you exercise your skin tends to be uh better for it as well. So, do I think that sunscreen will stop aging like that one study showed? There's this one study that uh compared uh I think like infrequent to no sunscreen use versus a group that was told to uh use sunscreen I think every single day. And they showed that the group that used sunscreen every day for four and a half years, something like that, 5 years, uh was able to completely stop their aging, skin aging, and that was determined by uh I believe blinded dermatologists. Now, does that actually mean that these people were completely like not aging whatsoever? I don't think so. I think what's probably happening is that it slows it to such a degree that it seems like uh these people haven't aged over the last 5 years. But I think if they'd used some more objective metrics like actual like collagen levels or if they'd done some sort of ultrasound or different um echo uh technologies to really figure out the uh density of the collagen or the different uh fibers that are within the skin or the skin cells themselves, I'm pro I'm pretty sure that they would have discovered some sort of an effect as in these people were still aging over time. still not bad. I mean, if you're, you know, 5 years isn't like a monumental amount of time, but it's certainly something. And I think it's pretty impressive that you can just put something on your skin and it can protect you from uh UV radiation, which is the primary method by which uh skin a or I should say uh sunscreen helps against uh skin aging. And of course in my latter part of my analysis I went over a few intervention trials looking at uh skin cancer and showed that uh the sunscreen can also reduce our risk of skin cancer by a pretty substantial amount. So all in all, definitely something that uh I encourage people that are that want to retain as much of their skin youth as possible. Um, okay. So, that brings me to kind of the to another part of that analysis, which I know that a lot of people are skeptical of sunscreens because they are endocrine disc disruptors and uh bunch of other, you know, things that have been said in the past. And I'll admit that there are I did look at the studies on that and um I'll admit that there are not very many studies that have actually specifically looked to check if sunscreens are safe in uh the doses that are applied. Uh there's one study that looked at the hormonal changes over some number of months and they did show that there was a slight change in hormonal profile from sunscreen use I think in the first month and then after followup so continuing to use sunscreen but in followup you know two three months later their hormones returned back to uh before they were using sunscreen. So, how applicable any of that is, like what difference is that going to make, I don't know. Um, and I don't think it's probably something that you need to really worry about a whole lot. Uh, the other aspect is, you know, I've I looked at like sunscreen and mortality there and other some like kind of major metrics like what we discussed earlier and there doesn't seem to be much of a link. Um the I will say that again there isn't like a whole lot of literature if people are under the impression that there's a ton of literature that shows that where we've applied sunscreen and then we've measured cardiovascular health then we've measured cancer then we've measured all these different things. We've measured I don't know like all kinds of different niche conditions and then determined oh it's all good to all good to go. That's not how the literature actually looks. um the literature, you know, there's there's quite a few studies on sunscreen, but there just aren't enough to cover all of our bases. Really, it's deemed safe because of the ingredients are in such small quantities that the governing bodies just deemed them as highly unlikely to have any sort of impact. And that's because in terms of like blood impact and organ impact and whatnot. And the reason for that is just because there has to be a certain threshold at which you are getting exposed to a particular uh molecule. And when it comes to sunscreen ingredients, the threshold we're well I mean just like with many other things like aspartame and sucralose and all these other things um whatever I'm just coming up with different molecules that are deemed as like such small amounts of it that uh it's assumed that there isn't that much of an impact or any impact on your organs in any sort of negative uh way simply because uh you consuming such a small amount by comparison to what's deemed actually uh dangerous based off of like animal studies and sort of some of the biochemical studies. So I don't and also even if you were to have some small impact how much would that translate over time that's another aspect um you know if you have a minuscule effect is that is that going to outweigh the huge benefit that you get to your skin aging but even more importantly probably skin cancer. So, you know, then there's certainly other ways of going about it. Like there's also physical types of sunscreen. There's physical blocks and then there's chemical blocks. I don't really care that much about the distinction. Um, but some people really do care and that's perfectly fair. There are advantages and disadvantages to both. Some of them are just more cosmetic. Um, and the I don't use really high SPF. I use SPF 15 and SPF 30. SPF 15. Uh, when it's not very sunny out, when there's it's not like middle of summer, um, middle of summer, I usually use SPF 30. I use it on my skin, my neck, and I will put it on my arms. I actually forgot to do that right now. And you can see I'm getting a lot of sun exposure at the moment. Um, I'm not going to fret about it, but I probably will uh get sunburnt unless I move out of the way. So, you know what? I'm going to move a little bit back. Ha. I've outsmarted the sun. Okay, so um yeah, so that's that's where I kind of land on this favorite anti-aging hack. Again, we get so focused on the the different consumables, and I'm not saying that they don't have an impact, but uh some of the stuff is so obvious, right? Like just exercise or just uh dial in your nutrition or even just broad strokes. You know, if you're if you're overweight and you're worried about like NMN supplementation, what are you doing? You should be focused on uh getting weight under control because that is going to have mass mass much more like mass more impact than uh like NMN supplementation for example or whatever it might be. So, and I think uh sunscreen is just one of those, especially in summer, that is just such a no-brainer. Um, and if you want to go other routes, like if you want to protect your skin through other roots, like uh wearing uh more clothing, like sunprotective clothing or whatever it might be, then uh that's that's a way to go. Now, one of the critiques, I don't know if I've got some comments here. Oh, yeah. Okay. Okay. So, I'm going to I'm going to cover one of the major critiques that was presented to me uh based on what I was talking about in terms of sunscreen uh to be so just as a final word, the way the sunscreen protects us is from uh exttrinsic versions of or extrinsic exttrinsic factors of aging. Meaning that you have something from outside of the body that's affecting the body and then causing aging. And same thing, same exact route for cancer in this situation because we're talking about UV radiation and that's going to be important in just a minute. So UV radiation has an impact on our skin which ultimately breaks down our skin and um or I shouldn't say the skin itself. that has has an impact on the DNA that's within our uh keratinocytes which are the skin cells and then they don't function as well because they they're constantly repairing this DNA damage which ultimately can lead to of course cancer but can also lead to uh disregulation of the cells. Essentially, the cells just don't uh connect with one another because there's these different kind of um think of them like anchoring proteins where they anchor onto one another like they're holding hands almost and that can get disregulated so that the cells are not as bound to one another so you've got less of a skin barrier integrity. Obviously, it can affect the collagen fibers that go through uh the now I'm through the epidermis uh which is a section of your skin which creates the actual like lattice structure that holds the skin up. So, there's a number of different things and the the the sunblock sunscreen can depending on which one you're using essentially just uh has it has the UV interact with it instead of interacting with uh all those different components that I just talked about and there's many other factors. Then there's intrinsic aging which is something that we can't really avoid. um it's just chronological age. You know, as time passes, our cells are imperfect. So, they're going to make replication errors and all kinds of other things which ultimately leads us to uh have problems that we we try to avoid, right, through supplementation, exercise, nutrition, all that good stuff. and potentially gene editing or gene therapies in the future or gene whatever or stem cells or all kinds of different medical technologies for the future. But uh those are things that are you know they're not necessar I guess they can be preventative but um generally it's it's going to be extremely difficult to get people to reverse their aging to that degree because there's so many intrinsic factors that happen in all kinds of different organ systems that we have to account for and uh that's just not always possible. So okay. So now let me uh so that's all to say sunscreen specifically affects exttrinsic aging. It has no real impact on intrinsic aging. Okay. So let's go into some comments. So Patrick said again these are the top comments or among the top comments. Uh Patrick was surprised that I was that I had said in my analysis that I was uh closer to 40 than I am uh to 30 and mentioned that uh sunscreen was working for me which I appreciate. Thank you Patrick. The final Roman said which sunscreen do you use? So like I said I don't use very strong sunscreen SPF 15 SPF 30. I reapply often uh two, three times a day, especially when I'm outdoors. I appi apply uh pretty regularly. I always wear sunscreen. I know people will think that's kind of crazy to be wearing sunscreen every single day. I use it every single day. It doesn't matter if I'm going outside or in or staying in indoors. I wear it all the time. That's definitely why I'm as pale as I am. Uh, and the type of sunscreen that I use is Cetaphil. Um, it but I'm not like it's it's not because Cedaphil is some sort of specialty brand or anything like that. Um, it's legitimately just because it's cheap. It's I don't get it in my eyes. Um, it just like just goes across my my skin really well. And the other Oh, yeah. There's a there is a particular type of sunscreen ingredient that I truly wish would get approved in the United States. I think it's called bimotisenol and that has been is probably going to be like a golden child of sunscreen ingredients and for some reason I shouldn't say some reason the FDA has not approved any new sunscreen ingredients in like 20 years um if not more and bimatrizenol is one of those that's approved in like the EU Australia and all these other places uh that's just not approved in in the US which is unfortunate it because um apparently it's better at blocking uh UVA and UVB radiation. Um but on top of that, it also doesn't uh leech into the blood, which certain chemical sunscreens do leech into the blood. Um and then you can, you know, be pretty safe in assuming that you're not going to have any sort of consequences. I still don't think that there are going to be any consequences of um of those trace amounts of sunscreen ingredient uh leeching in, but I know a lot of people are like, "Well, look, I mean, it leeching into my blood is is already scary enough," which is totally fair. Like I, you know, I respect that. Um, bimatrizenol, I hope I'm getting the the ingredient correct, uh, is something that I would just love to see actually get approved and hopefully in the future we will. And the moment that does, whatever company uses that, I'm going to uh switch over to to that. Um, but yeah, SPF 15, I use Cedaphil, but I'm I'm pretty uh ambivalent. I could I could go either way to any one of the other ingredients. I've tried a few others. I just don't like the the feel of them on my skin. Okay, then the critique. Now, this comes from uh Lenny. So, Lenny, you should take a look at the UK bioank study. This is an AI overview when asked about it and sun exposure. Okay. So UK bioank studies uh study particularly analyses of over 370,000 to 400,000 participants by the University of Edinburgh suggest that higher ultraviolet exposure from sun or sunbeds is associated with lower allc cause cardiovascular and cancer mortality. These findings indicate that in low sunlight, high alitude regions, the cardiovascular benefits of sun exposure likely outweigh risks for white populations potentially increasing lifespan. Ooh, well then I better get more sun exposure and just forget about the sunscreen. Yeah. So, that's that's a good AI overview of what the study indicates, but that doesn't mean that the study is correct. And it seems weird to say that uh but I was intrigued. So I know that MedCram had released a a video about this particular study, this UK bioank study which has not been published yet, but it's in preprint. So it is accessible to the public. And I I decided to look at that. And uh it's it's not as great of a study as people are making it out to be. And I I don't necessarily fault I don't fault the researchers. Uh I don't think the researchers did anything wrong. I think that just UV studies in general or sun studies in general are much more difficult to control than people think. So, with nutrition, there's a lot like there's certainly issues in nutrition um as well when you're talking about long-term studies, but there have been some really good long-term studies in nutrition because of how rigorous they've been about controlling, I should say more so measuring different factors. um in UV exposure studies. I looked at this study and what they did is like this AI overview said yes it was like 400,000 people and they categorized them into low, medium and high exposure to UV so ultraviolet radiation which comes from the sun and in this case from the sun and so what they showed and it's true that that AI overview says what's correct so it showed that those with the higher UV exposure or sun exposure had and they were more specific about UV but so that's going to be one of the sticking points they said more UV exposure was linked to reduced mortality if that's all cause mortality cardiovascular mortality and even cancer mortality though they did uh show a slight increase in skin cancer mortality which so but other types of cancers were improved prod at least associatively. Now, I had a number of problems with this study. Uh I'm not going to regurgitate everything that I went over in my analysis. I'll link that for you. But one of the issues is one of the big issues is that they kept referencing everything to UV, as in UV was associating with these things. And that's technically correct. But can we then jump to UV being the cause of these things? And I'm not talking about just simple correlation is not causation because there are many epidemiological studies that are really well done as in you know they they they measure a bunch of different factors that could uh be the real reason for the results that we see. And I've I've been a big fan of those studies. So I can't, you know, double back and suddenly be like, oh, you know, it's correlation, so therefore it's not, you know, causitive. Um, because that's just not fair. However, when you're talking about UV radiation in that study, as from what I read and I read the whole thing, but you know, maybe I missed it mentioned once, they never mention red light or uh near infrared light or infrared light or whatever you want to call it. Um, and yet like red light is one of the major components of sunlight and we have many studies at this point showing that other forms of light like red light have positive effects on the body. And yet we don't have nearly the same evidence indicating that UV ultraviolet light is causing you know positive effects. There are a few studies that show improvements in like blood pressure and things of that nature, but there's also tons of studies that directly show that UV is extremely harmful. Um, especially at high doses, can cause cancer, cause lead to death. Um, and I showed some in my analysis, I showed some direct like pre-clinical evidence indicating that, you know, when you expose certain animals or life forms to UV, uh, they die very quickly. um when they're highly exposed to UV. Now, of course, it could be dose, you know, dose makes the poison and all that good stuff, but what we don't have is the same thing as far as I'm aware in like red light. So, this whole study was based on UV associated with reduced mortality. Okay. So, and this AI overview actually makes a mistake. It says uh suggest that higher ultraviolet exposure from sun or sunbeds. Okay. So, one, the researchers did not specify what sunlamp was. They did mention a sunlamp or I'm sorry, salarium, which I I postulate I guessed. Okay, maybe maybe it is uh what they're talking about is a tanning bed. And but it could be if you look up the definition for salarium, it could be a um a sun room, it can be a tanning bed, and it can be a sunlamp. So which is it? And they didn't define it. So I just went ahead with the assumption that it was tanning beds. And this AI thing seems to think that that's also what uh what it was. And so what I did is I found some other studies that looked at tanning beds and uh sun exposure. And then we'll be able to tease out the difference between is it sun exposure or is it the the UV itself? Because tanning beds largely provide only UV radiation. They do not provide much if any red light. I'm just focusing on red light. But the sun obviously exposes us to more than just UV. It exposes us to red light. So now we'll be able to distinguish between is it the UV or is it something else in the sun. And lo and behold, the study that looked at both showed that those with the tanning bed that were using the tanning beds a lot actually had increased risk of mortality and increased cancer risk. However, those that were exposed to the sun had reduced risk of mortality. So that's exactly in line with that UK bio bank in the sunlight exposure, but it is not the same in terms of UV exposure. So the UK bioank study in my opinion, my humble opinion is conflating UV radiation with red light. I think red light is the actual exposure, the actual mediator of the benefit and UV is just being tracked. So UV is the one that we're actually tracking and it's not the UV that's actually causing the benefits. So that leads me back to sunscreen because then I was curious, does sunscreen block out red light? And the answer is no. So, you could safely take sunscreen or use sunscreen, block out what I deem the the harmful aspect of sunlight, and still be outside and exposed to and get the benefits of the positives of sunlight, which is red light and infrared light and etc. So, that's my take and I certainly had more critiques of the study uh like how they measured sun exposure and a bunch of other things. Uh but I will leave that for my full analysis um which I will link for you. Anyway, that's where I stand with that. If you're watching the video version of this podcast, you're going to see the frame continuously change as I continue to try to escape the sun. I promise I'm not a sun phobe. I'm uh just getting rather warm, so I'm trying to stay in the shade. Um I promise I'm not a vampire. Okay, let's get into lithium. So last year I covered a nature study that looked at and brought a lot of promise to the idea that lithium could be a molecule that could affect or yeah a molecule that could affect Alzheimer's disease in a pretty significantly positive way. That study looked at humans in a cross-sectional way as in they uh looked at human brains of people with Alzheimer's and then determined that their lithium levels were quite low. So then they did some pre-clinical work so all in animals and had an Alzheimer's model and then they applied lithium to that Alzheimer's model to see if it might have some sort of benefit. Uh the answer was yes. It showed significant benefit. So of course you know knowing me hopefully at this point uh you know that I wasn't just going to leave it at that if there was evidence in humans. And lo and behold I did find a few studies that showed that you know clinical studies showing hey look uh lithium does benefit the brain and helps fight Alzheimer's disease. So that was great news. So then I released this analysis and then uh showing that you know lithium may be a future avenue by which we can uh combat and reverse uh signs of Alzheimer's disease. Okay, fair enough. Now a physionic insider which I pay a lot more attention to the insiders. I'm very uh involved there. Um, so I check in every day and a physionic insider sent me or made me aware that there was a new lithium meta analysis. That metaanalysis indicated or put together all of the studies on lithium and indicated that there was no benefit. And beyond that, they even showed that one of the studies that I had used in my analysis last year uh was a high risk of bias study as in they didn't uh use the appropriate uh controls or not all of the appropriate controls. Okay, so that certainly perked my interest. Piqued my interest. Perked my piqued my interest. And uh again I I said this at the you know another point in the podcast. I don't care about being wrong as long as I end up right. And what I mean by that is that I want to get the right information out. So if I have to be wrong uh to do that then so be it. That's fine by me. Um you know obviously I want to do a good job. So I don't want to continuously you know every analysis I get everything wrong. That would that would that would be a bit that would be a gut punch because that'd be like, okay, you need to really reconsider things. But um so anyway, I looked at this uh meta analysis to see if I had gotten something wrong and I was wholly unimpressed by the analysis uh for multiple reasons. Again, I'm not going to go through every detail. Uh they did bring up some good points like this uh this one study that was pretty you know high risk of bias and that was the study that showed the greatest benefit of lithium. So obviously it's going to lead to some like oh wow okay maybe um maybe we got this wrong. Uh so instead of recently what I've been doing with meta analyses and I it takes a lot of work but I've been opening up every study that they include in the meta analysis. If it's a meta analysis of like 30 studies, I use a random sample and I try to get the majority of the studies. So, I'll pick like 16 studies out of 30 at a random with a random number generator and I'll open up those 16 studies and uh you know do a deeper analysis on those 16 studies. But anyway, this study was I think like six studies or eight studies something like that. It was seven, I don't know, somewhere in that realm. Not like a huge analysis or anything. So, I was able to look at all of them or all the ones that I could get my hands on, which was most of the studies. And yeah, when I opened up these uh these studies, I was not blown away by how the meta analysis was conducted. And one of the primary reasons is because they included certain studies and then for some reason they either didn't find them or for whatever reason they failed to include other studies that I ended up discovering existed. And these studies actually show a benefit of lithium. So if you have an analysis that's on the cusp of identifying a benefit of lithium but it doesn't it the end result is there is no benefit of lithium supplementation against Alzheimer's but you fail to include a few studies that do show a benefit of lithium then to me that translates to well if you had included those studies as well then you probably would have found an effect and so that's where I ended up landing. I just didn't think that the meta analysis was that convincing and I I they they missed some studies. They by their inclusion and exclusion criteria, those studies met the inclusion criteria and they did not meet the exclusion criteria. So therefore, they should have been included and for some reason they weren't. I'm not saying it's for nefarious reasons. I'm just saying that it just wasn't included. Okay. So that being the case, uh I did have a slightly more muted uh interpretation because I I do think there's a lot of uncertainty when it comes to lithium. Not that there because there are some studies that show that there's no effect. And one of the gripes that I had with this analysis is that they included studies that lasted eight weeks or 12 weeks and those studies almost un I think universally showed no effect of lithium. But again, like you're applying eight weeks of a treatment or 12 weeks of a treatment to a disease that lasts uh that that starts to appear like a decade earlier and you expect it to just have an effect. Uh I think that's unreasonable. Um so to include two studies or three studies that were such short duration I think is an unfair way to go about uh the analysis. And I think if I think they should have done their exclusion criteria to to exclude studies that were you know less than let's say 6 months. But anyway when you exclude those studies and you just focus on the longer term studies there are most of those studies showed an effect of lithium. It wasn't like massive but there was an effect of lithium. In addition there was like one or two studies clearly it was more than seven studies in the overall analysis. Maybe it was like 11. But there were a few long-term studies that also showed there was no effect of lithium. So now we've got a mixture of evidence. I still lean in the direction of favoring lithium, but I think that us going wholeheartedly with lithium and saying, "Oh, there's undeniable proof," I think is a little premature. Um, actually, I would say it's quite premature. So that's what I in essentially concluded in my reanalysis of lithium that look, I'm still in favor, but you know, we we definitely need more clarity and there's definitely some things that we're missing here and I'd like to see some better research that's been that's going to be done. And then when I reported the dose of lithium that was used, which is one area where I did change my mind, um because the initial dose that I had seen in some of the clinical trials was micro uh microgram doses. So we're talking about 300 micrograms, which was shown to be effective. So trace doses all the way up to I think like 300 or 600 mg of lithium uh lithium salt. So, elemental lithium at 300 micrograms and then up to like 600 mg of uh lithium salt. So, lithium salt being like carb lithium carbonate, lithium sulfate, lithium gluconate. And that's where I ended the analysis. Okay. And that's where people uh some people jump down my throat. So, I'm going to read some of the comments and then uh I will continue discussing this a bit a bit more. So, the comments were TRLD said this. So, I need to stop eating my spent batteries. Good one. TRLD, uh which is also kind of a funny uh uh name for username for for YouTube. Um, well, you probably shouldn't have been consuming spent batteries in the first place, but I I see your point. Ed said this. I think you screwed up on this post, Nick. Uh, are you saying that this study in nature was not a clinical trial? Please amplify as you are confusing many of us. Okay, so Ed is talking about this nature study that I initially covered, right? And as you heard me discuss, I said that there was some cross-sectional data in humans and then the rest of it was all uh in animals, pre-clinical uh models using lithium. So, and never in my initial analysis did I ever claim that this was a clinical trial. Never said that. I covered some clinical trials, but none of them were the nature paper. And the nature paper is the one that created all this buzz. So the conclusion that you know the nature paper is somehow a clinical trial I don't know how people got to that conclusion um because I have never uttered those words in my life. So for clarity the big nature paper that's that came out last year was in no way shape or form a clinical trial. It was all preclinical data. Okay? So I just want to make that clear. Now, the next comment, I have to zoom in here real quick. I I got some I got some heated push back. Uh, Robert Williams said, "This post is very annoying. You are rolling back support for lithium, yet you say there are benefits, but we don't know." Yet you say there are benefits, but we don't know what lithium salt this metaanalysis includes. Okay, I I'll respond in just a bit. It was only micro doses of lithium oritate that had the pre the previously proposed benefits. You also mentioned that the range of dosing varies widely from micro to 300 mg. Such wide ranges of dosing can't be combined for a sensible analysis. I see no reason to disregard the positive findings of the Harvard study. To be clear, that's the Nature study that I've been talking about. People are fighting for their lives, hanging in on to any positive studies and don't need to be hit with confusing studies that make no sense. I'm a big fan of yours, but this Okay, so let me break this down, Robert. Uh, first off, thank you. I appreciate it. I'm always appreciative of anybody who who watches my content, uh, cares about anything that I have to say on anything. Uh, so I do appreciate it. Um, now I'd like to just address some of these and I I did comment uh under Robert's uh post because I there are a few errors in this comment. Um so for one we do know the salts used in the meta analysis and that's actually very specifically why I mentioned only those salts uh in my analysis. So I said 300 micrograms to I guess 300 milligrams. I thought it was 600 milligrams. You can go 300 milligrams of these uh salts. And the salts that were used were exactly the three that I mentioned. Carbonate, uh, sulfate and gluconate. And so that for sure. Then uh, Robert says he also mentioned that range of dosing varies widely from micro to 300 milligrams. And then such wide ranges of dosing can't be combined for a sensible analysis. I I strongly disagree with that. Um the reason for that is because uh some of the studies that use micro doses so trace doses like micrograms did find effect. So we can't have it both ways right we can't say oh well these aren't sensible doses and we want to find an effective lithium but some of the studies that used such tiny doses did find an effect of lithium. So, do we include them or do we not include them? I say we include them. If if none of those studies, if every single study that used micro do micrograms uh showed no effect, then you could make the argument of okay, well, maybe they weren't using a high enough dose, which is perfectly plausible. However, uh considering there were studies that did find an effect, we can't make that argument, right? So, I disagree there. I see no reason to disregard the positive findings of the Harvard study and also mentioned that micro doses of lithium oritate had the previously proposed benefits. Okay, so this was a continuous critique. I had many people the Robert is not the only one um that mentioned that this Harvard study the the nature study in no situation do we take a pre-clinical study and vault over all the clinical evidence the clinical the hierarchy of evidence according to the scientific like every scientific website every scientific organization is obviously meta analysis, the randomized control trials, etc., etc. It creates that pyramid. Now, you could you could haggle a little bit on like a poorly done meta analysis versus a really well done randomized control trial, then maybe the randomized control trial would take over, right? But in no situation, the preclinical data is like near the bottom. In no situation do we ever take a pre-clinical study and over and and take that over a randomized control trial especially and probably I'll even I'll limit it to not in any sort of actionable terms. Okay? And that has been true for all of my analyses. If I ever cover pre-clinical data, if I ever cover pre-clinical data, I'm always going to state like, hey, this is preclinical or this is early research or this is suggestive or you know, words like that because if I say if I start like mixing this evidence hierarchy of like, oh, clinical data, yeah, whatever, they said that, but this preclinical study showed incredible benefits in a mouse. So that should vault over like that. You're you're getting into really dangerous territory there. So I while so I'll frame it this way. The clinical trials that have used lithium have not used lithium oritate. And that was another critique that I received. People were like, "Wow, why are you even wasting your time looking at lithium trials that use uh a version of lithium that was not shown to be effective in this nature study like lithium carbonate, lithium gluconate, glucate uh and sulfate." And my response is, well, there's no clinical trials on orate. So unless So orate is just like wishes and hopes and dreams at this point. We have one study, a pre-clinical study indicating that it may be the superior form of lithium. And I acknowledge that and I'm not I'm not going to say that lithium oritate has no potential, but we're not basing recommendations and we're not basing future uh movement or future actions based on potential, right? Like if you want to as an individual that's fine but me when I'm communicating to to thousands of people I cannot say oh yeah you should be using lithium oritate because of this one nature preclinical study. That's not how this works. I have to report what the clinical studies say and I have to point out what weaknesses and what strengths there are. Now here's where people would argue and I have a rebuttal for this too. Some people said, "Well, uh you should at least mention uh lithium oritate and because the the lithium salts the other lithium salts have been shown have been shown to be ineffective." Okay, now this is also incorrect. Okay, so I just want to be clear here on multiple fronts. people are like pushing back, but there's multiple lines of evidence that they're incorrect. So, the reason why I focused on the salts is not just because the clinical trials use those, but because several studies did show an effect of lithium using those quote unquote outdated or incorrect versions of lithium. So, how do we explain that? Multiple clinical trials show benefit of using lithium salts, not lithium oritate. So, do we just like ignore that? Do we like close our eyes and just kind of hope they go away or or do we maybe acknowledge that just because this nature study found that lithium oritate is a could potentially be a a superior version of lithium doesn't mean that the other forms of lithium have no impact. Can we acknowledge that that's true? And if that's the case, then the actionable steps that we have currently based on the current evidence, the strongest evidence we have is in the lithium salts, not lithium oritate. So while I understand the frustrations, I think that those frustrations are based on a thought process that's ahead of where the evidence actually lies. And I think that's just it's important to communicate that effectively. So I'll communicate it effectively right now. We have multiple trials, human trials that show lithium salts are effective as lithium against Alzheimer's disease. We have one preclinical study that shows that lithium oritate may be superior to those lithium salts. We have no clinical evidence up to now proving that lithium oritate is superior to those other salts so far. It is possible that in the future and probably very likely in the future we will get a clinical study that will look at lithium oritate against Alzheimer's disease. Or even better would be lithium oritate versus lithium carbonate versus some other forms of lithium other lithium salts against Alzheimer's disease. So we can actually have that comparison across uh different types. That would be brilliant. But that's where we stand now. So I think that my conclusion, my analysis was correct. And I just don't want to jump the gun to lithium oritate without at least mentioning, hey, we don't have any human evidence of that yet. So if you choose to use lithium oritate, I don't see anything inherently wrong with that. But just know that whatever doses you're using are based off of the lithium salts that are not orate. Okay? All right. So just wanted to address that uh because it's again it's just important to me. It just matters when people, you know, have this like strong reaction against some of my work. I want to make sure that people are clear. I I'm not just willy-nilly just throwing information out there. I've I've thought this stuff out and I have arguments to defend my stances on uh on everything or at the very least almost everything. So, there you have it. All right. The final topic that I'm going to cover in this podcast before we get into um some of the housekeeping stuff that I wanted to talk about and a positive note that I'd like to discuss as well is vitamin K against cardiovascular disease. This is a topic I've been asked to cover uh for I don't know maybe nine months now, 10 months, maybe almost a year at this point. And I I knew that it was going to be a topic that people were really interested in. So I paid special attention and I tried to pull together every study that I could find uh on the outcomes that I defined. Those outcomes are three. So one arterial plaque. So the impact that has on vitamin K has on on arterial plaque. Number two, the impact that vitamin K has on calcified plaque and number three on overall cardiovascular health or And so I pulled together I think 30 studies. I found a systematic review and a and a meta analysis. And I pulled all I pulled all those studies as well. And overall, I was pretty blown away by how confidently a lot of people on social media discuss vitamin K. Now, before I go on, one of the critiques, which I I think is perfectly fair, one of the critiques that was levied against me was that I didn't mention the type of vitamin K. And to defend myself a little bit, I did mention it. uh the distinct the type of my vitamin K. I actually mentioned it 11 times. I measured it or I counted in my analysis because I I was like paranoid. Did I really not mention it? But I mentioned it 11 times to defend the people that that said that I didn't mention it. I didn't mention it until later on in the analysis. So, should I have mentioned it earlier? Yes. Uh so I'll say it now. Primarily vitamin K2. primarily vitamin K2 MK7 variant. Okay, so that is the one MK7 vitamin K2 is the one that on social media so many people have talked about like it's the the thing that's going to stop calcified plaque. It's the thing that's going to reverse plaque. It's the thing that is going to help against cardiovascular disease. And after analyzing these 30 studies, was it 30 studies? No, it was 20 studies. Excuse me. Fake news. 20 studies. I'm getting that confused with another analysis, which is a major one that I'm trying to motivate myself to do. It's on statins, and I have 30 studies uh put together for that one. Uh I may I'm hoping to do a full study analysis on that which is like multi-hour analysis opening up all the studies to show people the data. Anyway, it's beside the point. So vitamin K these 20 studies after I opened up these 20 studies went through them like I said in my analysis I was really blown away by how confident people are because when they're talking about vitamin K2 MK7 because the majority of the studies show no effect. Now, I want you like if you haven't seen my analysis and you just heard that, would you be shocked? Are you shocked by that? Are you surprised at least by that? Because there are like almost every video that I saw online was pointing out, oh, vitamin K is like you have to take it because it's so good for your arteries. It's so good for cardiovascular health. I've got it to on my supplement stack. all these different things and yet and even in in like conference presentations and whatnot, I will see like isolated studies of vitamin K2 against cardiovascular disease or like calcification of plaque or whatnot, but those same presentations don't mention that there are six other studies that show there's no effect. I don't know about you, but like if I and this was true. I think it was like two studies showed an effect for one of the outcomes. I forgot which one. It was either arterial plaque or calcified plaque and then like six studies showed no effect. I mean, at what point do we say like, "Huh, should I really be focusing on these two studies that show an effect while not mentioning that the vast majority of the studies showed no effect? How is that responsible communication? Can somebody explain that to me? That doesn't make sense." So, anyway, I I tried to find some throughine. So, I looked at my usual things. I tried to separate things by sex. I tried to look at things by weight, like people who are overweight. I looked at things by diabetes risk or metabolic syndrome in general. And there isn't really a clear through line. uh and all of them or almost all of them like I'll say 80% if not 90% of the randomized control trials used vitamin K2 MK7 that everybody talks about on social media. Oh, that's the version that you need. But what I also did is I looked at vitamin K1. So I looked at vitamin K1, I looked at vitamin K2, I looked at different versions of vitamin K2 with obviously MK7 being the the major one. And it's just all over the place. The data is just all over the place. Now, you could argue maybe the dosing wasn't enough. You could argue that it wasn't the trial length wasn't long enough. The the number of participants wasn't enough. That's fine. That's all fair. But my point isn't to say that vitamin K definitely doesn't work. My point is that on social media we talk about things so clearly and so confidently and yet there's many studies that show that that is not the case. So, I just think that we need to take a step if not multiple steps back and communicate that clearly like, hey, it's possible that vitamin K2 may work and that's what I mentioned in my analysis that it might work for people that are otherwise kind of in unhealthy state as in they're dealing with diabetes, they're dealing with metabolic syndrome, then there were a few studies that showed and largely those were the studies that showed an effect. Was that universal? No, it wasn't. It's possible that the dose wasn't high enough. I think the dose was up to 300 400 micrograms, something like that. Don't quote me on exactly that amount, but it's somewhere in that realm. And then a critique that people offered was, well, studies studies never use the high enough dose to to to find an effect. Well, then where are we getting this information on social media? Because how can we have presentations where we mention that vitamin K2 is effective against cardiovascular disease and then we offer doses. And yet there are many other studies that use the same doses and they don't show an effect. Like there's something we're missing here. There has to be something we're missing here. But the fact that nobody communicates that is just mind-blowing to me. So anyway, yeah, for for reversing arterial plaque, there was almost no evidence to indicate that was true. I think the four studies or so that looked at it, uh, at least three of them showed no effect. The calcified plaque, there was a maybe a little bit more evidence or at least more studies and still the majority of studies showed no effect. Then I went to cardiovascular health as a whole and there we can't rely on randomized control trials. In those situations I that's where I specifically broke out vitamin K1 from vitamin K2. Vitamin K1 loses its relationship with cardiovascular health as in improving cardiovascular health if you are accounting for vegetable intakes. Vitamin K1 is primarily found in uh in vegetables or in greens and whatnot. So when you account for vegetable intake or green intake then you lose that beneficial relationship between vitamin K1 and um and cardiovascular health. So most likely what that indicates is that if you eat greens that that is the real benefit or maybe vitamin K1 has some benefit but it's through the the it's at least masked by the fact that you're consuming greens in general. Okay. So that's fine, right? Fine. Now the more import the one that everybody goes crazy about is vitamin K2. And for that one, uh, there was it's still kind of noisy, like the the studies weren't as well done, but there's one study that accounted for calcium intake as a proxy for some of the foods that contain uh vitam vitamin K2. And even when accounting for calcium, although the the relationship did weaken, it was uh still statistically significant. So that indicates to me that most likely there is still a benefit of vitamin K2 independent of other factors. Now am I really rock solid on that? No. Because the again the studies were weaker. So we're talking about studies that are measuring nutrition at baseline and then not measuring it again over like 15 years or 20 years or whatever. Uh, and look, there's other weaknesses as well, like they didn't account for a bunch of different factors. Some of them didn't account for overall nutrition. Some of them don't account for physical activity. Some of them don't. Like, there's a bunch of different factors that they just don't account for. So if you mix all the studies together where they do kind of account for each other, you still get a picture where vitamin K2 may have an independent effect at reducing cardiovascular disease uh risk, which is okay, fine. Like cool. So that was kind of my conclusion. And I was like, "Look, the randomized control trials are like if you think there's rocksolid evidence, you somebody somebody lied to you." Uh, and if you look at the totality of evidence across 20 studies, including a systematic review, which came to the conclusion that we do not have strong evidence or we don't have good evidence for vitamin K, and they were primarily looking at vitamin K2. Then my conclusion after 20 studies is like we've got some evidence overall that vitamin K2 MK7 is a benefit. But that evidence is on shaky ground as in we need better evidence uh to be really sure. And I think that's a reasonable take considering that the majority of intervention studies show no effect. So my conclusion that there may still be a benefit if with long-term consumption of elevated vitamin K2 is I think a pretty bold one considering that the intervention studies don't show an effect. Again, those intervention studies are focused on arterial plaque, calcified plaque, and then the long-term studies over decades are looking at overall cardiovascular health or cardiovascular disease. So, they're slightly different. They're measuring slightly different things. Okay. So the mechanism by which vitamin K is supposed to work or one of them at least related to calcification is one it has a role in coagulation which yeah actually I'll be addressing that in a little bit as well. So in the coagulation cascade so like um like different uh clot formation and and stuff like that which is a normal process that we have to have then vitamin K is involved in that. The other uh one is that it allows for what's known as caroxilation. So it's essentially a specific type of tag that's applied to a protein called a matrix gala protein. I forgot what the gal stands for. It's a particular amino acid. um yeah I can't remember the exact amino acid but it's an amino acid and this this caroxile tag gets applied to it and that process of adding the caroxile tag includes vitamin K. So vitamin K leads to more of this activated matrix glo protein. And this protein binds to uh the calcified sections or the calcification molecule called hydroxy appatite that gets deposited by our cells into our blood vessels which leads to this calcification. So the matrix glo protein physically interacts with that so that it inhibits that process. So now we don't get nearly as much calcification. So it protects us from calcification. A quick point here that you should ask yourself though is that do you really want to inhibit calcification if the alternative is that you are you have more soft plaque which is more related to cardiovascular disease. And that's something people should really be thinking about. But in the end, uh even though it is true and I showed multiple lines of evidence that vitamin K does lead to more of this activated uh this glop protein matrix glop protein mgp. uh it did not ultimately yield many convincing data that uh the calcification process itself would be impeded by uh vitamin K. Okay, so that's my spiel on vitamin K. Now to some comments. Again, some push back from people. And I'm actually going to be doing AI'm going to be reading my response to one of these comments as well because I had the time to sit there and think about it as well. So Brian WC said, "I don't like how you don't differentiate K1 versus K2 more strongly in the information presented. The video is unlike you. It's confusing because you're often just saying vitamin K versus specifically distinguishing vitamin K1 and K2. Such as at the end where you say vitamin K can increase the risk of internal bleeding. It's only K1 that increases that risk. I'm surprised that you are not more precise with your language in this video. The functional medicine doctors in my area have had incredible success reducing arterial plaque in lots of patients by having people take vitamin K2, magnesium, and nattokinise. Of course, adding high amounts of soluble fiber and digestible digestive resistance starch also helps. I've seen the data from some of these local PA patients. I've seen people's CAC scores, so that's the coronary artery calcium score, go down after adding these supplements. There is quite a bit of clinical data out there that's not necessarily standard RCT, so randomized control trials, but it's still useful when analyzing the newest edge of available data. Most of your videos are home run, but as a scientist, I know that you can handle critical feedback. Lol. We appreciate we all appreciate you. So, first of all, Brian, thank you. I I do appreciate it. Again, I'm not above critique. Like that's fine, you know? Critique me as you will, but and that that was a very polite and uh just like here's here's my argument. Cool. Like I I will I will never have any problems with somebody presenting that kind of argument. I do take a little uh I do get a little frustrated when people question my work and then they don't p they don't address the data. Uh and Brian, I'm not trying to like specifically single you out. Um because I I get this just in general. Uh people will say, "Well, I don't agree with you. You didn't do a very good job." And that bothers me. You didn't do a very good job. But then it would bother me a lot less and it would actually make me like really think about things a lot more if people said you didn't do a very good job because you missed this this and this from the data that you presented and or here are some additional data. I think that you should address this. That is an argument I cannot fight against or I can fight against it but like it would have to be a a conversation like a good faith conversation of okay wow I didn't see that data before uh that changes things um oh I can explain that by you know because this study used this or whatever it might be but at least then we're having a discussion of the data as opposed to just saying well you just didn't do a very good job and it wasn't you didn't use very precise language anguage, which to be fair in the first half of my analysis, that's true. I I should have distinguished between K1 and K2. I was talking primarily about K2 throughout that part. It wasn't until later that I um that I really broke up the two. Okay. But I ended up uh adding a response and I end up saying that sure, you're right. I'm happy to take feedback so long as the feedback is correct, which it isn't in this case. And considering that you're claiming that this video is unlike my usual work, I'll defend my work against your word. So, number one, both vitamin K1 and vitamin K2 are implicated in the clotting cascade and are hazard when consumed with bloodrelated drugs. And this is where I took a little bit of um of liberty here with uh Brian because Brian specifically said that I'm surprised that you are not more precise with your language in this video. And Brian conveniently uh left out some of the precise language that I used in my video. uh which again just speaks to like if we're going to have a discussion we have to be we have to be good faith with one another and we have to uh present each other's arguments completely and fairly. So, in my video, my what my actual argument was, hey, at the end I mentioned if you're if you are going to be supplementing, if you decide to supplement with vitamin K, K1 or K2 doesn't matter, then you should uh definitely think about it even more as in think about not doing it even more if uh you are on uh blood clotting medications like warrin or whatever it might be. And the reason for that is because it, like I said, it's involved in the clotting cascade. And unlike what Brian said, it is not just vitamin K1 that has that warning. In fact, if you go to the NIH website, if you go to Medline, uh they mention vitam they explicitly say vitamin K1, vitamin K2, vitamin K3. So, all forms of vitamin K because even though they're not exactly integrated in the same steps, they are integrated in this whole clotting cascade and they can interfere with that process. So it is a risk. So something that you know everybody who's supplementing with any form of vitamin K should be aware of and that's why I mentioned that it's specific to people who are taking these drugs. Okay? So I and I mentioned that in the video uh which Brian left that out. So to say that I'm imprecise with my language but then mischaracterizing what I actually said is again I I'm not like saying anything um I'm not saying this was on purpose or anything like that but I I do think that when people come to me and they've got critiques and it's like wellfounded critiques I am I get really frustrated with myself uh when I mess something up and I immediately try to jump on it and try to correct it and of course give that person credit. Um, but what I also what I also really think is important is that I defend my work. And when I don't think that a person is being fair about how they're representing my work, it does bother me because if people just read that comment, then they think that, oh, Nick isn't being precise or Nick isn't a good source for reputable information. and my integrity and my just my the the the work that I put out there. I'm constantly trying to improve it because yeah, my integrity just means so much to me and putting out good information, great information is of the utmost importance to me. So when somebody points out that I made mistakes, I jump on them like where where tell me how like where did I make a mistake so I can I can correct it. But if somebody says, "Well, you made a mistake and I just feel this way." And then they are mischaracterizing my perspective. That's I mean, I have to defend myself. It's just it's I just don't consider it right. So number two, you mentioned functional doctors have had success and that's fine, but that isn't scientific evidence. Second to that, by your own comment, they used multiple interventions. So remember uh by Brian's point mentioned that uh they used vitamin K, they use magnesium and nattokinus and then later also mentioned soluble fiber and digestive uh resistance starches. So now we're talking about three, four, five different things being used at the same time. And let's say let's assume that those people did have arterial plaque reversal. How in the world can we attribute that to vitamin K? The better evidence, the randomized control trials that look at the the matter against a placebo group show no effect. So why would I suddenly take a let's say multiple anecdotes even in a clinical setting that have no control group that use five different interventions at the same time and then say aha vitamin K that's the thing that worked. That doesn't work. That's not that's not a scientific way to approach uh the evidence. Uh, number three, I've seen people's CAC score go down after adding these supplements. Again, this is anecdote. Limitless factors could confound that result. Okay. And then number four, there's quite a bit of clinical data out there. That's what Brian said. And I all I said was just provide some. I provided 20 studies. That's not necessarily standard RCTs. That's what Brian said. Okay. So, I provide gold standard evidence. and in in addition look at long-term data as well as a systematic review actually technically two so along the hierarchy of evidence I've hit all three pillars so that systematic review at the top randomized control trials and then the epidemiological evidence after that and of course you can have a little bit of mixture between them depending on the quality of each so I've hit all three uh all three pillars I'm happy to look at more evidence but you're self you are self-proclaiming that the evidence is not as rigorous because Brian admitted which was uh which was good that the clinical evidence is not going to be up to par of the RCTs. So the entire argument is based off of anecdote clinical settings where multiple interventions are used and what even if there was like the best possible clinical data none of that has is controlled none of that takes into account uh like randomization uh placebo control nothing so it's it's going to be lower quality evidence regardless of how you how you slice it um and then I that again I appreciate the feedback to improve which I always do. Uh but I can't just accept feedback without justified push back if I think and proven that I've done my work properly. And that's really important to me. I just it like I feel like I really have to communicate that uh multiple times over because it it matters so much to me that I'm willing to back down from positions as long as I'm presented with information data specifically not information data uh that is rigorously controlled that you know where I've missed particular aspects and in that situation yes I will definitely issue corrections do whatever I need to do um but I I just can't have people and people often do this. They just feel that I've done something wrong or they've got clinical data or they know the brother of my aunt of I was going to say brother of my aunt. Well, that would be your uncle then. Or yeah, that would be your uncle or maybe even your dad. Um the the I don't know the the the lawn care guy of my aunt started taking vitamin K and his anga his chest pains went away like okay I mean that good like I'm glad but that doesn't that doesn't prove anything to me that's not evidence to me. Okay. Anyway, domac48 said, "My problem with scientific studies of supplements is that they seem to use the smallest dose possible and then say that it doesn't do anything." Okay, so I kind of addressed that earlier, right? Um, let's assume that that's true, that the scientific studies, which by the way, some of the studies that showed an effect use the same dose as some of the studies that showed no effect. Okay. So that's one very important point. So let's assume that the studies don't show an effect. And yet on social media we have health influencers that will point to the study that did show an effect and say that's the dose to use. And yet they ignore the other study that used the exact same dose if not potentially higher. and still say that this one dose is the one that has scientific evidence behind it. Or even worse in my estimation is they just make up a number. They just say, "Okay, 300 micrograms uh showed some effect. Let's double it. 600." In that situation, you just have a person talking versus studies that show there's no effect. So again, like it's it's kind of a riskbenefit uh situation, but me, I tend to be pretty conservative. I'm not as conservative as some physicians uh where, you know, they they only focus on drugs or they only focus on exercise or they only focus on nutrition, which is fine. Um and certainly I do as well, but I go just a little bit beyond that. But then there are people that go leaps and bounds beyond that where they just kind of throw out numbers and they're like, "Well, my functional medicine guru or whatever, some health influencer said uh that you actually have to take triple what the studies show and that's why it's underdosed." It's like based on what evidence do they have any pharmaccoinetics? Do they have any sort of data to to indicate that that's the case? They're just saying it. They're literally just saying it. By the way, omega-3s are not effective at 1 or 4 g. What's actually effective is 10,000 trillion billion kg of omega-3s. Don't ask me for evidence. I I tried it on one of my one of my clients and it worked. Like that's not evidence. That's just that's a scary situation to be telling people that that's what's that's what's going to work. So, and also do I do I I mean you may feel different. You listening to this, you may feel different, but my impression is that scientists aren't out there designing studies that they know are going to fail. You understand that a scientist doesn't get funding anymore if they continuously release studies that don't show an effect. And not to mention, they're going to get under more scrutiny for future grants. Uh, so I just find it hard to believe that these these scientists are like, "Okay, let's let's let's put a year or two years worth of work into this vitamin K study, but let's figure out a way for it not to show an effect." Like, what? Who would do that? And not to mention, it's not one group. It's like 10 different research labs. They're all doing it. they're all underdosing. Like there's a reason why they go for these particular doses. There's preclinical data. There's there's pharmaccoinetic data. There's all kinds of other types of data that indicate that's the dose that you should be using. And then studies if they see kind of marginal benefits, maybe they'll be like, okay, let's try increasing that for a future investigation. Let's try to increase the sample size. Let's try to do different. Let's elongate the study. Like they're always adapting. Like scientists aren't doing research just to find null results to me that just seems it's just kind of out there. I I mean could it happen? Yeah. But could it happen across the entire scientific field? I just I don't think so. And again, maybe you feel differently. Okay. William Boquist said, "I think in my video I said, I think you'll find these results are sobering." And William said, "Good. I'll bookmark this video and watch it again when I'm hammered and have work to do." So, yeah, that was a good one. And then I I'm gonna I'm gonna I'm going to rant a little bit longer. hopefully you'll indulge me that I also get these comments of people that just kind of treat me like I'm a kid and I just don't I don't know uh you know right from wrong and I I'm still stuck in the establishment and I I don't have I don't have the the world experience to be able to speak on some of these topics and like fine whatever but there there were a few comments one of them I find really funny because of who uh sent it. But one comment said uh BD Cochran01. This was this was perfectly fine comment, but just kind of in that same vein, which I get a lot of these. Uh I'm old enough to be your grandfather. Therefore, I relate some things to bear in mind. One, everything that I learned in college 60 years ago has been proven wrong, superseded, or has become nuanced. Actually, that sounds pretty good. That sounds like progress to me. Uh, especially the last one. If it's become nuanced, I love that. Uh, two, if you condition yourself to question your assumptions and your indoctrination, you will be ahead in life before most people. Okay. I I don't I think people don't understand like what goes into a PhD. I mean, the whole thing is just questions, right? questions and then you go find the answer and they give you money, they give you resources and then you get some guidance from a a a PI, your your mentor and they tell you, okay, go, you know, do try the experiments, try to figure out the answer. Uh, three, do your own research. In the old days, I had to go to the medical library and struggle to find information. Now, you can use your home computer. That's true. That's that's definitely true. I mean, uh, the internet has opened up so much and I I completely agree with that. Um, and number four, always value facts over the truth. The first is objective and the second option is subjective. I don't I mean, honestly, I don't I probably have to think about that one some more. I don't fully understand that one. And I I did end up commenting. I said, uh, I appreciate the comment, but I'm very confused as to how this relates to the topic. This was under my vitamin K analysis. And then somebody else responded, which I'll get to, but like do your own research. This is something that's kind of become a a mainstay for a lot of people. Just do your own research. But if I can hearken back real quick to somebody else who commented in one of the previous analysis that we went over for glycine, Sabrina, remember how Sabrina said, uh, I am truly confused. I thought glycine was an anti-cancer, anti-aging, antioxidant. Then she goes on and so on and so forth. But she says, "The more I quote unquote educate myself, the more I feel that I have no idea what's going on." Okay. So, that's where I think I think this um this kind of uh I don't know what to call it, but this almost anti-expertise kind of mentality of well, I can't trust other people. I can't trust experts in a field uh because you know whatever it might be because one day they say one thing or another day they say something else or maybe the establishment is compromised or whatever it might be. I I I don't know. It doesn't really matter. The the point being that we can't trust experts like we're we're kind of getting into this this world of like we just have to educate ourselves. We just have to do it ourselves. We have to do our own research. And I gotta be honest with you, how are you going to do your own research if you don't know how to read the controls on a western blot or if you don't understand how to how HLC is done or how mass spect mass spectrometry is done or like how are you going to you don't know how the experiments are done that gave you the data that you are then having to analyze not to mention then you have to run it through statistics and understand how statistics work. Like that takes work. It's like, you know, during my PhD, I didn't just like twiddle my thumbs. Like I was educated obviously on the the general stuff, right? I I went through the whole all the body systems. I went from the from the molecular level up to the whole the whole physiological level and it was grueling. But what I was also taught for for threearters of my education was about the experiments. We had to learn how they worked. We had to understand how to piece together experiments to get a particular result because sometimes you have to do multiple experiments just to get to a result to get a result. uh we were given questions and then asked okay now you have to design an experiment based off of this uh we want to know the answer to this like this is the question this is the scenario now you design the experiments to to allow us to do that and this was in neur neuroscience this was in cancer research this was in uh gastroenterenterology like we did everything all the way across and that's our job. Like that's what PhDs do. They analyze research. They they they do research. They actually physically sit there and do research. They think about it. They plan it. They pipet. They do the actual experiments. They they put together like actual experimental uh methods and then they get the output, right? And then they have to uh do an analysis on the output. So they have to run statistics and then they have to sit there and think about what that output actually means. and they have to then broaden that to the overall context of the entire uh paper that they want to publish. So to me like do your own research is I think it's it's pretty treacherous because if you have no concept of how any of that stuff works like do your own research is like reading Sanskrit. Like I I don't know how to read Sanscripts. I would just be like I I don't know what I'm looking at. I mean, is age going to make a difference in that? No. Is is anything going to make a difference other than just experience? Just having been exposed and being taught by somebody who knows more than you do on the topic. That's what's that's what you have to do. Um so yeah, this do your own research thing. I've heard it a lot and I've definitely heard it against me uh for sure where people have have claimed their age. I'm this many years old. Uh you're young, you don't understand. And you know that's fine. Like I think in life I think that's a really good point. I'm relatively young. Um and as a result I have less experience than uh many other people that may be 20 years my senior. Cool. And I completely acknowledge that. I'm not here to like be delusional or anything like that, but I think when it comes to science, at least like at the very least analyzing studies, I'm not going to say I'm like the best or anything like that. And I still have plenty of work to do and I will always continue to work at it. But I would say in that topic I have I have more experience than a lot of people especially people that don't have a PhD because that is what a PhD is. Uh on the other hand you know if you talk to me about like people that study uh micro gleal damage after I post-traumatic uh brain disorder whatever I'm just making. something up then those people would have more experience than I do even if they're let's say 28 years old because they've had maybe two three five years of research experience in that area right so experience is not just based on the overall breadth of experience of just being alive it's also based on how you focus your attention what do you focus your attention on so again this like do your own research. It's I don't know. I think it's a dangerous road to go down. But then again, I also don't want people to feel unempowered. I do want people to feel empowered to to do a little bit of background reading on their own and to push their doctors and to push me and push other people that are are relating this information because you do want to test and you want to ask questions and you want to be curious and it goes back to one of my previous points of I do love engaging with people that are curious and want to know more and because that's how I am too when it comes to to my field. Um, so yeah, it's it's a delicate balance, but anyway, thank you for the for the comment, BD. I appreciate it. Now, one, like I said, I said I appreciate the comment, but I'm very confused how this relates to the topic. Socrates had something to say, which I I I find very funny. Socrates uh very famous philosopher um around the same time I think he was the tutor of Plato if I remember correctly. So Socrates said you proved the you proved his point. I'm confused how you're confused. Uh they're talking about how to take take in information and not become dogmatic but to stay open and use uh discernment and to rely on facts not bias. and you don't know how to how that relates to interpreting interpreting scientific data, which is what you present every week. Yeah. Again, it's just it's kind of the same argument, right? Um like this idea that we're becoming dogmatic and and whatnot. And some people are for sure. Um and then, you know, I got I got others like who do you work for? And like I've been compromised by uh by the the the industry. I've been compromised by big I don't know. I I don't know who. I don't know. I mean my conclusion again for this this analysis was vitamin K2 probably works. I'm leaning towards it working. Is it going to have a dramatic effect? Probably not. Uh and the evidence is shaky and we need more evidence. So, if that makes me dogmatic after presenting my evidence, again, I I just want people to just uh present data. That's really all I really care about. Um, so I think I've said it enough. I I won't go down that road again. Okay. I want to get into some housekeeping. I keep that till the end because I know people don't uh aren't always that interested in it. Uh but I wanted to leave things on some positive notes. Uh I get a lot of critique but I also get a lot of encouragement and I deeply deeply appreciate that. It really does mean a lot to me. Um so you know like uh Physionic has it definitely doesn't grow very quickly. Um it's not a channel that's that's like exploding or anything along those lines. And I don't really care. I don't care if it does or if it doesn't. Um, would it be nice to have like huge growth? Of course. Like, who doesn't want that? But I also don't want it to be um I don't want it to be get to a point where it's unmanageable. And uh I do want to keep physionic small, just me. Um, and it's fun and that's that's important and it helps people. Um, I get a lot of comments and a lot of messages from people saying how much my work has helped them and I I mean that that means the world to me honestly. It's just like it's it's it's very very fulfilling in that regard. Um, and it it motivates me further. Again, not that I ever needed extra motivation, but it motivates me further to continue to release uh intellectually honest information, which again means that sometimes I have to own up if I get something incorrect and correct it. Uh, and on the other hand, also to defend myself whenever I think that I've done a good job. So yeah, it's uh it's been it's been slowgoing, but it's growing. And uh I I'm always incredibly appreciative of the fact that I have even a small number of people that care about the work that I put out there. And I get comments, I get emails, and I get messages uh every day. And it's I I can't keep up with all of it, but I do I just want you to know that if you've ever sent me a message or a comment or anything like that, even if I haven't necessarily read it, I just want you to know I deeply do appreciate it. It it means the world to me. Um beyond that and just the fact that I get to get to do this independent of any sponsorships. I think like two years ago, I was really wrestling with the idea because I I've I've received at least 300 sponsorship requests on my website. I have for the messaging before people send me an email, I have a note that says, "Do not contact me." If you are trying to pitch me a CEO to be on Physionic, if you're trying to pitch me some researchers that's selling their supplement or whatever to be on Physionic. If you are trying to sell your new magnesium glyphonate, I don't know, I'm just making something up. Uh 3000, I don't care. Just don't even bother contacting me. And I've still been contacted hundreds of times from people trying to get me to uh to like for them to sponsor a segment on Physionic. And I remember about 2 years ago, I asked you guys, I asked you how you would see me if I did take sponsorships. Uh so if I did like sponsored segments and whatnot. And honestly, I think the majority of people said that they didn't care. It wouldn't have bothered them. And there was a small number of people, I'd say maybe 20%, 30% maybe, that said it would probably shift their perspective. And of course, you know, it's it's a biased sample because people that are going to click on the video, they're going to offer their opinion, the people that are going to say, "Oh, it wouldn't bother me." That's probably because they already trust me. But what I'm also trying to do is make sure that the perception of having outside influences is something that I'm really trying to push away as well. Uh so even though I could have done some sponsorships with some pretty big brands, I just chose not to. And even though the majority of people were saying it probably wouldn't change their perspective and it wasn't actually about the opinions of those people that uh that changed that lean me towards not doing sponsorships. It was actually the people that I haven't reached yet. I want to I want to be able to be in a position where uh I just say, "Oh, I have no no one is is dictating anything except for me and the the I guess called the crowdsourcing from the insiders." So to me, it was really important uh that I keep myself sponsorship free and I will continue to do that for as long as I can. and the fact that I get to do physionic sponsorship free and I've also uh stepped back from consulting as well. um not completely but by a large part and I get to do what I love which is just analyze analyze research to to the end of days um just constantly be reading research and to to have fun putting these uh videos together and the articles and like all that stuff. And if you're not familiar, I also release uh multiple articles per week uh that release on my email list, the free physionic community as well. Um I also post them on LinkedIn and and bunch of other places. So the fact that I get to do that is just like it's it's incredible. And uh again, I I always end these podcasts I always say thank you because it it really does mean a lot to me. I also do these podcasts only every six months. So, so I just I want to remind you that I'm continuously thankful. I just wanted to point that out. Uh, okay. So, I did want to leave here with uh a few more things. One is I had even though the the comment section can be a place that's just like full of nonsense, um I've also had the pleasure of having a some really funny people comment. You heard some of them, right? Like the bourbon joke that we talked about earlier or or what was the the the the other one? I forgot. Any Oh, the sobering one uh about um vitamin K. But I also have some really great engagements with people that comment. And sometimes people will say, you know, I've never commented before, but I I needed to say this thing. And so I I try to like obviously I miss hundreds and hundreds of comments, but um I try to respond to to those kinds of comments because I want people to feel like uh physionic is a place where they can actually uh speak and not like not feel like dumb questions. There are no dumb questions like well I mean technically there are dumb questions like if I say you know is this phone cover like is this screen black and it's clearly black I mean I guess that would be a dumb question but in general when it comes to scientific questions related to like biology physiology nutrition whatnot um it can be a really basic question I don't but just because it's a basic question doesn't make it a dumb So anyway, this all to say, I'm kind of talking in circles here, but this all to say, I had a lovely exchange with Michael Johnson that I wanted to read with uh read to you. Uh Michael Johnson said, "I've been trying to better my health for a number of years now. I'm 36 and I have agorophobia as well as fibromyalgia. I'm not the most intelligent person in the sense that I find it genuinely difficult to differentiate fact from fiction due to so many quote unquote experts online. And I'm also not very successful academically. Kicked out of school at uh age 15. There's no such information out there that I find simply Oh, there is so much information out there that I find simply overwhelming. I'm also not the most well-off person, so finding decent quality supplements are hard for me. I try to focus on diet as well as exercise naturally. I suppose what I'm asking is how would someone as bewildered and overwhelmed by such information navigate this minefield of a subject that is health and nutrition. Apologies for such a long message. Again, I I and that that's why I had this preamble because I you understand like a person that's dealing with agorophobia, fibromyalgia, and like many other people have commented about other issues that they have and to put that out on the internet and I think it takes takes a a certain level of uh bravery and I I really every time anytime I see a comment like that, I do try to engage because it means a lot to me going back to what I said at the beginning. But also, I just want to recognize and I really want to tell people that uh like I hear you and even though there aren't a ton of resources out there, there are people that are trying to do the right thing. and I've, you know, I've engaged with them in the past and I will continue to engage with them uh in the future and I'll always try to highlight people that I think are are doing a great job which I may actually come back to that point in just a little bit. But let me let me get to my response. Uh, Michael, if this is your barometer for your intelligence, quote, in the sense that I find genuine find it genuinely difficult to differentiate fact from fiction due to so many quote unquote experts online, then we are all morons. Just by the way that you write, I can tell that you're far more intelligent than you give yourself credit. As for navigating an information minefield, that's a topic that that I'm still wrestling with. I don't have a satisfactory answer. I used to, but it's had a few holes blown through it. In my field, it's easy to to differentiate because I know as much as they do. However, in other fields, I also have trouble. I tend to just rely on the most boring sources. So, textbooks, uh, releases by research bodies like universities and and the like. Or I have a few people that I trust outside of my field like my dad in physics. He has a PhD in physics and a master's in mechanical engineering. So I asked him on physics concepts, it's not easy and you are not in any way less intelligent for not having figured it out. And then his response was, thank you for your response. I hope that the term quote unquote experts in quotation marks wasn't taken as an insult to yourself as I do trust you. Thank you, Michael. No, it was not. Uh I'm sure you're aware of so many people online claiming to be someone that they're not. I do not believe that is the case for you. Thank you. Uh I'm just extremely exhausted with everything. I think I worded my comment in frustration. I just want you to know that I appreciate all the work and I hope that we can all find simpler answers to some of life's toughest questions. Thank you for replying to my comment. It means a lot to me. Yeah. So, I wanted to highlight this because that the bigger question that Michael's asking about this uh um you know, I'm realizing I'm getting sunburnt over here. Joy, oh joy, I tried to escape the sun. Couldn't do it. Uh the sun hath defeated me. Yeah. I think the the the bigger point here though, and it's true like I I used to have answers, right, for for like who you can trust, who you can't trust. uh when it comes to this field of like health and nutrition and exercise and and whatnot which are kind of intermingled medicine and it's become more difficult simply because I think in the past maybe five years ago I would have said well the people that actually provide citations the ones that actually discuss science uh that actually you know go into studies like actually say hey there's this study and this is what it says is a pretty good barometer at least an initial marker that it might be someone that you could listen to. Uh, but nowadays what I'm finding is that there's a lot of I'll just go and say it, charlatans that that use studies and they just pick out little phrases from those studies and then or small concepts from those studies or completely butcher the study or they'll just they they use one study and then ignore all the rest of the literature and they make entire videos about it, you know, where it's like a person holding a walnut and it's like over some like green drink or whatever it might be and and it's like uh scientists have broken open the the reality of heart health or something like that and it has to do with this and it's just like I don't know some like obscure study that's just like out of Russia in 1983. three or something like that where they gave walnuts to Labrador dogs or something like that and and uh they I don't know. It's just like I you get my point. It's just like completely obscure and they're it's just so far out there. But they're technically following what I used to say, right? like they're using a study, they're they're flashing the title of the study, they have references, maybe they have references uh in the description, but that doesn't actually mean that the study says what they say or in the context of the literature that that's actually an appropriate overall conclusion. And not to mention, it's like short-term memory loss, right? like they say one thing on one week, which it goes back to, you know, one of the major complaints I was talking about earlier and then the next week they're talking about something completely different that also does the same thing. But they never take release a video that says like, "Hey, by the way, I know that I said that this was the biggest thing and now I'm saying this is the biggest thing." The reality is that you know they both contribute such a high amount such a great amount that I you know like and they start trying to apply context like what they said they just blast forward the third week they're like this is the best thing in the world. And you do have to take a few uh a few pages out of their book because if you're going to fight that fight of like trying to get good information out there, you do have to create kind of like explosive narratives and stuff. But you're always if you if you are really trying to put out good scientific information, you're always going to be constrained by what the data actually says. And that's always important. And there's a there's a Reddit post. I'm on Reddit a good amount. Uh, I just like to peruse. I like to to talk with people that are also in kind of scientific nutrition and uh that are in the subreddits and and different biohacking and whatnot. And plus, there's there's sometimes really good topics and there's actually some really good discussion there sometimes. So, uh, sometimes being the operative word there. But there's this one person that posted my vitamin K, uh, video and and analysis, and there's this one person that commented, and I actually really liked their comment. It was largely negative against me. But what I really liked about their comment was that they said because I responded they they said, "Look, I I think that your like the titles and the thumbnails are really like they seem like they're going to be a really exciting concept and then I click on the video and I'm going through the video and I get bored because it's not as exciting as I thought it was going to be." And that's ah I love that because that's exactly what I'm trying to do. I'm trying to get people to be I'm trying to get the right people. I'm trying to attract people, right? So I'm using the similar systems that, you know, people that I don't think are are trying to do the right thing. So, I'll take I'll take like the the enticing title and the enticing thumbnail, which of course still have to be factually accurate. Like, I can't just, you know, make a video about cancer and then the whole video is about cardiovascular disease. Um, but it has to be accurate. And there's so much exciting information out in the scientific literature. It's just how you frame it that's important. Uh, so the fact that they would they they were enticed to click on it. love that because hopefully it took a view from someone else that may be covering that same study but doing potentially a poor job. But the second thing is that they were bored. I mean, in in my in my YouTube analytics and whatnot, it it shows that people actually stick around for quite a lot. But the the fact that this person was describing it as boring, I think is kind of a point of pride. I'm not saying that I want to like bore people's pants off or anything like that, but their like head falls off because they're so bored out of their mind, but what I but I don't want to come off as like just another person that's just like throwing BS at you. Uh so once you click on the video, to me, I have leeway to to be like, "Look, I'm going to show you some really exciting stuff." What that I think is exciting. this is what the data shows and I'm going to tell you the story that's related through the data and I think that is really fun and and really exciting and I don't want people walking away thinking that like chia seeds are going to cure their cancer because they're not you know which is like how the the follow through for a lot of other channels and a lot of other um kind of that kind uh the health influencer world that I don't really like very much. Uh they have that throughine of like I'm I'm going to blow your mind by focusing on this teeny tiny thing and not expand outwards to give you a a a clear picture of what the data actually shows. Um so I don't know it's it's navigating a a minefield. But going back to Michael's comment just in general it's it's uh I have not figured it out. I I thought that I did, like I said, and now it's become trickier because now you have everybody that's just relying on studies, but that doesn't actually necessarily mean that they are presenting those studies correctly, which ultimately leads us back to square one, right? Um, now we don't know. So, if you have any uh any input, any advice, uh I'd be happy to hear. I' I'd like to I'd like to hear and you know maybe one day I can I can get a guide out of like this kind of stepby-step process. I I have thought about doing that in the past and I've thought about reaching out to some of the creators that I really admire and seeing if we can maybe put our heads together and see if we can come up with some sort of like step-by-step guide. It's not going to be perfect, obviously, but some sort of step-by-step guide that people could just have for free that would help people navigate. Okay, I'm watching this video. Here's my three steps I need to think about. Do they fulfill step one? Do they fulfill step two? Do they fulfill step three? And that will give at least some guidance and hopefully some ability to to navigate because if we rely on things like the centrifuge or I know uh Jill Carvalo uh at nutrition made simple has some some stuff where he debunks um particular influencers as well. If we rely on that, I mean, the the the speed at which people can release BS is a million times faster than we can sit there and fact check and make sure we're we're being polite and make sure we're being, you know, uh, appropriate, like appropriately giving credit where it's due and then, you know, correcting where it's due. It's just, it's going to be impossible. So, we're going to have to have some sort of system to to try to tease out some of those. Uh, yeah. Anyway, so I just wanted to end things on a positive note. Um, I've started upping my Instagram game. Uh, that's been going surprisingly well. All I do is just turn on a camera and just talk about stuff in in far less uh long- winded format than I did uh in this podcast. But, uh, that's been going well. Surprisingly, I've been, uh, been pleasantly surprised. I'm trying to just have fun. Um, and yeah, just try to try to branch out and see see what other avenues I can I can use to to kind of spread the scientific nerddom in a manner of speaking. Um, one last thing. I got got a dog. Back away. back away. Some bumblebee or something was attacking me ferociously. Um, yeah, I got a dog. Her name is Olive. I will uh post a picture if you're interested. And uh that's that's my non-scientific, non-physionic news. Um she's been a joy so far. Definitely uh enjoying life with with Olive. Um what else? I think that's about it. Again, if um if you're ever so inclined, then uh you can support me by joining the Physionic Insiders. But to be honest with you, do not join the Physionic Insiders just to support me. Um I I take extreme pride in the amount of work that I put into the insiders. You get podcasts which are far more succinct than what I have here. They're just information. Um, you get articles, weekly articles, multiple weekly articles. You get a private email list. Uh, you get no ads on any videos, on any articles, nothing. So, everything gets delivered to your email inbox. Uh, you get live sessions with me. What else do you get? I designed a Physionic AI. It's not like the best thing in the world or anything, but it's it's uh I I taught it based on all of my work, so it answers based off of my work. Um, and you get bunch of other things as well, like one paragraph summaries with the main key takeaways that you should uh that you should have. Oh, master supplement list that I built. I'm very excited about that. I think people are really taking advantage of that. It goes into the supplement. It goes into the outcome of interest. It goes into the amount of impact that I think that that supplement will have and then uh the dosing obviously and then uh the different brands that I think are are good brands. So, and then there's a few other benefits of being an insider. But anyway, you don't don't feel any pressure to join. Um, but for those insiders that are insiders, uh, people have messaged me that they're quite happy with uh the the the quality of the work that's there, which I'm I'm deeply appreciative of. Again, I take a lot of pride in in in how much work I put into it. So, it means a lot to me. Anyway, physionic insider or not, I deeply appreciate you being here. Um, I know that this was a bit of like, you know, getting into some of the specifics of different comments and stuff like that. And I think that there is I I'm trying not to be quite as solely focused on just analysis and whatnot, but also trying to hear and understand where people are coming from and try to answer questions wherever I can. So, uh, hopefully it was of at least some benefit. And if you're asleep, then nighty night. I hope you I hope you sleep well. Uh thanks again and uh until next time. Maybe in six months, maybe in a year, who knows? Till next time. See you.