I've already released one episode on the topic, but here we are again to go through parts of a podcast by a glycine expert being interviewed on the powerful anti-inflammatory benefits of glycine. But we're not here to passively listen. We're here because this is the centeruge. Have you ever wondered what is real from what is total BS or even half BS in health podcasts? Well, wonder no more. In this episode, I'll pop open the studies and filter everything through a scientific lens, and I'll cite my sources. Like last week, the glycine expert is Dr. Joel Brind, author of the glycine miracle and a professor and a PhD of biomed sciences, being interviewed by Dr. Autumn Smith, a holistic nutrition doctorate. In this episode, we'll be covering a few things. One, diabetes being an inflammatory disease. Two, fat not causing diabetes. The immune system does. Three, fat cells. They don't multiply. They just keep expanding. Four, C15 and cell fragility syndrome. You'll really want to stick around for this one because I have some we'll just say fun things to say. And five, of course, glycine deficiency causes inflammation. Okay, let's wind up the centeruge. >> Oh, yeah. And I'm going to tell I'm going to give you a chance to really I've tried sweet and I love it. We're going to talk about it in a second. There's two other things I am dying to have you comment on. But first, I just wanted to say too, there's this really cool trial you highlight several times in your book in 2008. Cruz I think was the first. >> And they supplemented with glycine. Yeah. And um they saw a reversal lowering of some inflammatory markers and also I think improved insulin sensitivity. But these people didn't lose weight. And that's usually the mantra is like you got to lose weight in order to reverse diabetes. But why was glycine able to change it despite weight loss or what what is your theory around that? I remember it being >> well the theory is again that that that uh diabetes is an inflammatory condition. >> Uh there are uh they they found that for example that the the the thing what has to do with weight is and this was discovered a couple of decades ago is that it's not it's not so much fat atapost tissue it's abdominal fat. It's that's the fat that gets you. And what they found more recently maybe 10 years ago is that it's not even the fat that causes the inflammation. It is the macrofasages which are resident in the fat, those first responders. And fat tissue is very interesting. When you make fat, you know when when tissue grows, excuse me, what happens? Cells multiply. That's how most tissue grows. Not fat exactly. Fat grows. you put on fat, you know, you get a depo of fat that maybe is 5 pounds. Now it's 10, now it's 20. If you go and you look at the cells, the cells count is the same. Each individual cell gets fat. All right, right into claim one. Diabetes is an inflammatory disease. So I tracked down the CRU study. It's this one where people with type two diabetes were given either a placebo or an inert pill or glycine over 3 months. And then they looked at a few blood measures of inflammation like a receptor for a highly inflammatory molecule called TNF alpha and another immune molecule called interfuron. We can see that all here. The black boxes are the glycine conditions and the white are the placebo. If the boxes go down, that's less of the respective inflammation marker. But we're more interested in the comparison against placebo because it accounts for what's known as the placebo effect. Essentially, your body may react to something simply because you psychologically know that you're taking something new, even though you don't know if you're consuming the inert substance, the placebo or the glycine. Anyway, for the first interlucan one beta, a pro-inflammatory molecule, there's no effect. Same for interlucan 6 below it, though both conditions seem to experience reduction. Then the most telling is this receptor of TNF alpha, also pro-inflammatory. it seems to reduce more with glycine. Now, interestingly, interferon, a stimulator of the immune system, seemed raised with glycine compared to the placebo. Now, if you're wondering what in the world is going on here and how to translate things going nowhere, some things are going up, some things are going down into useful information, then you, my friend, are asking the right questions. And you might expect a PhD like me to tell you, "Oh, yes, there's an obvious pattern of glycine being super cool and super great, but I'm actually rowing the same boat as you to a world of confusion. Typically, these kinds of data are pretty weak. That's all over the place, and there's no consistency. And then it's up to the researchers to hypothesize what might be going on, which usually they default to clearly glycine is totally awesome. But the reality is this is just telling us that glycine has an effect. But it isn't clear if that effect is good or bad. But before you send me to the stockades and stone me, I can ease your confusion by mentioning that there are other studies that gave glycine to different groups of people and found more consistent anti-inflammatory effects. So, it seems likely that glycine is anti-inflammatory. Still, this doesn't prove that diabetes is an inflammatory disease. It just speaks to this one study that they briefly discussed. So, Dr. Bry is half correct. The reason that I say half is because yes, there's a good amount of literature discussing diabetes as an inflammatory disease. And we can even prove that diabetes is an inflammatory disease because in this study, researchers gave people an anti-inflammatory drug. I'm not talking ibuprofen. I'm talking a big hitter. Here, we're looking at glycated hemoglobin. So, the A1c test that you can order and tracks your long-term measures of blood glucose. See how it is reduced with the anti-inflammatory drug. This is a randomized control trial. So, this proves Dr. Brian's point. Diabetes is an inflammatory disease. Except I did say 50% or at least that's kind of a best guess. And that's because raising inflammation alone doesn't cause diabetes. There has to be some metabolic component too. meaning your liver, muscle, pancreas also have to be stubbornly not cooperating. We know that can occur due to genetics, but it commonly occurs from consuming too much food over longer periods of time that ultimately taxs our pancreas, leading to a slow creeping up of insulin and blood glucose. Now, it's difficult to completely separate the immune from the metabolic considering that they're so tightly intertwined. But when we have insulin, a largely metabolic hormone in this context to diabetics, they experience improvements like here. Now, both groups are given insulin, but the intensive treatment is given more along with more monitoring of metabolic measures like blood glucose. We're looking at that long-term marker again, HbA1c. The lower the lines go, the better. So, clearly managing metabolic aspects of health also led to significant improvements. Now, I'll repeat, to really untangle these two would take a lot more research that we actually have, but would suck up the rest of the time of this video. They're tightly related. Still, overall, we can say that diabetes is a complex disease, including mixture of metabolic and inflammatory causes. And yes, glycine is anti-inflammatory. Now, something in line with that thought process is the idea, the claim that your fat mass doesn't cause diabetes. It's actually the immune cells that do. And Dr. Brian has a point which I've covered in content before where more visceral fat leads to stronger immune reactions, meaning more of the quote unquote bad body fat around your organs typically increases a pro-inflammatory state in the body. However, in those studies, they do show that it's the fat cells themselves that secrete the molecules that influence nearby immune cells. So could easily claim that the impact still begins at the fat cell itself. But we can do tests of this more directly using animal studies and we can't do this in humans FYI by simply looking at mice that are immunompromised. So these mice have no immune system or at the very least a significantly dampened one. And then researchers feed them a crap diet and guess what happens? They develop diabetes. Now, a counterargument could be that the immune cells knocked out are not the same type as the ones hanging out smoking cigars and drinking whiskey with the fat cells, if they do that or not, is unconfirmed. That would be a fair argument, but I still think that this is at least nudging towards the idea that insulin resistance being caused by inflammation initially is unlikely. The main point, fat cells, especially visceral fat cells, are likely the greater contributor to diabetes as they are the start point of a lot of inflammation that comes with chronic disease. And as an additional quick claim thrown out there that I thought I'd cover, Dr. Brian mentions that fat cells don't multiply, they only expand. Now, fun fact, that has a bit more interesting nuance to it. It's true that fat cells have an amazing ability to take up fat molecules which grow the single fat cell itself. However, the body also replaces fat cells, meaning that we do have the ability to generate more fat cells, though the absolute number even with this turnover is somewhat constant. Anyway, an interesting side note. Now, let's get into something that I'm quite passionate about. C15 and cellular fragility. So creates more and more fat within each cell. And what happens then is that the cells become more fragile. In fact, there's there's even a particular kind of fat that you find in whole milk and butter and meat and so on that you don't find in any of the vegetarian sources that people are also deficient in. That makes the cells more fragile. >> C15. >> Yes. What's that? >> Did you say C-15? >> Yes. C15, right? >> Paninoic acid. Yep. >> Yeah. Pentadoninoic acid. That was Stephanie Ben uh >> Watson. Ben Jackson. Ben Jackson. >> Ben Watson, I think. >> Ben Watson or one of the Yes, that's right. Working for the uh she worked with porpuses. Sounds like a fascinating job to have. But anyway, she um so she discovered this uh pentadoninoic acid which is again has to do with cellular fragility. So I think um it's glycine deficiency. It's also the uh pentadoninoic acid deficiency. uh and if you and I don't take pentidoric acid uh supplements because you know I I I eat you know whole whole foods and meats and you know lots of fat and milk fat and you know butter fat and all that. So, uh, I shouldn't shouldn't be really deficient in that. But what I'm saying is that in as you get fatter and when you get obese, not only does the amount of fat increase in each cell in in the abdominal fat basically, but because those cells are more fragile and they get damaged very easily, uh, you have more and more macrofasages generating more and more inflammation because of glycine deficiency. So the claim here is that C-15, a 15carbons saturated fat molecule deficiency leads to something called cellular fragility. Now this term cellular fragility was coined by a researcher named Dr. Stephanie Ven Watson. And I have several videos analyzing multiple studies on C-15 fats. But to give you a short version, cellular fragility syndrome coined here is the idea that our cells and their cell membranes essentially the skin and the bones of the cell are stabilized and made stronger by the inclusion of C-15 fats in the membrane. Okay. Well, what if I told you that there is a study that tested this? And what if I told you that the review that I just cited written exclusively by Dr. for Vin Watson failed to include said study. And what if I told you that the study which applied C-15 directly to the cells did not detect an iota of difference in the membrane stability from this increase in C-15? Well, you might begin to feel as strongly as I do that buying C-15 fat supplements for 50 bucks a month or whatever it is now may just do nothing for cellular fragility syndrome. And beyond that, you might actually start thinking that cellular fragility syndrome is nonsense, which is exactly what I think. Anyway, this paired with the clinical data and multiple other studies that I've covered in the past, I'll link my videos for you, lead me to strongly disagree with any notion that our cells are deficient in C15 and that they need more C-15 to be healthy. Trust me, there's a lot more I could say here, and I probably will release another video dissecting the studies on cell fragility syndrome in a dedicated video, but for now, I'll leave you with that small taste. Bottom line is, forget the C-15 and cell fragility syndrome. Save your money. I strongly disagree with Dr. Bryant here. Okay, but none of that means that Dr. Bryan's comments on glycine and inflammation are wrong, though. His final claim is that glycine deficiency causes inflammation. Before we touch on that, if you're looking for a deeper dive, I have an extended version of this video that includes much more on inflammation like the inflammosome, a deeper dive into C-15 and cell stability, and more on several of the studies that I briefly went over here. If you're interested, no pressure. You can access all of my videos, a catalog of hundreds, full analyses, which are ad free, plus come with articles for each video and one paragraph highlight summaries. And you get access to my private podcast that releases every month, live sessions with me, my master supplement guide, and much more. I put a lot of work into it. It's called the Physionic Insiders. Again, if interested, then click the link to join the insiders in the description box. Well, there's a few ways to assess this, like associative studies that do show that as blood levels of glycine are lower, people tend to have more inflammatory markers. That would go in line with Dr. Brian's perspective. But he's more specific than that. He says macrofasages, a particular type of immune cell becomes more inflammatory when glycine is not present. Now we can test that directly by simply applying glycine to macrofasages and seeing if they become less inflammatory. And that's also been done. And again, Dr. Bryant is right. In basic terms, when macrofasages, these immune cells are exposed to an inflammatory agent called LPS, the pro-inflammatory molecule called TNF alpha, shoots up because the macrofasages start producing it. But in the condition right next to it, if glycine is added, bam, significant reduction. This is only one of several studies showing that effect. So yes, glycine is likely anti-inflammatory, especially if we include randomized control trials using glycine as a supplement that we discussed earlier. But there's something bothering me. Here's the thing. The claim is that glycine deficiency is leading to more and more inflammation. And the problem with that is that it's worded as an absolute as in glycine is the key to inflammation. We clearly see that it has a relationship to inflammation and glycine tends to suppress inflammation. But in the absolute way of talking about glycine, we end up ignoring everything else as if it's inconsequential. And that's a problematic framing in my mind. And it's extremely easy to prove because we can look at studies that do the exact same thing but use other molecules like I don't know vitamin C or vitamin D or any number of different molecules that are a completely independent of glycine and b are given to macrofasages not exposed to much supplemental glycine. So they would be assumed to be likely deficient in glycine. For example, this study on curcumin or this study using vitamin D. Both studies measured the exact same inflammatory markers and more and showed reductions. So if glycine deficiency is the reason for inflammation, then we can only resolve inflammation through glycine, well this would be impossible. The reality is multiple things can be true without hyperbole. Yes, deficiency in blood glycine can associate with greater inflammation. Yes, glycine supplementation can reduce inflammation. Yes, other molecules completely unrelated to glycine can also reduce inflammation even in a low glycine scenario. So, in the end, the takeaway is this. Glycine can be an anti-inflammatory and important, but it is unlikely to be the only player in inflammation. So, we shouldn't overindex on glycine alone. Okay. Again, I realize that was a lot. So, like leftovers at your friend's house, what can you take home with you? Dr. Brind gets several things correct and several things incorrect. That's the neutral take based on the evidence. Now, in terms of what the evidence suggests, one, diabetes probably isn't solely an inflammatory disease. Inflammation may be part, but it's not the whole. Two, high body fat, while it may work through immune cells and raising inflammation, is still the major reason for diabetes, especially if it's visceral fat. Three, fat cells, fascinatingly tend to expand more than they renew or multiply. Four, save your money on C-15 fats. They're sold under multiple arguments, but one of the common ones is cell fragility syndrome, which is provably weak at least. And finally, five, glycine is an anti-inflammatory shown across many studies. However, it probably isn't the only thing to be focused on, and there's obvious big players like being over fat, smoking, alcohol, and the like. And then there's many other molecules that also have potent anti-inflammatory effects. So, overindexing on glycine alone is not warranted, even if it does seem to be a helpful supplement. But you may want to know more about C-15. In which case, check out my dedicated analysis right here. Or if you prefer to centrifuge another podcast with me as your nerdy host, let's get into another one right here. Thanks a ton for tuning in and I hope you learned something useful today. Talk to you in the next one. Bye.