Usually, I'd add a preamble where you decide if you'll stick around or if you think that I've insufferable, but nothing gets in the way of chocolate. Believe it or not, although I'd find it preferable if you did, chocolate can be healthy for you. Can because it really depends on a number of factors that we'll get into, including how some chocolates are toxic. No joke. So, what makes chocolate so healthy? Didn't think that those words would be paired together. Chocolate healthy. Well, certain chocolates contain appreciable amounts of flavonols and polyphenols. Those are fancy terms for molecules that improve your cardiovascular health, brain health, and even have been linked to reducing insulin resistance, like type 2 diabetes. You don't need to take my word for it. There's plenty of evidence like that described in this review. Now, in slightly more detail, these molecules do a number of things to our body. One, they act as antioxidants, which means that as your cells produce different potentially destructive molecules called free radicals, they can interact with these molecules and neutralize them. In addition, these chocolate married molecules, these flavonols and polyphenols also increase the amount of a potent molecule called nitric oxide. Now, cells that line your blood vessels produce more nitric oxide when exposed in greater number of these chocolate linked molecules. And nitric oxide relaxes the blood vessel thereby reducing blood pressure. Okay, one more for good measure. Chocolate also seems to reduce the blood cholesterol levels which are heavily implicated in heart disease. It does that through a number of mechanisms but one of the cooler ones is through reducing cholesterol uptake in the intestines as well as reducing the gene expression of enzymes involved in cholesterol synthesis in your liver. Now, keep in mind I'm limiting this. So, there's plenty more to discuss. I'll do that in future content. For now, let's just say that there are many ways that these molecules in chocolate benefit us. Again, that depends on some factors. And one of those factors is if the same chocolate is also filled with toxic metals. Unfortunately, many of the chocolates also come with a healthy or maybe I should say unhealthy dose of metals like cadmium and lead. These metals are toxic as they accumulate in your organs, especially your kidneys, your bones, and your brain. Once there, they compete with essential nutrients like calcium and zinc, and also interfere with DNA repair as well as protein folding, which means that the cells no longer able to produce functional proteins that serve a purpose in the body. That's a big deal, especially when discussing low replicating cells like those in your brain. The currently deemed acceptable amount of cadmium per day is less than 25 micrograms per day. And the current deemed acceptable amount of lead is absolutely zero. And yet many chocolates contain upward of 10 or 15 micrograms per serving and even some lead and even arsenic. So eating just one or two servings can already set you up to exceed acceptable amounts in your body. That's not even to consider the vulnerable populations like pregnant women. So assuming that you did find chocolates without and I'll mention some in a bit. There's two more considerations in relation to chocolate. One, it has to be dark chocolate. The sweeter chocolates tend to be a filled with more sugar and b tend to have very low levels of these flavonols and polyphenols that we briefly discussed. The cut off for dark chocolate is around 70%. Anything higher is likely better. The second consideration is a particular type of processing called dutching or undutching. Essentially, Dutch chocolate is less acidic, more neutral than undutched chocolate. Aside from reading the label, you can also just taste the difference. Dutched chocolate is less bitter. And undutched is not only more bitter, but sharper and fruier in taste. Unfortunately, Dutch chocolate, although it tastes better to many, it is significantly reduced in polyphenol and flavonol amounts, sometimes up to 90%, has been eliminated. So, essentially, Dutch chocolate is worthless for health benefits. Another way to tell, which might confuse some people, is the fact that undutched chocolate, the type that we want, is lighter in color. So, the darker the chocolate looks, although it's dark chocolate, may actually mean it's Dutch. Anyway, enough bad mouthing the Dutch. I'm going to offer you a few recommendations for undutched safe dark chocolates in a minute. But I also offer many more options and some potent alternatives to chocolate and another few minor factors to consider in the extended version of this video that you're watching available for the Physionic Insiders. I have a list of approved chocolates as substitutes, and you get access to my entire library of videos, written research reviews, short summaries on everything, a podcast, live sessions with my undutch self, and more. The link to join is in the description box. I hope to see you there. Okay. Although there are many dark chocolates that are poor quality and unfortunately they're all over the supermarket, here are two that have been independently lab tested for very low cadmium levels and virtually no lead in them that have also a rich flavonol profile. Oh, also I have no affiliation with these brands. Here they are. Baker's unsweetened 100% cacao and Lily's dark ch or extra dark chocolate 70%. Now, if you can't bear the bitterness, you could try the 70%. So, in the end, aim for dark, undutch chocolate that is not contaminated with high levels of cadmium, lead, and arsenic because that chocolate has been shown to improve multiple health outcomes like those I discuss here. Thanks for watching.