 We discussantrathion, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naring preparing the issue before it causes a type of heart disease called heart failure. So let me take you along for a scientific ride to understand this heart-secreted hormone, how you can easily order a test for it, heart failure, and how to reduce your risk, assuming that there is any to begin with. When you think of hormones, you probably think of the ones that are released out of your pancreas like insulin or by your adrenal glands like cortisol. But many tissues of your body secrete hormones, your heart being one of many. The hormone I'm talking about is BNP or brain natriuretic peptide or more recently renamed to B-type natriuretic peptide. The name doesn't really matter too much. Just know that BNP is secreted by your heart muscle cells. Now the reason it's released by your heart cells is what we're interested in. When stress is applied to the heart cells, like excessive amounts of blood volume pushing against the heart wall, the heart muscle cells called myocardiocytes release BNP. Ultimately, what you need to know for us to progress in this story and understand the importance of BNP to you is that BNP is secreted more as your heart experiences more stress from blood pushing against the structure of the heart in an attempt to reduce this stress. Obviously, saying things like more stress doesn't really sound good, but that doesn't necessarily mean there's a relationship with increased heart failure either. So when we split people without heart failure into three groups, a low BNP group, a moderate BNP, and a high BNP group, we see a striking result. All I'll say is the higher the lines, the more heart failure occurred in these people. Clearly, a stepwise fashion, as BNP levels rise, heart failure risk is raised. Now, this is associative evidence, meaning that BNP is not necessarily causing heart failure. In fact, we aren't even interested in determining if BNP's causative relationship to heart failure. We just want to know if it is related, as in if there are elevated levels, does that track with heart failure? And the answer is yes, confirmed in scientific reviews like this one as well. The great part about BNP testing is that it's readily available at most labs in one of two forms, so BNP directly or NT-proBNP. Now, when it comes to testing, there's one thing to know, the values offered in testing can be a bit deceptive. For example, if a person was tested for acute or emergency heart failure diagnosis, they'd be looking for values in the hundreds of picograms per milliliter. At that point, you're probably hospitalized, so it doesn't really apply here. And the study that we just covered was looking at people without heart failure who were split into three groups with much lower blood values. For women, the high condition was anything above 15.8, and for men, anything above 12.8. I'll also mention that BNP can be artificially high after strenuous exercise and other stressors of the sort. So testing should be done just like most other scenarios in a baseline estate as possible. There's more to say on testing in a bit, but I'd like to get into some solutions. What can be done to reduce risk of heart failure? Now, before we touch on that, if you're curious on BNP and how it relates to other diseases like stroke, coronary heart disease, mortality as a whole, how BNP affects your kidneys, your adrenal glands, and your arteries, and another protein released by your heart and the relationship to heart health, then check out my extended video along with an accompanying article, standard with all my analyses. It's included as a Physionic Insider. My premium research platform. You also get a private podcast in case you want everything delivered in a monthly audio episode only, and I do regular live sessions with the Insider community. Anyway, there's a lot of benefits of being an Insider. Check out the membership using the link in the description. I hope to see you there. In this study, participants without heart failure, but with elevated potential for developing heart failure, were placed on a standard treatment program or a treatment program that was identical, but included routine measurements of blood BNP. So the only difference between the two groups here was the personal physician's knowledge of their patient's BNP or not. The control group, the physicians had no idea, but they knew all the other heart disease risk factors. In the intervention there, the physicians also were clued in on their patient's BNP and were allowed to act accordingly. Now, if the lines go up, that means that there's more cardiovascular disease, not necessarily heart failure, but I can tell you that there were similar results for heart failure as well. Clearly, when all participants are included, there's a reduced risk of cardiovascular events when BNP is known. And this is especially true when limiting the data to just those with especially high subclinical BNP levels of over 50. This tells us two things. One, being aware of your BNP can lead to better healthcare and be protective against heart failure. And two, having a capable physician that can make adjustments based on your BNP values, inclusive of other risk factors, can make a tremendous difference to your risk. At this point, maybe thinking to yourself that you should get your BNP checked. And there's nothing inherently wrong with that, except it's likely unnecessary for some. So hold that thought until we return to it. Now, this only tells us that being educated about BNP, tracking it yearly and addressing it as a first step. The next step is how? Well, since physicians in the intervention arm of the study could do whatever they wanted to mitigate risk. We can't pinpoint any single action that caused this benefit. But that won't stop us, because if we hearken back to my introduction to this topic, where I said this. Now, the reason it's released by your heart cells is what we're interested in. When stress is applied to the heart cells, like excessive amounts of blood volume pushing against the heart wall, the heart muscle cells called myocardiocytes release BNP. You have to think to yourself why blood volume would be pushing against the heart wall to such a degree that it would cause the heart cells to release BNP to reduce heart stress. The answer is high blood pressure. In fact, when we look at long-term studies, there is a consistently high risk of heart failure with high blood pressure, which is even stronger with clinically high BNP levels. The only issue is that these studies are associative, making it more difficult to directly point the finger at blood pressure and improve BNP, and even more importantly, heart failure. Naturally, we turn to randomized controlled trials for these kinds of situations. And wouldn't you know it, there's many. And they all generally point the same direction, like here. This is a direct measure of heart failure between blood pressure lowering treatment in red and not treating high blood pressure in blue. The higher the lines, the more heart failure. So, obviously, reducing blood pressure reduces heart failure risk. However, I can also tell you that reducing blood pressure also reduces BNP release. A coincidence? Not likely, knowing the intertwined nature of it all. Let me discuss this last point and the testing again, because I should offer some context. While it is expected for BNP to drop when normalizing blood pressure to below 120 over 80, it does not always normalize for a number of reasons that we don't really need to get into. So, here's how I'd think about it. It's a good tool to assess risk before heart failure. But it is less informative if you are looking for a gauge on your continued heart failure risk after risk has already presented. In addition to that, if you're healthy, normal weight, not dealing with any chronic health issues, it's probably unnecessary. Except maybe if you're an ultra long distance athlete to consider this test. The people that will get the most use out of it are people with type 2 diabetes, people who have been overweight for many years, those with obviously long-term high blood pressure and the like. The risk is exceedingly low if you don't have a family history or your other health metrics will look normal. And probably not a priority to track unless you're really into knowing every aspect of your health. Honestly, when it comes to heart health, there's plenty of other things to do like what I cover in this next video right here. Thanks for tuning in. I hope this fascinated you as much as it did me. I guess I'll see you in the next video. Okay, go ahead. I'll meet you over there. No, no, no, I promise. Fine, I'll go first.