On February 19th of last year and March 27th of the prior year, I did these uh summary videos of some of the most impactful health findings from a reading and 250 studies. And now let's do it again. As we hit 500 studies, technically I've read a lot more, but these 500 I have detailed notes. And if you search physionic and type in a study number, they'll also be categorized for you. So, instead of me retelling all of the rationale for the conclusions across 10 health discoveries, I'm going to a post my study analysis videos in the description and the pin comment and b add the study number on screen so that you can easily type in physionic and then just add the study number on into a search engine. One last thing that you should know for the impatient, you can skip to the end of this video for the highlevel takeaways. We wouldn't want education, nuance, and science getting in the way of our busy schedules. Let's get into it. Benefits of weighted vests. I had the pleasure of interviewing Robin on her experience using weighted vests and I married that with the several studies that have released on the topic which I discussed in this analysis primarily focused on metabolism. However, that was all due to this fascinating study where in the researchers discovered that your bone cells release molecules to signal the brain when there's added load on them like a weighted vest. Ultimately, this leads to the potential metabolism maintaining effects when losing body fat that is unlikely to be explained by just retaining muscle. It was a fascinating discovery, but I think that there's much more research that's necessary considering many of the human studies are small. The main point here though is that if you can handle using a weighted vest, there's certainly health benefit at least to your metabolism and likely in other ways that are yet to be discovered. Collagen peptides for skin and joints. I think I actually touched on the skin benefits of collagen peptides in my last summary video, which I discussed in more depth here, but I also recently delved into the research on collagen peptides for joint health. There's a good amount to say here, but the bottom line is that both realms of research need some work for different reasons. For the skin, collagen peptides seem to work, but the study quality is pretty poor for many of the studies. Yet, if we limit it to just a few higher quality studies, there seems to be a trend toward indicating effectiveness. In fact, the same is true for joint health. However, since most studies look at arthritis, the collagen supplementation indicated mild benefit. So, would that still hold true for people without arthritis? I'm really not sure. Plus, all the studies on joint health are industry affiliated, although not all the skin studies were industry affiliated. And we also don't have many, if any, quality studies comparing against protein, which is an important comparison. So, I'm left wanting more and different comparisons, not the same industry affiliated studies comparing against the placebo group. Anyway, plenty more to say, but I'll leave those for my dedicated analyses. As a reminder, it'll be linked in the description and the pin comment. The main takeaway here is that if you want more youthful skin, collagen peptides have enough good independent evidence indicating that they work. Although, we don't know if they'd work better than protein alone. My guess is yes, for reasons that I explain in my analysis. On the other hand, joint collagen peptide supplementation is really a tossup if you believe a 100% industry affiliated studies. And even if you do, is it worth taking collagen peptides on an average improvement of about 10%. In the end, my strict does it work or does it not? The answer is yes. FGF-21, the longevity hormone. In a recent analysis, we also I'm saying we as in you and I, if you've been along for the physionic journey with me, we went over how a hormone fibroblast growth factor 21 that our body produces has shown to directly increase longevity along with improving liver health, body fat mass, lean mass, and plenty of other things. While many of the results were in mice, there have been human studies that have paralleled some of the results in mice, indicating that there is at least some translation. There's plenty more research that needs to be done on FGF-21, but the human research and the mouse research agree that the way to stimulate FGF-21 is through protein restriction. Now, before half of you send me to the gallows, I'm well aware there's plenty of evidence that higher protein diets offer many health benefits. As I mentioned in my dedicated analysis, that is still true. In fact, both can be true. Even so, this research indicates there can be benefits of a low protein diet that is still well above the necessary amounts for life. Basically, there's two ways to skin a walnut. Why a walnut? You've never heard that expression before? Well, that's because I made it up. I didn't feel like adding an animal. So, the takeaway here is that if you wanted your cells to produce FGF-21, a low protein diet around 9% of total calories will do exactly that. One more word, we don't have data on older individuals or exercising individuals. So, it's likely best to wait until we have that data. But if you're not the exercising type, you're young, say, let's say younger than 60 and not dealing with any other extenduating circumstances, pregnancy as just one example, this is an option. Again, more details on all of it in the linked video. LP little A and heart disease. So, plaque develops in your arteries from the accumulation of cholesterol containing particles called low density lipoproteins in your arteries. However, while we focus a lot on a particular lipoprotein called an LDL particle, there's a subset of LDL that has a specific protein attached to it called an apo lipoprotein A that makes it especially dangerous because not only does it get stuck in the lower layers of the artery easily, it is more reactive and has multiple offshoot effects that make it more dangerous. I'm glossing over a lot, just so you're aware. I covered extensively in this analysis, but that specialized LDL particle is called a LP little A particle as well. You can probably guess luckily only a minority of people have increased levels of LP little A particle and it's genetically determined. Unluckily, that minority is still quite big. It isn't something like five people out of a million. It's something closer to 20 to 30% of people have elevated LP little A. Plenty more to say on it, but the takeaway here is that if you have a family history of people dying early from heart disease in your family, you are strongly encouraged to get a blood test done to test your LP little A. It is not on a routine blood test. You need to have it ordered specifically, but it is extremely important to know. If you don't have a family history, it's still encouraged, but the urgency may not be quite as high as someone with a family history. I go over solutions in my full analysis as usual linked. Omega-3s for the heart. Omega-3s are fats, specifically fats that come from marine life like algae, fish, and so on. Think salmon, fish oil, krill oil, etc. In my previous video of this sort, I covered omega-3s and their impact on our brain. This time, I decided to focus on an area of health. People associate omega-3s with heart or cardiovascular health. There are a lot of studies on the topic and generally my impression has been that there is pretty good evidence that omega-3 fats are heart protective. There's one major concern related to omega-3s and I'm sure there are others but this one came to the forefront and has been assessed in the research. Essentially, omega-3s are also linked to a funky heart rhythm called an arhythmia. Essentially, while there might be some truth to that, omega-3s are linked to arrhythmias, the overall result on cardiovascular death and cardiovascular harm is still diminished when consuming omega-3s. So, it all really depends on circumstance. The takeaway here should be that omega-3s have good evidence backing their effectiveness for cardiovascular health. However, if you experience arrhythmias from consuming omega-3s, consider reducing your intake or possibly consider consuming fish forms like salmon, mackerel, herring, and so on over pill forms. You'd want to consume fatty fish about two times per week to get the adequate amount. Oh, and if you're a vegetarian, there are algae forms as well. Now, the next topic might be one of my favorites because to me, it's laughably bad. That's C15 fats, not to be confused with the omega-3 fats that we just went over. I'll have a bit more to say on this one, and I often have a lot more to say on all these topics, but it just doesn't fit in most of my public content. So, I created a community where I can upload my entire library of video study analyses along with accompanying articles, quick summaries, a private podcast, live sessions with me where we discuss the science together, and much more. I even have a detailed supplement guide and a growing list of protocols based on all the studies that I read. Anyway, if you're looking for a way to support my work as I go on to the next 500 studies and beyond, and you're also looking to reap the benefits of having complete access with even more actionable takeaways and a growing community of engaged individuals, check out the Physionic Insiders. It's linked in the description. It's the way that I can fund my work here independent of sponsorships and minimize perceived bias. If that's of value to you, again, the link to join is in the description. That said, let's get to C-15 FATs, which is a prime example of why not being sponsored gives me clearance to say what I'm about to say next. C15 fats and cell fragility syndrome. C-15 fats or by their official name pentadoninoic acid are a type of saturated fat that have taken the health world by storm the last year or so. The marketing has been strong by a particular C-15 company and has been centered around this idea of cell fragility syndrome which is the idea that your cell's membranes are susceptible to damage if they're deficient in C-15 fats. On the face of it, that makes some sense because our cell membrane are made of different fats. So, I decided to look into the studies and pulled nine or so studies, including all the human randomized control trials that I could find. The results made me laugh. Both randomized control trials, both nonaffiliated to the C-15 company, indicate either no effect or incredibly small effects on some limited health measures. And as for what's been hyped in the marketing, a lot of studies referenced are cell studies with improper methodology or correlation studies that in some cases make cases against C15 being an essential nutrient. So in the best case scenario, we have limited data indicating C15 is actually important for our cells, at least to the degree that you need to supplement with it. And in the worst scenario, it's mostly hype with the hope that no one will actually read the studies referenced. Oh, and by the way, cell fragility syndrome and many of the cited studies are produced by the founder or some researcher employed by a C-15 company or both. I'm open to new research coming out indicating C-15's importance, but so far, considering the certainty by which it's discussed and hyped, the evidence does not support C-15 supplementation. Oh, and they did a clever marketing comparison against omega-3s trying to signal that C15 is better than omega-3s. But if you open the study, the study is absolute trash. I recommend checking out my video for the details why I would be embarrassed as a scientist to publish and then use such a heaping pile of dung on the basis for convincing people to spend their money, especially when omega-3s have hundreds of studies indicating effectiveness and C-15 does well not. So, the takeaway here is don't just don't. In fact, for one year of C-15, you could have several years worth of Physionic Insider Access saving you money from being wasted on trash supplements. Is it a shameless plug? No, because I do feel shame. Deep, deep shame and remorse, though. It is a plug. Okay, I promise I'll stop moving on. Potassium on stroke prevention. Stroke or the lack of blood flow to the brain is not good. Hopefully, you'll trust me when I say that not getting blood to your brain is not a good sign of health. To put it mildly, it's a big and deadly contributor to cardiovascular disease. So, I looked over the literature on potassium intake. And although there aren't a whole lot of analyses on the topic, the one that does exist indicates that potassium intake reduces stroke risk. And the reason is likely because potassium reduces blood pressure. In fact, I also went over a massive human trial where simply replacing salt with a little potassium has a significant effect on reducing cardiovascular related death. There are of course cautions like over consuming potassium can have disastrous consequences and people with kidney disorders should be especially careful since your kidneys regulate the sodium and potassium in your body. However, one easy takeaway is that if you use 100% sodium chloride, like many people do, uh that salt, consider simply switching it out for a 25% potassium chloride salt. That's the only change used in the human trial that I discussed. And that was enough to lead to a cardiovascular protection. Plus, apparently that small change is difficult to notice in the taste difference since 75% of the salt is still sodium chloride. That is not the case at higher concentrations. The best blood pressure lowering exercise. There are many probably in the hundreds of studies that look at exercise's role in blood pressure. So when we compile that data into what it's known as a network metaanalysis, we can do some pretty nifty comparisons. The end result is we find out surprisingly which exercise is best for reducing our cardiovascular harm. And it's not what many people might guess. It's not endurance training. It's not resistance training, although both are great. It's actually the wall squat, which I covered in these videos. The wall squat on average reduces blood pressure by about 10 points, which is more than some blood pressure medications. So, the takeaway here is that if you have high blood pressure and cleared by your physician, give the wall squat a shot. About a one minute work up to it, if you can't get that one minute for a few sets, two to three times per week. Multiple subscribers since those videos released said that they tried it to great success. Maybe it'll help you, too. Curcumin for arthritis. Curcumin is one of those supplements or phenolic compounds that has widespread benefits across the body. I discussed its pretty impressive blood sugar regulating effects in the past, but this time I focused on its anti-inflammatory and anti-p pain potential for people dealing with rheumatoid or osteoarthritis. Again, much like its blood sugar effects, it seems effective in reducing pain and improving joint function in those with arthritis. There are some nuances that I go into like comparisons against drugs or compared against other supplements, but the overall point was that curcumin has a small effect at reducing arthritis symptoms and beyond that may extend the effect across multiple measurements, including general inflammation. So, the takeaway here is that curcumin isn't going to heal you of arthritis, but it will on average help reduce the pain and improve the functionality mildly. Vilpa. I didn't involuntarily hiccup. That's an acronym for vigorous intermittent lifestyle physical activity. Say it with me. Vil you're you're just going to sit there and let me make a fool of myself. Vilpas are simply doing everyday activity like walking, grocery shopping, alien abduction, climbing stairs, and the like intensely. Generally, these are bouts that would last about a minute or two. So, not very long, but the speed of which you perform makes the difference. I went over an analysis where the researchers determined that even a few vilpas per day are linked to detectable reduction in all-c cause mortality. But that also rang true for cardiovascular mortality and cancer mortality. The main point here being that when you're grocery shopping, up the intensity. So do the whole carrying as many groceries at once as you can. Park further away. When climbing stairs, don't mosy up the stairs. Climb it like you were a kid, scared of the dark basement behind you. If you're an alien, abduct with intensity. Suck those people up with purpose. Don't hover. So after all that, where does that leave us? Well, for one, I covered 500 studies. This is only a tiny sample of the analyzed studies. Aside from that, we learned weighted vests has some research indicating that it has a metabolism protective effect. If you can handle wearing one for extended periods of time, it might be worthwhile. Collagen peptide research has issues, but the evidence that does exist indicates skin benefit and mild joint benefits. The skin benefits are likely the better reason to use them unless you have arthritis. FGF-21 is a longevity hormone that across animal and human studies shows great promise as being beneficial for our health across multiple measurements. To stimulate it in humans, we merely have to reduce our protein intake to around 9% of total maintenance calories. LP little A is a dangerous subset of particles that is not on a routine blood test, but should be checked once in your lifetime, especially if you have a family history of heart disease at younger ages. the 40s, 50s, and so on. So, get your LP little A checked. Omega-3s have pretty good evidence that they improve heart health. So, either supplementing with alcohol oil, fish oil, krill oil, or or you can simply eat fatty fish, so salmon, mackerel, etc. a few times per week. C15 fat supplements have little to no quality scientific backing. Save your money and don't fall for the marketing hype. Potassium protects against strokes. So, check how much potassium you consume. And if you use salt on your food, there's an easy, almost undetectable change that you can make that will slash your cardiovascular risk. Switch your 100% sodium chloride salt for 25% potassium chloride salt. The best blood pressure lowering exercise is the static wall squat. Curcumin helps combat arthritis, rheumatoid, and osteoarthritis. And although the effects are mild, they are widespread. You can vilpa or vigorously do dayto-day activities and it will have a measurable impact on your mortality risk. Like I said, plenty more to say. The deeper analyses are linked for you. But if you're interested in more of my work summarized, check out this video. It's 250 studies summarized. If you click with intensity, you're viling your way there. I'll see you over there.