What if fish oil were changing your arteries? Well, it's not even a question because there are multiple studies indicating that to be the case. Technically, it's not limited to fish oil, but to really any omega-3 fat supplement or just omega-3s as a whole. While we've gone over the ways that omega-3 fats affect our heart, we've never gone into how they affect our arteries. Specifically, the plaque in your arteries change when you consume omega-3s. According to an array of studies, we know that atherosclerosis, so the plaque that develops in your arteries, are a major cause of heart attack, stroke, and much more directly and indirectly. But the issue is far more complex because the quality or type of plaque makes a massive difference on your risk. For example, soft plaque, also known as non-calcified plaque, is especially dangerous because it's susceptible to rupturing and lodging in finer blood vessels. stopping blood flow to downstream areas, killing those areas. On the other hand, calcified or even fibrodic plaque is less dangerous because it's considered stable or semi-stable, meaning it generally has a cap on the top of the soft plaque that protects from erupting into the bloodstream. To be clear, it's still not ideal, but between the two, it's preferred. So, what happens to this plaque when we consume omega-3s, fish oil, or otherwise? In this study, the researchers are using non-invasive imaging called CT angography to measure the plaque within the arteries of two groups of people. One group consuming omega-3s, and the other was not supplementing the control group. As seen by these data, the left is the control group, so the non-supplementers, and the right are the omega-3 group. This measurement is of houndsfield units, meaning the higher it goes, the more fibrous and possibly calcified the plaque is. Generally, values reaching 100 and above indicate more fibrous plaque, and values into the higher hundreds and even thousands indicate calcified plaque. So, knowing what we know about plaque, we can clearly see that the omega-3 condition is reaching into those higher thresholds, indicating more solid fibroic plaque. Similarly, if we look at another metric Gcore, which tells us on a scale the type of plaque burden, it looks like this. Notice the blood vessel. Then notice the four cate categorization. So, one is calcified plaque. Uh, good in this context. Two is mostly calcified plaque, three is mostly non-calcified plaque, and four is largely non-calcified plaque, the soft plaque that we've been trying to avoid. If uh you're looking for a deeper explanation on what uh to look for here, you've got the wrong guy. I too have no idea what we're looking at here, aside from what I just outlined. But if we focus in on the data, we see a statistically significant effect indicated by a p value below 0.05 for the omega-3 group. Those individuals have lower Gcore around 4.5 while those not supplementing have a 7.4 four well into that soft plaque categorization and likely widespread. Now to be clear, both of these indicate increased cardiovascular risk, but relative to one another, the omega-3 group is doing better. In short, omega-3s are changing the composition of the plaque that we have in our arteries. I think this finding is absolutely fascinating, but it leaves me wondering exactly how it does that, as well as if we can even trust these results. Why can't we trust these results? Well, I'm not going to jump to the conclusion that we can't, but this type of study has flaws because it's a cohort study, meaning we're discussing associations here. The researchers did match participants across groups for a number of important factors here. Even so, this is a small study, and the participants still didn't get the omega-3s as an intervention. So, an actual capsule given by the researchers. So, there's a high chance for misleading interpretations. As a result, we can only say that there's an association between omega-3 consumption and favorable arterial plaque changes. But we don't need to stop there because there have been randomized control trials performed like this one, and they reveal two fascinating findings. Remember, the title of the video says quickly, which is odd when we're discussing something like heart disease, which takes years, if not decades, to develop. However, this randomized control trial only lasted an average of 5 weeks, and yet it provides some cool data. So, this type of data is interventional, meaning that it brings us with much more certainty to actually implicating omega-3s in changing our arterial plaque. People were randomly assigned to the omega-3 group or the control group given a placebo or a third condition given sunflower oil. Then they measured the plaque in the arteries and they didn't just classify the plaques based on the calcification and so on like in the last study. They looked at the composition of that plaque. Remember arterial plaque is filled with cholesterol molecules, fat molecules, and even proteins. But it's also filled with something else that makes it more or less dangerous. We'll come back to that in just a minute. For now, I'm going to scare you with the data. Yeah, it's a lot. And instead of straining your eyes and boring you, I'll just point out this one line across the board. This is an omega-3 fat. And these data tell us that this omega-3 is enriched in the arterial plaque when people consume more omega-3s. That part is pretty self-explanatory. The more you eat, the more you could have incorporated into the plaque. But what is it doing there? Well, my friend, that's where we get to look at another table. But before you groan and say, "I didn't sign up to this to look at numbers, you nerd." I'll promise to make this extremely simple by bringing in some images to explain the happenings. Here's the table. And here we're looking at the three conditions up top. I just realized I didn't explain that in the last table. Sorry about that. But we have three different comparisons. difference between sunflower oil and control, which we don't care about in this story. Then fish oil versus control, we care. And fish oil versus sunflower oil, we kind of care about that, too. Then there's two groups of cells found inside the plaque. That's right, cells inside the plaque of your arteries. They're macrofasages and TE-C cells. Both of these cells come from different families. One is part of your normal defense system called the innate immune system and the other the tea cells come from a more specialized immune system called the adaptive. The big point being that they are different immune cells. Then we have three categories of staining. So 0 1 and two. And the zero score stands for no staining detected. Therefore no immune cells present. The one indicates moderate staining. So some immune cells are there. And the two is the heavy staining indicating the greatest number of immune cells. By the way, by staining I mean this we're using fluorescent proteins that attach to these immune cells specifically allowing us to identify them. Okay, that explained. If the number goes down like here, that means there's less staining. And if they go up over 1.0, that typically indicates more of that staining group. This is all then confirmed by the statistics the p values which should be below 0.05 to indicate an identified effect. So in short there are no differences for tea cells across any of the groups and there are reductions in the group two staining for the macrofasages in both omega-3 comparisons. In addition, there's more of group one staining for the same groups. That suggests to me that the number of macrofasages in the plaque is reducing although not completely disappearing. That all matters because macrofasages are abundant in the plaque and they accentuate the inflammatory response inside the plaque exacerbating the problems coming from plaque. More specifically, they're usually involved in unstable forms of plaque and increase the risk of rupture. This could be a mechanism by which omega-3s help the plaque stability by removing these cells that destabilize the plaque. How freaking cool is that? In fact, we see that further evidenced in other data that I won't plague you with, but it shows that more unstable plaques have fewer macrofasages in them, which also associates with omega-3 levels in the plaque. There's more that we need to get into, including what this means for you and how to contextualize this because there's some nuances to be aware of, but this is actually a pretty bare bones analysis considering there's more data on everything that we just went over, as well as a brand new study on omega-3's ability to reverse plaque in our arteries and the differences between omega-3 types. I'm covering all of that in the full analysis included with the Physionic Insiders, which also includes access to all my analyses in article and video format, a private podcast, a private community that I'm highly engaged in, and even live sessions with me and the rest of the insider community. And there's more, but I've been talking about this for too long. So, if you're interested, check out the description and join the Physionic Insiders. I hope to see you there. Now, to context. We've covered two studies and this third corroborates a lot of what we just went over and we did include a randomized control trial which is important and impressive considering the results. However, even so, it should be noted that we could really use some longerterm studies and just more evidence as a whole. But that context applied, we also have multiple intervention studies that indicate omega-3s are generally beneficial for heart health by reducing heart disease related events. So although that doesn't speak to these specific artery effects, it speaks to the overall trend of omega-3 fats improving cardiovascular health. So where does that leave us? Well, one quick thing that I need to get off my chest. Why don't fish do well in school? Because they work below sea level. This has been entirely too serious of a video, so I had to throw one in there. Okay, on to the takeaways. I think overall consuming omega-3 fats have weak to moderate evidence indicating one of the ways that they improve our cardiovascular health is by remodeling the plaque in our arteries to be less inflamed and to be more stable. This paired with outcome data offers evidence that we should be consuming omega-3s. If that's through algae, fish, krill oil, or by eating fatty fish. See, the joke was related. You know what else is related? This Omega-3 video right here. Thanks for hanging out with me and I'll see you over there.