You know, the title by itself could tilt either way. Ketones are somehow harming the liver and that's why we're having a sicker liver. Or ketones are helping the liver and the liver would otherwise be sicker without them. Which is it? Well, if you used a low carbohydrate diet before or you fasted for periods of time, you know that your liver produces ketones, sort of pre- metabolized fat molecules if you don't know what that is. That being the case, it might be of use to know why these ketones are tracking with worse liver health shown here. NAS or NAS is liver damage with the further right indicating more damage and the further up indicating more ketone production. The line tracks up and to the right indicating a relationship between more ketone production and more liver injury. That's why I posed this initial question because although we see this relationship, we can't say that ketones are actually causing the liver damage. We can get answers to that by looking at specific experiments that tease out the direct effect like looking at animals that have a genetic knockout or removal of a key gene involved in ketogenesis, i.e. the production of ketones. As these animals are incapable of producing ketones, this allows us to tease out if the ketones are exacerbating the liver damage or not. When looking at something like liver weight, we can see the ketone incapable condition, so the knockout on the right versus those that do still generate ketones. Clearly, the liver is much bigger when ketones are not present. So, is that a good thing? No, probably not. Because when we look at the contents of the liver, we're looking at measurements of liver fat. Not something that you want a lot of. As we know from health conditions like fatty liver disease in these images, the more white and discoloration, the more fat molecules are stored in and between the liver cells, which we clearly see in the ketoneless condition, confirmed in the bar graph. So this all tells us that while ketones associated with worse liver health, the likelihood is that the ketones are actually a protective mechanism as removing them worsens liver health. Pretty remarkable, right? Then why? How is your liver using ketogenesis? Remember that's ketone production to protect itself from harm. Well, when exposed to fat, your liver uses a number of mechanisms to either metabolize or export that fat. These are normal processes. So for example, your liver can burn the fat known as beta oxidation or it could export it in fat carrying particles like lowdensity lipoproteins or it can produce ketones. However, when your ketone production is impaired, your liver now only has two primary mechanisms to deal with the influx of fat. Oddly enough, however, while that might seem like enough, ketogenesis seems to play a role as a pressure release valve in a manner of speaking for fat metabolism. The first mechanism that we just discussed. I say that because when ketogenesis is impaired, fat metabolism, the beta oxidation that we discussed, is also significantly reduced. The short of it then is your production of ketones by your liver is not only acting as a mechanism to deal with the fat molecules being taken up from your diet and your fat tissue by producing it into usable energy, so ketones, but also allows the normal fat metabolism of your liver to function normally. All of that culminates into less fat being pathologically stored in your liver, i.e. fatty liver disease. And if you want even shorter explanation, ketone production is liver protective. Now, I'm going to get into an exciting possibility related to what we went over by marrying some human studies to the research that we've just been relying on. And there's another massive study that goes into how a particular ketone may play a uniquely protective role on the liver. And there's much more to say on what ketogenesis does inside your liver cells that make it uniquely protective, as well as some additional considerations to keep in mind. That's all covered in the insider version of this video that you're watching. If you want access to a whole video library with more depth along with weekly articles to accompany protocols and guides, live sessions with me and more, check out the link in the description and join the mysterious land of the physionic insiders. And then you get in there and it's a bunch of old people playing chess talking about the weather. It isn't, FYI. I mean, we can, but that's not the most common topic. It's uh how to avoid lower back pain. We're young and full of life. Okay. In fact, this is also proven true in human trials and there might even be preliminary evidence that ketones could be an added benefit in combating liver damage. I'm talking about these trials among others that indicate very low carbohydrate diets that raise ketone levels do tend to improve liver markers of health. But beyond that, in one study, a ketogenic diet was compared against a non- ketogenic diet. Only the former raises ketones significantly, and the results indicated greater fat removal from the liver in the ketogenic diet. Although both groups started out with equivalent fatty liver disease. That paired with the fact that the researchers found a strong correlation between elevated ketone levels and reduced liver fat offers an exciting possibility. Possibly a nutrition that prioritizes ketone production could be especially potent, even more so than plain calorie restriction on removing harmful fat from the inside of the liver. And it's entirely possible it's through this very mechanism of increasing the fat molecule sync, ketogenesis. In summary, a very low carbohydrate diet could be uniquely potent at reversing fatty liver disease. It should be pointed out that the study was very short, so it only offers a glimpse into initial possibilities. But there are studies lasting multiple months that also indicate at the very least benefits of low carbohydrate, ketone promoting diets. But even so, could we just raise ketones and get the same effects? And how would we think about all this for our own use? The answer is no. We can't increase ketones to mimic these benefits because we know there's a lengthy metabolic consequence, an inter relationship between these different mechanisms of eliminating fat from the liver. It's not only the ketones themselves, but the production of the ketones that lends itself to this protective mechanism. It's a little like the liver has to work for its health like we do through exercise. There's no exercise pill. you got to just uh work for it and the liver does too. That said, a very low carbohydrate diet, which is defined uh a bunch of different ways, but typically follows the rule of less than 5% of your nutrition can be carbohydrates of any sort. Some use stricter guidelines of less than 20 gram of carbohydrates. However, both will likely raise ketones through the necessary ketogenesis that we discussed. The greater the carbohydrate restriction, the more ketones are produced. For those that fast, that's the most potent way. So, all this put together, we have evidence that yes, increased production of ketones tracks with worse liver health. But that is likely because the liver is using ketone production as a release valve to eliminate as much of this unwanted fattiness inside the liver. And in fact, what human evidence that we have suggests strongly that ketone promoting nutrition like low carbohydrate diets and fasting protect the liver, heal the liver, and although more data is needed, may be superior to other forms of nutrition in supercharging the elimination of unwanted fat from the liver. And if you're on a quest for eliminating a lack of health education from your brain, this next video is well known to do exactly that, you know. Thanks for tuning in. Bye.