

=== FILE: Dr. Lustig： Stop eating Fructose! [Z4mHInH5BXc].txt ===

 rygid, eaten. Amino acids from protein are used differently based on your circumstance. The unique properties of omega-3s and trans fats. Glucose, sugar being vital for life. And finally, fructose sugar is addictive. This will be a pretty lengthy one, so I'll supply time stamps and I'll offer you a summary of the most important points at the end. Studies I'll be referencing are also attached for you. Let's spin it. Well, I think people are very interested in what to eat, what not to eat. And we'll start off simply talking about what most everyone believes and understands, which is that a calorie is a form of heat energy that's given off during the processing of some food bit or something. If that's mysterious to people, just understand that a calorie is a unit of energy. And I was taught and still many, many people worldwide believe that a calorie is a calorie. Meaning if I consume more calories in whatever form than I metabolize by thinking, feeling, moving, exercising, et cetera, then I will gain weight. And if I consume fewer calories than I burn, I will lose weight. And we could talk a lot about where that weight loss comes from. Does it come from adipose, body fat stores or from muscle or from protein or muscle of course is protein, et cetera. But let's start off with, is a calorie truly a calorie when it comes to the processing of different types of calories. Everyone thinks that obesity is about energy balance. That is calories in, calories out. Therefore, two behaviors, gluttony and sloth. Therefore, if you're fat, it's your fault. Therefore, diet and exercise. Therefore, any calorie can be part of a balanced diet. Therefore, don't pick on our calories. Go pick on somebody else's calories. This is actually what the food industry uses to assuage their culpability for the change in the food supply and the rise in obesity and chronic disease like diabetes. Now, it is true that a calorie is that unit of energy that raises one gram of water, one degree centigrade. And so therefore, a calorie burned is a calorie burned. I don't argue that. That's true. That's, you know, the first law of thermodynamics. Let me jump in here and quickly acknowledge Dr. Lustig's point about a calorie being a calorie. I've been fighting this fight for quite some time, so I completely agree with him here. Oftentimes, we confuse nutrients or foods as the same when we're simply discussing the caloric value of those foods, which can be the same even if the foods are not. I would likely contextualize that, that not everyone simplifies it down to calories in, calories out being the cause of obesity. Yes, this is the necessary foundation for obesity to occur, but the reason for the imbalance in calories is acknowledged in the literature as multifaceted. It's not like all the obese people are simply lazy, gluttony, and sloth, as Dr. Lustig is illustrating it. Maybe to many people who aren't educated on the topic, it could be argued that way, but most researchers in the field would take a more understanding and multifactorial approach to describe the mechanisms of overconsumption. For example, in some scientific reviews, researchers point out that metabolism, i.e. the sloth aspect, or caloric expenditure side of equation, can slow down to weight loss itself through hormonal changes, literal body mass changes, and more. Now, a concept called metabolic adaptation. If some people have more of this adaptation, that puts them at a disadvantage when losing body fat. Researchers also offer different models to explain the adaptations of metabolism. For example, like the set point model, the settling point model, and the static model. The point here is researchers are unlikely to blame obesity merely on the lack of physical activity and overconsumption due to gluttony. There are many physiological factors that contribute to this accepted imbalance in calories, and similar calories in foods does not make the foods equal in their physiological impact. But that doesn't mean a calorie eaten is a calorie eaten. That's not the same. And that's where people get it wrong. So let me give you some examples of how that calorie eaten is not a calorie eaten. You like almonds? I do. Me too. Almonds are great. You eat 160 calories in almonds. How many of those do you absorb? 130. You eat 160, you absorb 130. Where'd the other 30 go? In the processing of that food energy? No. Turned out, the fiber in those almonds, both soluble and insoluble fiber, and by the way, fiber is sort of the key to the kingdom in this story, forms a gel on the inside of your intestine. The insoluble fiber, the cellulose, forms a fishnet, if you will, a latticework on the inside of your duodenum. The soluble fiber, which are globular, plug the holes in that fishnet. Together, they form a secondary barrier. You can actually see it on electron microscopy, a whitish gel. And that prevents absorption of those 30 calories. So yes, 130 get absorbed. But many of them don't. They end up going further down the intestine to the next part called the jejunum. And that's where the microbiome is. Now, everyone knows about the microbiome nowadays. You know, it's all the bacteria. You know, we always say when women are pregnant, you're eating for two. Well, we're always eating for 100 trillion. Now, they have to eat. Well, what do they eat? They eat what you eat. The question is, how much did you get versus how much did they get? Well, if you ate almonds, they're getting those 30 calories. So even though you count the calories at your lips, that doesn't matter. What really matters is counting the calories at your intestinal brush border. Okay? And they're not the same. So if you feed your gut, that's a good thing because then your gut will take those calories and turn it into things like short-chain fatty acids, which end up being protective against chronic metabolic disease, acetate, propionate, butyrate, valerate. Those are actually good. They're anti-inflammatory, anti-Alzheimer's because you fed your microbiome. So even though you ate 160, you absorbed 130. So a calorie eaten is not a calorie eaten because if you ate it with fiber, it wasn't for you. It was for your bacteria, but that's not the way you count them up. So that's problem number one. Okay. So here we're beginning to discuss the concept of a calorie eaten is not a calorie eaten. Dr. Listic is using an almond example, which is perfect because we have studies on almonds and their absorption compared to the stated energy values of the calorie value. In this study, participants were fed a controlled amount of almonds with a controlled meal, and then researchers measured the amount of energy calories remained in their fecal matter, their poop. If we have 100% absorption, we'd expect no calorie containing nutrients to be found. But when measuring the fecal matter, you can see at the very bottom that calorie rich nutrients were still found with more in the almond consuming groups. This means that Dr. Listic is absolutely right, that the calories consumed as food are not perfectly absorbed. So the actual amount of calories containing nutrients absorbed in the bloodstream and used in our cells is sometimes less than what we measured at the nutrition label. The reason for that could be multiple reasons. In fact, one of them is immediately described by Dr. Listic as fiber. So fiber, which we saw is also excreted more in the almond condition, can definitely interfere with the absorption shown in many studies. We see images like this of the intestinal wall. It's tough to see, but those are microvilli after exposure to fiber, and they've expanded slightly as a reaction to the fiber. The point here is that fiber changes the absorption of calorie metabolizable nutrients, which changes the energy actually extracted from the food. Even if the calorie value, the energy value is higher on the food label. And that's not even considering Dr. Listic's point about the microbiome and how it will also take up fiber and convert it to different fats. The ones that he mentioned, several, so like butyrate, propionate, and so on. And these fats can then be taken up by the colon cells and used for energy or passed on to the liver and other cells of the body. And while I won't go disease by disease on their effects here, they have generally recognized as a net positive for our overall health, some of which I've covered in the past. This all comes together to give a thumbs up to Dr. Listic's points. He's spot on, especially about the intricacies of it all. I'll be discussing all this in more depth at the end, because there's some actionable steps on how to use this information that I'd like to touch on. Problem number two, amino acids. So we all eat protein. Let's say you eat too much protein. You have the porterhouse steak. Now, if you're a bodybuilder, those amino acids might go to muscle and you might increase your muscle mass because you're a bodybuilder, because you're putting excess force on those muscles and you're growing those muscles. Okay. But let's say you're not a bodybuilder. Let's say you're a mere mortal like me. Or let's say you're a kid going through puberty who's synthesizing a lot of muscle, not because they're lifting weights, because they're in gross. But because testosterone is making it happen. Yeah, absolutely. But let's say you're not. Let's say, you know, you're just, you know, just slump off the street like, you know, Joe Schmoe. And you eat that porterhouse. You've taken on all these amino acids. There's no place to store it other than muscle. So your liver takes the excess and deamidates that amino acid, takes the amino group off to turn it from an amino acid into an organic acid. And then that organic acid can then enter the Krebs cycle, the tricarboxylic acid cycle, what goes on in the mitochondria in order to generate ATP, the chemical energy that your body needs in order to power itself. Okay. Now that's a good thing. It takes double the amount of energy to prepare that amino acid for burning as it does to prepare a carbohydrate for burning. Or fat. Because when I asked about – when you asked about almonds, why the 160 versus 130, I thought it was the processing. It turned out it was fiber. You're saying for protein, let's make it realistic for a really nice big porterhouse steak, which I love by the way. Let's say – Me too. Let's say 800 calories. Yeah. Well, it turns out – How much of that is – so that's what goes in your mouth. Right. My mouth. Right. How much of it is actually eaten to stay with the – your calorie eaten is not a calorie eaten. In the processing of that, what percentage actually goes into your total caloric intake? Right. So about 10 percent of everything you eat goes to just maintaining body temperature. It's called the thermic effect of food. But when you're eating protein, you actually generate more heat. And the reason is because it takes two ATP to phosphorylate that organic acid as opposed to one ATP to phosphorylate that carbohydrate for consumption. So you actually have a net loss of energy because it was an amino acid versus a monosaccharide, a sugar. Now, you brought up fat. Fat doesn't need to be phosphorylated. So it actually doesn't have any thermic effect of food at that point. So it depends on what it is as to whether or not you have loss. The next example put forward by Dr. Lustig is the idea that the amino acids that you consume from proteins are actually used differently based on your circumstance, like being a bodybuilder versus being sedentary. Now, here again, he brings up a good point because the building block molecules that make up the proteins that we consume called amino acids do get integrated into our body differently, like if you're exercising or not. So scientists use tracer experiments where they literally follow the same amino acids consumed in exercising versus non-exercising individuals as these amino acids travel through the bloodstream. Then they can trace if the amino acids, because these amino acids have been tagged, are integrated into the muscle tissue or not. This means that they're then used differently if there are differences between the two groups. Ultimately, this tells us that amino acids are likely not metabolized equally. They do depend on circumstance. Now, another point is that amino acids need to be converted to usable molecules for energy. These molecules that they are converted to then enter the mitochondrion, that whole powerhouse of the cell, which then converts them to usable cellular energy. This whole process requires energy input, making proteins less efficient to be metabolized for energy. When Dr. Lustig is discussing phosphorylation, he's saying that the cells of your body are taking the cellular energy molecules, adenosine triphosphate, so ATP, that your mitochondria produce, and taking a phosphate off of that energy molecule, ATP, and applying it to the amino acids once they've been converted to an intermediate molecule. Now, he argues that creates a net loss of energy because carbohydrates like glucose take one ATP as opposed to two that amino acids do. Frankly, we're getting pretty into the weeds with the biochemistry here, so this applicably makes almost no difference. But he's somewhat incorrect here, as some amino acids produce the same net amount of ATP as glucose molecules do. Now, I'm saying some because it depends on the amino acids. Some enter the mitochondrion at different stages of metabolism, making some amino acids more or less efficient at producing cellular energy. So, i.e. this ATP, then glucose. I'm going to stop there because this is a massive, nerdy rabbit hole that won't serve you. If you want to hear a bit more about the nuances, then check out my extended insider version of this video. If we zoom out and focus in on the thermic effect of food, which is the metabolism expenditure that we experience from simply eating food, regardless of all the biochemical pathways and the yields of ATP, which we can actually put aside, it is true that protein causes a greater thermic effect of food. So, your metabolism, calories expended, will likely be greater by eating protein. That is because, as Dr. Lustig also pointed out, that the preparation of amino acids for energy production or the synthesis of new functional proteins within our muscles and other processes, to be honest, simply cost more energy with protein. The point here isn't for you to memorize all the differences between amino acids. The point is to simply acknowledge that the final energy yield relative to carbohydrates varies depending on which amino acid that you're discussing. In addition, yes, the direct impact of protein on metabolism is greater than for the other nutrients, carbohydrates, or fats. Now, before we continue, let me acknowledge that this can get pretty deep into the murky waters of physiology and biochemistry. Here's the good news. You don't need to know any of it to create actionable steps for yourself. This is more so an exercise in teasing out what is correct and what needs tweaking. At the end, I'll have some things to say on how to easily think about all of this and how to apply it. Don't worry. Now, let's take the third. Let's take fats. So over here, we have omega-3s, heart-healthy, anti-inflammatory, anti-Alzheimer's, save your life. And over here, we have trans fats, the devil incarnate, consumable poison because you can't break the trans double bond. You don't have the desaturase to break that trans double bond. So it basically accumulates, lines your arteries, lines your liver, causes chronic metabolic disease, causes insulin resistance. Omega-3s don't even get broken down for energy because they're so important. They stay intact because your brain needs them. Your heart needs them. Whereas trans fats can't be broken down because of that trans double bond. One, save your life. Other one, kill you. They're both nine calories per gram. If you explode them in a bomb calorimeter because a calorie burned is a calorie burned. But a calorie eaten is not a calorie eaten because one will save your life. One will kill you. Dr. Lustig is getting into the differences between fats. He focuses in on trans fats and omega-3 fats. These are both unsaturated fats, meaning that they have a kink in the structure of the fat. That's important to know because he mentions that trans fats are highly damaging and overall destructive to health because they can't be metabolized. The reason? That kink that he calls a double bond. That can't be removed and therefore the fat can't be metabolized. Now, this is a bit puzzling because he mentions that we don't have the enzyme called desaturase to break the double bond. Again, that's the kink in the structure of the fat. However, desaturase enzymes do the opposite. They introduce double bonds, not take them away. Either way, let's assume a slip, which everyone has. It is also incorrect to say that we can't metabolize trans fats, as there are studies testing that very question and reporting convincingly that trans fats, like those in the industrial processing, can be metabolized. Unfortunately, Dr. Lustig also misses the mark on omega-3 fats. The body does use them as signaling molecules and they're related to many positive health outcomes, but they are also metabolized for energy as well. We see that in human studies as well. So, for this section, Dr. Lustig gets a lot wrong. But, in the overall points, trans fats are negative to health and omega-3s are net positive. He's certainly correct. In the end, the takeaway here is to avoid trans fats and focus on omega-3 fats. There's more that I could say, but let's move on. In fact, I know that we've covered a lot, but if you're looking for a deeper dive on all the studies referenced so far, like the experiments on trans fats or fiber or more on the mechanisms of amino acid metabolism and much more, consider the extended version of this video, if you can stomach it, that is. The extended version is included for the Physionic Insider members, along with a company article, a shortened summary, and I'll even send an email your way every week, as I do with all my analyses. Running past, must be, 100 health topics analyzed and increasing every week. Plus, you'll get all these perks right over here. It's a steal, I tell you. The link to join the insiders is in the description. Hope to speak with you over there. All right, so, glucose fructose. Glucose is the energy of life. Every cell on the planet burns glucose for energy. Glucose is so damn important that if you don't consume it, your body makes it. So it will take an amino acid and turn it into glucose. That's gluconeogenesis. Gluconeogenesis, that's right. It will take a fatty acid and turn it into glucose. And specifically, the glycerol portion of the triglyceride will turn into glucose. So, the Inuit, they didn't have any place to grow carbohydrate. They had ice. They had whale blubber. They still have serum glucose level. And the reason is because you had to. You have to have a serum glucose level in order to power your brain, in order to power your heart. Yes, you can use ketones. Of course you can. But, you know, only if you're in a ketogenic state will you use exclusively ketones. And you also need glucose for structural changes in specific proteins and particularly hormones. So, glucose molecules will stud TSH, LH, FSH, different pituitary hormones in order to increase their potency. It's one of the reasons why aging leads to defective hormonogenesis. For instance, hypogonadism, hypothyroidism is the loss of glycosylation on individual peptide hormones because of the inability to add glucose. Because of insulin insensitivity. No, no. It's an aging phenomenon. Okay. Now, we enter the realm of carbohydrates. Dr. Listick is discussing how critical glucose, a carbohydrate, also known as a monosaccharide, is to our survival. And he's spot on. The reality is, if we don't have glucose in our blood, we fall into a coma and die quickly. No ands, ifs, or buts. He then mentions the need for glucose molecules to stud hormones. This is known as post-translational modifications. After a protein is produced into a mature form, like a hormone, it undergoes further processing or maturation by having modifications made to it inside a compartment of the cell called the endoplasmic reticulum. One of those modifications is called glycosylation, and it involves the attachment of glucose molecules. Without it, the hormone or protein is less functional. It's definitely important, like Dr. Listick mentions. The main point here being that your blood sugar is critical to your existence, and your hormones and other proteins aren't fully functional in certain situations until they've been modified further within your cells through the attachment of glucose molecules to those proteins. Now, let's get into the big one, fructose addiction. Fructose, on the other hand, this sweet molecule, the molecule we seek, the reason why the food industry studs every food in the grocery store, 73% of all items in the American grocery store have added sugar on purpose. For the food industry's purpose is not for yours because fructose is addictive, activates the nucleus accumbens, the reward center of the brain in the same way that cocaine, heroin, nicotine, alcohol do, and drives dopamine receptors down just like nicotine, alcohol, cocaine, heroin do. So that molecule, fructose, is number one, completely vestigial to all vertebrate life. There is no biochemical reaction in any vertebrate that requires dietary fructose. That's number one. Number two. OK. Sorry. I'm going to just – so you're saying that even though we can process fructose? We have a limited capacity to process it in the same way we have a limited capacity to metabolize alcohol. Now, if you have one drink a day, you're OK. If you have two drinks a day, it depends on how big you are. You and I can probably – I would argue two drinks a week is the maximum but let's not go there. OK. But in terms of – you're saying – when you say fructose – processing of fructose is vestigial, what you're saying is that we don't need to do it. That's right. It's like the appendix. It's an organ for which it has no function. Exactly. And fructose has no function in the human body. Period. You don't need it. You don't need it. OK. Don't need it. But our diet is replete with it. In fact, our fructose consumption has gone up 25-fold since the beginning of the last century. I have to ask this now. I love fruit. I eat berries galore, especially since the price of berries seems to have come down. It used to be that you only get them certain times a year. I'm what you call a drive-by blueberry eater. So I'll just walk past and just take a fistful. You can't put them in front of me without me eating them. This is even difficult for me when other people I don't know are eating them. So I eat lots of blueberries, strawberries, blackberries if they're in season. I love them. No problem. Loaded with fructose? No. Plenty of fiber. Low fructose? Low fructose. In berries? Berries are the lowest fructose of all the different fruits. I was so worried about asking you this today. Not okay. Thank you. OK. And fruit is OK because of the fiber. So the molecule, the fructose molecule is the same whether it's in a berry or in a banana or for that matter in a Coca-Cola. The fructose molecule is the same molecule. The difference is that in the berry, it comes with a whole lot of fiber. In the banana, it comes with a whole lot less fiber. And in the Coca-Cola, it doesn't come with any fiber. And the fiber is what mitigates the absorption. So when you consume the fructose with fiber, so your blueberries, you're feeding your microbiome. That fructose wasn't for you. The major claim here is that fructose is addictive. Though some other points were also brought up too. Like fructose having no function in the body or that fruit is fine. Though it may also contain fructose. And we'll get to those. First, is fructose addictive? And is it addictive in the same way as cocaine? This is a tough one to tease out for multiple reasons. One, I don't have a neuropsychiatric background, so I'm not educated on the detailed definitions of addiction. Two, there aren't many studies measuring addictive-like behavior with fructose, as far as I can tell. Researchers in the field seem to disagree with Dr. Lustig, saying that there is insufficient evidence to characterize anything related to sugar addiction. In fact, they say there's little to no evidence indicating that in humans. And what animal studies exist are highly context-based. As in, after food deprivation or intermittent access to sugar, which can lead to binging. Then, when we look at cocaine research, something Tony Montana might know a thing or two about, researchers focus a lot on the dopamine aspects. As in, reduced dopamine function, a common brain molecule, is involved in the addiction cycle. Now, there are studies using fructose that indicate dopamine function is reduced with fructose consumption. Now, behaviorally, there's some evidence in humans that fructose can lead to increased appetite compared to glucose alone. Yet, when we compare foods with no fructose to foods with fructose, there's no additional consumption of food when allowed to consume unlimited food after exposure to fructose or not. Now, this could be because participants didn't have access to foods containing fructose. Like a cocaine addict might want more cocaine. However, there are studies that look at that too, indirectly. People drinking the same amount of glucose, fructose, or water only were then allowed to eat as much as they wanted. And you would expect that the fructose consumers would eat more of the fructose-containing nutrients, like the supplied cookies and sugary drinks. But they didn't. They actually ate the same amount as everyone else, including the water condition. In fact, the researchers even pointed this out. They say it is noteworthy that subjects ingesting 197 calories of fructose showed almost perfect regulation, reducing food intake by about 225 calories relative to subjects who had zero calorie preload of water. On the other hand, subjects with the glucose preload showed potentiation of intake, leading to about 450 more calories overall than the water subjects, after ingesting both the preload and the buffet meal. So, that means in this study, the fructose-consuming group had better consumption regulation, control, than the glucose condition, which is antithetic to Dr. Lustig's point. If I can take a step back for a second and look at the whole picture, it would take a lot more detailed reading and analysis of the literature to really tease out the harm of fructose from a consumption and addiction perspective. But what we can take away from this is that it is highly unlikely that fructose is as addictive as cocaine. It is also highly unlikely that fructose is strongly addictive in general. And finally, even if it turned out that it was mildly addictive, the effect is clearly so weak that it is inconsistently found in human studies. So, is it really something to worry about? I would argue no. Then, does fructose have a role in the body? It actually does have a role in the body. However, because our body produces fructose, it is unnecessary to consume in our diet. In addition, many of the roles of fructose can also be handled through other metabolic pathways, like glycogen synthesis, a storage form of glucose molecules in our liver and muscles. However, there is a unique role of fructose in a strange place. Men, listen up. Your sperm need fructose. Specifically, the seminal secretions contain large amounts of fructose because fructose is used in energy generation for the movement of sperm. In fact, it may be preferred over glucose, which most other cells use. I'll be honest, I did not know that. I learned something new doing the background research for this. However, make no mistake. Fructose consumption is still unnecessary. Though, there are biochemical reactions, metabolic pathways, that use fructose molecule, and it does serve a limited purpose. It just doesn't need to be consumed. It can be produced within your body. Finally, what about fruit? It contains fructose, but as Dr. Lustig pointed out, it seems fine simply because it's consumed in combination with beneficial molecules, like the fiber that we discussed earlier. This is a tough one to cover because using terms like fruit is okay is such a general expression. It really just isn't defined like berries are beneficial for reducing cardiovascular disease risk. It's specific. So, plenty to say here, especially with so many different fruits, but researchers largely agree with Dr. Lustig, as across many studies, fruit consumption is strongly related to many improved health outcomes. There may be many reasons for that, which are beyond the scope of what we're doing here, but no doubt fiber is one of them, to Dr. Lustig's point. Now, we've covered a ton of material, and in truth, all of these topics deserve deeper dives, as there's much more to say on each. However, we can take some things away from this instead of keeping it to an intellectual exercise in critiquing claims. First, I did promise to pull some of these elements together into some actionable takeaways. For example, when we discuss a calorie eaten is not a calorie eaten, or that certain amino acids provide more energy than others, or how fiber blocks our absorption, it can seem pretty hopeless on how to approach nutrition if there's just so many factors at play all at once. So, here's how I think about it. The physiology is fascinating, and it's true, as we've gone over. Yes, the calories in your nutrition labels are not going to be accurate to the calories absorbed in the intestines as nutrients. So, here's my advice. Chuck it. I mean that earnestly. I don't worry about any of that stuff when I consider my own nutrition. If you're a calorie counter like me, then keep using the nutrition labels as your guide. Why? Because regardless of what happens inside your body, they still offer an excellent foundation to adjust your behavior accordingly. If I eat 2,500 calories at my mouth, but only 1,900 calories get absorbed as a calorie-capable nutrients in my intestines, then I'll eventually see that reflected in my energy levels, my weight, my waist measurements, and more. So, without knowing the amount that I'm actually absorbing, I can change my behavior by simply eating more if I want to gain weight or stop weight loss, or I can eat less if I want to lose weight even more. I don't care what my body does, because the actions to change it one way or another are identical to if I knew the exact calorie consumption in my intestines. Now, I'm focusing on calories, but we also don't have to focus on calories. We can focus on nutrients or foods as a whole. More or less of particular foods will also work. If you're not a calorie counter like me, then simply focus on foods that raise or reduce your satiety, depending on your goals. Proteins tend to be more satiating, so de-emphasize them if you want to gain weight, and emphasize them if you want to lose weight. Then, as you track your progress through your body measurements, journaling, whatever you choose, you simply crank it up or you crank it down. Like I said, all this physiology and biochemistry is fascinating, but we only really have a limited number of levers that we can pull that actually cause change at the body level. So, instead of worrying about the specific foods blocking absorption or what have you, just focus on moving the totality of your diet in a direction, and make sure to measure on a regular basis to get feedback on if your diet is serving your direction or not. There's plenty more I could say, as you've heard me say a few times now, but instead of worrying about the tiny things, just ignore it all and focus on the big things. How do I feel? Is my body performing or changing the way that I want? How can I increase my total protein or total fat or total fiber or whatever you want? Those are the more actionable questions and points. Not being hyper-focused on the fact that you ate viscous fiber with your omelet, therefore you should only count 88% of your calories from the omelet because you predict that fiber will block 12% from being absorbed. Instead, you would eat like you normally do, and if after two weeks your measurements come back the same, although you wanted them to change, you just crank it up or crank it down in some aspect of your overall nutrition, like eating a bit more fiber with that omelet or eating a smaller omelet. You do those adjustments consistently, your body will respond, and you will have worried about none of the tiny details. Anyway, speaking of those details, what's the hit rate on Dr. Lustig's points? Well, overall, a lot of good points, like the importance of blood sugar or the fact that our absorbed calories are different from our eaten calories for many outlined reasons. However, there were also some exaggerations and some incorrect information, like the addictiveness of fructose or trans fats not being able to be metabolized. One, calories in versus calories out. While explained simplistically, it has a lot more complexity behind the scenes, considering hormones, impact of specific nutrients, metabolic effects, and more. Two, yes, for the last time, calories on a nutrition label do not necessarily reflect the amount that's actually absorbed. For example, some fibers can block or change nutrient absorption. Three, amino acids in proteins yield different amounts of energy, depending on the amino acid. Applicably, it's not something to worry about. Number four, omega-3 fats are related to better health outcomes generally, and industrial trans fats are related to worse health outcomes. However, they are both capable of being metabolized by our body. Number five, glucose is critical to life, from our brain metabolism to acting as a signaling molecule within our cells and between our cells. Number six, fructose is unlikely to be highly addictive, but it also isn't necessary to consume. However, some foods that contain fructose, like fruit, are related to better health outcomes because of the other nutrients that come along with fructose. Even if fructose in isolation or close to it, like in soft drinks, is generally still neutral or harmful to health. Now, I'll get out of your hair now, but if you're interested in another Centrifuge episode, check this video out right here. Thanks for tuning in for another episode. I'll catch you in the next one, and I have to get my fructose fix now. Bye. Bye. Bye.

=== FILE: Dr. Lustig： ‘Fructose is Poison’ [Z23R3OAFLZ4].txt ===

 und tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones tones mitochondrial enzymes acting as a mitochondrial poison. Two, eating fructose long-term leads to death. And three, fructose causes a longevity tax, shortening our life. As usual, you'll find a summary at the end, studies linked for you, and chapters to skip through for your convenience. Let's spin it. And let me tell you why it's problematic. We haven't gotten to that yet. We're just talking about whether it's vestigial versus needed. Now, let's talk about what fructose does. Turns out, fructose inhibits three, count them, three separate enzymes necessary for normal mitochondrial function. Now, your mitochondria make ATP. Your mitochondria have to work at peak efficiency. That's what metabolic health is. Is mitochondria working at peak efficiency? Well, there are three enzymes that are inhibited by fructose. Number one, AMP kinase. All right? Now, AMP kinase is the fuel gauge on the liver cell. It's the thing that tells the liver to make more mitochondria, fresher mitochondria. Because if your AMP levels are high, that means you've dephosphorylated a bunch of ATPs, and you have to regenerate them. So you need some more mitochondria. So it's a negative feedback pathway. Well, you need that AMP kinase to generate that mitochondrial biogenesis signal. Except that fructose, a metabolite of fructose called methylglyoxal, MGO, sits in the active site of the gamma subunit of that AMP kinase and actually binds to arginines in that active site, rendering that enzyme now dead. It's an irreversible inhibition because of the covalent bonding of that methylglyoxal, that aldehyde, to the arginine. And now that enzyme is dead. Okay. So it basically acts like a key that doesn't turn the lock but prevents the key that you want in that lock from entering the lock. Yeah. It's like gluing a lock shut. Yeah. Got it. All right. So that's one of the enzymes. That's one. Okay. Second one, ACAD-L, acyl-CoA dehydrogenase long chain. So this is necessary to cleave two carbon fragments off fatty acids to prepare them for metabolism. So it inhibits that one. And then finally, it inhibits carnitine palmitoyltransferase 1, CPT1. Now that's the enzyme that regenerates carnitine. Carnitine is the shuttle mechanism by which you get the fatty acids from the outer mitochondrial membrane through to the inner mitochondrial membrane so that they can be beta-oxidized for energy. So if you don't have that CPT1, you're basically carnitineless. And therefore, you can't generate beta-oxidation. The claim here is that fructose inhibits three specific enzymes critical to mitochondrial function. The first enzyme is a famous one called AMPK. It walks the red carpet and everything. No, but it is well known in cell biology because it plays a significant role in controlling many aspects of cellular function. It is often considered a master regulator simply because it's involved in so many areas of cell function. You can actually see that in this illustration right here. You can see AMPK is in the middle and then the various enzymes connecting to the various cellular functions. So Dr. Lustig is spot on when he says that AMPK is involved in mitochondrial function. And yes, it definitely is involved in the production of new mitochondria called mitochondrial biogenesis. Now, the real question is, does it get inhibited by AMPK? Dr. Lustig mentions a metabolite of fructose called methylglyoxal, MGO, sits inside the AMPK and blocks it like the wrong key sitting inside a lock. To explain that a bit further, enzymes have active sites, essentially a groove or pocket within the enzyme that binds to its specific substrate and converts it to another molecule. It's how the enzyme actually performs its main function. What Dr. Lustig is saying is that the metabolite of fructose, MGO, sits inside that pocket bound to arginines, particular amino acids found inside the pocket, and blocks the real substrate of AMPK from engaging with AMPK, since MGO is blocking the way. This effectively neutralizes AMPK. So I tried finding evidence of this and I couldn't find any. I did find a publication that discusses it, but the discussion was purely hypothetical. This hypothesis does indicate MGO binding AMPK, and it does indicate binding at the arginines. You can see that the enzyme structure on the left, and then the structure split into three domains. And then zooming into the gamma domain, like Dr. Lustig mentioned, is the pocket with the arginine residues. So that all checks out. But again, there's no definitive evidence that this occurs, and the paper never discusses fructose as far as I could tell. So while the exact mechanism described may not be backed by firm evidence, that doesn't mean that Dr. Lustig is wrong about fructose inhibiting AMPK as a whole. Unfortunately, I'd love to tell you a clean cut story that fructose inhibits AMPK activation. But while there are studies that indicate that to be the case, there are also studies that suggest that fructose enhances AMPK activation. Why? It is likely context-based, depending on the tissue that you're testing, the conditions, and more. Now, in the end, when it comes to cell biology, things get pretty complex. And there's another way to probe this that's more definitive, which I'll get to later. For now, let's just say that fructose has mixed evidence on whether it inhibits or encourages AMPK activation. And the discrepancy likely depends on a variety of factors, like tissue type. Let's go on to the next enzyme before we circle back to a more definitive answer. The second enzyme is called ACAD-L, or acyl-CoA dehydrogenase long chain. Forget the name. It doesn't matter. This enzyme, as Dr. Lustig pointed out, takes fat molecules and begins cutting sections off the fat molecule to feed them into a wood chipper that we call the mitochondrion. The mitochondrion eventually uses those cleaved fat fragments from the fat molecule and utilizes it for energy generation. Now, interestingly, again, it's not a simple story because the studies looking at the impact of fructose on this enzyme, they indicate that a non-fattening diet plus fructose has no effect. Yet a fattening diet plus fructose does indicate inhibition of the enzyme. This is also shown in other studies as well. I'll quick cover the last enzyme. It's called CPT1, and it's basically a gatekeeping protein. It interacts with fat molecules and allows them into the mitochondrion so long as they have a tag, like an ID. Obviously, the mitochondrion can't break down fat for energy if the fat molecules aren't allowed in the first place. However, here again, the same studies indicate even less convincing evidence that fructose has no impact on CPT1 inhibition. The impact is solely driven by a fattening diet, independent of fructose. Look, ultimately, while there is evidence against Dr. Lustig's claims, I should point out again that cell biology is incredibly complex and it is highly dependent on the context being studied. So, I wouldn't consider this a settled case. I think it's always better to define the context that you're discussing and then leave room for studies that might butt up against that context. For example, if I say, in the liver, in a junk food diet, fructose may reduce the activity of an enzyme ACAD-L, then I've defined a narrow band that is true to a specific study that I've read. However, if I use much wider interpretations of fructose always inhibits ACAD-L, then I'd be wrong if I go to different tissues like the heart or the brain. And I'd be wrong every time a study shows otherwise. That's why I like how a lot of scientists talk. The data suggest I've seen instances in the liver under these specific circumstances. There is evidence that it leaves room for development. But, you probably don't care about that. You just want to know, does fructose harm my mitochondria, punk? Give it to me straight! This is ultimately what we care about, not the enzymes. We want to know the actual effect. Well, if I take some of my own medicine, which tastes like Pepto-Bismol, I'll put it to you like this. Very simply, there is some evidence that fructose does reduce mitochondrial activity, as well as mitochondrial biogenesis. In the end, we end up at the same destination. Fructose probably isn't great for mitochondrial health, though the mechanisms are a bit all over the place and likely depend on more context than what we can cover here with due diligence. But, Dr. Huberman asks a very important question which ties into the long-term effects of fructose consumption. You said fructose inhibits all three of these enzymatic pathways. As a biologist, I have to ask you, how potently does it inhibit them? I mean, because there are drugs that block receptors, and then there are drugs that block receptors with unbelievable affinity. So, you know, I mean, mechanistically in a dish, meaning in vitro, you can see all sorts of things. But how significant is this for obesity, for mitochondrial function in vivo in us? All right. So, you know, the dose determines the poison, right? Paracelsus 1537. There are toxins that are parts per billion and will kill you, like sarin, ricin, cyanide. By the way, cyanide is a good analogy because it's working on mitochondria. It's basically causing mitochondria to be completely defective. All right. Then there are intermediate toxins like arsenic and carbon tetrachloride, parts per million, and they take a little longer to work. They're not going to kill you on the spot. That's why I can eat an apple seed that has a little bit of arsenic in it, but I'm not going to die. Right. And then finally there, and by the tobacco smoke goes in there. And then finally you have weak toxins, all right? And, you know, where it's not one exposure that will kill you. It's, you know, 10,000 exposures that will kill you, like alcohol. Or toxic people. Yeah. Well, sometimes it only takes one. Couldn't resist. Sorry. Sometimes it only takes one. Mildly toxic people. Anyway, the point is that fructose is in that last category. So it's not what you do one day that kills you. It's what you do every day that kills you. And if you basically eat ultra-processed food, high in sugar, for 10 years in a row, it's going to show up in terms of your comorbidities. And ultimately, yeah, it will kill you. This is an important concept, though probably on some level obvious. The issue is how potent of a poison is fructose. Obviously, it isn't on the same level as cyanide with instant death. And this is a good point where Dr. Alistair pulls back and points out that the poisonous nature is mild. I like and appreciate this reframing by both. But this raises a bigger issue then. Does fructose kill us in the long term? Well, there's plenty of evidence looking at fructose or fructose-adjacent relationships to all-cause mortality. There are some issues with these types of studies in singling fructose's relationship to mortality. But the evidence definitely suggests fructose increases our risk of death from all causes. And I will add that the effect is mild, which would speak to Dr. Listic's point that it is not potent, but could be drawn out over time. I will quick add here that if you were to only focus on randomized controlled trials, you would find mixed results, some finding harm of fructose and some finding no harm. This usually depends on the outcome tested in the study methodology. In the end, I think it's pretty safe to say that fructose consumption is a net negative for health and studies lean in the direction of increasing mortality risk. All of this confirms Dr. Listic's perspective. Ultimately, though, Dr. Listic points out how fructose affects our entire population and the impact that it has on our lifespan. So let's get into that. Now, before we do, if you're looking for a deeper dive on these concepts, like understanding how the master enzyme AMPK works, or how these enzymes interact with our mitochondrial health, or how fructose raises our risk of mortality and more, then check out the extended version of this video that you're watching. It's included for the Physionic Insiders, my research platform, including well over 100 health analyses with accompanying videos and articles, summaries, a monthly podcast that puts everything together for you, live sessions with yours truly, and more. And I put a lot of work into this and there's more that I'm not mentioning. I added an AI, a master supplement list, and more this year too. Anyway, I'll shut up. But if you're interested, join using the link in the description. And we have the data to show, you know, how many years you will lose. So right now in America, we pay an eight-year longevity tax. If you look at Japan, they have a mean age of death of 88. We have a mean age of 80. Okay, we're paying an eight-year longevity tax just by living here. And we're talking about the healthy people. Now, if you have metabolic syndrome, it's a 15-year longevity tax. And sorry, if you have obesity, it's a 15-year longevity tax. And if you have metabolic syndrome, it's a 20-year longevity tax. That is primarily, not completely, but primarily sugar. So the claim is that we, Americans, are experiencing an eight-year longevity tax relative to Japan due to sugar. In fact, the numbers are a bit different, but let's not quibble. He's right that Americans live, on average, a shorter lifespan than the Japanese. It's about a six years difference. Now, it is definitely true that the gap expands with comorbidities like diabetes, cancer, cardiovascular disease, and so on. The big aspect of the claim is not if the gap is there, though, but that it is, at least primarily, caused by sugar consumption. Now, considering the previous data that we went over, it is perfectly reasonable to blame fructose as contributing to a shortened life expectancy. However, there are many differences between Japan and the United States that could not only contribute, but be major factors. For example, Americans consume 200 to 300 more calories per day, about 50% more saturated fat on a percentage basis, and a bit less dietary fiber. All three of these are major factors, so isolating fructose as the main factor is presumptuous. I think that it would be most accurate to say, yes, Americans have a shorter life expectancy compared to Japanese people, and yes, fructose consumption may be a contributing factor, but there are undoubtedly several other factors that likely contribute significantly. Okay, all that stated, what are our takeaways here? Well, Dr. Listick is on target with some, like fructose being detrimental to our health, but does overstate others, like fructose being the main reason for shortened life expectancy or the cellular mechanisms of fructose harm. But here's what can be said. There's evidence fructose is harmful to mitochondrial health. Fructose is a negative to our health and mildly raises our mortality risk. Fructose consumption likely contributes to American shortened life expectancy, but there are highly likely several other unaddressed factors that also contribute. And now that we've been discussing fructose in isolation, but what about in food, like fructose found in fruits? Well, Dr. Listick discusses that in this episode of The Centrifuge, along with much more on fructose. Check it out. I hope this was informative, and I'll catch you in the next one. Bye.

=== FILE: Heart Disease： Not just about Cholesterol! [utvQ7GBAVQQ].txt ===

 We discussantrathion, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naringin, naring preparing the issue before it causes a type of heart disease called heart failure. So let me take you along for a scientific ride to understand this heart-secreted hormone, how you can easily order a test for it, heart failure, and how to reduce your risk, assuming that there is any to begin with. When you think of hormones, you probably think of the ones that are released out of your pancreas like insulin or by your adrenal glands like cortisol. But many tissues of your body secrete hormones, your heart being one of many. The hormone I'm talking about is BNP or brain natriuretic peptide or more recently renamed to B-type natriuretic peptide. The name doesn't really matter too much. Just know that BNP is secreted by your heart muscle cells. Now the reason it's released by your heart cells is what we're interested in. When stress is applied to the heart cells, like excessive amounts of blood volume pushing against the heart wall, the heart muscle cells called myocardiocytes release BNP. Ultimately, what you need to know for us to progress in this story and understand the importance of BNP to you is that BNP is secreted more as your heart experiences more stress from blood pushing against the structure of the heart in an attempt to reduce this stress. Obviously, saying things like more stress doesn't really sound good, but that doesn't necessarily mean there's a relationship with increased heart failure either. So when we split people without heart failure into three groups, a low BNP group, a moderate BNP, and a high BNP group, we see a striking result. All I'll say is the higher the lines, the more heart failure occurred in these people. Clearly, a stepwise fashion, as BNP levels rise, heart failure risk is raised. Now, this is associative evidence, meaning that BNP is not necessarily causing heart failure. In fact, we aren't even interested in determining if BNP's causative relationship to heart failure. We just want to know if it is related, as in if there are elevated levels, does that track with heart failure? And the answer is yes, confirmed in scientific reviews like this one as well. The great part about BNP testing is that it's readily available at most labs in one of two forms, so BNP directly or NT-proBNP. Now, when it comes to testing, there's one thing to know, the values offered in testing can be a bit deceptive. For example, if a person was tested for acute or emergency heart failure diagnosis, they'd be looking for values in the hundreds of picograms per milliliter. At that point, you're probably hospitalized, so it doesn't really apply here. And the study that we just covered was looking at people without heart failure who were split into three groups with much lower blood values. For women, the high condition was anything above 15.8, and for men, anything above 12.8. I'll also mention that BNP can be artificially high after strenuous exercise and other stressors of the sort. So testing should be done just like most other scenarios in a baseline estate as possible. There's more to say on testing in a bit, but I'd like to get into some solutions. What can be done to reduce risk of heart failure? Now, before we touch on that, if you're curious on BNP and how it relates to other diseases like stroke, coronary heart disease, mortality as a whole, how BNP affects your kidneys, your adrenal glands, and your arteries, and another protein released by your heart and the relationship to heart health, then check out my extended video along with an accompanying article, standard with all my analyses. It's included as a Physionic Insider. My premium research platform. You also get a private podcast in case you want everything delivered in a monthly audio episode only, and I do regular live sessions with the Insider community. Anyway, there's a lot of benefits of being an Insider. Check out the membership using the link in the description. I hope to see you there. In this study, participants without heart failure, but with elevated potential for developing heart failure, were placed on a standard treatment program or a treatment program that was identical, but included routine measurements of blood BNP. So the only difference between the two groups here was the personal physician's knowledge of their patient's BNP or not. The control group, the physicians had no idea, but they knew all the other heart disease risk factors. In the intervention there, the physicians also were clued in on their patient's BNP and were allowed to act accordingly. Now, if the lines go up, that means that there's more cardiovascular disease, not necessarily heart failure, but I can tell you that there were similar results for heart failure as well. Clearly, when all participants are included, there's a reduced risk of cardiovascular events when BNP is known. And this is especially true when limiting the data to just those with especially high subclinical BNP levels of over 50. This tells us two things. One, being aware of your BNP can lead to better healthcare and be protective against heart failure. And two, having a capable physician that can make adjustments based on your BNP values, inclusive of other risk factors, can make a tremendous difference to your risk. At this point, maybe thinking to yourself that you should get your BNP checked. And there's nothing inherently wrong with that, except it's likely unnecessary for some. So hold that thought until we return to it. Now, this only tells us that being educated about BNP, tracking it yearly and addressing it as a first step. The next step is how? Well, since physicians in the intervention arm of the study could do whatever they wanted to mitigate risk. We can't pinpoint any single action that caused this benefit. But that won't stop us, because if we hearken back to my introduction to this topic, where I said this. Now, the reason it's released by your heart cells is what we're interested in. When stress is applied to the heart cells, like excessive amounts of blood volume pushing against the heart wall, the heart muscle cells called myocardiocytes release BNP. You have to think to yourself why blood volume would be pushing against the heart wall to such a degree that it would cause the heart cells to release BNP to reduce heart stress. The answer is high blood pressure. In fact, when we look at long-term studies, there is a consistently high risk of heart failure with high blood pressure, which is even stronger with clinically high BNP levels. The only issue is that these studies are associative, making it more difficult to directly point the finger at blood pressure and improve BNP, and even more importantly, heart failure. Naturally, we turn to randomized controlled trials for these kinds of situations. And wouldn't you know it, there's many. And they all generally point the same direction, like here. This is a direct measure of heart failure between blood pressure lowering treatment in red and not treating high blood pressure in blue. The higher the lines, the more heart failure. So, obviously, reducing blood pressure reduces heart failure risk. However, I can also tell you that reducing blood pressure also reduces BNP release. A coincidence? Not likely, knowing the intertwined nature of it all. Let me discuss this last point and the testing again, because I should offer some context. While it is expected for BNP to drop when normalizing blood pressure to below 120 over 80, it does not always normalize for a number of reasons that we don't really need to get into. So, here's how I'd think about it. It's a good tool to assess risk before heart failure. But it is less informative if you are looking for a gauge on your continued heart failure risk after risk has already presented. In addition to that, if you're healthy, normal weight, not dealing with any chronic health issues, it's probably unnecessary. Except maybe if you're an ultra long distance athlete to consider this test. The people that will get the most use out of it are people with type 2 diabetes, people who have been overweight for many years, those with obviously long-term high blood pressure and the like. The risk is exceedingly low if you don't have a family history or your other health metrics will look normal. And probably not a priority to track unless you're really into knowing every aspect of your health. Honestly, when it comes to heart health, there's plenty of other things to do like what I cover in this next video right here. Thanks for tuning in. I hope this fascinated you as much as it did me. I guess I'll see you in the next video. Okay, go ahead. I'll meet you over there. No, no, no, I promise. Fine, I'll go first.

=== FILE: I’m taking 40 grams to cut Visceral Fat and promote Liver Health [0Er08-E2HnU].txt ===

 activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated activated starches. And actually, on that last one, I may need your help, but we'll get to it. First, the nutrient, resistant starches. There are many excellent quality placebo-controlled randomized controlled trials published in extremely high-profile journals like Cell Metabolism and Nature Metabolism that all point the same direction. Resistant starches are an amazing class of molecules, in fact, in more ways than what we're about to go over here, which is why I have more analyses coming out on the topic. But let's stick to the subject at hand, visceral fat and liver health. The reality is I ran across this first study because I ran across a video by Dr. Jill Carvalho. And after doing a bit of my own digging, I uncovered even more evidence, six studies, in fact. The thing is, when people maintain their nutrition but they supplement with resistant starches, they do experience elimination of visceral fat, that specific body fat that surrounds and infiltrates into our organs. Now, visceral fat is quite harmful, and having lots of it exposes us to premature death. That's about as simply as I can state it. Look for yourself. This is visceral fat. The blue line is the group supplementing with resistant starches, and the reddish line is the placebo group, not given any resistant starches. Now, we have the before measurements and the measurements four months later. We want the lines to go down, and sure enough, they do for the supplementing group. In fact, the difference is an over 300% increased elimination of visceral fat compared to the placebo, or in absolute terms, nearly 20% more. No matter how you slice it, this one group of molecules has a great effect, which is shared through other visuals like here. The images on the left are before, and the images on the right are after. These are MRI images of body fat. The more red, the more visceral fat. Now, I don't know about you, but the right side certainly looks like it has less. A perfect illustration. The point being, across multiple studies, resistant starch supplementation dramatically slashes harmful visceral fat in our body. Here's the thing, though. The fat around our organs is critically important to reduce, but there are other types of fat, aside from the vein attempts to be Achilles, that are also critical to excellent health, and they tend to go hand in hand. I'm talking about intrahepatic fat. The fat not around the organs, but inside the cells themselves. In this case, your liver. This manifests as an abundance of lipid droplets, otherwise stated as fat droplets stuck inside the liver cells. Now, having too much of these lipid droplets in the liver cells leads to liver cell dysfunction, considering that your liver is made up of liver cells. That means that your liver isn't too happy with you. So, when we look at the levels of these fats in our liver cells here, we're measuring the intrahepatic triglyceride content, which is a scientist-impressive term for liver fat found inside the cells. Clearly, we want that to go down. And what do you see? That's right. The blue line, the resistant starch supplementary group, experienced significant reductions, about six times more liver fat eliminated compared to the placebo. And this ends up being reflected in other measures as well, like liver inflammation and liver damage markers are also reduced. This all yields a conclusion that resistant starches not only punch visceral fat in the gut, but they also have a massive effect in reducing liver fat previously stuck inside the liver. You're now beginning to understand why I'm so keen to add this to my life, and maybe you'd be interested too. I'll get into all that soon, but I'm also always extremely interested in understanding why this happens. Keep in mind, resistant starches are never absorbed, hence their name resistant, like a toddler not wanting to do something. Resistance starches kick and scream, figuratively of course, the idea of being absorbed into the bloodstream. So, if it stays in our intestinal tract, exactly how is it presenting such profound benefits? Well, like other fibers, resistant starches may not be absorbed into our bloodstream, but they do interact with our microbiome, the vast population of microbes living in our large intestine. So, researchers take poop samples from people not fed resistant starches, the placebo group, and poop samples from those exposed to resistant starches, and then implant them into mice. This is a direct way to test if resistant starches are having a causative effect on liver health and visceral fat through our microbiome, or something else is going on. The research indicates that resistant starches do enable their benefits through the microbiome, which ultimately translates to our improved liver health. Now that we have a focus, we can then try to triangulate the specific microbes, the bacteria, that are creating this healthful or harmful relationship. Ultimately, it may be identified that a particular bacterium is abundant when our microbiome is not exposed to resistant starches. Now, I want to pause here because this is important. As you can reflect right now and ask yourself, if you eat a lot of green bananas, cooled potatoes, cooled pasta, lentils, chickpeas, and the like, if the answer is no, then you probably have some exposure to these bacterium in your gut. So, what does that mean for you? Well, check it out. We're looking at liver fat levels again, with mice exposed to the bacterium while the bacteria are still alive in the middle, and when they're dead, but still present in the far right. Clearly, in both conditions, there's some increased liver fat, at least in the living scenario. So, this means that A, the bacterium is harmful to liver health, including other measures that I'm not going to show you, and B, consuming too little resistant starches, like those foods that I mentioned, may offer a disadvantage as your gut may contain this harmful bacterium. Now, I want to be more clear here. We would need more data to be certain, but this is the direction of the data as pointed. In addition, while these foods that I mentioned earlier do offer some resistant starches, many of these foods are still quite low in the absolute sense. So, it would take a dedicated effort to really consume sizable amounts. At any rate, we have pretty good data that consuming resistant starches changes our microbiome for the better, likely reducing the amount of certain harmful bacteria that directly contribute to fatty liver. But, here's the thing. There's another layer to this, because while most people likely benefit from resistant starch consumption, there's some people that experience even greater benefits, and we actually see that distinction here. We're looking at our trusty fat found inside of our liver cells again, and the left, the pinkish red boxes, are the one group of people, and the blue are another group of people. Clearly, one group experiences significant reductions in liver fat, while the other experiences minimal improvements. The reason is that while both groups are exposed to resistant starches, one group is considered a low responder, while another is called a high responder. This is again believed to be because of differences in the microbiome. Certain microbes almost certainly bully beneficial microbes out, thereby overpopulating with less useful microbes that don't take advantage of the consumed resistant starches. Alright, regardless of your resistant starch response status, there's profound benefits to be had from supplementation. So, let's discuss how I plan on using this information, and you could consider doing something similar. Before I discuss that and ask for your help, I'll be getting into how to determine if you're a high or low responder to resistant starches, and even the relationship between the amino acid valine and fatty liver, and more in my full analysis, my extended video of the one that you're currently watching. It's included as a Physionic Insider, along with an accompanying article, monthly podcasts, live sessions with me, and much more, as you can see here. Now, if you're interested in full access to all my work, short summaries and all, then check out the Physionic Insiders. It's linked in the description. Now, I'm not great at making things taste all that appetizing, and resistant starches are generally consumed in powdered form, specifically as high amylose maize or green banana powder or potato starch. It doesn't dissolve well, and heating it is a no-go. So, I'm considering adding it to some shake of some sort. If you have suggestions, I'm all ears. Now, I'll keep my eyes open in the comments. That said, the amount consistently used across studies showing remarkable effects of resistant starch is around 40 grams. That's a lot. Could less also be effective? Definitely, but we don't have enough data on that. So, 40 grams is the current best target. Now, I'll be supplying some good sources, as I do with all my supplements, that I review in my master supplement guide, also included as an insider if you want more help. Now, it might be best, considering that it can lead to gastrointestinal discomfort if you go from zero to 40 too quickly. So, to start low, maybe 5 grams per day for a week and then up it to 10 grams and so on. Now, aside from palatability, I'm excited to add this to my routine, especially considering significant other health benefits that I'll be covering in the near future. So, stay tuned for that. Speaking of which, there's other signs on eliminating visceral fat and improving liver health that I've covered before. Check it out right here. Thanks for tuning in. I hope that this was informative. And again, if you have recommendations for what to mix in with the resistant starches, then let me know in the comments. I appreciate it. See ya.

=== FILE: My absolute FAVORITE Anti-Aging Hack, Ever [djwiEnvn1SM].txt ===

 As I fast approach the ripe old age of 40, I've been doing something almost obsessively for about a decade now that helps retain what whispers of youth still cling to my decrepit bones. Am I being dramatic? Yeah, leave me alone. While I'm not afraid of aging, I would like to maintain a youthful state for as long as possible, as many others do too. Maybe that applies to you in some way or another. Well, what is one of the most impactful things that I do, one of the most impactful things that I do, other than sustain focus on exercise, nutrition, and sleep, is wearing sun protection, as in sunscreen. Like I said, I'm pretty obsessive about it. I wear it indoors, in fact. I'm wearing it right now, which only exacerbates the comments on my pasty white complexion. I also wear it in cold seasons. I reapply consistently, and more. The point being, it's a long-term habit, and I ain't trying to kick it. So, why the focus on sun protection? And is there any risk to such focus on sunscreen, considering that there's rumors that it leaches through the skin? Well, let me present two arguments for why the focus on sunscreen. One, the direct anti-aging benefits. An isolated example is what I actually have for the thumbnail of this video. Here, this woman put on sunscreen for 40 years on her face, but not on her neck, and she's 28 years old. Well, ignore the fact that that math doesn't math. I'm just hoping that you're just as bad at it as I am. Now, in earnest, she's in her 90s in this image, and it's clear the massive impact that sunscreen has. Still, we shouldn't focus on a single image, as impactful as it is. Let's discuss the science. If you look at the literature on sunscreen, there's multiple intervention trials that show consistently that sunscreen has anti-aging properties. For example, this one, where researchers measured before and after one year of sunscreen use in 30 individuals. You can see the different assessments on the horizontal axis, and each bar corresponding to a length of time of daily sunscreen use. And if the bars go up, that's deemed clinically improved skin. Across the board, sunscreen use leads to improvements, regardless of the measure used. Now, some of these studies are poorly controlled, like the data that I just showed you, as there's no blinding or control group. However, there are other studies that fill in some of those issues with rigor, like using placebo creams that look identical, but don't contain sunscreen ingredients. And they show similar results. I'd like to pause here and point out that people are aging because time is going by. But the sunscreen isn't just slowing the aging, it's stopping or reversing it, as before and after is often the same or improved from baseline. In fact, in fact, in other studies, the researchers say that daily sunscreen use shows, and I quote, no detectable increase in skin aging after 4.5 years. We're talking about a stoppage of skin aging. Now, while I'd love to leave it there, the reality is that while almost five years is a long time to freeze aging, I would guess that given enough time, aging would still march forward even through a sunscreen slathered resistance. That's because sunscreen protects against extrinsic aging, the UV radiation that's penetrating our skin, entering the cells and damaging the proteins, other molecules and genes of our skin cells causing mutations. However, sunscreen can't protect us against inherent imperfections of biology, meaning the intrinsic factors like oxidative stress that occurs from, well, simply living. But regardless, we're taking several years of protection, if that's through evidence of slowing aging, stopping it or reversing it. The point being that sunscreen is an incredibly powerful tool in combating skin aging. However, some people don't care as much about skin benefits from an aesthetic perspective, but they may care more from reason number two. While we may be focused on injections, supplements, and whatever else that we can squeeze out additional few months or years out of our body, the greatest impact on our longevity is your mere survival to a relatively advanced age for all those other factors to even matter. If you die at 34, supplements and special protocols don't do much good. So what's one of the leading causes of premature death? Cancer. It might seem obvious, though there are some health influencers that say things like this. Right. Expose your skin to sunlight. Sun's not our enemy. The fact is most of us are not getting enough sun. It's not that we're getting too much sun. If you look at the number of commercial sunscreens, I think there'S-23 of them that have been pulled from the market since 2018 for directly causing cancer. Wow. And if you actually were to overlay a chart, maybe I'll send you this chart so you can throw it on the podcast. If you were to overlay a chart of the incidence of the increased use of sunscreen and the rapid rise of skin cancer, you know, you would just see this oxymoronic message that says, well, if if we're using sunscreen at 45 times or 50 times the rate that we were in 1980, shouldn't we have less skin cancer? Yeah. Well, why is it that we have more skin cancer and we're actually getting less sun and applying more sunscreen? It's because the whole script's been flipped. You know, we think that we we need chemicals and synthetics and pharmaceuticals to thrive. We don't. We need minerals, amino acids, nutrients to thrive. I'm not going to go off debunking every aspect of this, though. There's a lot wrong with it. But we can focus in on a prevalent piece. Sunscreen causes skin cancer. We can test that directly because we have randomized control trials that test what happens when people are told to put on sunscreen every day compared to only occasionally. And two types of skin cancer prevalence were tested over four and a half years. In the end, one skin cancer was unaffected by sunscreen use and the other was significantly reduced. And when followed for longer, over 15 years, about 10 to 11 years after the trial ended, we can see here there's a continued protection. The higher the lines, the more melanoma, so skin cancer. The blue line is the people using sunscreen for those almost five years. So the direct intervention data indicate that no, sunscreen does not cause skin cancer, but actually protects against it. This is critical because it then increases the odds of living longer, i.e. an indirect longevity effect. I'd also add on the sunscreen front, most studies use pretty low thresholds for sunscreen. So we're talking something like SPF 15, maybe SPF 30. So the lower end of the protection, but still quite potent in results. But of course, there are rumors that sunscreen ingredients can also leach into your blood. Are those rumors true? Yes, they are. Now, before I go on, I'm covering the impact that beta carotene has on skin aging and skin cancer, along with if age, skin complexion, type of work, outdoor and indoor, move the needle meaningfully in my extended analysis of this video that you're currently watching. If you're interested, you can join the Physionic Insiders, my premium research platform that I developed, to access this full analysis plus hundreds of others in video and written article format, plus quick summaries, a regular monthly podcast, live sessions with me, and more. Check it out. The link to join the Physionic Insiders is in the description box. I hope to see you there. There are multiple studies that look at sunscreen, and more specifically, sunscreen ingredients, like avobenzone, oxybenzone, and the like, and show that there are detectable levels in the blood when applied to our skin. The question then is, is this harmful to our health? Well, we do know that there's some temporary changes in hormones, but these changes don't last long and are actually quite minor. I wish I could tell you that we have strong evidence debunking any potential harm, and we do have some longer-term studies on the relationship to hard endpoints like death, showing sunscreen does not raise the risk of death. But as you know, there's a lot between something being healthy and something killing you. Unfortunately, we don't have a ton of data directly indicating sunscreen safety across all possible outcomes. Just to be clear, this does not mean that sunscreen is unsafe either. We need more data on sunscreen directly, but what we also know is what molecules get into our bloodstream are in tiny amounts and are generally recognized as unlikely to cause lasting problems at such small concentrations. In the end, making a risk-benefit analysis, the benefits of sunscreen outweigh the negatives, at least for me. Of course, it also depends on the type of sunscreen, so chemical versus mineral-based, for example, as mineral-based are less likely to be absorbed. Ultimately, I've chosen to stay the root of liberal sunscreen while understanding that we don't know everything about it. That's a personal decision, but that does not mean that you have to do the same. Plus, since I hear the howls of sun lovers descending upon me like a hawk to fish, I'm also not saying that the sun is unhealthy for you or that you should avoid it. I don't, though my complexion may beg to differ. But I am saying that some protection for the skin is beneficial, if that's sunscreen or simply shade or clothing or what have you. Speaking to skin aging, remember when I mentioned sunscreen doesn't address intrinsic aspects of skin aging? Well, I cover something that tackles that and improves skin health right here. Thanks for tuning in. I'm going to go apply some more sunscreen. See you in the next one.

=== FILE: One Supplement that ACTUALLY prevents Cancer： 6 Studies - Everything Revealed [jrys4Y8naW0].txt ===

 I was really blown away by this randomized control trial showing clearly and convincingly that berberine supplementation reduced the risk of cancer directly. I was excited then and I'm excited now, but now for different reasons, because now that we have the clinical data in hand, I could get more into some of the additional studies related to berberine and cancer like these. These studies describe in detail two different ways by which berberine and cancer can be found in detail. which which which which which which which which which which is which which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which into full-blown cancer, colorectal cancer. Now there's a reason that we screen for colorectal cancer. We have to check for these abnormal growths. Anyway, I won't rehash the details of the previous analysis, but just know that the results were A, impressive, and B, directly applicable to you and me. Then exactly how does bourbon enact these impressive results? Well, one of them is through changing what's called the microenvironment of your colon, shown in this study. When you're healthy, your colon is filled with billions of bacteria and viruses that ultimately lend themselves to a healthier you. Now, I get that when you hear the word virus and bacteria, you might think, what? But there are actually many strains of each that are neutral or even beneficial to our health, all part of what's called the microbiome. Well, when we take microbiome samples from people who are healthy, people with these precancerous adenomas, remember that's the abnormal growth, and people with already present colorectal cancer, we see significant differences in the makeup of the microbiome. That said, in previous studies, a particular bacterium called Fusobacterium nucleatum, which I'm going to abbreviate FN, is especially prominent in colorectal cancer. So, the researchers did something clever. They took mice that have a genetic predisposition for cancer and seeded, meaning that they implanted FN into the colon of these mice with and without berberin. We see that here. The left image is of excised colons. The top is of the one without the addition of the cancer-associated bacterium, and the bottom one is with. Now, it's tough to see, but the bottom one has some growths in it. Those are tumors. The right graph is more telling, though. Essentially, if the lines in dots go up, that's more tumors. I suppose you can guess if that's good or bad. It's bad. The FN condition on the right is noticeably elevated. This proves causation, as in, the presence of these bacteria increases colorectal tumors, cancer. Now, for the real treat, though. Notice the far right condition there, the one with the BBR included. That's our lovely berberin. Notice how it knocks cancer back down. That's because the berberin is enacting its cancer protective role. The main point here is two things. So, one, shifts in the microbiome, the colon microenvironment, promotes cancer. And two, berberin inhibits this microbiome shift, thereby protecting against this cancer. That alone is a remarkable discovery. But if you follow through the cancer literature for a minute, you'll notice some themes. One of these themes is that the reliance of cancer on glucose, sugar. Now, I've covered this in the past several times. However, it may also apply here as well. We can see that as clearly as my pasty white skin right here. The top graph indicates the amount of glucose taken up by colon cancer cells as concentration of berberin is increased in a stepwise fashion. Now, I mean, just look at that data. As berberin concentration increases, glucose uptake by the cells is impaired. However, even more telling in this context is looking at the cell viability, meaning how well the cancer cells survive under the same scenario. The lower the line goes, the fewer colon cancer cells survive. A good thing. Now, to be clear, we're looking at isolated cells. And while we can say that berberin has a direct colon cancer inhibiting effect here, we can't technically assume the reduction in glucose is the reason. For that, we would need further experiments. But I'll let you in on a not-so-little secret. They did that too. And they showed more evidence that berberin inhibits the glucose metabolism in colorectal cancer cells. So the point here is that berberin not only inhibits through indirect mechanisms like the impact on the microbiome, but also direct inhibition of the glucose metabolism of colorectal cancer cells. That's pretty incredible, isn't it? So now across four mechanistic studies and two analyses based on randomized controlled trials, we have this mounting evidence that simply supplementing with berberin can reduce our colorectal cancer risk through multiple mechanisms. So how would I approach all this? I'll get into how to apply this, but you may have noticed that there's much more to cover, like the remarkable mechanisms inside the cells like the JAK-STAT pathway, the blockage of the signaling proteins like HIF-1, and even some unique effects on metabolism enzymes called pyruvate kinase. And even what else happens to the microbiome after this Fusobacterium nucleatum takes hold? The point is, there's a lot more complexity that I glossed over. So if you're looking for the full version, all the details included, then check out the extended version of this video that you're currently watching. It's included with an accompanying article I do with all my full videos, all of these perks right over here, including a master supplement guide that covers multiple vetted sources of berberin, and honestly, many other perks. Where to find all this, you may ask? It's all in the first link in the description. Just join the Physionic Insiders. It's my premium research platform. And now, back to application. Here's how I'd approach this. If you have a family history of colorectal cancer, it likely is a good idea to consider supplementation with berberin. However, if you don't have a family history or personal history, the suggestion weakens somewhat. Now, it'll just depend on your want to invest into supplements. The reality is that there are many things that affect colorectal cancer risk. So I don't want you thinking that berberin is the one and only cure. It isn't. Though, I am excited about the research. If you did decide to supplement, the total dose used in the randomized controlled trials is 600 milligrams that split into two doses. And it was consumed long term. So we're talking several years. But honestly, instead of me restating some of the nuances that I've already covered in the past, then check out my more in-depth breakdown right here. Or, if you're looking for other nutrients that protect against cancer, then check out this sucker right here. Thanks a ton for hanging out with me. I hope you found this as impressive and exciting as I did. I'm genuinely curious where the state of the research will be in a few years. I'll keep my ears open. Catch you in the next one. See ya.

=== FILE: Powerful Eye Nutrient now shown to also Protect against Cancer [l_GbRS7ORoY].txt ===

 I think it must be a year or two ago, I covered a number of randomized controlled trials that indicated strongly that the nutrient zeaxanthin is able to slow the loss of vision by macular degeneration. For that reason alone, it crossed from this has potential to this has true real world impact. However, recently, a fascinating study released that implicates zeaxanthin as not only a great eye supplement, but an anti-cancerous molecule as well. Now, if you know my style, I was curious if we've been sleeping on other studies that point the same direction. And guess what? We have. So, how strong is the evidence for zeaxanthin and its cancer protection effects? Is the evidence on par with the eye health effects? And what is the one food that can help us avoid supplementation because it is a potent zeaxanthin carrier? Stay tuned. Like I mentioned, when we look at the broader literature, there's a generally consistent trend that people that either consume more or have higher blood values of zeaxanthin have reduced risk of a few different assessed cancers, specifically breast cancer and bladder cancer. However, there are also studies that indicate no effect. But I hold these studies with lower weight on the conclusions because they tend to be much smaller and less methodologically sound. When we focus on bigger, better studies in women looking at the consumption of zeaxanthin over 14 years, those women consuming the most had a notable reduction in the risk of breast cancer overall. I'm pointing out this study because the design that the researchers used was able to control for family history, age, energy intake, menopause, hormone use, and more factors that directly affect breast cancer risk. All that said, however, other studies, even those that agree, tend to have much weaker methodology and insufficient controls for influencing factors like the ones that I mentioned. Either way, there is a consistent trend in the higher quality evidence that if consumed zeaxanthin is greater, there is a reduced risk of cancer. Still, everything combined, the wider scope of the data all points in the direction of zeaxanthin benefit against cancer, with the most robust evidence being against breast cancer, weak evidence against bladder cancer, and more data needed on all other forms of cancer. Still, just because there's no data doesn't mean that there's no effect. So, what does this recent study tell us? Essentially, zeaxanthin was identified as a molecule of interest because it is increased in the killing of cancer cells. After this identification, the zeaxanthin was fed to different groups of mice with two different forms of cancer, seen here. You can see the schematic of the experimental design. Mice were given cancer, at which point they probably wished that they'd made better friends because their gift-giving was less than desirable. But putting that aside, the mice were then fed zeaxanthin, up top or not. The control condition on the bottom. Then, on the right side, these two graphs are measures of tumor size over time. The lower the lines are, the better, because it's a smaller tumor, less cancer progression by this measure. Now, I don't need to spell it out for you. The zeaxanthin condition, regardless of the cancer type, reduced cancer growth. But this introduces a new aspect to the story, because the researchers identified that the mechanism by which zeaxanthin pulls off these effects is through the activation of T-cells, the specialized type of immune cells that attack cancer cells. These T-cells, once more active, are more likely to multiply, to send out specialized inflammatory molecules, to recruit more immune cells, as well as release directly damaging molecules called perforin and granzymes that damage the cancer cell. But just because zeaxanthin seems to be effective doesn't mean that it can't use some help. In fact, when we look at tumor growth again, the higher the lines, the worse, and we see zeaxanthin causes the predictable reduction in tumor size, but it is much more effective when it's paired with immunotherapy, where the tumor is really blasting down. This then means, in preliminary research, that zeaxanthin allows specialized immune cells, T-cells, to be more active and aggressive against cancer cells, and this effect is especially potent when paired with immunotherapies. Now, this is all pretty compelling evidence, but we need to come back out of our cells and look at the big picture again, because there's a critical piece of context that needs to be applied here. And on top of that, there's a particular food that could offer us all these benefits that we've been going over at a very small amount of consumption. Now, I'll get into all that next, but let's assume that you wanted more information on zeaxanthin and breast cancer, or wanted to understand exactly how zeaxanthin activates our immune cells, or what are independent, reputable brands to get zeaxanthin from at a proper dose. Then, consider checking out the full analysis, the extension of this video that you're watching. It's included with my Physionic Insider membership, along with an article to accompany every single video that's released over the last few years, plus a monthly private podcast, a master supplement list on what works and what doesn't, and man, just so much more. If you're interested, check out the Physionic Insiders using the link in the description. First, let's discuss this critical context. There's two things. One, you'll often hear about zeaxanthin paired with its sibling molecule, lutein, especially in the eye health literature. And admittedly, many of the studies look at these molecules in combination. However, the main study that we went over focused on zeaxanthin, though they did look at lutein as well. I'll discuss more on that in my extended analysis, but here's what you should know. We're focusing on zeaxanthin because this study focused on it. And although most of the evidence in humans looks at both molecules together, making it difficult to really separate the effects according to zeaxanthin or lutein driving the effect, there are some studies that indicate a cancer-protective effect of zeaxanthin in isolation. That does not mean that lutein is not effective. And I plan on actually covering that in more depth in future content as lutein tells a slightly different story and would detract from this one. So, to be clear, our focus is on zeaxanthin, but lutein may also be effective. And we'll assess that at a separate time. So stay tuned for that. The second point is that unlike the eye health data, which was heavily focused on direct intervention studies, i.e. randomized control trials, we're combining animal-focused mechanistic data with long-term human data, so associative data. So when I asked at the beginning if the evidence is on par with the eye health effects, the answer up to now is no. That doesn't mean that the evidence is weak, especially if we expand our view to carotenoids in general, the class of molecules that zeaxanthin belongs to. These data still indicate with moderate certainty that zeaxanthin is a cancer-fighting molecule. In the end, considering the growing evidence across multiple fronts, it seems a no-brainer to focus some attention to consuming zeaxanthin. That brings us to my promise of avoiding supplementation by focusing on a particular food that contains incredibly impressive levels of zeaxanthin within it. It's the wolfberry. The side effect is that you feel drawn to the city of London, where you turn into a werewolf and terrorize the Londoners. I won't confirm or deny that, but another name for the wolfberry is the goji berry. And it is filled with an intense amount of zeaxanthin. In fact, based on rough estimates from all these studies, as little as 10 grams of dried goji berry would be sufficient to put you in the higher consuming groups of these studies with reduced risk of cancer. This is especially nice because goji berries can have side effects like interactions with particular drugs. So, as is always the case, you should consult with your physician if you're on blood pressure or blood thinning or other like drugs. That's a low-calorie, less than one serving size, potent way of getting zeaxanthin. Win-win. Anyway, if you want more concrete benefits of zeaxanthin, check this sucker out. And if you decide to eat wolfberries, maybe have a friend lock you up on the full moon. And if you wake up dazed and confused in a zoo, maybe cut back a bit. Just a friendly bit of advice.

=== FILE: Same Common Supplement, Different Cancer Risks [39ZouqhZbT4].txt ===

 TENS, tens of millions of people use it, every day, as a pill form of a health insurance policy. You might use it too. It's the all-encompassing multivitamin. And, I was curious to find out if multivitamins are really all that beneficial, especially against one of the leading causes of death, cancer. So, as usual, I pooled eight studies on the topic, and what I discovered was affirming in many ways and slightly worrisome in others. If you look at the studies that look at multivitamin use and cancer occurrence, meaning that are you more or less likely to get cancer, there's generally good news on that front, with one rather large oddity between men and women that I'll touch on in a bit. The interesting part, though, is when getting into the disagreeing studies like these that indicate no effect of multivitamin use, like we see here, the higher the lines go, the more invasive cancer has occurred, since the lines don't deviate from one another in an obvious way. There is no clear effect of multivitamin use. But, I said some key words there. Invasive cancer, which is actually different from total cancer. That matters because the definition is narrower and assumes a more progressive cancer. Now, I don't mean housing reform. I mean it is not precancerous or stage 1 cancer. That matters because now we're measuring something a bit more difficult to detect. This means, in short, that studies looking at total cancer risk tend to indicate a benefit, but the effect on more established cancers may not show. In fact, a similar story is true when looking at cancer-related mortality. There's generally no relationship detected. Generally, the reason for these differences in results comes down to different study designs. I've cited a few randomized controlled trials, but also some associative studies. And keep in mind that multivitamin formulations are all over the place. So, the differences between studies can be heavily impacted by the type of multivitamin used. Or, as I mentioned, the outcome being assessed. So, cancer occurrence simply happens more than cancer deaths. More people will get cancer than people will die from cancer. Which means that the amount of data that can be collected to detect differences, especially subtle differences, is far greater for cancer occurrence. The point being, there's a lot of reasons why studies would disagree. And that leads us to a huge difference between men and women. You know all of what I just told you about multivitamins being effective against getting cancer, but maybe not for preventing cancer death? Shuck it! We've been discussing the data in totality, men and women, together. But, if you look at the data split by sex, a completely different story emerges. For example, if we reopen this study and I show you the entirety of the data for cancer incidents, remember that's the first one that we covered, where multiple studies indicated multivitamins were effective, and we look at it with a closer eye, we have total incidents up top, men only in the middle, and women only at the bottom. The higher the lines, more cancer. The intervention is multivitamin. Neither the total nor the women show any effect of multivitamin use, but we see a noticeable effect for men. In fact, in that same study, the same was true for mortality, too. That means that men benefit from multivitamin consumption possibly even more than what we previously went over, but women experience a more muted benefit, if a benefit at all. But the story doesn't end there, because there's another concerning difference between the two sexes. Before I dive into it, there's cancer-specific data, like lung, prostate, breast, and others, as well as another factor that could impact multivitamin usefulness. I'm covering that in my full analysis of the one that you're currently watching. It's included as a small part of my Physionic Insider membership, my premium research platform. You also get a full article and a one-paragraph summary of the main takeaways. If you prefer everything delivered to your email, there's an exclusive email list for the Insiders, plus all these perks right over here. And if you'd like to have full access to all my work, consider joining the Insiders. The link to join is in the description box. The reality is that there are even signals of a specific type of cancer that is actually worsened in risk from multivitamin consumption. That cancer is non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a type of immune cell cancer specific to white blood cells. And if we look at that data transformed by yours truly, we see the relationship based on the length of time of consuming multivitamins. The more right the lines and dots go, the greater the risk of a particular type of lymphoma. And you can see that at the very bottom condition. The longest exposure to multivitamins indicates greatest risk. While associative, the researchers did measure and account for many influencing factors. Though the association that we just saw was again only in women with no such link in men. Yet the researchers failed to control for menopausal status, though they did control for age. It's possible that menopausal status could influence the relationship here, considering the drastic change in hormonal profile. Plus, the researchers themselves admit that the single positive result with cancer could be due to chance, meaning that if you do enough measurements, one of them is bound to show a statistically identified difference, though there is no real effect. Adding to that, a later analysis by the same research group looked at the same lymphoma, but quantified death instead of incidence, like what we went over earlier. And counterintuitively, they detected no relationship between women and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma-related death. I'm going to get into a little research methodology to explain the differences between these studies. So if you want to skip, just skip to this timestamp. There's three primary reasons. So one, the second study on mortality used a weaker cohort or group of people. I don't mean physically weak. I mean, the data collection wasn't as robust because they only measured multivitamin use at the beginning of the study, and the study lasted for 14 years. One of the strengths of that data set over the incidence study is that it showed a relationship with lymphoma is that the group tested were more heterogeneous or different because the incidence study, while they did measure multivitamin use multiple times throughout, it was restricted to nurses. So the relationship may be specific to nurses who consume multivitamins on a regular basis and not necessarily other women who consume multivitamins regularly. The second reason is simply duration of the study. So one study lasted for 14 years and another lasted for 16 years. Honestly, I doubt that that makes a huge difference, but it could play a factor. And third, we're returning to the mortality versus incidence. One is going to simply collect more data to detect a difference than the other. I'm talking about incidence. I could go on, honestly, but if you made the mistake of not jumping ahead, you're probably already regretting not fast-tracking to the answer. So let's get to it. There isn't any corroborative data to substantiate or refute the study indicating a link between multivitamin use and lymphoma. So we're in a bit of a bind here. Still, I'll take my best stab at a reasonable conclusion here. If you're a man, multivitamin consumption, acknowledging the flaws in the data, like not knowing the multivitamin use, is generally a neutral or positive health investment on the cancer front. Multivitamins offer a small protective effect. It's not massive, but it is there. If you're a woman, multivitamin consumption, acknowledging even more uncertainty in the data, does indicate some positives on the cancer front. But most of it is quite neutral. If you have a family history of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, then maybe consider reducing the amount that you consume or avoid them and simply stick to a well-balanced diet. Otherwise, I don't see much reason to avoid multivitamins, especially since we're limiting it to cancer here. And there may be other benefits of multivitamins beyond the scope of cancer. But let's say that you're not convinced and you'd want even more evidence on the potential benefits of simple multivitamins. I cover some compelling reasons right here. I know this was a bit convoluted and sometimes the data just pans out that way, but I hope that this was informative and I'll see you in the next one. Bye.

=== FILE: YEARS more Healthy Life in Three Numbers： 5 Minutes. 2 Minutes. ½ Serving. [ELvUHVuKEoQ].txt ===

 perakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeake three fundamental aspects of health. If you want, consider them like three infinity stones that belong to the infinity glove of power. In the Marvel Universe, there are six, and in the health science universe, there are three, at least for the time being. The six are power, time, reality, soul, mind, and space. If you don't follow Marvel, don't worry about it. Let's just say that each stone is incredibly powerful in its own way, and once it's added to the infinity glove, the powers combine into a superpower. Now, in the health science universe, unlike the Marvel Universe, the stones read physical activity, nutrition, and sleep. Controlling these three stones will extend your life forever. Okay, maybe not forever, but it'll make a big difference, as I'll show you in a minute. But even more impressive, what happens when we just nudge them a little bit, five minutes more of one, two minutes more of another, and half a serving of the final one. We'll get to that. This study involved around 60,000 participants that were tracked over eight years to identify the risk of death at varying levels of, shall we say, commitment to the three pillars that we just discussed. This was quantified as a SPAN score, which stands for, are you ready for this? Sleep, physical activity, and nutrition score. SPAN, brilliant! So, in combination, there's a relatively linear relationship between SPAN score and lifespan improvements. The left side shows added years of life, and the horizontal axis indicates the increase in SPAN score. That's a good thing. Clearly, higher SPAN score relates to increased lifespan, up to about 11 or 12 years added. The same was true when looking at health SPAN as well. That was defined as being disease-free. Now, again, higher SPAN score related to greater odds of being disease-free for longer. The main point here is that if you work on these three pillars of health, physical activity, nutrition, and sleep, you are predicted to improve your lifespan and healthspan by years, even as much as a decade or longer. Now, I'm surprised by you. I really thought that if I sat here and told you the most obvious thing in the world, that you'd be blown away. I really underestimated you. Okay, okay, joking aside, what are these numbers? Five minutes, two minutes, and half a serving. There is an assumption of doing poorly in all three categories puts you in the bottom fifth percentile of each. Only sleeping five and a half hours, only getting seven minutes of physical activity per day, and a low diet quality score of 37. Now, if you increase your sleep by five minutes, add two more minutes of physical activity, and increase your diet quality score by five points, which amounts for half a serving more of vegetables, or one and a half servings of grains, the estimated longevity effect is a one-year gain. Now, several things to say here, some of which I feel I need to stipulate every time before my head is forfeit to the end of a spear like the Uruk-hai after the Rohirrim rode them down on the outskirts of Fangorn Forest. People will oftentimes feel pretty zesty about that last one, nutrition. I'd like to point out that if you're on a more specialized nutrition, like a vegan diet or a ketogenic diet and so on, these results will not apply to you one-to-one because none of the data was based on individuals following those diet patterns. Those small changes that we just went over are for the extremes in the lack of healthy nutrition, those consuming almost all the unhealthy ultra-processed foods with little whole foods. So, taking that comparison, the worst nutrition, the bottom five percent, and making subtle changes like the inclusion of a little more vegetables or grains, plus the numbers that we went over for sleep and physical activity, yields this one-year added life relationship. Then, from that initial improvement, small improvements yield more and more life extension. Again, relative to that bottom five percent in all those categories. Of course, if you already do some of these things, you can already factor in several years of added life extension simply because you are already not in the bottom five percent. Now, let's discuss what it takes to have a 10 or more year life extension. To raise your SPAN score to a point of 10 years or more added life, plus some improvements in health span, additional sleep from five and a half hours was marked at an additional three hours of sleep. So, a total of about eight hours, eight and a half hours, plus an additional 25 minutes of physical activity and a 35-point improvement in dietary quality score. For that level of dietary improvement, according to the study, it would amount to three or more servings of fruit, three or more servings of vegetables, three or more servings of whole grains, and cutting sugary drinks to a minimum. That would create an ideal consumption across those categories. There are other ways of getting to that level of improvement, however. That's just one example. Obviously, I can't detail every possible scenario and it probably doesn't matter because of what we'll discuss next. But the bottom line is that even a few minutes improvement in physical activity and sleep and small dietary changes can have outsized impact on longevity and reaching greater levels of each has tremendous impact on longevity. Now, as I alluded, your diet may not matter as much. And that's because one of the other two has significantly more impact on your longevity than the other two. Can you guess which? Is it sleep or is it physical activity? As you think about it, let me briefly mention that there's also estimates on life extension. If you are able to improve one or two of these pillars of health and keep the last one in a bad spot. And what is the minimum effort to achieve the best mortality risk reduction across all three health pillars and more? I'm covering that in the extended version of this video that you're watching, which also comes with a full article, a one paragraph summary of the most important factors. And oh yeah, you get access to all these perks right over here, like live sessions with me, a private podcast going over the month's investigations, a private email list, and more. It's the full access to all my work, the Physionic Insiders. Link to check it out is in the description. Okay, got your guess? If you guessed physical activity you are correct. We can see that here. Life expectancy is on the vertical axis again, and each condition is on the horizontal. Sleep, physical activity, and diet quality. The higher the lines go, the better. You'll notice that sleep and physical activity have huge effects, but diet quality does not. I'll explain why that is in a minute. But I'd also quick point out that the values here are slightly different than what we went over before. For example, the ideal sleep was around 7.5 hours, not 8.5 hours. The reason for that is because of how the data was analyzed. Initially, we were looking at them in combination, yet here we're looking at them in isolation. But why would nutrition have such a feeble relationship with longevity? Well, generally, it doesn't. But the researchers were looking at nutrition independent of calorie consumption and weight. These two factors play a massive role on our health. But the researchers were asking a different question than usual. They were asking about the impact of nutrition components, so independent of weight loss and weight gain, and their impact. In addition, the 60,000 participants that volunteered were part of a well-known data set called the UK Biobank, which even the researchers acknowledge has a healthy volunteer bias, meaning that the data set is already healthier than usual. There were some additional explanations like regression dilution bias and others, but that's getting into some technical fairyland that we rarely wander. The big point here is that yes, physical activity is the primary driver of longevity, then sleep, and then nutrition. But nutrition's impact is likely subdued and probably has more impact than what we're seeing here. Now, I realize I've thrown a lot, a bunch of numbers around at you, and it's not an easy study to wrap your head around. I was actually trying to understand the distinction between these analyses myself for a while. And truth be told, there are weaknesses to the study, like the fact that they only measured sleep, nutrition, and physical activity once. An inherent issue of these kinds of studies, or the healthy volunteer bias, or eliminating one of the causal benefits of nutrition, weight. Still, in broad strokes, we can take away two things. One, doing small amounts, even a few minutes of improvements in sleep and physical activity can have tremendous returns, far more than what might be expected since we're talking about years of extra life for a few minutes of input. And two, broad strokes. The ideal targets are to sleep 7.5 to eight hours per night, average 50 to 75 minutes of moderate to vigorous physical activity. That means like brisk walks, cycling, or anything that gets you at least a little out of breath. And finally, keeping in mind that the limitations, high vegetable, whole grain, and fruit intake, that is predicted to yield a decade of extra life, and better quality life too, than if you were to do none of those things. Some of that might seem obvious, some of it may be new, but even if it isn't novel to you, consider it a further reminder that the basics, the pillars, the three stones of health, of power, should always be the focus. And because physical activity was so potent, there's another study that I covered that discussed how you can manipulate physical activity and cram it into just a minute or two and create immense mortality protective effects for yourself. I also make a bit of a fool of myself. Just click here. Thanks for tuning in. It's always appreciated to see you in the next one. See ya.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.615505Z ===
