coffee, the microbiome, and kissing. What do these three things have in common? Dr. Tim Spectre. Now, Dr. Spectre is a medical doctor, a professor in epidemiology, and a founder of a health company called Zoey. Now, in this episode of The Centrifuge, where we spin out the fiction from the fact by providing scientific references for or against claims made on health podcasts, we'll be getting into a number of topics. the microbiome and the impact of coffee, kissing, and your microbiome. How scandalous microbiome diversity and your health. Now, as usual, summaries at the end, skippable timestamps for your convenience, and let's spin it. &gt;&gt; How can you explain that to someone that doesn't know much about the gut? &gt;&gt; When I'm talking about your gut, I'm talking about gut microbes. And there are 40 to 100 trillion of these guys in your mainly in your large intestine that are many pharmacies. And there we have thousands of different species, all of which highly selected to eat only certain foods. There's one that only likes coffee, for example, called Lorenabacta. &gt;&gt; A bug that only likes coffee in my belly. It's &gt;&gt; just waiting for you to drink coffee. &gt;&gt; And when I drink coffee, what happens? it uh has a party, has sex, has babies, multiplies, and then produces certain chemicals in response by breaking down that coffee into other ingredients which might then help your immune system and um in some way explain why coffee is good for your heart. &gt;&gt; So the first claim is that our intestinal microbiome contains a microbe called loeninoactctor that feeds on coffee and is beneficial for our heart health. Now Dr. Spectre not only has a leg to stand on, but likely multiple. If he were a squid, he'd have many. And that's primarily because he published a huge study on this very topic along with many other researchers. Now, in said study, they assessed the relationship between coffee consumption and this very lossactor bacterium. We can see that here. We have many different groups of people assessed, five different samples of thousands of people from all over the globe, including some groups data collected by the very same Zoey company that Dr. Spectre is currently part of. Then we have three different levels of consumption of coffee. If the blobs of data move up, that means that there's more of this bacterium in that amount of coffee consumption. The FC at the top is fold change. So quite massive differences between the coffee consumption across groups of people. Those who consume some coffee have more of this bacterium. And sometimes consuming even more coffee led to more of this bacterium. But to be clear, this is a simple association. So we don't actually know if this is causal, as in coffee is causing this bacterium to grow. Fortunately, this very same study did some simple experiments where they applied coffee to this lossactor as well as some other bacterium and they only reliably raise concentrations of this bacterium and not others. This tells us definitively that coffee causes this bacterium to grow. In terms of what is moderate and high consumption, we're talking about less than three cups per day for moderate and more than three cups per day for high. So, Dr. Spectre is fully precise in his description. Coffee not only associates with grace greater loss in actor presence, but causes it to grow. Now, that's all well and good, but who cares if this bacterium isn't linked to better health? So, Dr. perspective points out that the relationship to heart health and admittedly the research is is not as clear-cut as the previous study that we just went over, but it does lean in the direction of an association for lower gut loss and ovacular presence being linked to unstable chest pain and coronary artery disease. Now these kinds of studies are not strong evidence but considering that this assessment and the fact that coffee tends to be a net benefit for the heart we can at least lean in the direction of a of that claim being correct. So the second claim loss of aobacttor presence is linked to better heart health is leaning true though not foolproof. Now kissing what does that have to do with health and the microbiome? So if I stop eating a particular food like coffee, if I stop having coffee, will that bug die? &gt;&gt; It probably goes down to very low levels because actually what's interesting is even if you stop drinking coffee, you're surrounded by coffee drinkers. And they they're droplets of saliva and kisses and uh greetings mean that you'll be getting uh some of that. either those bugs themselves or you'll be getting um some bits of coffee in the air, a coffee aroma. &gt;&gt; Okay. So, the bugs go up and down in population. &gt;&gt; Yes. So, even in non- coffee drinkers, we do see tiny amounts of this uh this Lorsonacta. So, the claim here is to make out with more people. Okay, maybe I'm misinterpreting, but we could go with that. Right. Right. Okay. The real claim is that even non- coffee drinkers have some of these coffee specific beneficial bacteria simply because they're around people who drink coffee. And this isn't restrictive to just coffee, but all kinds of foods. Now, I want to pause here and point out that A, how weird is that? And B, how cool is that? Being around others can change our microbiome simply because we exist around others. So we'll check this in two ways. One directly and two we can actually look back at this initial huge study on coffee. The direct measure or the direct assessment I should say is a study where researchers had couples give microbiome samples then one person consumed probiotic yogurt. So, it contained bacteria. And then they made out for 10 seconds. And then the non- yogurt eating partner had their microbiome checked. And sure enough, there was a micro transfer. However, this seems almost obvious. I mean, swap and spit with your significant other. Did I ruin the romance? Uh, would carry a microbiome crossover when we're assessing it at the mouth. But what about the gut? We also see similar results associatively when people live together and when they don't. People who live together tend to have more diverse microbiomes shown here as a common assessment called a Shannon index. Those who cohabitate versus those who don't after diet is accounted for still tend to have greater gut microbiome diversity. This isn't definitive proof, but there are other studies that look at other microbiomes and show similar trends. Now, in addition to that, it's also true that we see signals of maintaining a microbiome by simply being around others that consume the micro food food that we don't consume. If we return to this study and check out the results across the United States only, you'll see the different coffee consuming groups on the bottom and the prevalence of the same bacterium that we've been focused on. Now the more red the more of this bacterium is present based on the amount of coffee consumed. But that's old news. We already know that coffee directly affects this lossbacttor bacterium. But check out the far left condition. That's people who never consume coffee. And yes, the graph is very much not red. But the scale in red indicates close to 100% prevalence. And the bottom of the scale isn't 0%, it's 85% which is still incredibly high. So even though these people don't consume coffee, the vast majority still have this bacterium to some degree. Now, is that necessarily because of this shared microbiome between people? Not necessarily. We've been focused on coffee, but that doesn't mean that other things can't also stimulate this bacterium. So, could tea stimulate it? Definitely. Could something else? Definitely. So, this isn't foolproof evidence, but in combination, it nudges that possibility. The point here is that yes, even independent of diet, we experience changes to our microbiome, if that's through intimate contact or otherwise. Yet, the real question that's on your mind is most definitely, do you make out or not? Obviously, the answer is yes. But you don't need a microbiome related reason for that justification, do you? &gt;&gt; I think it's important to imagine your It's a bit like having a rare animal. You know, you've got to feed in your zoo. You don't want to give them all the same food. You've got to give them this diversity so that all the rare animals can get out there. And we know that the more good bugs you've got, the better your immune system, the more you dampen inflammation, the more you can prevent all these problems that we're we're seeing. So our our aim is to build up the good bugs. And the more you build them up, they squash out the bad bugs, the ones that like eating the burgers and the the the bad food and the and the terrible quality fats and the artificial substances. So you're squashing them out by starving them and you do that by feeding them properly. So that's the that's the concept if that makes sense. &gt;&gt; The claim here is that we need to give our gut microbiome the specific foods that allow the good microbes an advantage to survive and the bad microbes get starved out. And that scenario allows the microbiome to reduce our risk of disease and inflammation. Now I'd like to get into that and we will. But if you're looking for more on different types of coffee and their impact on our microbiome or a specific molecule in certain coffees that stimulates the microbiome or how our siblings impact our microbiome and more, then check out the full analysis of the one that you're currently watching. It's included in my Physionic Insider membership and it even comes with a full article, a one paragraph summary of the most important points. And if you're keen, all of these perks like live sessions, which I'm actually having one soon. So, if you're free on the weekend, consider joining. Anyway, link to join the insiders is in the is is in the description box. I hope to see you there. Unfortunately, there's no specificity here on what's a good and bad micro. So, I'll have to use a liberal take and look at the microbiome diversity where studies do indicate that reduced microbiome diversity which comes partly from consuming less varied foods is linked to worse metabolic health from more body fat to greater insulin resistance than people with greater microbiome diversity. Now, to be fair here, it should be pointed out that we can't necessarily attribute the cause of this difference to the microbiome, just that it's correlated. For that, pretty complex intervention studies have to be used, looking at rich microbiota and transplanting them in people with obesity and insulin resistance and then measuring if just the changing of the gut microbiome can offer benefit. It does. This is a bit of a difficult claim to completely substantiate, but the data certainly leans in the direction of it being true. Typically, more diverse microbiomes are related to better health status. So, all in all, Dr. Spectre is pretty spot-on with all of his points. I suppose this shouldn't really be much of a surprise considering his strong research background. As for the final points, first coffee does cause loss of bacterium to grow and this is generally seen as a good thing as it's tentatively linked to better heart health. Our microbiome can shift independent of our diet and is influenced by our romantic partners becoming more similar. And generally, more diverse microbiome tracks with better overall health. And finally, if you're looking for more centerfuge episodes, check this one out right here. Also, give your romantic partner a smooch and blame it on wanting a more similar microbiome. How romantic. Thanks for watching. Catch you in the next one. See you.