No, I haven't lost my mind. I'm going to be showing you some alarming data on exercise and more plaque being in the arteries. Not just in one study, but multiple. That said, though, before someone comments next, they'll say that water is dehydrating or something else snarky, watch the whole video. There's a lot to get into and it'll make sense in the end without upending foundational truths about health. If we look at one of these studies and we pop open the data, we're looking at the prevalence of having one or more plaques in the arteries between those who've been exercising their entire lives defined as before 30 years of age and then those picking up exercise later in life, so after 30, and the control group. By comparison, shockingly, those who exercised for the longest period of time had more arterial plaque. But that's not the end of it because it's not just uh about the presence of plaque. It's also about the type of plaque found in your blood vessels. There's three distinct types. So calcified plaque, non-calcified plaque, and mixed plaque. The most dangerous as in the most likely to break and cause downstream issues is mixed and non-calcified plaque. So when we look at that, we see a huge increase in those who have been exercising their entire lives. Like I said, I was not lying to you. And I'm also not insane. This is in addition in people with no previous history of cardiovascular disease that were leaner than the control group. So we're looking at people who exercise long-term having more arterial plaque and more of the dangerous type of arterial plaque. That raises the question of uh what's leading to this accelerated plaque growth and is it all exercise or select? Well, a follow-up study recently released that tried to find out if it was the duration of exercise or the intensity of exercise that tracked with these platforming results. Now, I've transformed the data here for you for the duration of exercise with the left side being the lowest duration up to the highest. And we're again sticking with the prevalence of plaque in the arteries. The higher the lines go, the worse the results. I don't need to really spell it out for you. Probably as duration increases, more plaque is related. Is this what we also find with the intensity of exercise? I'll keep the duration data up and move the intensity data on screen here. All you need to ask yourself is, do they look like they're trending the same direction? The answer is no. This tells us that the plaque is only increased with added duration, not with intensity alone. But as bonkers as this question might be, does more plaque necessarily mean more cardiovascular events like heart attacks, strokes, and death? The obvious would be to say uh well, duh. Is this guy serious? We're always trying to avoid plaque because it is the major driver of cardiovascular disease. Now, you'd be surprised actually. There are studies that look at very physically fit people and track the relationship between plaque and cardiovascular disease. And in these studies, they do not find a relationship between increased physical activity, so more plaque, and cardiovascular mortality. To say that differently, they confirm that there's signs of more plaque in people who are very physically active, but it doesn't translate to cardiovascular mortality. The kicker here is, however, that they are focused exclusively on calcified plaque. Remember the distinction between the three, so calcified, non-calcified, and mixed plaque. Calcified is the least problematic. That means that while these kinds of studies are informative, they aren't absolving us of being worry-f free here. Still, we can at least say that although people who are very physically active have greater relationship with more calcified plaque, there's no additional increased risk of cardiovascular death. Plus, there's a major weakness in many of these studies released on exercise and plaque that these new worrying studies actually fix, making them possibly better. And remember when we looked at the data on duration of exercise and greater plaque. This one, that data was collected objectively, meaning that participants had devices on that tracked their exercise. However, many studies use self-report, which is in in the exercise literature is apparently not that accurate. And the same researchers quantified the plaque in the arteries. Exactly the same measure, but they use the self-report data instead of the wearable device data, the objective data. And let me put both of them up for you. Notice anything? Yeah, they don't look the same, which is exactly the problem. The more exact measurement technique indicates relationship with more plaque, but the self-report data does not give the same story. This is a perfect illustration of using the most exact techniques where feasible can make a world of difference because we'd miss this relationship with arterial plaque. So, after having said all of that, is that it? Are we now flipping the script on exercise? Is exercise a negative for heart health? or are there maybe I don't know maybe some nuances here to be had. Before I package this all together with some important factors that will change your perspective here, let me point out that I'm also covering more on calcified plaque as well as going over a particular formula that helps calculate if you'd be considered higher risk of developing plaques based on your exercise and much more data on physical activity and different forms of uh heart disease. That's all covered in my extended analysis of this video that you're watching. It's available as a physionic insider along with all of these perks right here. If you're interested, then check out the insiders using the link in the description. Now, there are four factors that I'd like to bring to your attention that will shift our perspective here. So, one is a minor factor, I think, is that none of these studies account for factors like nutrition. I don't think this is as big a deal here. simply because the defining feature of this platforming relationship is constrained to exercise. So would we expect major differences in factors like nutrition between those who focus on long duration exercise versus those that focus on intensity to explain the difference between the two. Plus mediating factors meaning factors that actually cause the plaque were accounted for like cholesterol, blood pressure, age, blood sugar and more. Still, this type of associative study could still be affected by some unexplained factor. As one quick additional mention, the whole study was in men. So, could this be unique to men? I doubt it, but possibly. Number two, remember when I showed you this? Remember how I briefly described this group as the control group? Well, these people weren't your normal control group used in many other studies. They were also active, lightly active, but active. This revelation alone is going to change our interpretation significantly, which I'll get to. Number three, while current studies indicate that exercise reduces the risk of cardiovascular disease events and death, none of these studies measure these outcomes in people who have been exercising their entire lives. And while we saw one study indicating no risk for people with higher calcium, no studies have looked at the same highly active people and the relationship with soft plaque. This also doesn't account for the fact that there are many of these studies may be using self-report for measures of exercise which as we saw may be inaccurate. That brings me to my fourth point that ties into the others. Another measure was to look at stenosis, which is the amount of narrowing or blocking of the artery lumen, the uh open section of the artery that allows blood to pass through it. Now, check this out. We're measuring the prevalence again. But looking at the arteries with over 50% blockage, does that seem comforting to you? I wouldn't feel all that comfortable, and that's for sure. So, a lot scary, but let me break this down into actionable takeaways because the message here isn't that exercise is bad for you or bad for your cardiovascular health. As odd as that might sound having gone over all the data that we just did, there's a lot more here that we need to investigate. But as it stands, and even the researchers point this out, exercise is good for you and is encouraged for heart health. However, the amount of exercise is being called into question. Is more always better? The issue is that we're focusing on plaque, which certainly doesn't sound good, but we don't have any good data on actual outcomes, which would be honestly more telling. It's possible that plaque is increased, but some other factors are improved to a point that there's a net benefit on the outcomes. Honestly, I'd be puzzled by that, but it's possible at this point considering that there's a lack of outcome data. Still, even with that uncertainty, we can focus in on that control group, the group that was lightly active. That means that there's decent evidence that light duration endurance exercise up to three hours per week is low risk and likely a benefit over a lifetime. There is less certainty scaling up from there, though. The high volume exercise was linked to increased amounts of all forms of arterial plaque averaged around triple that amount of work. So around 10 hours of endurance exercise per week. If that higher volume translates to actual higher risk of cardiovascular events and death is currently unknown. So if you go for a jog a few days a week, this does not apply to you. If you run marathons and triathlons, this probably does apply to you. And scales in between there. If you have been endurance exercising heavily your entire life, this definitely applies to you, too. But again, we don't know the end result, just that there's an associated unsettling increase in arterial plaque. And since someone will ask, none of this applies to resistance training. In short, simple terms, exercise, just not too much exercise. And even if you choose to do much more than the average, we're not even sure yet if it translates into negative outcomes. So, it's on you to consider the risk and reward. In fact, speaking to exercise and plaque, there's even studies indicating that exercise can reverse plaque. Don't worry, it does not contradict with what we went over here. Check it out right here. I hope this didn't scare you off from endurance training. It shouldn't. Thanks for tuning in. Catch you in the next one.