There's something particularly sinister that increases mortality risk more and more drastically with each passing year after the age of 60. But there's something that can be done to massively avoid this problem. I'll go ahead and tell you the fix is exercise, but it's a particular type of exercise that I don't think I've discussed here before, nor is it something that's often brought up, at least not in the usual health spheres. Fortunately, I had the absolute honor and pleasure of discussing with primary care physician Dr. Brad Stanfield and MD PhD in biology, Dr. Jill Carvalo, who initially brought it up in the extended discussion that we had months back. It actually takes me forever to turn around these videos. So, I'd like to show you a few clips of these doctors discussing the topic and then I'll come in with the graphics, the studies, data, and the usual physionic style. So let's start by discussing what is this major risk that grows with each year. And to pick up on your point about hip fractures. So when I was um an orthopedic resident uh in 2019, I was actually assisting in um you know in in fixing people's broken hips. And one of the startling statistics at the time, I'm not too sure if it's changed, but I don't think it has, was that if a person has a hip fracture, they're 50% that they've got A-50% mortality rate over the next one year. So basically um half of the people that we were operating on they would be dead within a year. And that's a really startling statistic and and that's why I'm particularly interested in what um what we can do now and also um you know to to anything that we can do to prevent falls um you know is is so critical for our long-term health. Dr. Stanfield brings up a powerful statistic. 50% of older individuals with hip fractures die within a year. That's a tremendous concern. Okay. So, what can we do? I was just going to add uh some concrete evidence on the on the falls because I actually found I found a number of studies researching for this that kind of blew my mind because we all know exercise is important, but the level of evidence that I found and kind of how striking it is, I didn't even know existed. So for falls, there are actual metaanalysis of randomized trials showing that exercise reduces the number of falls in people over 60 years old. So resistance training and things like balance balance training. This I think can be more motivating because one thing is just saying exercise is good for you which can sound too abstract but to know that if you're 60 or 70 and if you have some gate issues or some balance issues or some strength issues and to know that by exercising you're actually going to be reducing your chance of falling and and breaking bones which as you mentioned can be a gamecher in both directions. uh that's more much more actionable advantage there. So, it's no surprise that exercise is the number one way of avoiding falls that lead to these fractures. But there's much more to it than that as we'll get into because not all exercise is equally preventative. And even within a type of exercise, only certain ones attack the root problem as we'll get into. Before we get to that, Dr. Carvalo brings up two excellent points. One, it's a bit nebulous to say exercise is good for you. Like, duh. I think almost everyone knows that now. But exactly how does it impact us? That's where we get more tangible connections between our exercise and what it's protecting us from. This example of avoiding falls and bone fractures is probably the best one, at least in an immediate sense. Two, Jill brings up how there have been numerous studies on exercise and the prevention of falls. In fact, in one meta analysis, researchers pulled together 99 studies on the topic and across the eligible studies, we see that point confirmed. We have a long list of studies on the left side and the two comparisons on the bottom, exercise and control. The control condition there is the minimal exercise to no exercise. If that teeny tiny diamond at the bottom moves to the left, it means that there's fall risk is reduced with exercise compared to doing nothing, which is exactly what we see in this analysis. There's about a 20% reduced risk of falls. The risk reduction is greater for those who exercise more intensely. This also holds true when focusing on balance exercises. These results were further confirmed in a later more robust analysis by the Cochran Library here and they calculated an almost identical risk reduction. Okay. But in a similar vein as saying exercise helps prevent falls is extremely general. So where do we go from here? Well, this is where specificity of the exercise but also some additional nuances related to concept called motor unit training makes a huge difference. Let's listen to Dr. Stanfield bring it up. One of the things I've become really interested in and I I wonder Nick if you wanted to um build upon this as well is this concept of motor unit training. So I I've kind of only recently discovered um this this line of thinking where you know as we get older that basically the the connections from our brain to our muscles it starts to to break down. Um, and one of the uh one of the ways that we can um prevent that decline from happening is by doing so it's called one rep max training or trying to do fast movements. So so powerful movements and quick movements and and and that's there to try and stimulate all of our neurons to activate the the muscles that we um yeah that that that we need. And I think that's quite a powerful concept because there's a difference between um someone who's older can still be quite strong, but they can also be at high risk of falls. And that's because if if yes, you might be strong, you might be able to pull something at at a slow movement, but um if you suddenly trip, then you need to be able to quickly activate your muscles so that you can catch yourself and and not fall. Um and and so that's an area that that I've only sort of started to scratch the surface on in terms of this yeah concept of motor unit training. And I just wanted to yeah see particularly Nick if if you've sort of come across this concept and yeah what your initial thoughts are. Brad brings up a great point about the difference between strength and power which is uh where one of these key distinctions lies in relation to fall risk. So yes, it's possible for a person to be quite strong yet still experience fall injury risk because as Dr. Stanfield correctly brought up they can't access that strength in the split seconds after making a misstep like tripping. We can see that evidenced here directly in this study where researchers measured the power output of muscle across the lifespan of mice to determine the impact aging had on power. Real quick, power is this measure of not only moving a resistance indicating strength, but also how quickly that resistance is moved. That's power. Here we can see the diamonds corresponding to the individual measurements with the line indicating the line of best fit for all that data. The vertical axis is the power output at a set intensity or weight lifted. The age on the bottom is age. Uh these are mice remember. So we aren't testing 10year-old children uh and seeing uh massive power declines compared to 30 year olds. uh we're talking about 10-month-old mice versus 20 and 30month-old mice. So there's a dissociation between age and declines in power as the line goes down over time. This is also confirmed in human studies FYI. Okay. Now why does this happen and whatever shall we do? The reason this happens is as with many things due to multiple reasons but let's discuss a major one. Your muscle cells that make up your muscle tissue are innervated, meaning that there's a neuron, a nerve cell that extends from your spinal cord and hovers right above the muscle cell. When prompted, the neuron will release molecules that activate the muscle to contract. This interaction of the neuron and the muscle cell, a meioy, is called the motor unit. Unfortunately, as we age, that that interaction between the neuron and the muscle cell begins to fade as more physical distance between the muscle cell and the neuron occurs due to problematic molecules like inflammatory cytoines that impair the relationship between the two. So with age, more lowgrade inflammation also emanating from the muscle cell discourages the neuron from continuing its relationship with the muscle cell like a bitter breakup. This is called dennervation. This uh unstable connection between the neuron and the muscle cell slows or entirely stops our ability to tell the muscle cell to contract which if scaled thousands of times over impacts our dayto-day performance reducing our muscular power. Again there's much more to say on this topic but we should move on to the solutions. But if you want uh more on this topic right now, immediately you want more like knowing the impact the combinations of training might have on the problem and some more in-depth analysis on some of the physiological processes. Check out the extended version of this video that you're watching. It's part of the Physionic Insiders, my premium research platform stacked with videos, articles, shortened summaries, guides, protocols, and templates, uh private podcasts, live sessions with yours truly. and much more. It's the steel of the century. Well, maybe the decade this year. Okay, just this moment, but it's still a steal. Check it out in the description of this video. Now, on to the solutions. So, one logical solution is to get a bit more specific about one's exercise. Since we're discussing muscle, it might make sense to resistance train. And this is an excellent way to go. But that isn't enough because we have to break resistance training into categories. Some people want big muscles, some people want great strength, and others want to focus on power. And believe it or not, while there is overlap, they're not trained identically. For power, what we're interested in, the training emphasizes speed and explosion in movement while deemphasizing the resistance itself. That means reducing the weight that you're lifting in the gym and focusing on moving a lighter weight faster. So if you can lift, let's say 100 kg, great. But that's a measure of strength. And while important, it's not the objective. So you would reduce that weight to something much lighter, say, I don't know, 60 kg, and lift it as quickly as possible. As I'm often reminded by my wiser elders, explosive and aging don't mix kindly and often yield injury. There are ways of reducing injury risk by using things like bands instead of static weights or using machines that control the range of motion. Or if you're still bent on using free weights, starting at even further reduced intensity and building up. If you'd like uh more personalized help, I have a step-by-step template that uh combines power and strength training included in the Physionic Insiders as well. Still, the point being an emphasis on speed within physical limitations rather than the amount of resistance lifted or if you want less precise but possibly more enjoyable alternative, Dr. Stanfield mentions a great option. just to pick up on one thing that you've mentioned. Um so you use the example of tennis and I actually think that tennis is a really is a really powerful um exercise for for a number of different reasons. So it it's typically social, right? Um so and so you're doing it with someone else and it's and it's fun so you're more likely to um to do it over the long term but also it it's fast movements as well. Yeah, tennis is an excellent way to build in these bursts of power in both the legs and the upper body. And importantly, as Brad mentions, if you enjoy it, it's a way for a person to stick to something long-term. So, what did we learn here today? We learned, thanks to Dr. Carvalo and Dr. Stanfield, that the risk of fall injury is heightened past the age of 60, and that hospitalization from falls due to fracture leads to massive one-year mortality risk. We also learned that the way to prevent that fall risk is to target a particular brand of neuromuscular performance called power, where speed of movement matters more than the resistance being moved. We can target that power by reducing the weight lifted and focusing on moving the weight quickly in the gym. However, plenty of general physical activity that includes that power variable, like tennis, could be a decent alternative as well. But on top of a loss of power over time, another factor that needs to be paid attention to after 60 is one that I detail in this video right here, as well as what to do about it. I'll see you over