As I fast approach the ripe old age of 40, I've been doing something almost obsessively for about a decade now that helps retain what whispers of youth still cling to my decrepit bones. Am I being dramatic? Yeah, leave me alone. While I'm not afraid of aging, I would like to maintain a youthful state for as long as possible, as many others do, too. Maybe that applies to you in some way or another. Well, one of the most impactful things that I do other than sustained focus on exercise, nutrition, and sleep is wearing sun protection, as in sunscreen. Like I said, I'm pretty obsessive about it. I wear it indoors. In fact, I'm wearing it right now, which only exacerbates the comments on my pasty white complexion. I also wear it in cold seasons. I reapply consistently and more. The point being, it's a long-term habit, and I ain't trying to kick it. So, why the focus on sun protection? And is there any risk to such focus on sunscreen considering that there's rumors that it leeches through the skin? Well, let me present two arguments for why the focus on sunscreen. One, the direct anti-aging benefits. An isolated example is what I actually have for the thumbnail of this video here. This woman put on sunscreen for 40 years on her face, but not on her neck, and she's 28 years old. Well, ignore the fact that that math doesn't math. I'm just hoping that you're just as bad at it as I am. No, in earnest, she's in her 90s in this image, and it's clear the massive impact that sunscreen has. Still, we shouldn't focus on a single image. As impactful as it is, let's discuss the science. If you look at the literature on sunscreen, there's multiple intervention trials that show consistently that sunscreen has anti-aging properties. For example, this one where researchers measured before and after one year of sunscreen use in 30 individuals. You can see the different assessments on the horizontal axis and each bar corresponding to a length of time of daily sunscreen use. And if the bars go up, that's deemed clinically improved skin. Across the board, sunscreen use leads to improvements regardless of the measure used. Now, some of these studies are poorly controlled, like the data that I just showed you, as there's no blinding or control group. However, there are other studies that fill in some of those issues with rigor, like using placebo creams that look identical, but don't contain sunscreen ingredients, and they show similar results. I'd like to pause here and point out that people are aging because time is going by. But the sunscreen isn't just slowing the aging, it's stopping or reversing it. As before and after is often the same or improved from baseline. In fact, in other studies, the researchers say that daily sunscreen use shows, and I quote, no detectable increase in skin aging after 4.5 years. We're talking about a stoppage of skin aging. Now, while I'd love to leave it there, the reality is that while almost five years is a long time to freeze aging, I would guess that given enough time, aging would still march forward even through a sunscreen slathered resistance. That's because sunscreen protects against exttrinsic aging. the UV radiation that's penetrating our skin, entering the cells, and damaging the proteins, other molecules, and genes of our skin cells causing mutations. However, sunscreen can't protect us against inherent imperfections of biology, meaning the intrinsic factors like oxidative stress that occurs from, well, simply living. But regardless, we're taking several years of protection, if that's through evidence of slowing aging, stopping it, or reversing it. The point being that sunscreen is an incredibly powerful tool in combating skin aging. However, some people don't care as much about skin benefits from an aesthetic perspective, but they may care more from reason number two, surviving to a ripe old age. While we may be focused on injections, supplements, and whatever else that we can squeeze out additional few months or years out of our body, the greatest impact on our longevity is your mere survival to a relatively advanced age for all those other factors to even matter. If you die at 34, supplements and special protocols don't do much good. So, what's one of the leading causes of premature death? Cancer. It might seem obvious, though there are some health influencers that say things like this, &gt;&gt; right? Um [music] um expose your skin to sunlight. Sun's not our enemy. The fact is most of us are not getting enough sun when it's not that we're getting too much sun. If you look at um the number of of commercial sunscreens, I think there'S-23 of them that have been pulled from the market since 2018 for directly causing cancer. &gt;&gt; Wow. [music] Um and if you actually were to overlay a chart, maybe I'll send you this chart so you can throw it on throw it on the podcast. Um, if you were to overlay a chart of the incidence of the increased use of sunscreen and the rapid rise of skin cancer, you know, you would just see this oxymoronic message that says, well, if if we're using sunscreen at 45 times or 50 times the rate that we were in 1980, shouldn't we have less skin cancer? &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Well, why is it that we have more skin cancer? Um, and we're actually getting less sun and applying more sunscreen. It's because the whole script's been flipped. You know, we think that we we need chemicals and synthetics and pharmaceuticals to thrive. We don't. We need minerals, amino acids, nutrients to thrive. &gt;&gt; I'm not going to go off debunking every aspect of this, though there's a lot wrong with it. But we can focus in on a prevalent piece. Sunscreen causes skin cancer. We can test that directly because we have randomized control trials that test what happens when people are told to put on sunscreen every day compared to only occasionally. And two types of skin cancer prevalence were tested over 4 and 1/2 years. In the end, one skin cancer was unaffected by sunscreen use and the other was significantly reduced. And when followed for longer over 15 years, about 10 to 11 years after the trial ended, we can see here there's a continued protection. The higher the lines, the more melanoma, so skin cancer. The blue line is the people using sunscreen for those almost 5 years. So the direct intervention data indicate that no, sunscreen does not cause skin cancer, but actually protects against it. This is critical because it then increases the odds of living longer, i.e. an indirect longevity effect. I'd also add on the sunscreen front, most studies use pretty low thresholds for sunscreen. So, we're t talking something like SPF 15, maybe SPF 30. So, the lower end of the protection, but still quite potent in results. But of course, there are rumors that sunscreen ingredients can also leech into your blood. Are those rumors true? Yes, they are. Now, before I go on, I'm covering the impact that beta carotene has on skin aging and skin cancer along with if age, skin complexion, type of work outdoor and indoor move the needle meaningfully in my extended analysis of this video that you're currently watching. If you're interested, you can join the Physionic Insiders, my premium research platform that I developed to access this full analysis, plus hundreds of others in video and written article format, plus quick summaries, a regular monthly podcast, live sessions with me, and more. Check it out. The link to join the Physionic Insiders is in the description box. I hope to see you there. There are multiple studies that look at sunscreen and more specifically sunscreen ingredients like avoenzone, oxyenzone and the like and show that there are detectable levels in the blood when applied to our skin. The question then is is this harmful to our health? Well, we do know that there's some temporary changes in hormones, but these changes don't last long and are actually quite minor. I wish I could tell you that we have strong evidence debunking any potential harm and we do have some longerterm studies on the relationship to hard end points like death showing sunscreen does not raise the risk of death. But as you know, there's a lot between something being healthy and something killing you. Unfortunately, we don't have a ton of data directly indicating sunscreen safety across all possible outcomes. Just to be clear, this does not mean that sunscreen is unsafe either. We need more data on sunscreen directly, but what we also know is what molecules get into our bloodstream are in tiny amounts and are generally recognized as unlikely to cause lasting problems at such small concentrations. In the end, making a riskbenefit analysis, the benefits of sunscreen outweigh the negatives, at least for me. Of course, it also depends on the type of sunscreen. So, chemical versus mineral-based, for example, as mineral-based are less likely to be absorbed. Ultimately, I've chosen to stay the root of liberal sunscreen while understanding that we don't know everything about it. That's a personal decision, but that does not mean that you have to do the same. Plus, since I hear the howls of sun lovers descending upon me like a hawk to fish, I'm also not saying that the sun is unhealthy for you or that you should avoid it. I don't, though my complexion may beg to differ. But I am saying that some protection for the skin is beneficial if that's sunscreen or simply shade or clothing or what have you. Speaking to skin aging, remember when I mentioned sunscreen doesn't address intrinsic aspects of skin aging? Well, I cover something that tackles that and improves skin health right here. Thanks for tuning in. I'm going to go apply some more sunscreen. See you in the next one.