Last year was a great year for lithium supplementation as a huge nature study released indicating that lithium has an incredible capacity to defend against multiple mechanisms of brain harm in Alzheimer's disease. Then, when looking at some of the clinical data, there were some similar benefits discovered. But, it turns out that this year lithium is taking its hits. A punch to the gut and a swift uppercut has the lithium Alzheimer's angle staggering. &gt;&gt; [laughter] &gt;&gt; That's because a Physionic Insider brought to my attention an analysis that put together all of the lithium and Alzheimer's studies, and the results hit like a George Foreman fist. So, have we been duped about lithium and its Alzheimer's benefits? Well, we'll discuss all that detail that you need to know, including why I've changed my mind about lithium. &gt;&gt; [clears throat] &gt;&gt; This meta-analysis, this is an analysis of multiple studies combined to try to find an effect of an intervention, in this case the element lithium, on an outcome, in this case Alzheimer's disease, a brain disease, released recently. In said analysis, the researchers put together all the clinical studies in lithium and put the data together for comparison shown here. Now, we see the studies listed on the left, a bunch of statistics that I won't bog you down with, and most importantly the visualized results of all the studies in the green squares and lines. If these tiny green squares and lines move to the left of the vertical line, that means that lithium reduces symptoms of Alzheimer's disease compared to not consuming lithium. However, a key point is that if the lines touch the vertical line, then the interpretation is that there's no effect of lithium. More clearly represented, the overall effect all the studies together are shown at the bottom in the black diamond. Same rules apply though. So, generally lithium does not seem to have an effect. But, but the newest study, yeah, there's one study in 2013 that indicates a benefit of lithium, even if all the rest don't. Unfortunately, when we apply what's known as a risk of bias assessment to the studies, this is a test to determine which studies have higher risk of bias due to a number of factors, this single study stands out as the only study to indicate high risk of bias. So, do we really want to count on this one study, or should we rely on the weight of the entire analysis? Typically, the latter. More data, the better. In fact, when we remove that one study, we really solidify that there's no effect of lithium. So, the point I want you to take home from this is that this meta-analysis of six clinical trials indicates no effect of lithium supplementation against Alzheimer's disease, in direct opposition of the excitement of last year. The researchers went out of their way to include data from a few studies that had not published yet and had finished collecting their data. So, things are looking pretty grim, but I've also become a more distrusting of meta-analyses over the years. You may have seen this hierarchy where the meta-analysis is on the top of the pyramid as the most powerful evidence on the topic. Now, in a perfect world that typically is true because you have more data to detect effects. However, in the present world, it's not so simple because it also matters the quality of the data, the criteria used by the researchers for including or excluding studies from the meta-analysis, and much more that I again won't bore you with. The bottom line is though is that not all meta-analyses are equal, and some are frankly trash. That then raises this question of how this one stacks up. Although I knew everything that I just mentioned for some time, I've taken an especially critical lens recently by, when possible, opening the individual studies of the analysis. So, that's what I did here. Again, if we pop this open again and we open this Forlenza study as one example, I can tell you that this study actually showed a worsening of cognitive performance while the lithium group remained stable over 1 year. Now, by the defined measures of the meta-analysis, it's true that the difference was quite small between the lithium and the placebo group. But, nonetheless, there technically was a benefit of lithium that is simply lost in the statistics of the meta-analysis. But, don't let me convince you that this is an isolated problem because if we were to extend our definition of cognitive improvement from a single measure to include other assessments, all of these studies show a beneficial effect of lithium supplementation. In addition, some of the studies that showed no effect, like the Devananda study, Devanand Devanand study, and this Hampel study were only 12 and 10 weeks respectively. Now, there may be treatments that are highly effective that may work in just 10 weeks, but just because a treatment isn't effective on a multi-year disease in 10 weeks does not automatically rule it out for being effective overall. These critiques aren't even to mention that the researchers included this Forlenza study, but failed to include this Forlenza study, which lasted longer and had more participants and also found a benefit of lithium. There's some other critiques that I could levy, but I'll refrain. The point is this meta-analysis has significant flaws that make the conclusions weak. Still, a weak meta-analysis does not necessarily mean that lithium is that effective. So, if we put the critiques aside, what can we still say about lithium's effectiveness in protecting us from Alzheimer's disease? You know, there's some additional details like how lithium affects amyloid clearance, different types of lithium, and some less discussed results related to Alzheimer's disease. I'm covering that plus more in my expanded analysis. It's included as a Physionic Insider. If you're interested in access to all that plus all of my other work in video, written, and audio format, then check out the Physionic Insiders. It's my premium research platform and community. If your interest beeth peaked, you can check out the Insiders using the link in the description. Plus, you get these perks right here. Hope to see you there. Well, if we turn to some of the newer, larger trials and we look at the long-term exposure over years to lithium, and then measure the progression from mild cognitive impairment to the progression to full-blown dementia, we see some striking results. The dark blue line is the lithium and the pale blue line is the placebo, so no lithium. And the lower the lines go, the more people have progressed to dementia, of which Alzheimer's disease is included. This is a measure over several years as well. Clearly, lithium provides protection based on this clinical dementia rating. But, these kinds of results in longer trials are not unique. And generally, the studies that show no effect are quite short. But also, don't let me paint a picture that there are no lengthier studies that also don't show an effect. I don't have access to some of these studies because, well, they aren't published yet or they're in Japanese, and while I do understand multiple languages, Japanese is not one of them, and artificially artificial intelligence has failed me. So, is there room for lithium to still come out as ineffective? Absolutely. I just don't think that we should be relying on incomplete or insensitive analyses as a reason to eliminate lithium from contention. I really think that we're quite early in understanding lithium's impact though. I still lean in favor until better evidence indicates otherwise. Still, some things have changed for me. For example, dosing used in the studies varies widely. Previously, I mentioned trace doses of lithium being effective. That's still true. However, there are also studies using much larger sums. So, effective doses have been used anywhere from 300 micrograms per day of elemental lithium to 600 milligrams per day of lithium salt, like carbonate and sulfate. Ah, the intricacies of research. Fascinating, aren't they? If you'd like more on how lithium actually causes this protective effect for the brain, then check out my initial analysis on the topic right here. Thanks for stopping by. I hope it proved informative. Catch you in the next one. See you.