There's a fascinating new study that shows that our health is not only affected by our nutrition, our exercise, our genetics, and all the other aspects of health that we've come to know, but also the time of day, specifically nighttime. And no, I'm not talking about sleep. I'm talking about eating later in the day being potentially more harmful to our health. Now, why is that? Well, a great simple illustration of that is insulin resistance. the condition that is fundamental to type 2 diabetes. Essentially, if the cells of your body are unable to uptake glucose molecules floating in your bloodstream and you're highly likely to be insulin resistant, as glucose levels rise, your pancreas secretes the antidote insulin to bind the insulin receptors of your cells, which triggers a cascade inside the cells to allow doorways called glucose transporters to populate the cells membranes, thereby allowing glucose from the blood into the cells, reducing blood glucose. If any part of that is inhibited, that's called insulin resistance. So keep that in mind. Now let me show you a simple illustration in data. The red is people who are generally in poor health. So poor liver health, overweight, etc. And the blue is people who are in better health. So we're measuring the amount of glucose that is taken up by the cells of the body per unit of insulin. So, the higher the bars, the better the insulin sensitivity. Or, well, said differently, the lower the bars, the more insulin resistant. But we're looking at two different times. One measure during the day and another measure at night. And that's where the problem lies. While yes, predictably in day measures the control, the healthier group has better insulin sensitivity than the unhealthy group, the real gem is the comparison between day and night measures in the unhealthy group. Notice how at night their insulin resistance worsens. This is not the case for those who are healthier. So this tells us that people who are generally less healthy, especially with metabolic dysfunction, have even worse insulin resistance later in the day into night. The questions that come to mind are A, why is that? And B, what can we do to prevent this nighttime insulin resistance? Now, one reason comes down to something called gluconneogenesis. That's a fancy term to describe the creation of new glucose molecules, the very same found in the bloodstream that we're trying to control through insulin. This gluconneogenesis process occurs in the liver primarily. And when we test it in people, there's a higher proportion of glucose being produced by the liver and being released into the bloodstream, keeping glucose levels higher than normal in an insulin resistant state. That's especially telling because insulin also binds our liver and reduces our gluconneioenesis. But here, well, we're seeing the process does not happen so readily. Ultimately, we are not clearing glucose because insulin resistance and we are also raising blood glucose with an inability to stop new glucose production. All of this happening especially at night. Okay, so less sensitivity to insulin at night, more glucose being spilled out of the liver at night due to lack of sensitivity to insulin. Good stuff. Well, not really, but you get the point. But what if we're blaming insulin resistance unfairly? I say that because of data like this, which is incredibly illuminating as to why these things happen at night. We're measuring pancreas insulin secretion rate. So, we want those lines to stay nice and steady. But, do they all look nice and steady? I think I'll take no for 500. Look at the metabolically compromised insulin secretion at night. It dips way down. So, not only are people potentially insulin resistant, they're also simply secretreting less insulin. Fascinatingly, this does not happen during the day. What I can tell you is that your body also clears insulin. So if it produces it, it has to clear it too. And fascinatingly, there's a slightly faster clearance of insulin in those that are metabolically compromised. So to paint a whole picture here, people who are in poor health, as in more body fat, more insulin resistant, metabolic profile is poor, have greater difficulty clearing glucose. They produce more glucose in the liver, produce insulin at a slower rate, and even clear insulin more quickly at night. This is a big deal because it's a lot of different physiological issues all because of the time of day. But I'm not here to just bring bad news to you. I'm not Gandalf Stormcrow. So, knowing all that, what do we do? I'm going to get into some of the things to do that this paper describes and how persistent of an issue this can be. But I actually have two more studies that I'm going to go over on timing exercise, as well as some additional fascinating mechanisms on the cross talk between fat cells and the liver and even some issues with mitochondria. If you're interested, I cover all that in the extended edition of the video that you're watching right this very moment. It's included with my Physionic Insider membership, including a full article, one paragraph takeaways, live sessions with me, and so much more like all these perks right here. If you're inclined to check it out, use the link in the description. I would love to have you aboard. One obvious solution to these problems would be to well uh I don't know uh lose weight, specifically lose body fat. Now, in addition, I should mention that all the data that we went over earlier is what's known as cross-sectional. So, we're simply matching two groups of people by age and sex and look at some other characteristics and comparing them, hoping the only major difference in their metab is their metabolic health. However, this isn't a controlled way to do research. So when we actually have people undergo weight loss through improved nutrition for 12 weeks, we see that we see that that their body fat normalizes, their liver enzymes normalize and more even to the point that they become similar to the healthier controls that we were just comparing against earlier. So the question is then does weight loss through better nutrition lead to a reversal of all these nighttime problems within the body? The answer is not really. One example is shown here. We're looking at insulin secretion. Again, all the lines correspond to the people with metabolic dysfunction, but the purple lines are after 12 weeks of weight and fat loss. Now, fascinatingly, there's still a significant reduction in insulin secretion at night. So, this could imply permanent damage. Now, I'm not so bold enough to claim that yet, but even with significant other improvements like in liver health and total body fat, the problems that we discussed earlier, at least some of them, they do seem to persist. So then, what do you do? Well, we can turn to another study that tested the timing of nutrition when all else is equal and the impact that it has on insulin resistance. We see the results here. were measuring insulin resistance and the lower the bars, the better. Clearly, one group did much better than the other. So, what did they do? They simply pushed all their meals to the beginning and the middle of the day. That's it. Now, I voiced my concerns about nutrition studies looking at intermittent fasting like this because we can't control for the fact that the control group ate their last meal much later the previous day. So the differences in insulin resistance might be explained by the fact that the intermittent fasting group just hadn't eaten for a longer period of time. This is a real limitation to these kinds of studies. Still, there is a real result here, reduced insulin resistance. In fact, other measures also improve like the pancreas being more responsive, meaning releasing more insulin. Do I think this is a end all beall evidence? I do not. But it's moderately strong evidence that simply changing the timing of your food consumption may help combat the issues that we discussed that happen at night for metabolically compromised individuals. I'd also remind that while this habit may be beneficial for people who are generally healthy, the results that we went over at nighttime insulin resistance, reduced insulin secretion and greater insulin clearance and all that shebang that we were exclusively in people with long-term metabolic dysfunction. So, if you're healthy, your blood values are generally in the normal ranges. You do not need to change anything. Plus, keep in mind that while this study was extensive, it still included only a small group group of people. And even with the weight loss, the participants with nighttime metabolic dysfunction still weighed more than the control group, even if their total body fat percentage was the same. Now, I'm pointing this out because it leaves room for the possibility that the other differences could explain the maintained issues in spite of the weight loss. All this to say, this is a cool study and it tells us a lot, but more studies need to be done to confirm this in a more robust way. Anyway, I hope this was informative as always and there's more on insulin resistance right here. I'll catch you in that very next one. I'll see you over there. Thank you for tuning in. See you.