What's up, guys? Welcome back to a physionic video. Today, we're going to be answering the question of going over why I believe that the science is wrong. Yes, that's right. What this channel is based on is science. And yet, we're going to discuss how science is wrong about cupping therapy. So, if that's what you're here to find out about, then in a short, sweet, science-based video, we will answer that question. Let's go over it. So, why am I making such a bold bold claim? Well, uh, I've looked at the cupping therapy research and actually there's quite a bit of it, which sounds very good. It sounds like great. The science, uh, there's a lot of science on it, or at least a decent amount of science on it. So, we should be able to make some sort of conclusion. And we have made some sort of a conclusion. Yet there is a huge gap between what most people say cupping therapy is and what the science that is out there says that cupping therapy is. And it doesn't seem like most most times when you're talking about science, people follow what the science says. and uninformed or uneducated or I hesitate to say this but ignorant people typically go with what the cupping therapy science says and that is not that is certainly a mistake. Now why is that? The reason being is that science is typically or studies are typically done if they can manage it in a controlled manner. Meaning that uh in this particular instance you have a group one group of people and another group of people. Now this group of people gets the treatment. They get cupping therapy. They get to undergo cupping therapy for a few weeks, few months etc etc. Now this group here in in good science would typically say they're the comparison group. So they are the control group. So they don't receive anything or they receive what's called a placebo, which is something to kind of throw throw them off. So you don't tell them exactly what you're studying. You're just going to give them something and we'll see if there is some sort of an effect there uh that you know shouldn't be there. So then you can compare does cupping therapy really work against a control group. Now, the issue with that when it comes to cupping therapy specifically or really a lot of things that are applied to people is that this group knows that they're getting a therapy. They're getting I mean, it's not like you can sneak up on someone and and accidentally give them uh you know, a a therapy using cupping and suctioning of the skin and all that stuff. That's it's it's very obvious that you're going through a cupping therapy protocol. And this group, it's very obvious. And in most of these studies, they didn't use anything. They just had a group that got cupping therapy treatment. Great. And then on this group, they didn't give them a massage. They didn't do anything. They just said, "You you'll just exist." And then they just compared between the groups. That makes no sense whatsoever. In one group, cupping therapy, you know, you're going to get an effect. I mean, most likely people's biases will come out and they'll say, "Oh, yeah, that worked. That felt great." Afterwards, especially if you were to walk into a lab setting. A lot of people don't think that they would somehow bias their answers, but typically it's seen that people do bias their answers if they're given the opportunity. So, that's why we have to control for that variable. That's what that's called. And in this group, if you don't give them anything, what do you think they're going to say? Of course, they're going to say, "I feel the same." Of course, cuz that makes sense. It just it's just plain rational thinking. So, the science in this area is extremely biased and is and is manipulated in a way to make cupping therapy seem like it's effective. So, this group says yes, it's doing something for me. It doesn't even have to be anything specific. It's just doing something for me. And this group is of course going to say no, it's not doing anything for me because nothing is happening to them and they know nothing is happening to them. Then the second issue is that instead of taking biomedical markers or biochemical markers as in taking blood and then measuring different uh serum levels of different markers like C-reactive protein, I don't know LDL, HDL, cholesterol, things like that. Those are biomedical markers. But instead, and those don't lie, of course, they don't lie. So if you take your if you take a person's blood then you can go through and process that and then compare that to a person who hasn't received any sort of treatment. In that case that would have been okay that would have been great or they could have used uh movement functional patterns like can you squat with better ease or you can go through the the the movement uh in in a more structured way. So you can before you could only squat a quarter squat but now you can do a full squat because of this treatment. And then of course again then you have an actual measure that's applicable and you can use. However, what most of these studies did again was use a questionnaire. So they just asked people again this group gets cupping therapy. They know they're getting cupping therapy and this group is not getting cupping therapy and they know they're not getting cupping therapy. Who do you think is going to say that they see a difference? This group. Of course, this group. Because they're the only one getting a treatment. So to say, "Hey, we'll ask you a question. Do you feel better?" Of course, they're going to say yes. So the bias is huge. And just because you have a control just like you would see in most good studies, it's not very applicable in this situation or at least not the way that they applied it. So those are the two big reasons as to why and this is actually prevalent in most of the cupping research, cupping therapy research. So there's huge problems there. It's just it's it's laughable. It is laughable that that people would actually take this research and say this is good science. It is not good science. It is a prime example of why people really need to read the research and understand how they went through and did each section of their study. Okay. Hopefully the video was informative. If it was, I would really really appreciate it if you subscribe to the channel. uh like and share the video. And as usual, I always have sources for everything that I say uh down below in my article which goes into far far more detail. All right, I will see you in the next one hopefully. Have a good one.