If you listen closely, you can hear it. The scream of your liver. Okay, maybe not literally, but if a massive impressive new study has anything to say, it's going to be exactly that with probably a few more complex words thrown in. In this study, which was published in the gargantuan journal Cell, scientists have discovered how our diet marches our healthy liver down the path of cancer, ultimately turning our liver cancerous. Before we get into how your liver balloons, how it strikes and leaves its job being the liver, and how the loss of its ability to generate ketones relates to its slide towards cancer, we should probably zoom out and look at the evidence that isn't mechanistic, meaning evidence that speaks to the everyday person. So, we can look at a huge study, including tens of thousands of people, and ask a simple question. Does a bad diet raise our risk of liver cancer? Well, the answer is yes. We'll get into what bad diet means later, but for now, just know that a bad diet, which you can probably imagine a few examples off the top of your head, is linked to increased risk of liver cancer. Now, I'd like to take you down this rabbit hole, which includes images of livers bubbling and ballooning like eggs on a frying pan. Liver cells turning away from being liver cells and this mysterious loss of a ketogenic potential by the liver. I'll explain what I mean. So, as we shift to the primary study, we're looking at data in mice and some in humans as well. In said study, they show that one of the first visual signs of the liver figuratively screaming is the ballooning that can occur when the liver is injured from repeatedly consuming a poor diet. We see images here. The white sections are raised almost like a bubble forming within the structure of the liver. This is a sign of what's known as massled metabolic dysfunctional association steotic liver disease. So harm occurs to the liver over years and then the liver cells say, "Okay, I've had enough. I've had enough of this." And that shows itself here. The top image is when a normal healthy diet is fed. And the bottom image is the unhealthy diet. The pinkish purple there is a fluorescent marker of the border of the cells. And the zoomed in images allow you to see the kind of cyan looking color. That's a marker of if the cell is well still a liver cell. Notice how the bottom condition, the blue, the cyan, whatever, is missing in multiple cells. That tells us that the poor nutrition is leading to something called differentiation. Essentially, the liver cells are turning away from being liver cells and turning into well, how do I put this? Uh, a nondescript blob. They're essentially saying, "We're open for work because we're no longer liver cells." So, up to now, poor diet leads to serious liver stress, which causes the liver to deform and liver cells to begin reverting back to a more naive non-liver origin. Now, you may or may not know this, but your body has the ability to convert fat molecules into essentially pre-tabolized, pre-prepared fat molecules called ketones. And if you've ever heard of ketosis, which is achieved through longerterm fasting or very low carbohydrate diets like a ketogenic diet, ketones are produced by your liver. So obviously, if the liver cells are no longer liver cells, you can imagine that they aren't producing ketones anymore, which means that they are no longer going to produce ketone enzymes. One of the chief ketone enzymes is HMGCS2. So what we can then do in humans is track the downfall of HMGCS2 as a marker of this massiffiation of the liver cells. So that's what happens when we track the amount of this enzyme in human livers and compare between the healthy liver and a cancerous one. The cancerous one has marketkedly reduced levels of this ketone enzyme. And even between cancers, when we get tissue of liver cancer in people, there's worse survival of people with liver cancer if they have reduced liver production of this ketone enzyme. So several lines of evidence are pointing to the fact that the liver cancer is associated with lower expression of these ketone enzymes and likely reduced ketosis potential. But we don't actually know that yet because these are still associations. However, we can understand the relationship this all has to ketosis by simply artificially removing the enzyme and seeing what happens to cancer. So, for this, we turn back to animal models to bridge the gap between association and causation by literally cutting out the ketone enzyme gene from the liver cells. So, they can't produce the enzyme and therefore ketones even if they wanted to. So, when comparing those livers that couldn't produce ketones to those that could across a series of different pro and anti-cancerous genes, there were some fascinating discoveries. One, a crap diet pushes our gene expression toward a cancerous one, regardless of the situation. But two, if you knock out the ketone production, that push towards a cancerous gene expression is even stronger. the slow march toward cancer becomes more so a sprint. This was further evidenced when looking at cancer tumor size. Both conditions are fed a crap diet, but the knockout of the ketone producing enzyme leads to greater tumor growth. In the end, what we're learning here is that yes, your poor diet is pressuring your liver to turn cancerous. However, ketones are likely acting as a pressure relief valve, reducing the procancerous pressure. How incredible is that? Now, if you haven't been following the physionic journey closely, you may have missed this video that I released last year, which was on a different study making an argument for ketone production by the liver being a release valve of pressure, protecting the liver from becoming diseased in the first place. I'll link in the in the description. So, this is not unprecedented. However, this is the first study that I'm aware of to really describe the march towards cancer. Okay, so how should we think about all this? Now, I'll put this really simply for you, but if you're looking for a deeper dive, like understanding the use of gene signatures to identify liver cancer progression in the research, a more detailed analysis of the specific foods that are protective, and more, then check out the insider version of this analysis that you're currently watching. It comes with an article, you get a private podcast, access to my selfdesigned AI, live sessions with me, and more. The way to access is to join the Physionic Insiders research platform. It's linked in the description box. I hope to speak with you over there. Now, it's pretty simple really. A crap diet is probably what you already know is a crap diet. I mean, in what world is McDonald's or Burger King and so on been on the health food list? But to get more granular with it, here's how to stuff a sock in your liver's scream towards cancer. Or if you want to be a bit kinder than a soft stroke on its head, saying, "Sh, shh, it's okay. It's okay, little hippado. It's okay." Generally, avoiding added sugars, trans fats, and alcohol are big ones. Anything that leads to a fattier liver, gaining too much general body fat, as an example, or eating an abundance of ultrarocessed foods, focusing on whole foods, that's an excellent way to shift towards an anti-cancerous liver profile. Again, it's the obvious things. I'm sure there are some more direct targets like drugs and supplements, but the biggest movers are going back to the basics in this case. And remember how I mentioned that ketones act as a release valve? I make a preliminary argument for how ketosispromoting habits like ketogenic diets and fasting could be especially protective. I cover that in this next video. Check it out. I hope you found this as fascinating as I did. Thanks for tuning in and I'll catch you in the next one. See you.