insulin resistance is a major health risk that is the foundation of type two diabetes and general metabolic syndrome because the hormone insulin needs to bind to our cells to trigger them to take up glucose, fats, and even amino acids from the protein. The more sensitive to insulin that your cells are, the less insulin is needed to bind to cells and remove the nutrients from the blood to feed the cells of your body. insulin resistance does the exact opposite. Since the cells are resistant to insulin, they are bound yet nothing happens. In response, the pancreas releases more insulin to strengthen the activating signal and the cycle continues as insulin levels must get higher and higher to achieve the same effect. It's detrimental to the pancreas and detrimental to the circulatory system and tissues as blood glucose eventually rises causing a host of problems. Okay, so let's say you decide that you want to improve your insulin sensitivity avoiding the issue entirely and you jump on a diet. The question is, would you be better served doing something in addition to that diet? Let's find out. This information isn't new on the face of it, but there are several impactful points that researchers uncovered in a study wherein they allocated one group of overweight insulin resistance people to a dietonly condition following a preditin style diet designed to be calorically restricted. And the other group was to follow the same diet but include exercise. Ultimately, they wanted to find out how much impact diet alone has and how much impact doing a combination of diet and exercise can have over a five-month period. But they also uncover something unique that I want to share with you, too. If we pop open the initial data, I realize this looks like a lot, and it is, but I'm going to highlight the key findings, and especially one that has an intriguing story behind it, although it might not seem that way initially. So we have the two group conditions up top and the p values on the right side. If they fall below 0.05, that means there's a difference between the groups. On the left, we clearly see the measurements. So I'd like to point out just a few, though. One, look at the body fat percentage and the body mass. They're roughly the same at the start of the study. And although they both reduced over the five months, they were there were no differences between the groups. That's important because one could argue that exercise on top of diet could lead to greater weight loss and fat loss, which might be the explanation for any differences that we might see. However, that's off the table. Now, now number two, this is where the plot thickens because if we look at the blood glucose values and the insulin values, we see that blood glucose was not different between groups. Yet, insulin was reduced more with the exercise group. This of course gives us a clue that a per molecule of insulin more glucose is being taken out of the circulation. A strong indication of insulin sensitivity, reduced insulin resistance. Okay, great. But we've seen these kinds of data before. So what's so unique about this study? Well, the researchers did some unique tests to find out exactly how exercise provides this benefit, which I thought were really informative to a unique effect that exercise has. The researchers did a 24-hour measure of blood glucose and insulin after consuming multiple standardized meals to assess how the body reacts to food over 24 hours. If we look at the insulin levels on the left, we have the spikes and valleys of insulin released from the pancreas over 24 hours. On the right, we have the AU or the area under the curve, which indicates the overall amount of insulin secreted. The white dots represent the baseline before each intervention and then the diet or diet plus exercise. The dark dots are after 5 months of each intervention. Now, unfortunately, the researchers only did between group comparisons. So, we can only fairly compare the insulin levels between the diets and the diet plus exercise. But we can't fairly compare within group comparisons like before the diet and after the diet. That's important because we might be tempted to look at the diet condition and say there's no difference, but we don't have the statistics to say one way or another. However, we can say that because of the asterisk there that the exercise addition condition experienced a significant reduction in insulin compared to the dieting alone. That's not altogether extremely new considering that we knew that from the previous data, although differently collected, but check this out here. We're looking at insulin secretion. So, the amount of insulin released by the pancreas. Note that there's no asterisk and that's because there's no difference. So, if the pancreas is releasing the same amount of insulin, how is insulin so much lower in the exercise condition? Oh man, look at the time. Let's ignore the fact that I don't have a watch on. I must impart to you a fair bit of good news. Did thou know that I'll be covering more on liver insulin sensitivity as well as more on the diets and exercise and the effects on mitochondria in the extended version of this video that you're watching? Well, now you know that isn't even to mention the live sessions with me, the insider podcast and the oh yes, insider that refers to the physionic insiders of which you could be a member and access all the goodness. It's in the description box if you're so inclined. So, if the pancreas is releasing the same amount of insulin and how is insulin so much lower in the exercise condition, deja vu anyone? Well, just like any equation of the sort, we've addressed what increases insulin, but we haven't covered what removes insulin. insulin is taken up by the liver and the kidneys through receptors that bind it and then endoccytos, meaning that the receptor with the insulin bound will be taken up into the cell. Then it's degraded. Since secretion is roughly the same, there's more to say on that front, too, but let's not get distracted. insulin clearance must be increased. And we find that to be the case. We clearly see insulin clearance rate ICR increase in the exercise condition. So somehow exercise is increasing insulin clearance. So it doesn't remain in the blood explaining the significant difference in blood insulin in the first metric that we looked at. However, there's a few things of note here. One, while this study was well controlled in certain respects, like making all the food for the participants, it was not randomized, which introduces risk of a type of bias called selection bias. Two, these results are in a small group of overweight insulin resistant individuals. So, we don't know if this would apply to people who are overweight but have the murmurings of insulin resistance. Personally, I think it would, but we don't know that for a fact. Three, the participants consumed a pritikinstyle diet, which is a very high carbohydrate diet. Would uh we see worse, similar, or better results using another diet type that also provides a caloric deficit? We don't know. And like I said, this isn't the first study to indicate exercise is a benefit. No news there. But what is unique is how and the overall effect. We now know that assuming that this maintains in other studies that diet alone might provide benefit but pairing it with exercise has a substantially greater effect in individuals. We also know that exercise reduces insulin in the blood more drastically and it does that through ramping up the liver or kidney or both to metabolize insulin. In fact, there's more on the topic right here if you're so inclined. Thanks for hanging out.