I've talked a lot about the different benefits of omega-3 fats, but as I always remind, something good isn't going to be good in all instances. In this case, we may be seeing a situation where omega-3 fats may be a detriment. Specifically, a study looking at the role that omega-3 and omega6 polyunsaturated fats have inflammatory bowel disease. But while this huge study just released, it doesn't line up with multiple other studies. And I think I figured out why. So let's discuss what we can take away from all this science. In short, inflammatory bowel disease is a in simplistic language misfiring of immune system all along the gastrointestinal system from the mouth all the way to the anus. Now Crohn's disease, a subset of inflammatory bowel disease, is the full thing. Inflammation anywhere in the gastrointestinal system. Ulcerative colitis is another subset of IBD or inflammatory bowel disease and it only affects the colon and the rectum. Now we'll discuss both in relation to this study. If we take samples of the intestinal tract from people with IBD, Crohn's or ulcerative colitis, and we look at the amount of activity by specific functional proteins within the cells of the intestine, we'd see that people with IBD have a reproducibly high activity of a protein called RXR alpha or retinoid X receptor alpha. Why does that matter? Because in short more RXR alpha activity is linked to more inflammation especially as it's highly active in cells of the intestines called panith cells. These are specialized immune supporting cells in the intestines and this is where the polyunsaturated fats like omega-3s come in. Okay. So we know that inflammatory bowel disease has greater activity of this RXR alpha protein in immune adjacent cells called panda cells. From there we as in scientists can use a microscope technique called fret which allows us to quantify the proximity of the RXR alpha protein to different fats in this instance. So this gives us a clue as to which fats are interacting with this protein heavily tied to inflammation. The fats are listed on the bottom. So don't worry, I'll explain them. The higher the bars, the closer the fat is to the RXR alpha protein, indicating that it might bind to it and change its activity. So, we're comparing against baseline, so called a vehicle. And the PA there is a saturated fat. The OA is a monounsaturated fat. Both don't get close to the protein. However, an omega-6 polyunsaturated fat and multiple omega-3 fats are in close close proximity. So in fact when exposing cells to polyunsaturated fats here then measuring if RX binds to a gene heavily implicated in intestinal inflammation CX1 we see RXR alpha is bound more likely increasing its production from gene to functional inflammatory protein. This all means, including some experiments that I didn't show you, that polyunsaturated fats exclusively out of other fats bind RXR alpha and increase its activity in IBD. So that's the basic rationale, but the study focused on a lot of mechanisms. So it used mice for many of its experiments except for the initial discovery of RXR alpha activity in IBD. The researchers then strengthened their case by pointing out that clinical studies giving high doses of omega-3 polyunsaturated fats do not show improvement in Crohn's disease. And they're right. The studies cited show no benefit. Now, this challenges the notion that omega-3s are anti-inflammatory in every context. Now, I'll return to the clinical data shortly because there's some uh more to know there that isn't mentioned in the study. Still, even with this mechanistic evidence and the clinical evidence, which carries more weight, it's puzzling to find other studies that indicate omega-3 fats actually track with reduced risk of inflammatory bowel disease. In fact, in long-term studies, uh, over decades where people's nutrition is tracked every few years to keep a pulse on their intake and their blood values, a greater omega-3 consumption relative to omega6 indicates reduced risk of ulcerative colitis. A similar story for this study shown here transformed based on the original data. You see that the risk of Crohn's disease reduced with greater consumption of omega-3, so specifically DHA or dosahexoninoic acid. The only statistically significant reduced risk relationship was shown at the highest intakes. My point here being that this study that we've been focused on is not consistent with the literature. So why is that? Well, there's two reasons which really get to some important nuances that make this clear to anyone afraid of developing inflammatory bowel disease. Now, if you're interested in learning more about the mechanisms of omega-3s and inflammatory bowel disease, or you want to know more about the clinical data, then check out my extended analysis, which belongs to the Physionic Insiders, which is my premium research platform. You also get articles that come along with the videos, including this one, obviously. You get a private podcast. You get one paragraph summaries. You get a private email list where you get everything sent to you every week. and you get much more like the stuff that I've got covered right here. If you're interested, then check out the Physionic Insiders using the link in the description. See you there. One, I mentioned I wanted to return to this clinical evidence because the researchers point to a lack of a benefit from highdose omega-3 fats in a randomized control trial. However, that's not what they are showing in their own study, right? We're not talking about a lack of an effect. We're talking about omega-3s causing inflammatory bowel disease, not that it's neutral. So, the use of this study as a clinical evidence I find rather flimsy to be honest with you. Then, when we look at the high quality meta analyses, basically analyses including many studies, you'll find some slightly different results. So, technically that same clinical study was included in this meta analysis. And it's true. If you focus in on just that study and a sibling study, you'd confirm that omega-3 supplementation offers no benefit and in fact can raise the risk of diarrhea and upset stomach in people with Crohn's disease. Yet, if you look at all the studies, including the ones that we just discussed, there is an effect of omega-3 consumption, a reduced risk of inflammatory event in people with Crohn's disease in remission. So the point here is that most of the evidence doesn't indicate inflammatory harm of omega-3 consumption, generally neutral or even positive. That brings us to number two, which is a context where omega-3s could be harmful. A context where all the previous research is true and this new research is also true. The associative studies that I pointed out earlier were not in people with IBD. So, it's possible that if you don't have IBD, you are slightly less likely to get it if you consume omega-3s. On the other hand, people with IBD might consider reducing their polyunsaturated fat consumption, omega-3 and omega 6, slightly if they are consistently experiencing symptoms. Keep in mind that the clinical data points to neutral or positive effects of omega-3. So could there be another variable necessary that creates a foundation for polyunsaturated fats to be a negative? Possibly because the main study primarily looked at polyunsaturated fat consumption in the context of a poor diet, meaning higher total fat, higher calories, western diet. It even provided evidence that without this background, there don't seem to be any inflammatory issues. So, this would suggest that if you don't have IBD, don't worry about any of this based on the evidence that we have. If you do deal with IBD, but you consume a lower fat diet, there's probably also low concern of consuming some proportion of that fat as omega-3s. However, if you suffer from IBD and your diet is a mixture of sugars, high polyunsaturated fats, unregulated intake of food, eating ultrarocessed foods on a regular basis, and then the additional supplementation, or consumption of a whole or any polyunsaturated fat, omega6 or omega-3, then it may trigger greater inflammation through this RXR alpha binding. As you can see, there's a lot of nuance that allows all the evidence to exist and not contradict. But also keep in mind that there's really isn't a ton of evidence on some of these intricacies. So, there's plenty of room there to amend as more data releases. And because of how loose the interpretation is here, it may be worthwhile if you have IBD to take stock of your flare-ups and look at your diet. Is it particularly heavy in omega6 and omega-3 fats? If so, you may be particularly pl pr prone to this mechanism through RXR alpha. In the end, the one thing I know for certain is that this next video is not inflammatory in the least. So, you're safe to click on it. I hope this was informative and I hope to catch you in the next one. Bye.