 I was really blown away by this randomized control trial showing clearly and convincingly that berberine supplementation reduced the risk of cancer directly. I was excited then and I'm excited now, but now for different reasons, because now that we have the clinical data in hand, I could get more into some of the additional studies related to berberine and cancer like these. These studies describe in detail two different ways by which berberine and cancer can be found in detail. which which which which which which which which which which is which which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which is which into full-blown cancer, colorectal cancer. Now there's a reason that we screen for colorectal cancer. We have to check for these abnormal growths. Anyway, I won't rehash the details of the previous analysis, but just know that the results were A, impressive, and B, directly applicable to you and me. Then exactly how does bourbon enact these impressive results? Well, one of them is through changing what's called the microenvironment of your colon, shown in this study. When you're healthy, your colon is filled with billions of bacteria and viruses that ultimately lend themselves to a healthier you. Now, I get that when you hear the word virus and bacteria, you might think, what? But there are actually many strains of each that are neutral or even beneficial to our health, all part of what's called the microbiome. Well, when we take microbiome samples from people who are healthy, people with these precancerous adenomas, remember that's the abnormal growth, and people with already present colorectal cancer, we see significant differences in the makeup of the microbiome. That said, in previous studies, a particular bacterium called Fusobacterium nucleatum, which I'm going to abbreviate FN, is especially prominent in colorectal cancer. So, the researchers did something clever. They took mice that have a genetic predisposition for cancer and seeded, meaning that they implanted FN into the colon of these mice with and without berberin. We see that here. The left image is of excised colons. The top is of the one without the addition of the cancer-associated bacterium, and the bottom one is with. Now, it's tough to see, but the bottom one has some growths in it. Those are tumors. The right graph is more telling, though. Essentially, if the lines in dots go up, that's more tumors. I suppose you can guess if that's good or bad. It's bad. The FN condition on the right is noticeably elevated. This proves causation, as in, the presence of these bacteria increases colorectal tumors, cancer. Now, for the real treat, though. Notice the far right condition there, the one with the BBR included. That's our lovely berberin. Notice how it knocks cancer back down. That's because the berberin is enacting its cancer protective role. The main point here is two things. So, one, shifts in the microbiome, the colon microenvironment, promotes cancer. And two, berberin inhibits this microbiome shift, thereby protecting against this cancer. That alone is a remarkable discovery. But if you follow through the cancer literature for a minute, you'll notice some themes. One of these themes is that the reliance of cancer on glucose, sugar. Now, I've covered this in the past several times. However, it may also apply here as well. We can see that as clearly as my pasty white skin right here. The top graph indicates the amount of glucose taken up by colon cancer cells as concentration of berberin is increased in a stepwise fashion. Now, I mean, just look at that data. As berberin concentration increases, glucose uptake by the cells is impaired. However, even more telling in this context is looking at the cell viability, meaning how well the cancer cells survive under the same scenario. The lower the line goes, the fewer colon cancer cells survive. A good thing. Now, to be clear, we're looking at isolated cells. And while we can say that berberin has a direct colon cancer inhibiting effect here, we can't technically assume the reduction in glucose is the reason. For that, we would need further experiments. But I'll let you in on a not-so-little secret. They did that too. And they showed more evidence that berberin inhibits the glucose metabolism in colorectal cancer cells. So the point here is that berberin not only inhibits through indirect mechanisms like the impact on the microbiome, but also direct inhibition of the glucose metabolism of colorectal cancer cells. That's pretty incredible, isn't it? So now across four mechanistic studies and two analyses based on randomized controlled trials, we have this mounting evidence that simply supplementing with berberin can reduce our colorectal cancer risk through multiple mechanisms. So how would I approach all this? I'll get into how to apply this, but you may have noticed that there's much more to cover, like the remarkable mechanisms inside the cells like the JAK-STAT pathway, the blockage of the signaling proteins like HIF-1, and even some unique effects on metabolism enzymes called pyruvate kinase. And even what else happens to the microbiome after this Fusobacterium nucleatum takes hold? The point is, there's a lot more complexity that I glossed over. So if you're looking for the full version, all the details included, then check out the extended version of this video that you're currently watching. It's included with an accompanying article I do with all my full videos, all of these perks right over here, including a master supplement guide that covers multiple vetted sources of berberin, and honestly, many other perks. Where to find all this, you may ask? It's all in the first link in the description. Just join the Physionic Insiders. It's my premium research platform. And now, back to application. Here's how I'd approach this. If you have a family history of colorectal cancer, it likely is a good idea to consider supplementation with berberin. However, if you don't have a family history or personal history, the suggestion weakens somewhat. Now, it'll just depend on your want to invest into supplements. The reality is that there are many things that affect colorectal cancer risk. So I don't want you thinking that berberin is the one and only cure. It isn't. Though, I am excited about the research. If you did decide to supplement, the total dose used in the randomized controlled trials is 600 milligrams that split into two doses. And it was consumed long term. So we're talking several years. But honestly, instead of me restating some of the nuances that I've already covered in the past, then check out my more in-depth breakdown right here. Or, if you're looking for other nutrients that protect against cancer, then check out this sucker right here. Thanks a ton for hanging out with me. I hope you found this as impressive and exciting as I did. I'm genuinely curious where the state of the research will be in a few years. I'll keep my ears open. Catch you in the next one. See ya.