This one's a bit of a mystery. I had to go back to the drawing board because as I finished off analyzing five studies on the plaque reversing effects of a tomato molecule called lycopene, I thought it was going to be an openand-shut case. But I was genuinely puzzled by the sudden turn of events when I discovered two more studies causing pause to an otherwise straightforward benefit of lycopene. So, I'd like to walk you through what I discovered, put all the cards out on the table, and then let you decide how to think about lycopene in your own life. Is it something that you'd consider? I think an argument could be made for many, though maybe not all. Lycopine is an antioxidant, so a molecule that hunts down and neutralizes damaging oxidizing molecules called free radicals. As we go about our lives, especially if we choose less than ideal health habits, smoking, overweight gain, and so on, our body produces more and more of these destructive molecules, these free radicals. In the context of atherosclerosis, the buildup of plaque in our artery wall, that plays a role because the plaque is largely made up of cholesterol containing particles and these particles remain trapped in the arterial wall if they are oxidized. Anyway, could lycopene have a role in those mechanisms? Possibly. But that's not what we're interested in really. We're interested in understanding the clinical measurements, the actual removal of plaque out of the blood vessel, plaque regression. And it turns out that the tomato-based lycopine has a lot of evidence in its favor, indicating that it may just do exactly that. All the studies that I just threw on screen agree that if your blood lycopine levels are elevated, there's an inverse relationship with arterial plaque, meaning that less is present. We can see that here as just one example. Those dots are individual datim from people that have had their arterial plaque measured indicated by the IMT or the on the vertical axis. Further up is worse and the blood levels of lycopine on the horizontal axis. greater levels to the right. So you see what I mean by an inverse relationship. If lycopine levels are low, the line is higher up on the plaque and if lycopene is greater, then plaque levels are reduced. Now this and the three other studies is just an association though and although the researchers tried to account for potential influencing factors, we can't get past that this is associative. We'll return to this, but for now, we know across multiple studies that if your blood levels of lycopine are high, meaning more lycopine molecules are circulating through your blood, there's generally an association with reduced plaque in the arteries. Okay, I think we can agree that's not a bad start. But the beauty of looking at things like IMT, which stands for intimidia thickness, which is useless to 80% of you. though that stands for plaque in the arteries is that plaque progression and regression can be measured over months instead of having to wait years. As a result, we don't need to rely on silly associations. Those silly silly associations. So cute but weak compared to the almighty randomized control trial. Anyway, there are some trials where people are given lycopine supplements and before supplementation have their arterial plaque measured and then their plaque is measured again after being on lycopine for a time. Then we can directly assess if there's a real causitive effect of lycopine. So, let me simplify this. I'll move out of the way. Here's this study. And then here's this study. And on the count of three, we will reveal the results. One, two, three. That's right. They go in completely opposite directions. Oh, and what if I threw into the mix another one of those silly associative studies and mentioned that they also found no association between lycopine and better cardiovascular health? Yeah, right about now you are where I was when I first ran into these conflicting studies. I seriously found the first five studies all agreeing happily, holding hands, skipping about, AND THEN SLAM. These two new studies came in and destroyed the peaceful harmony that was the next step here is to get into the differences between these studies and try to find some through lines that can explain the differences in perspective. Well, the one associative study that disagrees with the rest is methodologically the more sound study over all four previous ones. It's much larger. The way the data is collected is typically higher quality. the controls for outside influencing factors are better and more. So, do we crown it above the rest automatically? Well, typically yes. But in this case, probably not. Why? Because the researchers themselves pointed out that they looked for the association between dietary lycopine and cardiovascular health. That's fine. Except when they went to validate the dietary lycopine to blood values, they found weak associations. That means that the dietary recall for lycopene may have been poor due to measurement error. That throws out a serious wrench into making any strong conclusions based on this study. Now, I'll return to this study in a moment because there's something else important related to it. Okay, then we can return to our two randomized control trials. One did not measure plaque itself, but did assess many heart disease risk factors like blood pressure, blood cholesterol levels, insulin resistance, inflammation, and more. Now, none of those metrics improved. The other directly measured plaque burden in the arterial wall, and that was the one that found an effect. So, it might seem obvious just to go with the one that directly tests clinical measurements, right? Well, maybe. But I think there's a bit more context to understand like the pairing of an additional nutrient with lycopene. Now, before I touch on all that, you might be interested in having a list of independently verified lycopine supplements or a deeper analysis of the lycopene cardiovascular disease relationship or some sexbased differences. As always, I'm covering that plus more in my extended edition of this analysis, which is available for the Physionic Insiders, which includes a more in-depth video, an accompanying article, plus access to my master list of supplements, including dosing considerations, disease categorizations, reputable sources, and if the supplement is worthwhile. Oh, and yes, all of these perks right here. Podcast, live session, private community, and more. Anyway, the link to join the Physionic Insiders is in the description. I hope to see you there. So, let's get into these a bit, especially this study that did find an effect. The thing is, this trial did some unique things. One, it paired lycopine with a prominent eye supplement called luteine. Here we see all three groups, and we're measuring the same plaque in the arteries. The higher the bars, the more plaque in our arteries, a bad thing. Now the white bars are before the study and the hash the darker bars are after each condition. So luteine alone or luteine plus lycopine. As you can tell luteine alone was effective but what was even more effective was the combination treatment. Now there are two major reasons this study may have shown an effect related to cardiovascular cardiovascular health while the other didn't. One, the previous study, even the researchers brought up that their participants may have been too healthy. Don't you hate it when people are just too healthy? Who do they think they are? We need them to be guinea pigs in our science experiments and they just end up being too healthy. Just so damn selfish. Anyway, I'm not sure if I buy it or not because while yes, they were healthier than the people in the study that we just went over, they still weren't symbols of perfect health either. The second reason is that the study showing the effect lasted a full year while the study indicating no effect only lasted a few months. So yes, it's possible both could contribute to these divergent results. At this point, you'd have to make a choice on if this evidence is strong enough in your mind to warrant pursuing lycopine to help against your cardiovascular disease. Ultimately, this is how I'd approach it. I honestly don't think that the evidence is strong for lycopine. The evidence in favor is weak even if there are several studies and in any case we need more data preferably randomized control trials to make a strong case one way or another. However, what data we do have shily points to doses of lycopene around 20 milligrams or higher per day possibly having an effect if an effect is to be found. Now, if that's through supplement supplementation or through tomato-based foods, that's completely up to you. In fact, if you wanted to get a therapeutic dose through tomatobased foods, it's doable, though the amounts vary, ranging from 1 millig up to 7 milligs per 100 g of tomato. Funny enough, processed tomatoes like in paste actually supply more, anywhere from 10 to 30 milligrams per 100 g depending on the product. And like I promised earlier, we'd return, albeit briefly, to this naysaying associative study. Though they did not find any positive link between lycopine and cardiovascular health, they did find some evidence that tomato-based foods had a healthful link to cardiovascular system health. So that might be because the tomatoes contain more than just lycopine. Look, ultimately, if you don't have a history of cardiovascular disease, don't worry about lycopine. It isn't worth it based on the evidence that we have now. If you do have a history of cardiovascular disease, even then, it'll be up to you if it's worthwhile for you. Some of you may think yes, so long that I take it at the correct dose and over the correct length of time. And others will think, nah, there are more potent nutrients and habits that will give me a bigger bang for my buck. And speaking to that last stance, I have covered more potent ways of improving your cardiovascular health mored in strong science right here. Thanks for tuning in. Hope this helped. Catch you in the next one. See you.