I was really blown away by this randomized control trial showing clearly and convincingly that bourberine supplementation reduced the risk of cancer directly. I was excited then and I'm excited now. But now for different reasons because now that we have the clinical data in hand, I could get more into some of the additional studies related to bourberine and cancer like these. These studies describe in detail two different ways by which bourberin protects us from colarctal cancer. So allow me to fascinate you with what happens to your body when you take such a simple unassuming supplement. This molecule bourberine comes from the barberry plant primarily and researchers showed recently that when people supplement with it they have a noticeably reduced risk of what's known as adenomomas. These are abnormal growths in your colon. The thing is these growths are far more likely to turn into fullblown cancer, colurectal cancer. Now, there's a reason that we screen for colurectal cancer. We have to check for these abnormal growths. Anyway, I won't rehash the details of the previous analysis, but just know that the results were a impressive and b directly applicable to you and me. Then exactly how does bourbon enact these impressive results? Well, one of them is through changing what's called the micro environment of your colon shown in this study. When you're healthy, your colon is filled with billions of bacteria and viruses that ultimately lend themselves to a healthier you. Now, I get that when you hear the word virus and bacteria, you might think, uh, what? But there are actually many strains of each that are neutral or even beneficial to our health. All part of what's called the microbiome. Well, when we take microbiome samples from people who are healthy, people with these precancerous adenomas, remember that's the abnormal growth and people with already present colurectal cancer, we see significant differences in the makeup of the microbiome. That said, in previous studies, a particular bacterium called fuso bacterium nucleatum, which I'm going to abbreviate FN, is especially prominent in colctal cancer. So, the researchers did something clever. They took mice that have a genetic predisposition for cancer and seeded. So, meaning that they implanted effice with and without bourberin. We see that here. The left image is of excise colons. The top is of the one without the addition of the cancer associated bacterium and the bottom one is with. Now it's tough to see, but the bottom one has some growth in it. Those are tumors. The right graph is more telling though. Essentially, if the lines in dots go up, that's more tumors. I suppose you can guess if that's good or bad. It's bad. The FN condition on the right is noticeably elevated. This proves causation as in the presence of these bacteria increases colurectal tumors, cancer. Now for the real treat though, notice the far right condition there, the one with the BBR included. That's our lovely bourberin. Notice how it knocks cancer back down. That's because the bourberine is enacting its cancer protective role. The main point here is two things. So one shifts in the microbiome the colon micro environment promotes cancer and two bourberine inhibits this microbiome shift thereby protecting against this cancer. That alone is a remarkable discovery. But if you follow through the cancer literature for a minute you'll notice some themes. One of these themes is that the reliance of cancer on glucose sugar. Now I've covered this in the past several times. However, it may also apply here as well. We can see that as clearly as my pasty white skin right here. The top graph indicates the amount of glucose taken up by colon cancer cells as concentration of bourbon is increased in a step-wise fashion. Now, I mean just look at that data. As bourbon concentration increases, glucose uptake by the cells is impaired. However, even more telling is in this context is looking at the cell viability, meaning how well the cancer cells survive under the same scenario. The lower the line goes, the fewer colon cancer cells survive. A good thing. Now, to be clear, we're looking at isolated cells. And while we can say that bourberine has a direct colon cancer inhibiting effect here, we can't technically assume the reduction in glucose is the reason for that we would need further experiments. But I'll let you in on a not so little secret. They did that too. And they showed more evidence that bourberine inhibits the glucose metabolism in colarctal cancer cells. So the point here is that bourber not only inhibits through indirect mechanisms like the impact on the microbiome but also direct inhibition of the glucose metabolism of colarctal cancer cells. That's pretty incredible, isn't it? So now across four mechanistic studies and two analyses based on randomized control trials, we have this mounting evidence that simply supplementing with bourberine can reduce our colctal cancer risk through multiple mechanisms. So, how would I approach all this? I'll get into how to apply this, but you may have noticed that there's much more to cover like the remarkable mechanisms inside the cells like the jack stat pathway, the blockage of the signaling proteins like Hif one, and even some unique effects on metabolism enzymes called pyuvate kynise and even what else happens to the microbiome after this fuso bacterium nucleatum takes hold. The point is there's a lot more complexity that I glossed over. So, if you're looking for the full version, all the details included, then check out the extended version of this video that you're currently watching. It's included with an accompanying article I do with all my full videos, all of these perks right over here, including a master supplement guide that covers multiple vetted sources of bourberin, and honestly, many other perks. Where to find all this, you may ask? It's all in the first link in the description. Just join the Physionic Insiders. It's my premium research platform. And now back to application. Here's how I'd approach this. If you have a family history of colorctal cancer, it likely is a good idea to consider supplementation with bourberin. However, if you don't have a family history or personal history, the suggestion weakens somewhat. Now, it'll just depend on your want to invest into supplements. The reality is that there are many things that affect colurectal cancer risk. So I don't want you thinking that bourburn is the one and only cure. It isn't. Though I am excited about the research. If you did decide to supplement, the total dose used in the randomized control trials is 600 millig that's split into two doses and it was consumed long-term. So we're talking several years. But honestly, instead of me restating some of the nuances that I've already covered in the past, then check out my more in-depth breakdown right here. Or if you're looking for other nutrients that protect against cancer, then check out this sucker right here. Thanks a ton for hanging out with me. I hope you found this as impressive and exciting as I did. I'm genuinely curious where the state of the research will be in a few years. I'll keep my ears open. Catch you in the next one. See youa.