A few months ago, I discussed a clinical trial where people with advanced stages of cancer, all kinds, were put on a serine and glycine-free diet, and many of them were able to see mass reversal of their cancer. Now, I use this one example as a staggering illustration. The tumor is on the left, and then 9 weeks later, the tumor is gone on the right. However, with a bit of reasoning, you probably came to the same conclusion that many did. Hold on. If we remove glycine and serine, then we see cancer improvements. So, does that mean that glycine and serine worsen cancer? Should I stop supplementing with these amino acids? That's when I turned to six more studies, which ultimately taught me a mind-blowing relationship between these amino acids, one in particular, and cancer. But, one study specifically completely flipped the script. So, should we be worried? Is supplementation a bad idea? This idea that serine and glycine are involved in cancer progression is not a new one. It's been studied well before this small clinical trial that I mentioned in passing. In the simplest explanation, the amino acid serine can be converted in your cells to glycine. Both glycine and serine are made of carbon atoms, and these carbon atoms can be donated to other molecules vital for the cell survival and growth. For example, DNA synthesis, for the copying of cancer cells genes to create a new cancer cell. So, both glycine and serine can donate carbons to DNA synthesis. This whole process is called one-carbon metabolism. That's really all you need to know for your mind to get blown later. This clinical trial isn't the only one looking at restriction of both of these amino acids and improving cancer outcomes, though other research is in animals. The advantage of this research is that it can also be directly looking at survival, which we can't do in a clinical human research. For example, here, we're looking at survival by purely putting animals on a serine and glycine-restricted diet in two different types of cancer. So, intestinal cancer and lymphoma. The higher the lines, the better the survival over time on the horizontal axis. The blue line is the serine and glycine-restricted condition, and clearly there's better cancer outcomes, confirming the results in humans in a different way. Though, the human data also included conventional anti-cancer therapies like immunotherapy. The point here being that in early human research and preclinical research across multiple cancers, restricting glycine and serine leads to better cancer outcomes, to put it mildly. Okay, interesting, right? But, that's just confirming what we already knew if you saw the previous analysis. The thing is, though, that we're manipulating two variables in tandem, glycine and serine. Are they both problematic or just one? Now, here's where the plot thickens. Here, we're looking at cancer growth over time. Now, this is a simple experiment, a control condition where all the amino acids are fed to the cancer, shown in blue, the complete condition, and then the dual restriction of glycine and serine or each restricted individually. Now, you don't need to know what P53 and the different deletions, it won't matter anyway. All you need to know is that if the lines go up, there's more cancer cells. Now, the purple line is what we'd expect. The dual restriction restricts cancer's ability to multiply. But, to tease out which of these two has the greatest impact, we should focus on the red and the green line. Now, you might already see it. That red line is perfectly consistent with the total amino acid pool present, the control. In simplified terms, glycine restriction does not restrict cancer growth, but serine restriction does. Now, there's more to it than that, considering that we're looking at cells in a dish, but this is extremely important information, as you'll see. In fact, this was further confirmed in a detailed study focusing on the very question, is it glycine or serine that's the issue? They too confirm it's serine, not glycine. Now, let me transport you back to what I mentioned that you should remember, the one-carbon metabolism. Remember that? If not, don't sweat it. I'll remind you. Remember, the pool of serine molecules in your cells, including cancer cells, is converted to glycine molecules. Both of these amino acids, glycine and serine, contribute carbons to the production of new DNA, technically nucleic acids, which are the building blocks for DNA, genes. Now, one experiment that we, scientists, can do is tag molecules like amino acids so that we can track where they end up in the body or even within cells. So, what happens when cancer cells are exposed to tagged glycine? Something remarkable. Here, there's three different concentrations of glycine being added to the cells, and because they're tagged, we can see where they go. Here, we're measuring serine production. So, as glycine is increased, serine is increased within the cells. But, wait. Didn't we say that serine is converted to glycine? And why does any of this matter? Well, yes, glycine is created from serine, except the reaction is what's called in biochemistry as reversible. As in, if there's a lot of glycine, no more is converted from serine, but instead, glycine begins being converted to serine. That's part one. The second part, the consequential part, is shown here. I know this looks confusing, but we can ignore most of it. To orient you, here's serine, here's glycine, and here are the end product, the nucleic acids for DNA production and more. Now, notice how there's a carbon taken from serine in the conversion to glycine, and notice how it eventually leads to more carbons being donated in this pathway for the production of these nucleic acids. That's what I explained to you earlier, one-carbon metabolism, in fewer words and less diagrams. Now, what do you think happens when we have a scenario like what I just showed you? Glycine is increased to a point that serine is produced, the reversible reaction. This all-important carbon that gets taken off serine is now going to go in the opposite direction. So, what do you think happens to this pathway? It falls apart. Consequently, that means that cancer cell can't produce nucleic acids as easily, and it also can't multiply or repair its genome as readily, which makes it especially vulnerable to damage. How freaking cool is that? Glycine is a double agent. The main point, so we don't get lost in the weeds, is that the amino acid of greater concern in cancer is serine, based on the data available, and depriving glycine may have no real impact. But, that last statement isn't entirely accurate, right? We just saw how overwhelming cells with glycine reverses this one-carbon metabolism. So, do we have any evidence that supplementing glycine may actually help against cancer? I'm going to get into that now, but if you're interested in a deeper dive on one-carbon metabolism, more on glycine's role in cancer, and even additional ways that cancer cells are stressed by these amino acids, check out my full video. It comes with an article, as all my full analyses do, and a lot of other stuff. Like this stuff right here. So, if you're interested, join the PhysioTic Insiders. It's my premium research platform, and it includes all of my work in multiple formats and more. The link to join the PhysioTic Insiders is in the description box. I hope to see you there. So, clearly realizing that glycine may be a double agent, and the mechanisms by which it does that is mind-blowing. But, do we actually have any evidence of the opposite of what we've been looking at so far? As in, when we supplement glycine, raising glycine levels, do we see improvements in cancer? The answer is, well, look for yourself. If we look at preclinical models again, but this time it's a group fed glycine or a group fed normal food without especially high glycine amounts, I'll just say that the higher the lines go, the more the cancer's tumor grows. It's pretty obvious that glycine supplementation dramatically slows cancer progression, and in fact, similar results are shown here, too. So, across a few preclinical studies, additional glycine inhibits cancer growth. And while unconfirmed, it could be due to this reversal of this one-carbon metabolism. Now, this is a pretty complex topic, and I don't I don't want to leave the wrong impression because we're mixing and matching data across different types of studies, different cancers, and different experiments. So, the translation to day-to-day life is difficult. I'm currently thinking about it this way. These data, as incomplete as they are, indicate that if you're supplementing with glycine or even consuming sizable amounts of serine, and you don't have cancer, there's zero reason to stop, especially since the data is panning out more favorably, especially for glycine, even beyond cancer studies. Now, on the other hand, the data is entirely too incomplete to make any strong statements in relation to cancer. It seems unlikely that glycine contributes, but that's based on cell studies paired to animal studies and across few different cancer types. It isn't strong evidence to change behavior. It's true that we have this one clinical trial where both amino acids are restricted, but this is also a phase one trial. So, we need much more clarity even in the human research. So, the risk benefit is going to be up to the individual, but just know that what evidence we have up to now is incomplete for any clinician or ethical researcher to offer any strong recommendations. So, the conservative approach would be to ignore these data until more data emerges and the more aggressive approach would be to follow the results of the clinical trial, not the preclinical data that we've been covering here. In fact, if you're looking for more details on the clinical trial, I cover it in more depth right here. I hope you found this as weirdly fascinating as I did. I'll catch you in the next one. Bye.