 I think it must be a year or two ago, I covered a number of randomized controlled trials that indicated strongly that the nutrient zeaxanthin is able to slow the loss of vision by macular degeneration. For that reason alone, it crossed from this has potential to this has true real world impact. However, recently, a fascinating study released that implicates zeaxanthin as not only a great eye supplement, but an anti-cancerous molecule as well. Now, if you know my style, I was curious if we've been sleeping on other studies that point the same direction. And guess what? We have. So, how strong is the evidence for zeaxanthin and its cancer protection effects? Is the evidence on par with the eye health effects? And what is the one food that can help us avoid supplementation because it is a potent zeaxanthin carrier? Stay tuned. Like I mentioned, when we look at the broader literature, there's a generally consistent trend that people that either consume more or have higher blood values of zeaxanthin have reduced risk of a few different assessed cancers, specifically breast cancer and bladder cancer. However, there are also studies that indicate no effect. But I hold these studies with lower weight on the conclusions because they tend to be much smaller and less methodologically sound. When we focus on bigger, better studies in women looking at the consumption of zeaxanthin over 14 years, those women consuming the most had a notable reduction in the risk of breast cancer overall. I'm pointing out this study because the design that the researchers used was able to control for family history, age, energy intake, menopause, hormone use, and more factors that directly affect breast cancer risk. All that said, however, other studies, even those that agree, tend to have much weaker methodology and insufficient controls for influencing factors like the ones that I mentioned. Either way, there is a consistent trend in the higher quality evidence that if consumed zeaxanthin is greater, there is a reduced risk of cancer. Still, everything combined, the wider scope of the data all points in the direction of zeaxanthin benefit against cancer, with the most robust evidence being against breast cancer, weak evidence against bladder cancer, and more data needed on all other forms of cancer. Still, just because there's no data doesn't mean that there's no effect. So, what does this recent study tell us? Essentially, zeaxanthin was identified as a molecule of interest because it is increased in the killing of cancer cells. After this identification, the zeaxanthin was fed to different groups of mice with two different forms of cancer, seen here. You can see the schematic of the experimental design. Mice were given cancer, at which point they probably wished that they'd made better friends because their gift-giving was less than desirable. But putting that aside, the mice were then fed zeaxanthin, up top or not. The control condition on the bottom. Then, on the right side, these two graphs are measures of tumor size over time. The lower the lines are, the better, because it's a smaller tumor, less cancer progression by this measure. Now, I don't need to spell it out for you. The zeaxanthin condition, regardless of the cancer type, reduced cancer growth. But this introduces a new aspect to the story, because the researchers identified that the mechanism by which zeaxanthin pulls off these effects is through the activation of T-cells, the specialized type of immune cells that attack cancer cells. These T-cells, once more active, are more likely to multiply, to send out specialized inflammatory molecules, to recruit more immune cells, as well as release directly damaging molecules called perforin and granzymes that damage the cancer cell. But just because zeaxanthin seems to be effective doesn't mean that it can't use some help. In fact, when we look at tumor growth again, the higher the lines, the worse, and we see zeaxanthin causes the predictable reduction in tumor size, but it is much more effective when it's paired with immunotherapy, where the tumor is really blasting down. This then means, in preliminary research, that zeaxanthin allows specialized immune cells, T-cells, to be more active and aggressive against cancer cells, and this effect is especially potent when paired with immunotherapies. Now, this is all pretty compelling evidence, but we need to come back out of our cells and look at the big picture again, because there's a critical piece of context that needs to be applied here. And on top of that, there's a particular food that could offer us all these benefits that we've been going over at a very small amount of consumption. Now, I'll get into all that next, but let's assume that you wanted more information on zeaxanthin and breast cancer, or wanted to understand exactly how zeaxanthin activates our immune cells, or what are independent, reputable brands to get zeaxanthin from at a proper dose. Then, consider checking out the full analysis, the extension of this video that you're watching. It's included with my Physionic Insider membership, along with an article to accompany every single video that's released over the last few years, plus a monthly private podcast, a master supplement list on what works and what doesn't, and man, just so much more. If you're interested, check out the Physionic Insiders using the link in the description. First, let's discuss this critical context. There's two things. One, you'll often hear about zeaxanthin paired with its sibling molecule, lutein, especially in the eye health literature. And admittedly, many of the studies look at these molecules in combination. However, the main study that we went over focused on zeaxanthin, though they did look at lutein as well. I'll discuss more on that in my extended analysis, but here's what you should know. We're focusing on zeaxanthin because this study focused on it. And although most of the evidence in humans looks at both molecules together, making it difficult to really separate the effects according to zeaxanthin or lutein driving the effect, there are some studies that indicate a cancer-protective effect of zeaxanthin in isolation. That does not mean that lutein is not effective. And I plan on actually covering that in more depth in future content as lutein tells a slightly different story and would detract from this one. So, to be clear, our focus is on zeaxanthin, but lutein may also be effective. And we'll assess that at a separate time. So stay tuned for that. The second point is that unlike the eye health data, which was heavily focused on direct intervention studies, i.e. randomized control trials, we're combining animal-focused mechanistic data with long-term human data, so associative data. So when I asked at the beginning if the evidence is on par with the eye health effects, the answer up to now is no. That doesn't mean that the evidence is weak, especially if we expand our view to carotenoids in general, the class of molecules that zeaxanthin belongs to. These data still indicate with moderate certainty that zeaxanthin is a cancer-fighting molecule. In the end, considering the growing evidence across multiple fronts, it seems a no-brainer to focus some attention to consuming zeaxanthin. That brings us to my promise of avoiding supplementation by focusing on a particular food that contains incredibly impressive levels of zeaxanthin within it. It's the wolfberry. The side effect is that you feel drawn to the city of London, where you turn into a werewolf and terrorize the Londoners. I won't confirm or deny that, but another name for the wolfberry is the goji berry. And it is filled with an intense amount of zeaxanthin. In fact, based on rough estimates from all these studies, as little as 10 grams of dried goji berry would be sufficient to put you in the higher consuming groups of these studies with reduced risk of cancer. This is especially nice because goji berries can have side effects like interactions with particular drugs. So, as is always the case, you should consult with your physician if you're on blood pressure or blood thinning or other like drugs. That's a low-calorie, less than one serving size, potent way of getting zeaxanthin. Win-win. Anyway, if you want more concrete benefits of zeaxanthin, check this sucker out. And if you decide to eat wolfberries, maybe have a friend lock you up on the full moon. And if you wake up dazed and confused in a zoo, maybe cut back a bit. Just a friendly bit of advice.