Mitochondria or cellbean by their prison name are these incredibly important organels inside of our cells because they provide our cells with energy but also protect us from cancer and play a vital role in hormone production among many many other roles. Unfortunately, as we age, mitochondria can also become aged or damaged over time making them and your cells suffer functionally. So, while we might know that exercise improves mitochondrial function, does that still remain true for older folks? And if so, to what degree? Okay, now for the hook. The answer will shock you. Well done, Nick. Now they're hooked. We're going to be relying on two studies that looked into the effect of exercise in older individuals and the mitochondrial effect. The first, this one, recruited 20 year olds and 70 year olds and had them perform aerobic exercise for 12 weeks. Specifically, they performed supervised cycling. And what happened to their mitochondria? Okay. Well, I'll show you some mitochondrial measures, but these measures are a bit deceptive, as I'll explain shortly. Here, we're looking at various proteins found inside your cells that correspond to mitochondria. PGC1 alpha is a biogenesis protein as in it allows for more mitochondria to be produced. CS is citrate synthes involved in mitochondrial metabolism as are these other proteins here. Actually, the light bars are the younger participants and the black bars are those in their 70s. Notice how all the bars are going up and notice the cross up top. That all indicates that young and old are able to increase the amount of all of these proteins in their cells by exercising. There's some more to this story that we'll get to, but it seems, and I can't stress that word enough, it seems like there's no difference between the young and the older, as in both experience a similar increase in these proteins. The same is true when looking at proteins involved in mitochondrial dynamics. These proteins are involved in the fusion and fision of mitochondria. More specifically, mitochondria have the ability to split themselves into new mitochondria or to fuse together into a single mitochondrian. And these are some of the proteins involved in that process. And again, we see similar increases due to exercise with no seeming difference between young and older. Okay, so we can for sure say that exercise impacts mitochondria and still it occurs later in life. Now a few things for what seem and what actually are. If we look at V2 measurements, these are measurements of oxygen consumption and while not exclusively reliant on mitochondria, they are tightly related. One, you'll notice that both groups improve from exercise. Yet the younger individuals experience greater improvement noted by the dollar sign indicating an interaction effect. Crosses and dollar signs. What is this? The papacy. Heyo. Okay. So why the difference here? And no difference on the mitochondrial measures. If we bring back the mitochondrial measures and keep the V2 measurements and we pay attention to the vertical axis and the units, the V2 is measured in absolute units and the mitochondrial measures are in relative units. So that means that while the relative improvement might be A-50% increase for both young and older, the absolute starting protein numbers for something like I don't know MFN1 might have been 10 for the younger individuals and four for the older individuals. Which means that the absolute end result would be 15 and six. A big difference. Of course, I'm making up the numbers, but you get the point. The relative change is not indicative of the absolute effect in this instance. So that explained, the reality is older individuals do experience mitochondrial changes from exercise, but the amount of change in absolute sense is likely smaller than for younger individuals. But do not despair, do not weep, my elder, good news travels from far away lands, and those lands be another study. In this second study, researchers recruited three groups of people. Active young individuals, older active individuals, and the older sedentary individuals. Then instead of applying an exercise intervention, they simply ran a battery of tests on these people to collect a bunch of data based on their activity level and age. So this is called a comparative study. First off, let me show you the cross-sections of their legs. The green there, as indicated, is skeletal muscle. The yellow is fat tissue between the musculature and the red is the fat tissue surrounding the musculature. The YA are the young, the OA are the old active and the OS are the old sedentary. These images always stood out to me since the beginning of my exercise physiology degree. I mean, they're incredible reminders of how much power exercise has at preserving our physiology. The old active individuals and the young active individuals are more alike than people the same age who are sedentary. That's crazy cool. I mean, there's more data on this indicating more similarity with younger individuals than the same aged individuals that I can cover in future content. If you're interested, just let me know. For now, let's look at the mitochondrial effects. I did mention some good news for ye old lads and lasses. Okay, I'll stop. Among the most important proteins in your mitochondria are these five called the electron transport chain. Now, I won't go over their function, but just know that they're responsible for the production of your cellular energy called ATP. So, if we look at that data, and you'll notice the five proteins are listed on the bottom there, 1 through five in Roman numeral. The gray bars are the young individuals and the green bars are the in the middle are the old active individuals. And the final bar on the right, the blue is the old sedentary individuals. The higher the bar, the more of these proteins exist in the muscle tissue that was probed. Now, each bar is the average result. And you'll note that the individual dots offering information on each individual result and indicates the spread of the data. You should focus on the letters A and B. If the letters are the same, there's no difference between the groups. And it it's also true if the letters are different like A and B, there's a statistically significant difference between those groups. I'll give you an easy summary now, but at least you can verify after me now that you know how to read this. The summary is that both active groups, regardless of age, had greater levels of these key mitochondrial proteins relative to the sedentary older individuals. Not only that, the levels were comparable between young and old active individuals. That's huge. I'd speculate that if they had more participants in each group, we might detect some minor differences between the young and the old active, but as it stands, there's no difference, which is wild. Oh, and if you're wondering what the top part of the data is, it's the raw molecular data. I'll leave that for those with a cell and molecular biology background to appreciate. No point really going over it now. Okay, so mitochondrial proteins responsible for energy generation are greater in active individuals. But guess what? The researchers directly measured energy generation from mitochondria isolated from these individuals. So the proteins are like inspecting the car at standstill, but now we get to inspect the car in motion. Also, I have a seminar on improving mitochondria through exercise. And there's some additional fascinating mitochondrial results that I won't be able to get into in this video that you're watching that I cover in the extended version of this video. Both of those, so the seminar and the extended version of this video, including all of my other work and analyses, are included for the physionic insiders. If you're interested, the link is in the description of the video that you're currently watching. Now the car in motion, the actual ATP measurements coming from mitochondria are here. Amazingly, these results confirm the protein measurements that active individuals, regardless of age, generate the same amount of ATP per unit of time. Incredible. Now, while this is excellent news, there are some important pieces of context for this study. Notably, this is a comparative study. So, it does not control for any other variables like nutrition, sleep habits, and other important aspects of health. Also, while the results could be and even likely due to exercise, they could also be somewhat or even fully caused by some other variable like just living a healthier lifestyle as a whole. I suppose in the grand scheme of things, who cares, right? Oh, the horror. Living a healthy lifestyle improves mitochondria instead of it being exclusively exercise. The horror. Anyway, it's still important to point out because I don't want us to overinterpret these data. In the end, these data indicate that aerobic endurance exercise does lead to changes in mitochondria and likely improves mitochondrial function regardless of age. Beyond that, some metrics indicate that being active and healthy, even 30 to 40 years older than someone else can preserve significant mitochondrial function. Alternatively, to learn more about improving your mitochondria, check out this linked video. Cheers.