The algorithms have done it again. They've introduced me to yet another health creator. This time, Dr. Ashley Fruise. Hopefully, I'm getting that somewhat correct. A physician and health educator who focuses a lot of attention on biohacking tools. Dr. Ashley, as I shall call her simply because I'm not certain how to pronounce her last name and I don't want to be continuously rude, discusses why the peptide retatuit is such a powerful treatment for obesity and general health. So, we'll do what we always do on the centrifuge. We'll go claim by claim and apply studies to the claims, spinning out what's correct from what's incorrect based on the evidence. Here's the main claims. Retatride reduces insulin resistance and increases metabolism as a person loses weight. GLP-1 peptides work through reducing hunger, but has consequences of constipation and nausea. Tier Zepatide is better because it dampens nausea and leads to more weight loss. And finally, the big one, retride is even better because it has specialized effects. Let's spin it. &gt;&gt; So, first, just for clarity sake, you need to know the difference between the GLP injectables and why reat has become the king of GLPS. The long and short of it is that we now have good, better, best versions of a weight loss peptide blend that not only blunts your appetite and decreases inflammation and insulin resistance, but now increases your metabolism. It's a trifecta. And the so-called best version is reatride. But why? Well, have you ever been told that the more weight you lose, the lower your metabolism will be? Well, not with reatride. It effectively boosts your metabolic rate while you lose fat in a caloric deficit. &gt;&gt; Right from the top, the first claim by Dr. Ashley is that retatuitride improves insulin resistance, the underlying condition that causes type 2 diabetes, and it boosts metabolism. So the first part, improvements in insulin resistance. Dr. Ashley is absolutely right. One clinical study was designed to look at exactly that. In said study using many different dosing strategies of retatuitride the researchers measured a long-term marker of blood sugar called HbA1c or glycated hemoglobin which is a detection of a blood cell protein being studied with sugar molecules. The higher it is the worse after a point because it indicates long-term elevated blood sugar meaning that you are highly likely to be insulin resistant. In this study, they recruited people with severe insulin resistance. And we can see that here that all retitutride doses reduced this HbA1c marker shown on the left side as all of the lines except the control group the placebo declined. This was especially effective at higher doses. So 4 milligrams and upward. On the right we see the number of people relatively speaking that achieved a normalized HbA1c at higher doses. 80% of people achieved huge improvements. So the point here being that Dr. Ashley is absolutely right. Retutrite is highly effective against insulin resistance. Now as for the metabolic angle, the certainty decreases somewhat. As far as I could find, there are no human studies that measure metabolism when on retride. The claim that this peptide raises metabolism is mentioned by the researchers but is not proven in humans. The reason they claim it is because of the initial preclinical study in animals showing that to be the case. They show that in these data the red is the rettoide peptide and the green is a group not given the peptide but matched to consume the same amount of uh as the peptide group. So same amount of calories and we're measuring metabolism. So the output of energy, notice how the peptide group did not experience a reduction in metabolism. And yet if we look here, there's not just equal weight loss, but greater weight loss than the calorierest restricted only group. So this speaks exactly to Dr. Ashley's point and what the researchers are pointing out, a boosting of metabolism even when consuming far fewer calories. The main point here is that it is likely that retro tried boost metabolism even when the body is chronically exposed to calorierestricted diet, but the evidence is not shown in humans yet. So the certainty is lower than that for the insulin resistance data. &gt;&gt; Here's how it works. It's a peptide blend of GLP, GIP, and glucagon receptor agonism. In a nutshell, GLP-1 drugs hit GLP-1 receptors all over your body heavily in the brain and the gut. This dumbs down your appetite and slows down your digestion. Semaglutide is pure GLP-1 receptor agonism, a peptide designed to put the brakes on hunger while constipating you and making you nauseated. This next claim is that GLP-1 peptides work through reducing hunger but has consequences of constipation and nausea. For that, there are many scientific reviews on GLP-1 peptides, and they confirm that GLP-1 peptides do bind to the brain. I've covered this in past content as well, where they influence certain neurons, so brain cells, to not signal that there's a stimulation of hunger. Fun fact, one of the genes that is increased when GLP-1 peptides bind to the receptors on the brain cells is called CART, which stands for, get this, cocaine and empetamine regulated transcript. And as more CART molecules are produced from this gene, and these molecules bind to receptors on the neurons, causing them to stop feelings of hunger. It's pretty nifty, isn't it? And it is also true as described in this same review that GLP-1 peptides can cause nausea and gastrointestinal discomfort. So the short of it is yes GLP-1 peptides typically work through reducing hunger and yes they are prone to gastrointestinal side effects. &gt;&gt; Then came tzepide a combination of GLP-1 and GIP agonism glucose dependent insulinotropic polyeptide. GIP is complex, but it essentially turns your fat from being stubborn and inflamed into a healthy accessible fuel. It lowers inflammation and fat, allowing you to become more insulin sensitive and able to mobilize fatty acids better. So why is tzepide so much better than semaglutide? Because there are fewer side effects and more weight loss with that drug. And this is because research suggests that GIP receptors in the brain antagonize or dampen the nausea signals triggered by pure GLP-1 agonism. Essentially, Tzepide hits that stop eating button while simultaneously pushing a don't throw up button. Tzepide is amazing because it has less GLP-1 in it than GIP agonism. See, GIP is doing most of the heavy lifting. Next, tier zepide is better because it dampens nausea and leads to more fat loss. Fortunately, because these peptides have been around for a while, especially GLP-1 receptor agnus exclusive, we have studies comparing the two. And again, Dr. Ashley is spot on. We can see the evidence here with the lower the bars going, the more weight loss occurring, primarily fat. the semiglutide there on the right which is the single GLP-1 receptor agonist peptide it's clearly effective but not as effective as tier zepatide however in terms of side effects this same study would disagree with the take that there's fewer side effects overall and even fewer nausea episodeside showed a slightly higher proportion of side effects compared to the single GLP-1 receptor agonist semiglutide this was true at higher doses. Still, two things to consider. So, one, this could be spec specific to the people that are studied here, type two diabetics. And two, you're getting more benefit with the same potential for side effects. And to be clear, we're also talking about a few percent of people having side effects, not mass amounts. This is further confirmed in analyses of many studies. So the point here being that tears is better for fat loss but at higher doses does yield more side effects. If using a comparable dose of a GLP-1 receptor agonist peptide alone, you'll likely get more results at similar side effect risk. &gt;&gt; But let's shake things up even more. Enter reatride. The scientist who formulated this drug deserves a prize and he probably got one. See, we really learned a lot with this GIP to GLP-1 ratio and retatride still leans heavily on GIP receptor agonism, but it adds a glucagon receptor peptide to the mix. You can think of glucagon as like a fat vacuum. In a normal functioning human, glucagon is a fasting hormone. It tells your liver to release sugar when you're hungry, basically to keep you from passing out. But in retatride because it's paired with GLP-1 and GIP pushing insulin and sugar into cells, the glucagon receptor is then tricked or diverted into doing its secondary jobs which are lipolysis or fat burning and thermogenesis. Basically, it increases your metabolic idle or your resting energy expenditure. So the claim here is that retatuitride includes glucagon receptor agonism to increase fat loss and metabolism. Again this is the kind of research where we have to rely on pre-clinical work in animals not humans. But if we lean on this influential study again Dr. Ashley points out that the glucagon aspect of the retrotutride peptide is the part that can enhance fat loss. And this study did some brilliant work where they isolated the effects of the glucagon alone from the rest of the peptide. And sure enough, they were able to show that if you block the glucagon receptor, the peptide was less effective. Not ineffective, but less effective. And in similar vein, revisiting metabolism, we're seeing the peptide given in gray, maintaining metabolism. As we saw much earlier when we looked at the comparison against calorie restriction. Remember this. But the red condition in these new data is with the glucagon receptors blockaded. See how the metabolism is not maintained as readily. That's because the glucagon effect portion of the peptide is eliminated. It's really fascinating research. This all strongly points and wonderfully specifically points to Dr. Ashley being spoton. The retatride retatrutide has unique metabolism and weight fat loss effects through its glucagon addition. Okay, before I get into some of the side effects of peptides and pull this all together for us, you might want to hear about something called the futile calcium cycle caused by these peptides or the impact that it has on mitochondria. I'm covering those aspects and more in my extended version of the video that you're watching. It's included as a Physionic Insider along with an accompanying article, podcast, live sessions if you're inclined. Check out the Physionic Insiders using the link in the description. Some final points to quickly add. Well, I think Dr. Ashley knocks it out of the park, including some of the tricker separations between glucagon aspect and the rest of the retrotutride. Later, she goes into a discussion about some of the side effects to look out for. I'll quickly list them. Some uh lean mass loss, which she actually describes as muscle loss, but we can't actually claim that outright, as lean mass is the most common measure, and it's made up of more than just muscle. That isn't even to mention that weight loss always leads to some loss in glycogen, so stored sugar, which is also reflected in lean mass measures. Anyway, is it possible that there's some muscle loss? Definitely. The second and third she brings up are slight increases in heart rate and slight sensations of skin burning for some people. I'll have her video linked for you if you care to learn more after all that. Where does that leave us? Well, first GLP-1 receptor agonist solopeptides like semiglutide are effective for fat loss, but tier zepatide is more effective and retatuit may be even more effective. Side effects remain for all peptides, though the percent of people that get side effects is quite small. And yes, retatuitride may be especially effective because it does have evidence it maintains metabolism even when in a strong calorie deficit based on early data, giving it a mechanistic edge over even tierepide. But let's not end it here. We could nerd out further in other centrifuge episodes or if you're inclined, other epeptides. Check them out right here. Thanks for tuning in. I hope to see you in the next one. Every time I say retati, I think of like retatu.