 TENS, tens of millions of people use it, every day, as a pill form of a health insurance policy. You might use it too. It's the all-encompassing multivitamin. And, I was curious to find out if multivitamins are really all that beneficial, especially against one of the leading causes of death, cancer. So, as usual, I pooled eight studies on the topic, and what I discovered was affirming in many ways and slightly worrisome in others. If you look at the studies that look at multivitamin use and cancer occurrence, meaning that are you more or less likely to get cancer, there's generally good news on that front, with one rather large oddity between men and women that I'll touch on in a bit. The interesting part, though, is when getting into the disagreeing studies like these that indicate no effect of multivitamin use, like we see here, the higher the lines go, the more invasive cancer has occurred, since the lines don't deviate from one another in an obvious way. There is no clear effect of multivitamin use. But, I said some key words there. Invasive cancer, which is actually different from total cancer. That matters because the definition is narrower and assumes a more progressive cancer. Now, I don't mean housing reform. I mean it is not precancerous or stage 1 cancer. That matters because now we're measuring something a bit more difficult to detect. This means, in short, that studies looking at total cancer risk tend to indicate a benefit, but the effect on more established cancers may not show. In fact, a similar story is true when looking at cancer-related mortality. There's generally no relationship detected. Generally, the reason for these differences in results comes down to different study designs. I've cited a few randomized controlled trials, but also some associative studies. And keep in mind that multivitamin formulations are all over the place. So, the differences between studies can be heavily impacted by the type of multivitamin used. Or, as I mentioned, the outcome being assessed. So, cancer occurrence simply happens more than cancer deaths. More people will get cancer than people will die from cancer. Which means that the amount of data that can be collected to detect differences, especially subtle differences, is far greater for cancer occurrence. The point being, there's a lot of reasons why studies would disagree. And that leads us to a huge difference between men and women. You know all of what I just told you about multivitamins being effective against getting cancer, but maybe not for preventing cancer death? Shuck it! We've been discussing the data in totality, men and women, together. But, if you look at the data split by sex, a completely different story emerges. For example, if we reopen this study and I show you the entirety of the data for cancer incidents, remember that's the first one that we covered, where multiple studies indicated multivitamins were effective, and we look at it with a closer eye, we have total incidents up top, men only in the middle, and women only at the bottom. The higher the lines, more cancer. The intervention is multivitamin. Neither the total nor the women show any effect of multivitamin use, but we see a noticeable effect for men. In fact, in that same study, the same was true for mortality, too. That means that men benefit from multivitamin consumption possibly even more than what we previously went over, but women experience a more muted benefit, if a benefit at all. But the story doesn't end there, because there's another concerning difference between the two sexes. Before I dive into it, there's cancer-specific data, like lung, prostate, breast, and others, as well as another factor that could impact multivitamin usefulness. I'm covering that in my full analysis of the one that you're currently watching. It's included as a small part of my Physionic Insider membership, my premium research platform. You also get a full article and a one-paragraph summary of the main takeaways. If you prefer everything delivered to your email, there's an exclusive email list for the Insiders, plus all these perks right over here. And if you'd like to have full access to all my work, consider joining the Insiders. The link to join is in the description box. The reality is that there are even signals of a specific type of cancer that is actually worsened in risk from multivitamin consumption. That cancer is non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, a type of immune cell cancer specific to white blood cells. And if we look at that data transformed by yours truly, we see the relationship based on the length of time of consuming multivitamins. The more right the lines and dots go, the greater the risk of a particular type of lymphoma. And you can see that at the very bottom condition. The longest exposure to multivitamins indicates greatest risk. While associative, the researchers did measure and account for many influencing factors. Though the association that we just saw was again only in women with no such link in men. Yet the researchers failed to control for menopausal status, though they did control for age. It's possible that menopausal status could influence the relationship here, considering the drastic change in hormonal profile. Plus, the researchers themselves admit that the single positive result with cancer could be due to chance, meaning that if you do enough measurements, one of them is bound to show a statistically identified difference, though there is no real effect. Adding to that, a later analysis by the same research group looked at the same lymphoma, but quantified death instead of incidence, like what we went over earlier. And counterintuitively, they detected no relationship between women and non-Hodgkin's lymphoma-related death. I'm going to get into a little research methodology to explain the differences between these studies. So if you want to skip, just skip to this timestamp. There's three primary reasons. So one, the second study on mortality used a weaker cohort or group of people. I don't mean physically weak. I mean, the data collection wasn't as robust because they only measured multivitamin use at the beginning of the study, and the study lasted for 14 years. One of the strengths of that data set over the incidence study is that it showed a relationship with lymphoma is that the group tested were more heterogeneous or different because the incidence study, while they did measure multivitamin use multiple times throughout, it was restricted to nurses. So the relationship may be specific to nurses who consume multivitamins on a regular basis and not necessarily other women who consume multivitamins regularly. The second reason is simply duration of the study. So one study lasted for 14 years and another lasted for 16 years. Honestly, I doubt that that makes a huge difference, but it could play a factor. And third, we're returning to the mortality versus incidence. One is going to simply collect more data to detect a difference than the other. I'm talking about incidence. I could go on, honestly, but if you made the mistake of not jumping ahead, you're probably already regretting not fast-tracking to the answer. So let's get to it. There isn't any corroborative data to substantiate or refute the study indicating a link between multivitamin use and lymphoma. So we're in a bit of a bind here. Still, I'll take my best stab at a reasonable conclusion here. If you're a man, multivitamin consumption, acknowledging the flaws in the data, like not knowing the multivitamin use, is generally a neutral or positive health investment on the cancer front. Multivitamins offer a small protective effect. It's not massive, but it is there. If you're a woman, multivitamin consumption, acknowledging even more uncertainty in the data, does indicate some positives on the cancer front. But most of it is quite neutral. If you have a family history of non-Hodgkin's lymphoma, then maybe consider reducing the amount that you consume or avoid them and simply stick to a well-balanced diet. Otherwise, I don't see much reason to avoid multivitamins, especially since we're limiting it to cancer here. And there may be other benefits of multivitamins beyond the scope of cancer. But let's say that you're not convinced and you'd want even more evidence on the potential benefits of simple multivitamins. I cover some compelling reasons right here. I know this was a bit convoluted and sometimes the data just pans out that way, but I hope that this was informative and I'll see you in the next one. Bye.