There's this huge new study that released that indicates that UV light like that from the sun is linked to reduced risk of mortality. I was contacted multiple times to cover it because I had another analysis on sunscreen that I recently did. So, here I am reading this study and I can't help it but laugh because there's so much wrong here. It's flabbergasting. So, let me walk you through the main findings and then I'd like to point out some of the issues and then broaden our scope to other studies because as much as people are making this out to be such a impactful study, there's plenty of others that look at the exact same thing, UV and mortality in slightly different ways. Now, I think we're grossly misinterpreting what to take away from this new analysis. I'm talking about this study which is technically a preprint so it hasn't undergone the peer review process yet but since it was uploaded to the interwebs the interwebs are a buzz about it. Do you hear it? Essentially they measured the approximate exposure to ultraviolet radiation UV radiation and how many people died of any cause over about 15 years. So then we can track low exposure, moderate exposure, and high exposure and compare how many people died. And this was in a huge data set of over 400,000 people. Pretty straightforward. And here were the results. That dotted line straight up the middle is a neutral indication. So no increased or reduced risk of death. If the lines and dots move to the left, there's reduced risk. And if they move to the right, well, then there's increased risk of death. We're seeing two different comparisons for each mortality type. High UV exposure versus low low UV exposure and medium UV exposure versus low UV exposure. Clearly death from any cause, but also cardiovascular disease related and even cancer related death was reduced when people were exposed to more UV light. The big result of the study was that although skin cancer mortality like melanoma was increased with UV exposure, all other major forms of mortality including other cancers was diminished. The even bigger point to emphasize is that more people would be saved from other forms of death than from skin cancer related death. Clearly the risk benefit changes in that context. Now, another thing that this study did that was unique is that they used a more standardized criteria for assessing UV exposure. It's called the sunbeam. What a cute name. It looks like this. The left side is the assessment criteria. The more points that you accumulate, the higher your UV exposure and therefore your assignment to the high or moderate UV groups. Remember, moderate and high UV exposure was associated with reduced overall mortality compared to low UV exposure. Now, I'll inject a slightly critical eye here in as my first critique. There's two issues that I have with this one. I'm not entirely sold on how this section sun or UV protection is being interpreted. Those given a point for UV exposure are those protecting their skin from the sun, which technically means that they are exposing to less UV radiation considering that they're actively using sun protection, which blocks UV radiation. On the flip side, the zero condition there combines those who don't go out in the sun. That makes sense. But it also combined it with those who never wear sun protection, which would be the people who would be exposed to the most UV radiation when they do go outside. I think the argument is that this speaks to overall behavior, as in people who at least sometimes wear sun protection are generally people who seek out the sun more often. Still, I think this is a bit of an assumption and counterintuitive is measured. To be fair, they designed these criteria based on a grouping of other studies and trying to standardize the measures. I think it's a good idea overall. But my second critique is related to the binary measures, one or zero. Should a single sunlamp use be characterized as a full point compared to someone who uses it 20 times? Or even between categories? Time outdoors seems like it should be weighted far higher than sunlamp use. hand, keeping them on the same playing field is like putting a junior varsity team on an NFL field. On the other hand, the more you segment the data or as you apply weight to each condition, it creates a lot more noise and bias in interpreting the data. So, I can really see both perspectives, but these critiques are going to come back later as we broaden the scope to other studies as I promised. In fact, let's do a bit of that now. While I've been contacted about this study as if it's the first study of its kind, and in some small ways it is, there's actually many studies that look at the relationship between UV exposure and mortality. And most of these studies agree ultraviolet exposure is related to reduce risk of all-c cause mortality. So across multiple studies, we have an inverse relationship. More ultraviolet light exposure is related to reduced all-c cause mortality, confirming our initial study of interest. But just because I say multiple studies agree does not mean that all studies agree. In fact, I'm not even talking about one study disagreeing. I'm talking about many. We can lean on a new systematic review like this one that clearly outline how some studies indicate benefit of UV exposure and others do not. So, some actually indicating the opposite. Now, I'm going to enter a whole other level of critique, which is my primary point, but at the end of this, I promise to still offer some actionable takeaways. I don't want this to just be an intellectual exercise. So, let me start out by asking you, do you think that nutrition plays a role in mortality? Now, I certainly do. Yet, the researchers don't account for nutrition. They account for proxies like BMI and alcohol consumption, which are good controls, but they aren't expansive. In fact, most of the studies on UV exposure and mortality fail to account for nutrition. But my point isn't about nutrition specifically. It could be any number of different factors that contribute to mortality. This is what's known as residual confounding, and it's always present in these kinds of associative studies. However, when you're looking at more easily controllable factors like nutrition, physical activity, sleep, and so on, you can account for common confounding factors more easily. It's much more difficult when you're trying to tease out the effect of UV light because there's many factors that also need to be accounted for which aren't. This is critically important because as the paper is written and the way it's discussed and even the title is focused on ultraviolet light and reduce mortality yet we are not actually measuring the strict exposure to UV light are we? Let me ask you what else are we measuring if we're measuring the exposure to the sun. Yes, UV light is one, but visible light is a huge portion and infrared light is another massive portion. So why are we so focused on UV light and extolling the potential benefits of UV light yet ignoring the bigger players in the room? That's equivalent to looking at the consumption of carbohydrates and pinning the benefits on glucose while not acknowledging fiber was also consumed. Okay, I'm about to strengthen my argument even further and I'll mention really quickly that I'm doing a longer analysis of this study for my premium research review called the Physionic Insiders. I'll be getting into some of the even nerdier details. Now, if you care to join, you'll also get an accompanying article and all these perks right here, and you can discuss it in the insider community with me if you're interested. Anyway, link to join is in the description box. Before I get into strengthening my point, I realize that you may not be interested. So, skip to this timestamp to a point where I've babbled myself out and I'll put my main takeaways together for you. So, my first point is that we have a growing body of literature indicating that benefits of infrared light. Now, I've covered some of that in the past. To be fair, there are some studies using UV light as well that indicate benefits like reduce blood pressure from direct exposure. However, when we look at animal studies, a type of study that we can't do in humans, and we expose them to UV continuously for 2 hours, 4 hours, or 6 hours, the animals die at an astounding rate. The higher the lines remain, the better the survival. The top line is the control. So no heavy UV exposure. As you can see, UV exposure at any amount leads to devastating mortality effects. Now this is in a lower life form. Sea elegance worms. And for anyone not in the field of biomedical research, you'll scoff. But without getting into an education on why sea elegance research is important, I'll just say that many of the DNA repair mechanisms are conserved between these animals and humans. Is this definitive proof? Absolutely not. But it does fall in line with plenty of other research, including in humans, indicating harm of UV radiation, even if there's also some evidence for benefits. My point here isn't to offer certainty, but to actually do the opposite, to introduce uncertainty with how we discuss UV exposure and mortality. My second point bolsters the first. If we look at the studies that do adjust for nutrition, there's a particular study that separates UV exposure by the sun and UV exposure by salarium use. Let me pause here and ask you, sorry about all the questions, but this one is important. When you hear the term or the word salarium, what comes to mind immediately? And I'm asking because these studies use the word without properly defining it. If you look it up, it's a sun room. Or by other definitions, it's a sunlight. Or by others, it's a UV tanning bed. It's frustrating when the definition isn't provided because it changes the analysis drastically. In fact, the main study that we've been focused on combined salarium with sunlamp. Anyway, in this study, they use the term interchangeably with artificial UV exposure, which I assume is a tanning bed. That's critically important because when people use a tanning bed on a regular basis, one time per month or more, there is an increased risk of mortality. In the same study, they show a reduced risk of mortality when exposed to more sun. This goes exactly to my point. Since UV tanning beds do not usually include infrared light or at least massively overindex on UV light, yet sunlight massively overindexes on infrared light, not UV light. So this would speak to the benefit of red and infrared light but not UV exposure. To be clear, we don't have enough granularity here to state that as a fact, but it's definitely a possibility. Then, as a final critique before I shut up and give you the actionable takeaways, this systematic review that recently released included 55 studies on UV exposure and mortality. Across all 55 studies, not a single study was labeled as low risk of bias, meaning that every study had some form of inherent potential bias with the two most prevalent being uncontrolled confounding. So what I mentioned earlier about residual confounding factors that could explain the outcome aside from what's being measured like UV exposure and the second being a huge risk of bias is how the UV exposure was measured. It's usually though not always through estimates from where a person lives. So like the northern hemisphere for example. Okay, let me pull us out of the weeds. I usually avoid this level of detail except in my insider analysis simply because they get a bit overwhelming. What do we make of all these data? Well, putting aside the gaping holes in the data that still need to be addressed. Nothing that I've said up to now is an argument to avoid sun. The main argument is that we are misinterpreting or misrepresenting what the data is indicating by focusing on UV exposure and discussing it as a quasi causal factor for reduced mortality. It is entirely possible and maybe even likely that the real relationship is between infrared light exposure and reduced mortality and we're just measuring UV exposure or considering that the holes in the evidence that something else is the true cause of this relationship independent of light wavelength exposure. Here's how I'd approach this based on what we do have. Don't avoid the sun. There's plenty of benefits, but I would still make sure to try to block UV exposure until we have better evidence that UV is the real causal factor. Sunscreen, if you didn't know, only blocks UV. It does not block other wavelengths like infrared. So, you can get the best of both worlds without worry. Sorry for the technical nature of this video. I would actually have much more to say, but I have to balance length, yawn rate, and accuracy when I'm creating these. In fact, if you want more on sunlight, then check out this video right here. I promise it's less dense. Thanks for tuning in. I appreciate it, and I'll catch you in the next one. Bye.