I wouldn't want to be torine right now. Talk about bad publicity. Torine is an amino acid, a molecule that we produce as well as consume. And although last year and the year before was the year of torine with multiple studies coming out indicating it being a molecule of youth, this year it's taken its lumps. One study linked it to cancer, which we already covered, and a new study calls into question whether torine really is a molecule of youth. This one I have to admit they provide convincing evidence that we'll get into and even so we can mount a protor torine resistance based in science. Here's the conundrum. A huge extremely influential study released a few years ago that showed all kinds of ways that torine is linked to reversing and improving symptoms of aging. They showed it across multiple animal models, including some closer to humans, monkeys. Beyond that they had evidence torine declines precipitously with age in humans. We can see that here. On the vertical axis we have the blood torine levels. On the horizontal axis we have age and a line going through the data indicates the trend of the data and clearly it drops significantly from birth. So based on this association along with a mountain of data on supplementing torine showing life extension effects improvements in multiple organ systems from bone, muscle, brain and more. It was perfectly reasonable to assume that torine was a molecule that we needed to replace as we'd likely become deficient over time. So keep that association in mind. As we age, torine levels decline. Unfortunately, this new study provides direct convincing evidence that is not true. In fact, not only is it not true, but it may actually be the opposite. What do I mean? If we pop open this study, the researchers took blood samples from three groups of people between ages 26 to 100. If we pop open that data, we again see torine levels on the vertical axis and age on the horizontal. You'll immediately notice that we don't see that precipitous drop that we did in the previous influential torine study. The left pink graph is women and the right blue graph is men. In fact, if you squint, you see that torine levels rise over the lifespan. In fact, the same was true of monkeys and mice. Here's the monkey data. You can see a pretty noticeable curve upwards in the later years directly in opposition of what we knew before. So, what's going on here? Did the previous researchers deceive us or was it an error that was made? Well, they didn't deceive us, nor did they make an error. at least not experimental error. This initial study measured touring in a crosssectional format. That means that they measured a person at one time point in their life, let's say 30 years old, and they measured another person at one point in their life, say 64 years old, and then they compared. That's what led to these results. Now, that seems pretty reasonable, and you'd expect to detect a real association. However, a better way to go about things is longitudinally, as in you measure a person at 30 and then you measure the same person at 40 and then 50 and so on. That way, you're controlling naturally for many more factors like genetics, life circumstances, living location, potentially diet, and so on. That's the method that this new study did it. So, this is a prime example of knowing the limitations of study design. Just when we think that one type of study design is sufficient to answer a question, a better study design indicates otherwise. That means the new study is probably correct. Touring does not decline with age. But does that then mean that torine doesn't matter? Well, not quite. From the same study, if we look at the relationship between serum torine and leg strength, the torine levels are on the vertical axis and the increase in leg strength measured as knee strength is on the horizontal. In women, there's an association with greater blood torine levels being associated with better leg strength. So there's some indication that torine is still related to important health metrics. But if we look at something like I don't know grip strength, we no longer see an association. So it is specific to the experiment. There's a lot of these kinds of nuances like how age affects these muscle data and the torine levels in the organs and some additional data on weight and torine. I'll be covering that in the full analysis included for the Physionic Insiders. If you're interested in learning all that there is along with discussing in live sessions with me, getting a private podcast access, and much more, check out the Physionic Insiders. It's linked in the description box. Now, while there might be some signals that is still important, I don't know about you, but I'm pretty distrustful of these simple associative data, especially when we're getting mixed results. Fortunately, when discussing metrics like strength, guess what? We don't even need to rely on associative data. We can skip it entirely and go straight to the questions like if I consume torine, will I see improvements in muscle performance, which are easily answered by intervention studies, or as some people like to shout, lay Norton, randomized control trials. So taking a cursory peek at a study on torine. If we pop open muscle strength results compared against a group not consuming torine, we can see that torine indicates benefit as torine condition maintains muscle strength while the non-torrine placebo group does not. Clearly there's a benefit. This is further corroborated in systematic reviews as well. Although not all studies indicate benefit beyond muscle strength and performance. We've covered several studies directly implicating torine in improving a variety of conditions like metabolic syndrome. So to say that torine is useless now simply because it doesn't decrease with age just doesn't speak to the actual cause and effect studies that were performed. None of those care about your associative torine levels. All they show is that from multiple groups of people torine supplementation provides mild to moderate benefits at least on the outcomes that we briefly discussed. So the takeaway here is one that blood torine levels may not decline with age as we initially thought. Two, this reality does not mean that torine is not beneficial when supplemented at least based on the current intervention study literature. In fact, let's imagine that you don't believe me. What if I tried to convince you with some more direct evidence on Torine's use right Here.