the golden spice, the powder handed down from antiquity by the goddess Aphrodite to soothe the alien limbs of Adysius's sailors in the Iliad. Well, none of that is true for multiple reasons, as history nerds are going to point out, but it sounded good, didn't it? The spice is turmeric, but we're more interested in its main active ingredient, curcumin, which had little to do with the Greeks as it was used further east. However, we have gone over the clinical research on how curcumin has arthritis benefiting effects. In fact, we've gone over its pain relief properties and how it improves joint function in arthritis among other benefits. And I thought to myself, well, how exactly is it doing that? Are the joints regenerating? Is Aphrodite blowing kisses onto the boo boo? What's going on? So, I popped open a few mechanistic studies to understand how curcumin is fulfilling some of these effects. And wouldn't you know it, it actually does have some pretty profound effects that specifically address some major issues in arthritis, both rheumatoid and osteoarthritis. But focusing on osteoarthritis where the joint structure is often compromised by multiple things going wrong at once like the degradation of collagen in the cartilage that destabilizes the joint or the reduction in key cells that maintain the health of the cartilage called condraittes or increased inflammation that starts the whole process off causing both previous issues. The point being arthritis has many problems associated with it and yet curcumin seems to be able to address many of them. For example, this one datim shows us two clues. You know how I mentioned that arthritis is plagued with degradation of collagen? Well, the main enzyme responsible for that degradation are called metalloproteinasis or MMPs. They get secreted by cells called condondraittes in your cartilage and they interact with mature collagen structure and nibble away. So returning to this one graph, these are values measuring the amount of these proteins that are present. The higher the vertical axis, the more of these MMPs are present represented in the white bars and the horizontal axis is varying concentrations of the golden spice curcumin. So we clearly see MMP proteins are dramatically reduced when exposed to any concentration of curcumin. The main point here is that one major aspect of arthritis joint damage is punched in the mouth by curcumin. But I did mention that there are two clues out of this single graph. And we did focus on the white bars, but there's more here. The black bars. We see increases in these proteins with curcumin addition. And the protein is collagen. So that means that curcumin encourages these condraittes to not only produce less of the destructive molecules but more of the structural proteins for the joint collagen. Okay, now we're seeing some ways by which curcumin enacts its clinical benefits. But there's one more thing that I want to get to because it addresses another concern related to arthritis, which is the actual survival and maintenance of these critical condraittes. If you're interested in learning about the inflammation aspects of curcumin upstream of the MMPPS and the collagen production, which is uh a more involved discussion, be sure to check out the full analysis. It's uh a much extended detailed video, an article that comes out for the Physionic Insiders. The link to join is in the description. And don't forget about all these other benefits right here that you could have as an insider. Up to now, we've been discussing these proteins produced during arthritis. So, MMPPS that degrade the structure of the joint and the collagen that secures the the and strengthens the joint. But what about the actual factory that produces both of these proteins, the condraittes themselves? Remember I mentioned that in osteoarthritis, you'll also get reductions in these cells. So, what can curcumin do for us there? While the researchers also identified a protective effect of curcumin on the condondraittes themselves. When the arthritic environment was present, condondraittes were less able to multiply and replenish. But when curcumin was present, the condraittes thrived. So this tells us a few different things. One, that curcumin protects against arthritis by reducing destructive enzymes and encouraging collagen maintenance. The second thing is that these data alone are insufficient. But paired with the clinical data, this indicates curcumin has widespread benefit in protecting against arthritis. In fact, there are many different ways that curcumin can alleviate arthritis, and I cover a lot more right here, including many special circumstances. I hope that this was interesting follow-up to the clinical data. Thanks for tuning in, and I'll catch you soon again. Bye.