When it comes to fighting off cancer, there are many variables at play. From the cancer's location, the cancer type, background health, and more. Recently, it's been discovered that our microbiome can influence our own cells to produce more omega-3 fats, which ultimately yields a better cancer fighting ability in our body. But there's more to it than that. For example, a critical reason why some usually disadvantaged people suddenly come out on top and what were to happen if we bypass omega-3 production and go straight into consuming it. Does that also work? Like I mentioned, a lot goes into fighting cancer and some people are more resilient to cancer than others. One of the reasons is due to differences in the microbiome. the vast number of different microbes, in this case in our gut. When we take a microbiome from people with a rich microbiome and transplant them into mice, and we do the same with people who have an identified poor microbiome, we see some striking differences in the cancer effect. We're looking at tumor size with the rich human microbiome in blue and the microbiome poor condition in purple. If the lines go up, that means a larger tumor. Not a good thing in this context. Both conditions are also given imunotherapy to help fight the cancer. And even so, the rich microbiome led to a noticeable improvement, shrinking the tumor and fighting back cancer. These kinds of signatures are also true in humans. So, up to now, it's a simple message. Early evidence indicates a richer microbiome helps fight against cancer. But that's not why I enticed you to click on my exceedingly shocked face for the thumbnail. When we look at the molecules coming from the microbiome, according to this study that we've been relying on, the microbiome releases molecules that influence the activity of fat cells, adiposytes. When the researchers look at what kind of molecules are enriched in the microbiome, they focused in on a class of molecules called co-actors. Essentially, these are molecules that are necessary for enzymes to function. So, if you have a molecule and you're trying to produce another molecule, an enzyme can speed up the reaction by interacting with the initial molecule, changing its structure into the new molecule, the product. However, in many instances, enzymes need co-actors to function. So, when separating people who have better cancer outcomes from those that have poor cancer outcomes, we can look at the differences in these co-actors coming from the microbiome. In this case, the co-actor is FAD. The blue bars are people who are responders and the gray are non-responders to cancer fighting amunotherapy. only FAD was highlighted as a molecule different between responder status and in fact when giving FAD directly which by the way is flavin adinine ducleotide originating from vitamin B2 to the same scenario of mice with cancer bypassing the microbiome entirely there's a noticeable effect if the imunotherapy is given the cancer is greatly diminished but when FAD is also co-administered there's an almost complete loss of cancer. It should be noted though that FAD alone does not combat cancer. So this would mean that the effect is dependent on a true cancer fighting agent like an amunotherapy being present. The point here being two things. One, your microbiome encourages the production of co-actors like FAD that then two help fight against cancer assuming that anti-cancer therapy is also used. FAD coming from the gut can enter the diposytes and influence their ability to produce fat molecules. In fact, when we look at the amounts of these fat molecules comparing between rich microbiome on the right and the poorly diverse microbiome on the left and we're measuring the ratio of polyunsaturated fats to saturated fats, we see a noticeable increase in polyunsaturated fats. Now, keep in mind, we're not consuming more of these fats. So where are they coming from? They're coming from these microbiome derived molecules like FAD encouraging the conversion of more fat molecules to polyunsaturated fats. But not all polyunsaturated fats are the same. And it turns out that when we measure which PUFAs or polyunsaturated fat molecules are produced, there's a strong link to increased omega-3s, particularly DHA or docahexoninoic acid. And it's this DHA that is believed to help fight cancer. Now, fascinatingly, there are responders and non-responders to cancer fighting, possibly through this DHA mechanism. What I mean by that is some people have the microbiome capable of encouraging the fat cells of the body to produce more DHA fats which helps fight against cancer. Now generally people who are overweight tend to suffer from poor health. And yet when looking at cancer survival based on body weight, we see some counterintuitive results. The further up the lines remain, the more people survived cancer over the measured years listed as months on the horizontal axis. Notice how the greenish blue line remains above the pink line. That shows that people who are overweight do better than those who are normal weight. Now, one big consideration here is that certain cancers can manifest in body wasting, which could influence the results and skew them. However, the researchers show a clear pattern that the more overweight a person is, the greater their chance of being a responder to cancer treatment. Now the reason for this responder non-responder relationship is believed to be due to differences in the microbiome for multiple reasons not least of which being that responders who are overweight produce more FAD which doesn't occur for anyone else. Now I don't think that we can exclude other reasons but there's definitely a notable relationship there. In the end, we're talking about some, not all, overweight individuals having microbiome advantage in their ability to produce FAD, which enacts a positive role on fat cells, causing them to produce more DHA, omega-3s, which is believed to help fight cancer. Now, all of this, assuming amunotherapy is also in play. Of course, since all this hinges on the end product, omega-3 fat, uh why not just skip all the complexity and just, I don't know, consume omega-3 fats? That would eliminate the guesswork and it would also help people who don't have this responder benefit through FAD, normal weight and overweight alike. And that's what was tried. And when looking at tumor weight, again, again, the higher the bars, the worse. And we use different conditions. So nothing changed our control and then only giving DHA but no cancer treatment and then the cancer treatment alone or the cancer treatment with DHA. We see an almost stepwise effect. Ultimately the combination of cancer treatment amunotherapy plus DHA omega-3 fat led to the best results. Now this suggests that we could bypass the FAD angle entirely. Though we don't know that for certain as they didn't actually add a fifth condition with FAD to tease out the effects between the FAD and the DHA if there are any meaningful differences remaining. All in all, we're seeing some preclinical evidence that we can emphasize DHA fats, omega-3s with amunotherapy and have increased potency against cancer. Now, unfortunately, while the main study that we've been unpacking mixes human evidence with animal evidence to give us this like interesting relationship between gut microbiome, fat tissue, omega-3s, and cancer, they did not take the study that final step to see if omega-3s might track with improvements in cancer outcomes when people are given amunotherapy to combat their cancer. Now, fortunately, we don't need to rely on this study alone because I discovered that there is such a study that looks at this very issue. If we look at blood omega-3s in people with cancer, do we see better survival? Now, before I divulge the exciting or disappointing results, if you're looking for a more in-depth analysis, including how FAD and omega-3s act as anti-cancer molecules or the different strains of bacteria believed to be part of this healthful responder class of people, then check out the Physionic Insiders. It's my premium research platform filled with well over 100 videos at this point, accompanying articles with those videos, one paragraph summaries, a private podcast, and honestly so much more. If you're interested, just check it out using the link in the description. Well, don't look at me. I'm not going to do all the work for you. Look for yourself. The lower the bars go, the worse. As in, fewer people survived their cancer. Unfortunately, we're looking at ratio of EPA, that's an omega-3 fat, over arachidonic acid, that's on the left, and the right is our DHA omega-3 fat. Now, clearly having a high ratio, as in more omega-3s, correlates with improved cancer survival. And I'll even add that these data are adjusted for body weight. So, this falls in line with the previous research. This was a small study. It was a pilot study. So, I wouldn't consider this the end all be all, but it's nice to see a through line into the human data from that last section from the main study that we've been reviewing. In the end, this is giving us signals that having a higher omega-3 content in your cells and in your blood relates to better cancer outcomes when you already have cancer. This is however also in the context of already treating the cancer with amunotherapy. I am certainly not claiming that we have any strong evidence that omega-3s can fight cancer on their own. None of the data that we went over showed that definitively. Even here, I'd welcome more data because we're in early days. But it is certainly encouraging. I don't know, maybe in the future we might see a randomized control trial looking at omega-3 supplementation, the responsiveness to imunotherapy in people with cancer. That would be another piece of data that we that would actually be really helpful to solidify this all. Right now, I don't see a reason not to consume omega-3 rich foods like fish or even supplement if a person has cancer. But there's plenty of unanswered questions like does it matter which cancer? Does it matter on the stage of cancer? Does a person's general health matter? And more so just understand this is encouraging but not yet definitive. And I mean what a cool mechanism. Anyway, I've covered many times over the benefits of omega-3 fats. Check out the other benefits right here. Thanks for nerding out with me. I'll catch you in the next one. And I'm wearing a nice shirt and tie because I just got back from a