There's this odd style of fasting that indicates a serious benefit in removing visceral fat from the body. Why visceral fat? Well, visceral fat is a type of fat that sits around your organs. Think your kidneys, liver, heart, and so on. And it's been linked to several diseases. In fact, we've discussed that harmful relationship in the past. Briefly, in that study, the researchers identified a relationship between type 2 diabetes as well as coronary artery disease and visceral fat. That means that the more visceral fat, the worse the risk of both diseases. If you've been following my content rely If you've been following the content lately, you'll also know there are many, many ways. lately, you'll also know that there are many, many ways that visceral fat is harmful to our health. I won't relitigate things here, but it's overwhelming, and I certainly plan on covering more in the future. Anyway, researchers wanted to know what happens when people use a simple but unconventional fasting method to eliminate that harmful visceral fat. In that study, participants were randomly told to follow a fasting protocol or a healthy nutrition. And we'll get into what both of those are in a minute. I kind of awkwardly phrase that participants were randomly told makes it sound like they were having a conversation about something completely different and then the information was sprung on them. Yeah, I told her like don't put the belts on that side of the closet. It's just so hard to reach. Like I have such trouble reaching that point. Fasting condition. The point being they were randomly allocated to one condition or another. Okay. The fasting protocol initially started as two protocols and then merged into one. So I'm going to focus on the one that was used throughout the study, which is a 36-hour fast including a proteinpacing period. To get into that a bit more, the participants fasted for 36 hours and within that fasting period, they consumed a single 400 calorie snack filled with antioxidants, adaptogens, and an assortment of different food items. That's part of the oddity of this fast. It's more of a quasi fast, but the results speak for themselves, as we'll see. The other oddity of this fast was the proteinpacing period. During the protein pacing period, which occurred outside of the 36-hour fast, the participants consumed four to five meals per day that were relatively evenly spaced, and every meal contained protein. Here's the breakdown. So, breakfast, a protein shake, plus fruit and vegetables. For lunch, another protein shake. Then, a snack that was only for men. There was a 200 calorie snack. then dinner, a whole food dinner, and then an evening snack, which is a protein snack amounting to around 200 calories. The overall calorie and macronutrient breakdown was on non-fasting days around 1,350 calories for women and 1,700 calories for men at a ratio of 35% protein, 35% carbohydrates, and 30% dietary fat. As for the comparison diet, which was labeled as heart healthy, 1,200 calories for women, 1500 calories for men, 50 to 60% carbohydrates, less than 35% dietary fat, and the rest being protein, usually around 15%. They also limited their sugar consumption to less than 50 gram and consume 20 to 30 g of fiber. Okay, I think we've set things up suitably. It's a little out there, but let's look at what happens. And then there's some additional considerations here that we need to get into as well. If uh you're interested in more details on the study, a written out protocol, and even an analysis on another study looking at heart health using an even easier fasting protocol, check out the Physionic Insiders research platform. I have a lot more details in there and a lot more of all this kind of stuff there. Plus, if you want a supportive community or to discuss in live sessions with me, that's also included. Link to join is in the description box. Here we go. We're looking at visceral fat from the beginning of the study at week zero to the end of this study, week nine. I'll speak to the length and size of the study in a bit. For now, we can appreciate that the dark line, which is the calorierestricted hearthealthy control group, experienced some visceral fat loss, but the intermittent fasting group doubled the visceral fat loss on an absolute basis. So, we know that visceral fat was lost at a much quicker rate using the fasting protocol. But can we really attribute it this to the fasting protocol? There are possible explanations for these differences that we should explore. And when we do, there's actually a mystery that emerges. So, two logical places to look to explain these differences might be to look at energy intake and physical activity. The inbound and the outgoing energy. And when looking at both energy intake and energy expenditure by physical activity, there was no differences between the groups. The fasting group did consume slightly more dietary fiber, but not much. And of course, by design, the fasting group also consumed much more protein. So, could there be a metabolism effect going on here independent of physical activity? Possibly. So, some people focus more on insulin as opposed to calories. But here again, insulin levels were about the same. In fact, the ending insulin level may have been slightly higher in the fasting group. So, a bit of a mystery on exactly how this all happens. But there is one distinct possibility, increases in metabolism, which wasn't measured, unfortunately. Now, the study was in relatively healthy overweight individuals. And as you might have noticed, the study was only 8 to nine weeks long, included a small group of people, around 20 per condition. So, one critique could be that this might only apply to those individuals, and that's possible without further data. However, I'm skeptical this would only work for those individuals. In addition, the duration of the study is what makes it exciting. Getting these effects in just 2 months really speaks to its effectiveness. In the end, the takeaway here is that this 36-hour quasi fast, including 400 calories of nutrients, plus a protein pacing period during the other 5 to 6 days, significantly outperformed a heart-healthy, calorierestricted diet by a sizable amount when looking to eliminate as much harmful visceral fat as possible. But assuming that you want to be consuming more food and still pack a punch on your visceral fat, there's other ways of attacking the issue which I describe right here. Thanks for tuning in and I'll catch you over there. Bye.