If you drink coffee, I'll bet you no money, because I have no money to bet that you've never heard of these effects that it has on your cardiovascular system and your heart. I ran across a fascinating study going into some serious depth on the effects of chlorogenic acid, a powerful polyphenol molecule found in coffee. We'll go over the data, describe the mechanisms, and then sum it up together at the end. The study, this one, is a mechanism study to understand what happens when exposed to coffeey's chlorogenic acid. The crux of the study is to use four groups of mice. One control group given nothing, another two groups given chlorogenic acid at a low and high concentration, and a final group known as a positive control given a statin, which is a lipid blood cholesterol lowering drug. The unique aspects of these mice is the fact that they're APOE null mice. Meaning the APOE gene has been removed from these mice, which means that they develop heart disease at a much quicker rate because the APOE protein found in the particles that carry cholesterol throughout our body are less able to be cleared from the bloodstream leading to significant accumulation and arterial plaque formation. So the researchers took measurements of arterial plaque, blood panels, inflammatory markers, and things like aortic dilotation. So I'll explain what that is. Let's start with looking at the plaque levels. Remember plaque is filled with these lipoprotein particles that are trapped under a layer of cells called endothelial cells. So the greater deposition and oxidation or modification of these particles leads to more plaque growth. Fascinatingly, if we look at these data on plaque size, we see that the control condition is on the left side. That is what we're comparing against. The ator of a statin is the statin the lipid lowering drug and the two pink conditions on the right are the chlorogenic acid conditions. Clearly, we can see that all three conditions show reduced plaque in the arteries compared to the control, indicating that the statin and the chlorogenic acid reduce plaque burden in the artery wall, which is really fascinating. There's more that we'll need to say on this later, but for now, let's go into even more of this interesting finding. There's another problem that comes from atheroscerosis, the uh plaque buildup, and that's aortic dilotation. Essentially, as plaque builds up in your aorta, which is a section branching from the heart, and in this section, if it accumulates with plaque, also attracts immune cells that infiltrate into the plaque region. In doing so, these immune cells release a series of molecules called cytoines that not only attract more immune cells to the region, but they also inc can encourage the release of degradation proteins called MMPs. These MMPs degrade the surrounding structure of the aorta, weakening it. This also happens in other areas of the vascule. It's just that the aorta is especially deadly. So if the integrity is degraded it makes the aorta stiffer because the elastin proteins get destroyed that is measured by dilotation which indicates ballooning or abnormal enlargement of the blood vessel. Looking at the data we can see that the statin and the greatest dose of chlorogenic acid reduced aortic dilotation indicating a positive effect. Now that might be due to the reduction in plaque volume or it may be through some other mechanism. But regardless, chlorogenic acid seems to help. Okay, so we've been pretty focused on reduced plaque size and the offshoot effects that might have. But what is leading to this atherosclerosis improvement? Fortunately, the researchers did an elegant experiment where they fluorescently labeled cholesterol molecules to track cholesterol movement. This cholesterol is called NBD cholesterol. Then they applied chlorogenic acid to macrofasages. These are the primary immune cells that drive themselves into the plaque and contribute to the instability and growth of the plaque. That instability is due to these macrofasages which are trying to help are consuming large amounts of cholesterol in an attempt to eliminate them from being trapped in the plaque and in so doing get laden with cholesterol which leads them to form into foam cells. One way to avoid this instability as well as potentially reverse plaque in the artery is to remove cholesterol molecules. The way that is done is through cholesterol elux which is mediated by another set of particles called HDL or highdensity lipoproteins. HDL doesn't get trapped like other particles. So it can pick up cholesterol molecules and drop them off at the liver to be eliminated. That's cholesterol e-lux and reverse cholesterol transport at work. So what happens to cholesterol elux to these HDL particles? Well, it increases conditionally. We have our trusty control condition here. And remember, the higher the bar, the greater the cholesterol e-lux, a good thing. The CGA1 and the CGA10 are the chlorogenic acid conditions. And we can clearly see they indicate increased cholesterol e-lux. But that last condition with the GW there does not. Why? While scientists are often curious to test if they were to block a particular cellular pathway if it would have an effect on the result that they're seeing. In this situation they're adding GW9662 which is an inhibitor of a master protein found in our cells called par gamma. Par gamma is a protein that encourages the expression of many genes some of which seem to be involved in cholesterol e-lux from the immune cells. If we block par gamma cholesterol e-lux no longer occurs and on top of that the resigly condition there is resiglatazone uh par gamma activator and we see a robust el-lux of cholesterol to HDL indicating that pathway alone can lead to cholesterol elux. Now before we continue with a few warnings that PER gamma angle that we just discussed actually continues with more on the mechanisms of how it works inside the cells to lead to cholesterol elux and there are some other ways that chlorogenic acid helps our body avoid cardiovascular disease. If you're interested in more I'm covering that in the full version of the video that you're watching that's included with the Physiotic Insiders along with podcasts, live sessions with me, a library of these kinds of videos, research reviews, and more. It's a great way to continue a detailed education on how your body works and what to do to improve it. The link to join is in the description box. I'd love to have you there. But there are some considerations to keep in mind here. One, this is a pre-clinical data. It's not like I suddenly went insane and lost my sense of scientific order of operations. These kinds of data don't speak to the applicable information. But before you comment mean comments on what the point of the video is, I'll bring it back to you and me, unless you're a mouse, in which case this already applies pretty well. Two, a bit in the same neighborhood, chlorogenic acid doses given the in these studies are much higher than that found in coffee. So again, beyond the fact that this is in mice, the effect sizes will likely be smaller in humans. Okay, sobering caveats out of the way, does that mean that we wasted our time here? No, first I got to annoy you with some wickedly cool science. But beyond my egoentrism, there are some human trials using chlorogenic acid. And although not plentiful, the few randomized control trials using chlorogenic acid do indicate benefit. But beyond that, chlorogenic acid is a major molecule in coffee. And there are many studies that indicate a relationship between coffee consumption and reduced cardiovascular disease risk. It seems reasonable considering all these data that chlorogenic acid in that addictive dark liquid is playing a role in that protective process. So where does that leave us? It's pretty simple. Coffee is a healthy drink that likely works through at least partly chlorogenic acid in protecting us from cardiovascular disease. So if you're drinking coffee, good for you. If not, here's a reason to start considering the totality of evidence. But just because you drink it doesn't mean that you couldn't improve its effects by doing what I mentioned here.