The title makes it seem like I'm going to be selling you some powder in this video. The Physionic Liver Cleanser 9000. I'll go ahead and tell you that I am not. I'll tell you everything that you need to know and it's extremely simple. But really, that's the most boring part because what I'm excited to show you is the relationship between BCAAs, the same branched chain amino acids found in many proteins, and liver disease, and how this powder cleanses the liver, the colon, and your blood in such a way that it fixes said liver disease. The powder is resistant starch and I'll tell you how I use it every day that I can. Across multiple scientific reviews, it's described that the higher your blood BCAAslevels, that's those branch chain amino acids like leucine, veene, and isolucine, the greater your risk of NAFLD of nonalcoholic fatty liver disease. So, you may not realize it, but I've already set the stage two problematic points. the blood and the liver. Now, we'll be adding your intestines, your colon specifically to the mix soon. In fact, this relationship between BCAAs and liver disease can be seen here. The vertical axis is liver fat and the horizontal is blood BCAAs. We see a relationship with increased BCAAs associate with more liver fat, a bad thing. Now, of course, this is an association and these associations are found across the literature. Now, the question may have popped into your head, well, if uh high blood BCAAs are related to liver disease, should I stop consuming BCAAs? Well, not quite. In fact, that question is something I'll probably end up covering in more depth in the future. But for now, the research indicates that this relationship is not primarily driven by consuming BCAAs, though it is a source of blood BCAAs, but rather a mixture of three things. consumption, production, and impaired clearance. Now, consumption is obvious, but the other two are a bit more nebulous. The impaired clearance means that the cells of the body aren't able to take up BCAAs out of the blood and use them or catabolize, break them down. This implies some form of pre-existing problem in metabolism, usually major problems like being overfat, insulin resistant, and more. The takeaway here isn't that BCAAs are on their own problematic, but that they can be a problem or a signal of a problem if the body is metabolically compromised, like an insulin resistant state or generally being overweight. Still, that leaves one critical prong of the trident, production. Your body can also produce BCAAs, and in this case, we don't want it to, which we'll get into in just a minute. The production side is where resistant starch powder can have a massive impact because BCAAs are produced by particular bacteria in our gut. And here enters our third anatomical musketeer, the colon. Inside your colon are billions of microbes including bacteria. And some of those bacteria produce these BCAAs which is associated with a disregulated microbiome in people with fatty liver disease. We can see such a relationship here. The more the red squares that you see, the more the positive correlation, meaning more of that molecule is produced. The molecules are listed at the bottom and IHC is liver fat. The right side is a bunch of groupings of microbial gene pathways. And we're zooming in to look at four of these gene pathways. All of them are tied to BCAAsproduction. And at the very bottom you see some of the microbes, the bacteria responsible for these gene pathways. So to simplify, we see a bunch of red above IHTC, that's liver fat, indicating more is present. And when we zoom into some of these gene pathways linked to BCAAsproduction, we see the relationship between more liver fat and BCAAsproduction gene pathways. Of course, this is still association, but we can even test this through experimentation by simply taking one of these BCAAs, veiling, and applying it to liver cells seen here. This is the amount of triglyceride or fat molecules stored in the liver cells with veene exposure at increasing concentrations or without veiling. If the bars go up, that directly implicates veiling as stimulating fat storage in the liver cells. And clearly that's the case though there only needs to be a minimum threshold reached as there's no dose response as in more veiling more fat storage. As a note these liver cells were cancerous liver cells. So these may not be reproducible in normal liver cells. It speaks again more to the necessary underlying dysfunction before BCAAs enact a harmful role. All right your eyes might be a bit uh crosseyed. So, let me pull us out of the data muk and simplify this. The main point here is that our gut microbiome produces BCAAs which add to blood BCAAslevels which directly increases the storage of fat in our liver causing fatty liver disease. Now, we have our three sites, the colon, the blood, and the liver. How do resistant starches cleanse or in a less woo woo language improve all three? And how much should we be using to get these benefits? Well, check it out. We're looking at colonic production of all three BCAAs. The CS condition there is the nonresistant starch control condition. And the right is the resistant starch condition. One thing to note is that this experiment was taking human microbiome samples and implanting them into mice. A bit of a hybrid experiment. Notice how the resistant starch supplemented human samples led to significant reductions in colonic BCAAsproduction. Then when we look at the strict human data after months of supplementing with resistant starches in blue, we see reductions in blood branch chain amino acids indicated as the blue bars move in the opposite direction of the red control group. And in the negative Zcore direction we see that universally veiling leucine and isolucine are reduced in the blood. Okay, that's two cleansed. Now on to the most important one, the liver. The liver data is pretty revealing, but there's also data on toxin levels in the blood and how some people are higher responders than others and other metabolic effects of resistant starches. I'm covering that in the extended analysis of the one that you're currently watching. Now, if you're interested, it's an extended video comes with an article, a summary of the main points, and that's just one of the perks that you'll get as a physionic insider, which includes all of these perks as well. For example, where can you get reputable resistance starches? I have a master supplement guide that tells you some good sources, and there's much more to the insiders, but I'll leave it there. If you're interested in access to all my work, hop aboard the Physionic Insiders. Join using the link in the description. For this, we can lean on the human data and measures of IHTC. Remember that one? That's the liver fat. Now, after 4 months of supplementation, those using resistant starches experienced a notable reduction, maybe what, like 25%. What do you think in intrahippatic fat or liver fat? So the point here being across all three categories, production by microbiome, blood BCAAs and liver fat burden, resistant starch consumption has widpread benefit. So yes, the stuff works and it works very well. Anyway, enough science. Hopefully I've convinced you that resistant starches have some pretty great benefits. Though the focus here has been on the microbiome, BCAAs, liver fat relationship. There's certainly other ways that resistant starches help us. I usually consume about 40 grams of resistant starch in some form of shake. Now, I usually switch it up and it doesn't really matter that much so long as it's somewhat appetizing. If you have recipes, I'm all ears. Generally, you can get resistant starches from sources like green banana powder, high amalos maze, and potato starch. Here's the kicker, though. Like I said, there's other ways that resistant starches help our body with impressive results, but some people get less benefit than others, and I cover that in my next video. Check it out right here. Hope you found this as fascinating as I did. Thanks for tuning in, and I'll catch you in the next one. See you.