Do we all agree that soda is not a benefit for our health? I think across the nutrition aisle, we can shake hands in agreement over that statement, but it's recently been discovered exactly how cancer spreads more aggressively across the body when we consume soda or pop as you Midwesterners will correct me. In a fascinating study, when an enzyme is removed from the body, animals with cancer experience a massive stoppage to cancer metastasis. That's the spreading of cancer to other regions of the body. And don't worry, we're going to go over human research, too. That enzyme is called sword, and it's the lynch pin between cancer and soda. Let me explain. The two most well-known nutrients in soda are glucose and fructose. So, those are two sugars. Have you ever heard of high fructose corn syrup? That's the glucose and slightly more fructose. And it's used heavily in soda. So when we expose a variety of colorctyl cancer cells to either glucose that's found in our bloodstream or the combination of glucose plus fructose what we deliver to our bloodstream through soda consumption we see some striking results. The orange is our troublemaker condition. The combination with fructose and we're looking at four different colorctyl cancer cell lines. The higher the bars go, the more aggressive the cancer cells are, meaning the greater metastasis potential. We can even see that in the microscope images on the right. The more color you see, the more cancer cells have invaded. Clearly, the combination leads to more aggression. Okay, great. But what does that have to do with sword? Well, when we probe tumors and measure the amount of sword expression, meaning the more of the sore gene is read by the cell and produced into a functional protein, we see a significant rise in sword expression compared to non-cancerous tissue. So that means that there's at least an association between sword and cancer. But that doesn't tell us the relationship to soda yet. At this point, we know two things. One, fructose combined with glucose like in soda makes colurectal cancer more aggressive. Two, cancerous tumors contain a lot more of this sword gene expression than normal tissues. Now, if we return to what I said earlier, this enzyme sword and when it's knocked out or removed from the body, cancer doesn't spread nearly at the same level as when it's present in cancer. We can see that here. The higher the bars, the more cancer is spread. Not a good thing. The WT there are mice with the sword gene intact and the KO are knockout there. So are mice with sword exised from their cancer cells. Now cancer metastasis is clearly massively diminished. And equally poignantly in the images to the right, the hot spots, the color are that you're seeing there are mice that have tagged cancer cells. It's clear that there are far more hot spots, i.e. cancer cells in the sword intact mice. Okay, sword is important. Got it. But how does this relate to fructose and glucose? Well, for one, you have [snorts] the sword gene in your cells just like the mice do. But more poignantly, fructose when it enters your cells is converted to a molecule called sorbital. That conversion is performed by the sword protein called sorbital dehydrogenase, but we're going to stick to sword for ease of understanding. Now during that conversion process from fructose to sorbital sword uses a molecule called NADH. Like a handyman uses a hammer to hit a nail, sword uses NADH as its hammer. [snorts] And it's the use of NADH converting into NAD that leads to more aggressive cancer. So in total colarctal cancer cells have a sword protein in them that when exposed to fructose and glucose generates more NAD that leads to downstream activation of promigration pro- invasion behavior of cancer cells. Now I did briefly mention NAD and I didn't elaborate further because there's a bunch more that gets pretty technical like the impact that NAD has on a pathway called the malinate pathway. how, oddly enough, statins can play a role and more. So, if you're an uber nerd like me and want the unabbridged version of this video, check out the Physionic Insiders. You'll also get weekly articles, all these perks right over here, plus access to my insider community. Links in the description if you're interested. Okay, all this is well and good, but where's the human evidence? Does this translate? Now, what we've been over is in mice and in cells. And it's usually well before this point in the video where people will comment a great zinger like, "I'll worry when I'm a mouse." Or, "Mice aren't humans." And that's when I read the comments and I'm just blown away by this revelation. It's staggering because throughout my masters and my PhD, I was never taught that. I was I'm actually the dumbest person on earth. Or alternatively, or in addition, it's also possible that I reference back to corroborating human data whenever I possibly can, especially when we discuss mechanistic data in animals. But those individuals simply ignore or don't get to these parts of the video. So for emphasis, these are studies linking sugar sweetened beverages to more cancer in humans. There's also studies linking fructose to colorectal cancer as well. Now, interestingly, there's a bit of variance on if sugarsw sweetened beverages like soda are linked to cancer. The trend is either neutral or harmful link though. So, as a final exasperated emphasis, yes, the mechanisms are described here in animal research, but the mechanisms are also plausible in humans. And there are several studies linking sugary drinks like soda pop to cancer in humans. To be honest, I don't expect too much push back on this one simply because of the first question I asked you at the beginning. Uh we almost all agree that soda isn't a health benefit. Now, if I were to replace the word soda with red meat or walnuts, I'd already be booting up my Cyberdine systems T800 to protect me. Such is the reality of unwavering bias. Okay, so what's the skinny? We now have a mechanism of action by which fructose paired with glucose like heavily found in soda makes colurectal cancer cells more aggressive. It's through the sword enzyme converting fructose to sorbital leading to high NAD levels within the cells that changes the cancer cells to be more aggressive. We also know that there are some links also shown in human studies even when controlling for diet quality, body weight, energy intake and more. So this is not limited evidence to just animals. the mechanistic research there is some signal in humans too. So based on what we know right now I think a conservative but justified conclusion would be to avoid soda if you suff suffer from colurectal cancer. In fact most sugar sweetened beverages a slightly less substantiated but another possibility is avoiding soda and sugary drinks in general regardless of your cancer status. Now, I imagine this isn't a huge problem for most people, and it's a small nudge for those that do indulge regularly. Keep in mind, a once in a while treat isn't going to do anything to anyone. We're talking about long-term habits. So, okay, it's relatively simple to avoid sugar, sweetened beverages, but there's also nutrients that, if you don't consume enough, also raise cancer risk. I cover that right here. I hope this was helpful. Thanks for tuning in. Bye.