Viruses, bacteria, alien life forms, they can invade your body through your nose, your mouth. Ridley has experienced that one. A cut to your skin, entry through your eyes, and believe it or not, your intestines, too, which isn't often considered, but is a major battleground between your body and a variety of illness spawning microbes. If your intestinal barrier that separates these microbes from our bloodstream isn't maintained, we can get some nasty consequences. Just ask people dealing with ulcerative colitis, irritable bowel syndrome, and other gut related issues. And even when harmful microbes get past our physical barriers, how our immune system responds is also critical because an overreaction like me screaming at a mouse can cause pain and damage to our supposedly healthy gut. But an underreaction like the one that I have when people who say mean things about me in the comments and across social media is also a risk. So, how do we maintain a tight balance that allows our body to respond swiftly and accurately like John Wick without overdoing it? Like John Wick, dude really loved his dog. I guess I can't blame him. Well, there's a nutrient that does exactly that as I'll show you. This nutrient affects popular immune cells called macrofasages. These immune cells are found in the lamina propaya which is an area right behind that physical barrier of epithelial cells that make up our intestinal tract. It's filled with loose connective tissue and offers a structure to the intestines. However, it's also where an army of immune cells wait as a second line of defense. So, what's the nutrient and how exactly does it improve our immune system and gut? Well, as you see by the title here, it's a fat called butyrate. And ironically, you can stimulate your body to produce it, but not necessarily by eating it. We'll get into how, but for now, let's look at how it affects your immune system's precision and deadliness to pathogens. Researchers took human macrofasages and exposed them to different harmful bacteria. Think salmonella, certain ecoli, and the like. They then simply expose the cells to butyrate or not the control condition here. Here we're looking at the number of Salammonella bacteria still present after infection. The red condition is the butyrate treated macrofasages. So the lower the dots, the fewer the remaining bacteria. For those in immunology, this is a genty assay. I realize there's more to the experimental design, but we'll have to keep it simple this time. The right side is the literal image of the bacterial colonies. Clearly there are fewer. So butyrate clearly improves macrofase ability to kill bacteria. So pathogens. As an FYI, this was also repeated with multiple other bacteria and the results were the exact same. But how does it do that? And even more importantly, does it increase the deadliness of these cells at the expense of more inflammation in the area, which we don't want. Remember, that's like me overreacting to a mouse. Too much screeching for nothing. Well, we get clues by looking at data like this. Here the researchers are measuring the acidity around the macrofasages that tells us that if the cells are more or less glycolytic, meaning that the cells are using sugar glucose as their fuel source. One of the products of some of the sugar metabolism is an increase in acidity. I won't explain this experiment in extreme detail. Just note that if the lines go up, there's more acidity, therefore more sugar metabolism. But as you can see, the butyrate condition offers a reduction in acidity, indicating that the cells are likely relying more on fat metabolism for energy. That makes more sense considering butyrate is a fat, but that's not really the whole story here. Not only does butyrate change the metabolism of cells, which if you look in the literature, a less glycolytic, more fat-based metabolism for immune cells typically means that they are anti-inflammatory or pro-resolution or repair state. I want to be clear that's a generalization, but it's been true across a lot of literature, even if there's more complexity and exceptions to the matter that we can't get into now. So, not only does butyrate change the metabolism of these key immune cells, but it changes the signaling inside the cells in a critical and amazing way. If you're in the field or an enthusiast, you likely know about a master enzyme inside your cells called EMPK. This enzyme is critical for sending many signals across the cell. But critically, it plays a big role in something called autophagy. You might have heard of this uh buzzword called autophagy, which isn't actually a buzzword in the scientific world. It just has been hijacked across social media. Anyway, autophagy is a process where your cells eat parts of themselves. It's often called a selfcleaning process. Get it? Cell instead of self. If your mouth didn't even twitch up, I understand. Uh the point being that autophagy cleans out and destroys different elements within the cell and EMPK this enzyme plays a critical role in activating it but also activating something called xenophagy. Autophagy and xenophagy differ in that autophagy eliminates and cleans up proteins and whole organels from the cell. But xenophagi is triggered when a pathogen has been absorbed into the cell and escapes or damages its prison. When immune cells take up pathogens, it's like they consume them, encasing them in a prison called a vacule. This process is called fagocytosis. However, some pathogens have tools, molecules to escape the vacule called a secretion system. In some instances, the vacule ruptures while the bacterium is inside the macroofase, leading to the bacterium running around inside the cell. Think of it like something foreign being inside of your rib cage. There are entirely too many alien references. Anyway, this is where something like xenophagi might be called upon to recapture the bacterium and lead it to the gallows, hence the name xeno for foreign. So how does butyrate play into this? Well, here we're looking at autophagy xenophagi activating master enzymek. And we can clearly see that the enzyme concentration is greater with butyrate. However, downstream measures we can also see it activates proteins responsible for encapsulating and destroying these foreign bodies. Here on the left we have the quantification with the with and without salmonella infection. The infection itself independent of butyrate increases LC32 levels which is a protein that sits on the vesicle that captures the pathogen. It's used as a marker of mature versions of these destructive vesicles called autotolys or in this case a xenolosome. Once butyrate is added, we can see that the levels are even greater and we can see images of what's happening inside the macrofasages too on the right. The green is a fluorescent tag applied to cella the infecting bacteria and LC3 is a protein that is recognized on the destructive vesicles. And the blue stain there is simply to identify the macrofasages by their nuclei. Not something that we need to worry about. In the control, we clearly see salmonella inside the cell. We can't see if they're free or still stuck in the original vacule. But on the right side with butyrate, we see a lot more of this xenopagic activity evidenced by more LC3 present, indicating that the cells are destroying the infection, which is pretty neat, right? But while the precision and pathogen destructive ability of the macrofasages is improved, does this also mean that there's an increase in the overall inflammation to achieve these effects? Well, if you look at the supplemental data in this study, we're looking at pro-inflammatory cytoine levels. So both interlucan one and tumor necrosis factor alpha, there are molecules secreted by cells that stimulate the immune system, greater inflammation. So while we do see increases in both molecules when the infection is added indicated by the plus symbol there, the key answer to our question lies in the comparison between the control infection and the butyrate infection conditions. The butyrate condition does not show a greater inflammation signal even though it is far better at killing the infection. That's pretty damn fascinating. To be clear, I would want to see more evidence like an actual cellular behavior like migration, amounts of cells and so on. But this is a good start. In fact, if we look at a TSN plot or a teddistributed stochastic neighbor embedding plot, I understood the word neighbor and then my brain saw all the colors and reacted like those minions from those movies. Anyway, this tells us that the difference in the genes that are red or expressed between the butyrate treated cells and the nonbutyrate treated immune cells. Each dot is a cell and the red cluster corresponds to an important aspect of the xenophagi that we discussed earlier. Same with the green cluster including antimicrobial genes. Meanwhile, the orange and blue cluster indicate the more traditional pathway of fagocytosis and pro-inflammatory pathway. In the end, the interpretation here is that while yes, the immune cells are upregulating their ability to destroy microbes like bacteria, they are not necessarily overstimulating to a pro-inflammatory state. There's some limitations to the interpretations of these data as this is only from two samples and although it looks like a lot of cells, it should still be interpreted with caution. Plus, assigning labels to clusters is inherently biased. Still, it's just one piece of multiple indicating a through line to an increased precision of immune cells without an overburdening increase in inflammation. The way I think about it, and excuse me for this side thought and its revealing nature is the cells are a lot like a Halo player called Precision who is extremely precise in his shots. If you didn't know, I'm an uber fan of the Halo series, books, games, whatever. And there are pro players that have unique names. Precision is one of them. accurate without undue damage to his teammates. Much like the macrofasages impacted by butyrate. Okay, before we get into how to raise our butyrate levels in our body, there are other fats that also have these immune precision effects. And there's a lot more on exactly how butyrate communicates with our cells. Oh, and the details on butyrate supplementation if you wanted to go down that route and bypass what we're about to go over. Not to mention an added advantage of supplementation for some people. I'll be covering that in the extended version of the video that you're watching. It's part of my premium research platform and community called the Physionic Insiders. You also get an accompanying article uh articles released every week along with videos for the insiders and I also do regular live sessions to discuss these topics in more depth with the insider community plus a private podcast and so much more. It's a steal if you're looking to learn everything there is on the topics that we go over. Plus, I'm able to answer a lot more questions in the insider community because it's a much more intimate uh area than social media. Anyway, I don't want to belabor the point further. If you're interested in accessing all that, just to join the Physiotic Insiders, the link is in the description. Well, that said, how do we increase butyrate? Surprisingly, it's not a fat that we generally consume in its fat form. Although some foods contain it, like butter, but we actually rely on our microbiome, the healthy bacteria in our intestines to take up precursor nutrients that we consume and convert them to their purest form of butyrate, which is then absorbed into the bloodstream and affects our immune cells as described. Those precursor nutrients are dietary fiber. That's right, fiber like the one found in broccoli. Ew, I know. Lentils, chickpeas, beans, oats, barley, cooked and cooled potatoes, psyllium husk, and plenty of other dietary fiber sources. So, all in all, what do we make of these data? Maybe a few words of caution. Well, the usual cautions belong here. We've been using cells, not full-on human beings. In addition, in relation to fiber, some people experience worse gut health from fiber consumption. I'm only pointing that out because we're talking about uh the average situation. So, possibly even some gap gut pathologies related to inflammation, but there's no doubt that some people experience issues with too much fiber consumption. But on average, these results are somewhat substantiated in other studies, including human trials, indicating improved gut health and symptoms with fiber consumption. The same is true for reduced general inflammation as well. So while I wouldn't jump to any applicable conclusions if we only had this one study, we fortunately don't have just this one study. So everything considered, where does that leave us? Well, it tells us that the shortchain fat butyrate is a player in improving macrofase or immune cells ability to eliminate infectious microbes by at least one way increasing xenophagy. This could be one mechanism by which nutrients like dietary fiber are able to improve gut health on average. And while the overall effect is confirmed in some of the human trials, more research is necessary to confirm some of the experiments that we went over. But you know, butyrate does much more than help your immune system. In fact, it can flood into cancer cells and cause some wild yet nuanced effects. Check it out right here. Wouldn't it be fun if uh people who fell asleep at the beginning of the video woke up and we were talking about something completely different? Anyway, like I was saying, socks cause an irreparable foot fungus that make you grow bald.