What if you could improve your arthritis pain without having to change your diet, but still mimicking an arthritis improving diet? There's some evidence that a low carbohydrate diets, especially those that increase ketones, a molecule produced by your liver, can improve arthritis. But adopting a very low carbohydrate diet that raises ketones enough, is tough for some. That's because the lower your carbohydrate intake, the greater your ketone levels generally. Fortunately, there's an easy solution. Let's get into it. The believed reason for why the ketogenic diet leads to arthritis benefits is because of these aforementioned ketones. They're molecules that your liver produces when there's insufficient carbohydrate or glucose entering the liver. It's an alternate fuel source for many of your cells. And yet, more research indicates that they can be more than just nutrients to your cells. In this case, arthritis. Ketones reduce the production of inflammatory molecules from your cells which is especially powerful in rheumatoid arthritis which is characterized primarily by increased inflammation in the body leading to the destruction of the joint structure in the body by the immune cells. Reducing inflammation means reducing these activated destructive cells and alleviating the insult to the joint structure. Since ketones reduce the expression of certain inflammatory molecules like cytoines, interrucan 1 beta, interlucan 6, interlucan 18 that activate these immune cells, it makes sense to focus on the ketones. There's a ton on the mechanisms that I'll cover in more detail in other content, but generally this is the thought process for why a ketogenic diet that encourages ketone production would have this beneficial arthritis effect. Still, like we discussed before, it's not feasible for everyone. And even if it is, wouldn't it be nice to ensure your ketone levels stay elevated, even if you were to accidentally slip and fall and your mouth lands on a cookie and accidentally chew it multiple times before swallowing it? Happens all the time. The National Bureau of BS Statistics indicates it happens 100% in certain households. So, this isn't theoretical. Okay. How do we pick our cookie and eat it too? By accident, of course. That's where this study comes in. The researchers randomly assigned men and women with rheumatoid arthritis to consume their usual diet, but supplement with a mediumchain triglyceride supplement or a longchain triglyceride supplement. I'll explain what those are in a second. And participants were instructed to consume each supplement every day for 16 weeks with a major caveat that we'll get into. The mediumchain triglycerides and longchain triglycerides are simply differentized fat molecules. One contains 6 to 12 carbons linked together and the other contains 13 to 21 carbons. I'll let you figure out which is which. MCTs or mediumchain triglycerides are more easily absorbed by the liver and can therefore be easily converted to ketones. LCTs or longchain triglycerides are not as readily converted. So you can imagine that the MCT group experienced an increase in ketones, right? The answer is yes. As seen here, the control or longchain triglyceride consuming group is on the left and the MCT or mediumchain triglyceride group is on the right for the test group. The T0 is the baseline before the supplementation. The T2 is 8 weeks later and T4 is 16 weeks later. According to the statistics on the right side, since the P values fall below 0.05, 05. There's an identified difference between the two groups with the test group having at least double the ketones in the blood. Okay, good. Supplementation worked. The next question should be what happened to these people's arthritis? Well, for that the researchers used an SDAI or simplified disease activity index to identify disease severity based on a number of criteria for tender joints, swollen joints through a physician assessment and much more. If values go up, that indicates worse symptom severity. But for this next graph only, ignore that. If the bar goes up, that's a good change or an inverse change. Here's the measure of change. There's a statistically significant change in the test group. So the MCT supplementing group. In that case, there's a positive effect as in the improvements in arthritis symptoms. So pretty sweet. the test condition shows improvements. Except that these data are quite misleading. And this is one of those instances where I disagree with the researchers. And this is where that major caveat comes into play. I just showed you the total change over the 16 weeks. But here's the kicker. While yes, everyone in the MCT group did consume MCTs throughout the 16 weeks, at the 8week mark, they started to co-supplement fiber. So the first eight weeks MCT or LCT only and the final 8 weeks MCT or LCT plus fiber. So now the question is was it the MCTs or the fiber intake that led to these improvements? Fortunately we have the data to tease that out at least well for the most part. For that we can look at this chart again we see the SDI scale with the three time points. Remember T2 is MCT or LCT only and T4 is including fiber. Now if we compare the broken up by the exposure of MCT in isolation or with fiber, we see no difference in the first 8 weeks when MCT was alone. However, we do detect a difference once fiber is added to the mix indicating by a statistically significant result at the T4 measure there. Now naturally your first inclination is to think well then it must be the fiber and that's a reasonable next step but we have evidence that indicates otherwise. Remember the control group also consume the same fiber and they did not experience these benefits. So the proper conclusion should be that the fiber plus MCTs in co- combination yields these effects that or it takes longer than 8 weeks for the MCT to exert its beneficial effects. As always, there's more to the story here that we'll get to next. The reality is that there's much more to cover here, including the types of fiber, dosing strategies, and other effective anti- rheumatoid arthritis molecules that could also play a factor. I'm covering all that in my full analysis found in the Physionic Insiders along with access to all my other research, more applicable takeaways, a monthly podcast that distills all of this nicely into one place, a premium email list that delivers all the work to your doorstep, uh live sessions with me to discuss more deeply, and much more. If you're interested, check out the Physionic Insiders. The link is in the description box. Okay. Interestingly, CRP levels, a general metric of inflammation, along with another arthritis measure, did not improve. That might be because there weren't enough people in the study for these outcomes because they're known as secondary outcomes. And studies are usually more concerned with their primary outcome, which is what we just covered. Still, I found the researchers conclusions incorrect in two ways. One, they mentioned that other studies on fiber have not shown improvements in arthritis. But if you open the studies, which I did, the studies clearly show improvements in arthritis symptoms, although there's no placebo group in the in that cited study. Either way, it's incorrect to then say that fiber has no effect. Two, the researchers conclusions center around mediumchain triglycerides and not around fiber. They even state that MCTs alone lead to improvements which is as we pointantly went over not true. In addition, they did some correlation analyses which means that they tried to find a simple association between different changing variables in the study. So I'll show you the data but we don't need to actually go through it because it doesn't tell us much. But it does speak to a bit of bias by the researchers I think. Here we go. I know this is a lot. The main point here is that they are relating our arthritis test the SDAI to BHB or beta hydroxybutyrate. So that's the ketone levels. And we can see that while there is a relationship, the relationship is considered weak. In fact, everything else CRP and VAS, which is this uh other arthritis test, have stronger relationships with it. So this uh focus on the MCTs seems kind of nonsensical to me. Not to mention that they didn't report the relationship of fiber to the same arthritis test. It might have shown a stronger relationship. So, it's definitely possible that the conflicts of interest led to this reduced emphasis on fiber and greater emphasis on MCTs since the researchers work for a food company. Funny enough, that food company sells MCTs and fiber. So, you'd think that they'd be ambivalent. Whatever. The point being I disagree with their conclusions. So what are the takeaways here? The takeaway here is that this study indicated mediumchain triglycerides supplementation co-supplemented with fiber improves rheumatoid arthritis symptoms without any changes to diet. In fact, the effect is pretty significant. about a five to six point drop in the arthritis scale, which is enough to almost reclassify a person from a more serious symptoms to more moderate symptoms, which is really not bad at all. The thing is, a mediumchain triglyceride is clearly an effective way. It's one way of improving arthritis symptoms, but there's powerful evidence that I'm even more impressed by in another supplement right here. I'll see you over there.