The milk commercials never mention calcium in my arteries, only in my bones. Odd. Well, that's because clean arteries, those dynamic pipes delivering blood full of nutrients, oxygen, and more, are supposed to be calcium free in an ideal scenario. If you've uh ever heard of the CAC score, the coronary artery calcium score, which measures the amount of can you guess it? Correct. Cheese. no calcium found in your arteries. The higher your CAC score, the worse your risk of a major cardiovascular event, which is a fancy way of saying that your ticker is going to stop you from continuing your current existence. So, it makes sense to want to make sure that one's calcium score is on the lower end. I need to stress this upfront. There's a huge caveat to that. I probably could have continued that. that we'll get into later. But overall, yes, greater calcium levels in the arteries is linked to greater heart disease. Well, it turns out that a particular extremely important mineral plays a role in if you develop calcium in your arteries or not. Or at least that's what this study has to say and is going to try to show. And if you're literate, you know that that mineral is potassium. So, what happens when we're potassium deficient? And does it actually matter in the broader context of cardiovascular health? Here the researchers fed mice that were especially prone to developing cardiovascular disease through plaque buildup in the arteries of one of three diets. A low potassium diet, a moderate potassium diet, which is our control condition, or a high potassium diet. What we're looking at here is an H& stain and an alazarin stain. Both of which are ways to detect calcium in the artery. The most prominent is the alzarin red stain which stains calcium deposits in red. And as you can clearly see that in the low potassium group, there's these big deposits of calcium. In fact, we even see it a bit in the control condition, but we don't seem to see it in the high potassium group. But these are representative images. So if we look at the averages, we can see a step-wise reduction in arterial calcification right here. In fact, this is further corroborated when looking at overall arterial, in this case the aorta, a massive artery stiffness. This particular measure takes into consideration more than calcification, but it echoes a similar trends measured by pulse wave velocity. I think these images are especially striking because this is a slice of the aorta. So the white section is where the blood would flow and the dark red is the calcification stain. Again, in a step-wise fashion, we can see lower potassium levels indicating massively more calcification. Yet higher potassium has none. Okay, we get the picture. Potassium good, no potassium bad. The next question is why is this happening? Because we know that potassium is critical for maintaining our brain function and heart rhythm as it's instrumentally kept inside of our cells in an inactive state but is exchanged during activated states. But what's happening in the artery cells? By artery cells I mean smooth muscle cells which are the cells that directly control the contraction and relaxation of your blood vessels itself. These uh muscle cells found in the deeper sections of the arterial wall play a critical role in maintaining blood pressure by opening the blood vessel to drop blood pressure and constricting the blood vessel to increase blood pressure. However, in advancing stages of cardiovascular disease, these smooth muscle cells will do a few things that are important aspects of advanced atherosclerosis or plaque growth. One, they'll means that they act less like muscle cells and begin acting more like another type of cell. Second, they migrate, meaning that they move from the deeper regions of the blood vessel wall to the surface. But our focus is on the first change, the differentiation. Check this out. I find this fascinating and it gives us a crazy cool clue. Here we're measuring the calcium content inside these smooth muscle cells at varying levels of potassium exposure. At low potassium exposure, the cells suck up calcium like a vacuum cleaner. And it isn't until greater concentrations that calcium gets slashed. This gives us a clue because it might mean that the cells are suddenly acting less like smooth muscle cells and more like well if we go back to my very first comment the milk commercials never mention calcium in my arteries only in my bones. Odd. What cells are in your bones? Bone cells. Correctto or more technically osteoccytes. So, are these still vascular smooth muscle cells or are they turned like zombies? Well, let's test it. There's these three molecules that are being measured here. Runx 2, OC, and ALP. RNX 2 here is an osteoblast differentiation factor, meaning it's heavily involved in convincing stem cells without an identity to turn into bone cells called osteoblasts. OC or osteocalin there is a protein that binds calcium and is secreted by mature osteoblasts. Those are the same bone cells. Uh-oh. I think uh our smooth muscle may not be a smooth muscle cell anymore. The reason I say that is because the gene expression of these bone cell factors are increased only in the low potassium conditions. But to confirm we can look at the opposite that happens to be the muscle centric genes. Here we're looking at two muscle genes like alpha smooth muscle actin which is a protein involved in the contraction of muscle cell. It's moving in the opposite direction. So reduced potassium exposure indicates reduced expression of these genes. So in summary, more bone genes, fewer muscle genes. So yeah, our artery cells become more like bone cells, even if we'd likely need more evidence to say that they're fully converted. The point being, they're giving off cell signatures that indicate these cells are more prone to releasing calcium for deposition. What a remarkable discovery. Now, there's more important context that would be applied here, and how do we actually use this information? We'll get into that shortly. But there's also some autophagy, some cell self-cleaning aspects to this, as well as some fascinating mechanisms that change inside of our cells that if you're interested, I'm covering in the full analysis, the extended version of this video found within the depths of the physionic insiders, my premium research platform. And if you even want to nerd out in live sessions where we discuss this kind of stuff together, consider joining the insiders. The link is in the description. Oh, there's uh plenty of other benefits of being a member, too, but uh I've covered them at nauseium, so I'll leave it for the curious minds to discover. Link is in the description. Okay, context. I don't know about you, but I've never been accused of being a mouse. I mean, a dashingly good-looking dude. Sure. Thank you. Thank you. Oh, stop at you. I'm blushing. There's really no need What's that? Oh, you you weren't talking to me. Let's uh let's move on. Uh the point being this is a mouse study and they're incredibly informative for mechanistic research, but we need to make sure that they're applicable parallels in human research. The researchers do mention there are correlations between low potassium and increased cardiovascular disease. In fact, we've covered these studies before. Still, that's a general relationship and it doesn't actually speak to the actual calcification itself. They do mention there are some studies in humans where affecting some of the mechanisms by which potassium works is directly related to reduced calcification in our arteries. Okay, not bad, but still not foolproof evidence. I also ran across this small associative study that did find that higher potassium levels correlated with less severe artery calcium. And again, this is far from conclusive data. Overall, I don't think it's far-fetched to say that potassium may help reduce the calcification of our arteries, but there's definitely need for more studies to implicate it directly in humans. What we do know is that potassium helps in other cardiovascular centric ways. So, it's not exactly a gamble to increase one's potassium intake if it's uh low. But, there's an additional consideration here that I should mention. I hinted at it earlier. The thing is, we demonize calcification in our arteries as a necessarily terrible thing, but there are contexts where calcification is probably a positive thing if all else is held equal. And that's key. For example, we know soft plaque, the non-calcified plaque in our in atherosclerosis driven cardiovascular disease is more dangerous than calcified plaque. So if we have equal amounts of plaque, the more calcified a plaque is, the more stable it is. On the other hand, between having no plaque versus calcified plaque, no plaque is without a doubt better. There's more to say on that topic, but the sole focus on calcification as a risk indicator is likely incomplete, even if we've uh been focus focusing on it right here. So where does that leave us then? Well, it still leaves us with the overall literature indicating potassium should be consumed within reason. Overdoing it has its own problems as it helps us combat cardiovascular disease, possibly partly through the calcification of the arterial wall. Some excellent sources of potassium in a non-exhaustive list are apricots, uh, white beans, lima beans, salmon, tuna, some yogurts, prunes, and there's plenty of other sources. But there's so much more potassium does to protect our body. Check out this video for that. Otherwise, if you want to supplement with it, there's more info on supplementation right here.