Trimethyl glycine or TMG has been a subject of a lot of discussion. And although I'm late to the party, I do have a few choice words on its true effectiveness because across three analyses, including up to 15 studies, tell different stories. So, which should we believe? Is TMG effective for fat loss and performance or not? TMG, which is also known as betane, is a glycine amino acid molecule with three methyl groups attached to it. That makes no difference to our understanding of it, but it makes me sound smart, so I mentioned it. As for the useful information, it can be created from choline in your liver, but we tend to create insufficient amounts. So, we get it from our diet or supplements, too. There's a lot to say on TMG that uh we can't get into here, but it is believed to play a role in several biochemical pathways. Some related to muscle growth and some related to fat oxidation, so it's burning. So in brief, it alters the gene expression in cells. It may increase insulin like growth factor one, so IGF-1, which is implicated in muscle growth, and may inhibit fat cell formation among many other mechanisms. Again, stories for another time. The main question here is does it work like it's been hyped? Well, let me put these three analyses on screen here and I'll give you a short answer as to what these analyses indicate as their results. No, yes, and mostly no. So then the next question is why the mixed results and is there some key pieces of information that separate when TMG is effective from when it's not? Let's start with yes. The researchers included six randomized control trials. And if we pop open that data, we're looking at body weight measurements across five of these studies, which are on the left side. The weight reductions in numerical terms are on the right side, but they're also visually found on the forest plot as little and big squares. The overall result is reflected in the diamond. And if it moves to the left of the zero line in the middle, that indicates a reduction in body weight from TMG supplementation. Unfortunately, we see there's no effect. I guess you might be a bit puzzled because like we said at the start with this analysis, it did find an effect. Well, yes, body weight doesn't change, but if we focus in on the compartment of body weight, body fat, we can see that there is an effect of reducing body fat. Now the researchers point out that TMG is known to increase lipolysis and inhibit lipogenesis. Essentially it encourages fat molecule breakdown from the fat cells and inhibits fat molecule uptake. It does that through accentuating or repressing the activity of key fat enzymes that are critical for these processes. Now let's open the analysis that disagrees. In this analysis, the researchers included more studies. So 12 randomized control trials. Exactly. If we pop open the very same outcome, body fat, note that there are five studies included again in this specific section of the analysis. The same rules apply for analyzing this and the diamond clearly overlaps the zero line. So there's no effect. So what gives? Well, look here. What if I told you that this analysis included the very same studies as the one that showed an effect? makes it even more confusing, doesn't it? How is it that the same input of data we get completely different results? Well, it comes down to using the correct statistics. And the answer is actually pretty obvious. You might actually be able to see it already. Focus on the size of the squares in the data indicating effect. The Cholawa study has a much bigger square than the others. That same study doesn't get a representative large square. The reason for the size of the square is to show the weight of the study. As in how much influence does this study get on the analysis, which is also represented on the far right. The Cholaw West study sucks up 68% of the influence in one analysis and a mere 10% in another. So, who's right? Well, technically sort of both are wrong. I know, even more complexity. Now, don't worry. I'll keep the uh rest of this quick so we can get to the performance aspects of TMG. When there's a lot of different results in a meta analysis, that's called interstudy heterogeneity. Usually in such a case, there's a statistical model that's used to account for that uncertainty by reducing the emphasis of any one study, muting the whole analysis. That's technically what this analysis did. So, it would seem like they did things correctly, but there's also no detected heterogeneity. So, a random effects model is generally not the correct statistical test to use. I'm sure dedicated statistitians could make more detailed arguments, but for our purposes, it's slightly incorrect. So, you care about who's right. And in short, the analysis applying less weight to the studies is more correct in my mind for reasons that I mentioned, including some others that I won't tire you with. Hey, hey, wake up. Briefly, that means that TMG supplementation is more likely ineffective for fat loss than effective, at least based on the data that we have here. But is it a different story for muscle performance? And are we possibly missing a link to this all? Well, let's discuss. As soon as I mention that, I go over more on the mechanisms and details of TMG, as well as some other TMG data in the extended version of this video that your eyeballs are sensing right now. If you're interested in access to that full analysis along with access to all my other work delivered to you weekly in video and written form along with a monthly podcast and community live streams with me, be sure to check out the Physionic Insiders right in that description box. Hope to see you there. For muscle performance, we can rely on this third analysis wherein the researchers pulled 15 studies into another meta analysis. However, this time they focused on muscle performance. The same rules apply, but now we're looking at muscle strength split by upper body and lower body. There's individual overall effects diamonds for each subgroup. If they move to the right, there's an increase in muscle strength. Now, while the upper body strength measure might seem like it's in favor of TMG, remember also called butane, it didn't reach statistical significance, indicating no detected effect. However, when looking at lower body strength measures, we do see an effect in favor of TMG supplementation. So, these data would indicate that TMG may be worthwhile when trying to improve muscle strength, especially in the lower body, even if not in the upper body. Okay. mixed results in the two metrics that we covered. But assuming that you wanted to have these benefits or you still believe that TMG helps with fat loss, what are some sources? Well, standardized to 100 g, some good sources are wheat, spinach, but there's also some found in a turkey and shrimp at lower concentrations. Or as these studies are looking at TMG directly without other molecules in the mix, the most direct path might be supplementation. Still, is there a missing link with TMG supplementation? I think so. It seems to me that TMG is likely most effective, if effective at all otherwise, if paired with exercise, especially resistance training. The majority of the studies included in all of these analyses included people who were at least physically active, but many were in resistance training individuals. This offers a clue that we should probably pair them. That all said, after dunking you unwillingly in a vat of statistics, what's the short of it? On the outcome of I feel like a judge in a courtroom. On the outcome of fat loss, the jury finds TMG guilty of not working. On the other hand, when paired with resistance training and possibly exercise as a whole, TMG is moderately effective at improving muscle strength. If you should use it or not is, as always, a personal choice. But if you don't exercise, I'd save your money in relation to these outcomes. Otherwise, it will be worth it for those who care about maximizing performance. But let's be real, when discussing performance, there are alternatives like this one or this one. Thanks for watching.