Here's my conspiracy. Eiffel 65, wanting to reclaim the former glory of their hit song Blue Daba, created a marketing campaign all the way back in the late 1800s when Methylene Blue was first invented and started influencing people to start dropping blue liquid into their drinks. What do you think? Is it more or less believable than some of the other conspiracy theories out there? I actually wasn't exaggerating when I mentioned that methylene blue was invented in the 1800s, but it was used as a synthetic dye in the textile industry, not as a marketing campaign by a 1990s band. Of late, methylene blue has been gaining popularity for its supposed health benefits. And that's what I'd like to get into because wow, are there claims, but few people actually open the studies to see what scientists have to say. So, how about it? In this study, researchers wanted to find out what happens to the brains of people given methylene blue or a placebo, a blue food coloring dye. So, they performed cognitive tests, including scans, on these participants before being given either treatment and then consumed the treatments before doing some puzzles and some other cognitive tasks, then did another brain scan and some more tests. Aside from this acute study, they also followed up one week later. The idea behind methylene blue comes down to an admittedly fascinating mechanism. I've covered this in the past, but the primary mechanism of methylene blue to us is that it's an electron cyclinger. And since 99% of people don't know what that is, I'll explain. Inside the mitochondria of your cells, yes, the powerhouse of the cell is this complex of proteins called the electron transport chain. That chain of proteins exchanges electrons to allow mitochondrian to generate ATP, cellular energy. I'm not going to go too into proton pumping and the mode of force. But all you need to know is that the exchange of electrons allows cellular energy in the form of ATP to be generated. Great. Without it, we die. Okay. Now, one of the major problems with this chain of proteins that move electrons is the fact that the electrons can also slip off the chain and interact with nearby molecules, creating unstable, damaging molecules called reactive oxygen species. These molecules ROS can interact with components of our mitochondria and even the rest of our cells and cause damage. Here is where methylene blue comes in. Methylene blue can act as an electron acceptor thereby reducing the electrons aberrantly interacting with other molecules and forming these damaging molecules. Beyond that though and even cooler it can donate the electron back to the correct proteins especially complex 4 further along the complex of proteins there. In doing so, it not only reduces oxidative stress from these damaging molecules, but it also facilitates some energy production that wouldn't otherwise have been possible through this lost electron. Methylene blue has other effects like those described in this review, like its effects on serotonin or its interaction on a few different enzymes in our cells, but the main one discussed is mitochondrial. The actions of methylene blue are very context dependent as we'll get into. First, let's discuss what the researchers discovered. Here we go. As you can clearly see, methylene blue had tremendous Oh, you have no idea how to read this. Well, don't feel bad because I had no idea either. So, upon some research on the research, second order research inception, it's much simpler than I thought. We're looking at a bold functional MRI scan. It's called bold because it's measuring blood flow as a metric of brain activity. So bold for blood oxygenate bold for blood oxygen level dependent MRI. The less oxygen, the greater the brain activity. The reason behind that is that this measures deoxxygenated hemoglobin found in your red blood cells. Your red blood cells have proteins inside of them called hemoglobin that have a strong attraction to oxygen like I do for motorcycles. And when oxygen is delivered from the red blood cell to the brain tissue, hemoglobin gets deoxxygenated. Meaning that the oxygen is taken away and sent to the tissue. That means that the neural or brain cell has it, which would imply neural activity as there's need for oxygen. So the images here indicate by varying color the level of statistically significant difference between the brain of the placeboc consuming individuals and the methylene blue consuming individuals. If there's a color that means there's a greater deoxxygenation or a greater brain activity in that region when using methylene blue. We can clearly see if we squint multiple areas where bold activity is greater with methylene blue. Oh, the bottom half of the figure is simply different tests that the participants had to do. It doesn't inform us on the actual differences between the groups. Now, as fun as it is to look at changes in blood flow, we're more interested in actual outcomes. Is your brain functioning better? Well, let's look. We have the baseline results on the left and the post treatment results on the right. The methylene blue or MB condition there clearly shows an improvement in correct responses to a cognitive test. while the placebo does not show these improvements. If you're wondering if there were any baseline differences since it looks like there's a difference before, uh there's apparently no statistically identified difference. I find that hard to believe, but I have to go with what the statistics show. So no difference at baseline and even no difference between the groups afterward, but there is a difference within group when only comparing baseline to after in the methylene blue. Exactly how you can have a sixpoint difference with such a small error bars and no between groups effect is honestly beyond me, but I report what the researchers mention. Either way, this offers evidence that methylene blue improves brain function. I should also mention that the longer term results offered no such benefit that but that might be because of the testing was pretty lackluster. It was done over email. I wouldn't consider that very sound practice for controlling for possible variables like I don't know a screaming child having to run to work. Uh the infinite life circumstances that could screw up testing especially in such a small sample size. Okay, but this is uh one study and there have been others and there's also some caution related to dosing of methylene blue. So, let's get into that right after I mention that I'll be discussing this more in live sessions with my insider community. If you're interested in covering methylene blue in more depth along with getting access to all my work, private podcasts, uh more videos, a premium email list that delivers actionable takeaways to your inbox every week, and much more. Consider checking out the Physionic Insiders link is in the description. Okay, dosing. The study that we just went over used 4 milligs per kilogram of weight to show effect. However, in this review, the researchers point out that low doses could be effective while larger doses can be detrimental. And as one example, methylene blue is approved for the use of to treat a condition called methamog methomoglobinmia. Sometimes pronunciation is half the battle. And yet high doses of methylene blue are known to cause the same condition. I'm not repeating the name. This highlights the importance of dose. Further, other studies in methylene blue are focused on dementia, but these studies come back with mixed results with no benefit at certain doses, although those doses are very much in line with the study that we just went over. So, we have several mechanistic studies that indicate its effectiveness as well as its harm at higher doses. We have this human trial that we went over that indicates benefit. And we have some dementia trials indicating benefit and others indicating no benefit. If I65 wants to make their song popular again, they may have to try something a bit more potent or hope that this stuff actually turns people blue. In fact, that's exactly what's happening. This is a real picture of methylene blue on the brain. So maybe that is the plan. Slowly turning into a blue world. Actually, this is a direct quote from the song. Listen up. Here's a story about a little guy that lives in a blue world and all day and all night. And everything he sees is just blue like him inside and outside. Blue is his house with a blue little window and a blue Corvette. Now, personally, I would go with a 918 Spider, but those weren't out then. And everything is blue for him and himself and everybody around. I mean, come on. That conspiracy isn't sounding so conspiracy anymore, is it? Just uh don't think about the timetable of it all and we can make this work. Anyway, yes, blue tongues, blue brains, and so on make me wonder if anyone that enjoys methylene blue is also a hardcore it has to be natural in other aspects of the life. The the cognitive dissonance must be thunderous inside that blue brain. Anyway, what do we make of all this? Well, the best case scenario is that methylene blue mildly improves cognitive performance. The more realistic scenario is to say that methylene blue has limited evidence on its brain efficacy with a mixture of results. And considering that there are more proven cognitive enhancers and considering that the uncertainty around dosing, it has relatively weak evidence in support of it being used at this time of this recording. But if you're more interested in methylene blue's longevity effects, check this out. Otherwise, there's a noniffle 65 related cognitive boosting right here. Cue the music until I have to take it down for copyright reasons.