It's always funny comparing the claims across social media to the actual scientific evidence. In fact, even content that cites studies on vitamin K gets a lot wrong. The reason I say that is because I analyzed over 20 studies being hyperfocused on several key outcomes that are often discussed. So, reversing arterial plaque, reversing arterial calcification, and most important, reducing cardiovascular disease as a whole. Now, I think you'll find that the results are sobering, enlightening, and not necessarily discouraging against vitamin K. We just have to be a lot more nuanced in our take as we often do. So, I watched and read a lot of content on social media, and often it refers to the studies that show positive effects of vitamin K supplementation, which might make you, the consumer, think that vitamin K is a LeBron James slam dunk for purchase. But I'll start here. This is a systematic review, meaning that the researchers used a predefined criteria for putting together a number of studies, so nine in this case, to come to an overall conclusion on vitamin K and cardiovascular measures like arterial plaque and arterial calcification. Considering how positively people talk about vitamin K, well, you'd you'd clearly expect that this systematic review would agree. But here is the conclusion from this review. There's presently a lack of randomized trial evidence to support a beneficial role of vitamin K in preventing the worsening of surrogate measures of cardiovascular disease. In short, vitamin K doesn't have much evidence in its favor. As horrifying or anger-causing as that might be for vitamin K evangelists, the reality is far more nuanced and may still provide an avenue by which vitamin K can be beneficial. This systematic review did look at the plaque reversing effects of vitamin K, for example. And as you heard, the researchers were unimpressed. But I decided to open and analyze all of the included studies, plus any additional ones that I could find. And I discovered something telling. First, these randomized control trials showed without a doubt no effect of vitamin K on arterial plaque. Meanwhile, these two do indicate a benefit. There are a number of possibilities for that difference from the amount of vitamin K consumed to the type of vitamin K consumed or the length of the studies. But there's actually a theme here that carries through to the data on arterial calcification too. So let me touch on that before we return. Unlike reversing arterial plaque, which speaks to the dangerous soft plaque that builds up in our arteries, calcified plaque is well, plaque with calcium deposits, and it's over the soft plaque. There's a lot to say on that front that I've covered in the past, and I won't regurgitate it here, but the short of it is that it's a different measure of the plaque in your arteries. The ideal scenario is having neither a clean pipe through and through. So when we look at the calcified plaque studies again typically randomized control studies here and we separate them by effect of vitamin K on calcified plaque we see these results. Not the most encouraging result is it? We're again talking about a minority of studies indicating an effect and the majority by necessity indicating no effect. That part is a bit puzzling because one of the mechanisms of action of vitamin K is to work through an enzyme called MGK MGP excuse me or matrix glin which is an enzyme that is vitamin K dependent and it's highly expressed in the arteries undergoing calcification. Now typically more MGP activity leads to inhibition of the calcium deposits being deposited thereby slowing the calcification process. Now it does that by inhibiting pro-alcification signaling within the cells as well as binding directly to the calcium crystals called hydroxy appatite that are deposited in the plaque. Now I'm telling you all that because MGP is more active when it is caroxilated which is just means that it's modified in such a way that it makes it more active in preventing calcification. So vitamin K is critical to that process and reliably across many studies and shown here there is a reduction in uncarboxillated or inactive MGP when vitamin K is supplemented. The gray boxes are the vitamin K group and the black is the placebo group condition. Now, the lower the boxes go over time, the less inactive MGP is present. Measures indicating activated MGP also confirm these results. So, if we were to base conclusions on this mechanism, we'd come away thinking that vitamin K supplementation does reduce arterial calcification. Yet, as we saw from the actual measures of calcification, there's a greater amount of evidence pointing toward that not being the case. Okay. So, what do the soft plaque studies and the calcified plaque studies have in common that could shed some light as to why studies disagree? And is there hope for vitamin K? The answer to the second question is yes. And the answer to the first question is multiple factors. One, the studies that typically don't show an effect of vitamin K supplementation use lower doses like this one that was using less than 200 micrograms. And different types of vitamin K like this one using vitamin K1 or infrequent consumption like this one instructing to consume vitamin K only three times per week. But that's not as strong of a through line as looking at studies that do show effectiveness, which presents in people who are sicker than average, as in people with metabolic syndrome like diabetes. Most studies indicating benefit were in people with established heart disease, kidney disease, or metabolic dysfunction of some sort. So, could that be the defining reason why some studies show no benefit and others do indicate a benefit? Well, it's certainly a possibility, and I'd like to revisit that point in a bit. For now, we'll just summarize everything that we just went over by saying that there's a ton of mixed evidence. Some indicating vitamin K improves arterial plaque, calcified or not, and many studies indicate no effect. I realize this doesn't offer many answers, but I want you to sit back and relax because as much as we often worry about the plaque reversal and calcification, the more important question skips all of that and jumps straight to does vitamin K protect against cardiovascular disease as a whole, regardless of the origin. In the event that you want a deeper dive on all of this, including the impact that vitamin K has on arterioclerosis, the stiffening of the arteries, or the combination of vitamin K with vitamin D, and if that might be more promising avenue and more, then check out my full analysis. It's included with a full extended video, an article, a podcast, a vetted supplement guide for all kinds of conditions, and much more. It's all included as a Physionic Insider. The link to join the Physionic Insiders is obviously as usual in the description. I hope to see you there. Okay, so to answer the overall question, we typically can't rely on short-term studies like what we've been focused on. Though to give credit, some of the randomized trials last several years, which is very long. We should focus on studies lasting many years, if not decades. For example, over 21 years. When we compare those who consume more vitamin K1 or vitamin K2, we can see a notable reduced risk of hospitalization due to cardiovascular disease with either. The blue is vitamin K1 and the red is vitamin K2. If the lines drop below 1.0, that dashed line there, there's a reduced risk. So clearly both indicate reduced risk. This remained even when adjusting for all of these potential factors. Okay, these kinds of associations are further confirmed across many studies including another systematic review and meta analysis of 21 studies and we even see the relationship remain for vitamin K1 and vitamin K2 with a bit stronger evidence favoring vitamin K2. However, the best available evidence in those long-term studies tend to come from studies that measure people's nutrient intake many times over the course of the study. And these studies tend to show mixed results. For example, within the same study, the researchers confirmed this reduced risk of cardiovascular disease with greater vitamin K intake shown here. If you follow the blue line, remember below 1.0 dotted line indicates reduced heart disease risk. However, that is only partially accounting for other factors. And when we account for more factors, the relationship weakens, seen as the red line moves upwards. Then the researchers factored in more aspects of diet like fruit intake, fish intake and the like and the relationship was completely lost. Still this was not the case when instead of looking at total vitamin K consumption they looked at consuming vitamin K rich vegetables. In that instance even after all of the same adjustments the heart-healthy relationship remained. The point here being that when we look at studies that have weaker methodology and don't account for nutrition as well, there's an identified beneficial relationship between vitamin K1 and cardiovascular disease. However, when we look at studies that account more rigorous rigorously for nutrition and have more rigorous methodology in general, we no longer see that effect unless we look at vitamin K1 consumption as a package deal with vegetable high in vitamin K1. This tells us that vitamin K1 is not necessarily playing a direct role, but is a marker of overall more well-rounded nutrition. Still, these studies are exclusively looking at vitamin K1, not vitamin K2. And there's other studies that do look at vitamin K2, but since vitamin K2 comes from dairy and meats, they did not adjust for fruit and vegetable intake, which they did for vitamin K1. They adjusted for calcium intake and generally showed that vitamin K2 still tracked with reduced heart disease risk. So this may strengthen the idea that we should lean toward vitamin K2 over vitamin K1. That interpretation is on wobbly foundation though because the methodology of these studies is not as strong as the vitamin K1 studies that we just went over. Honestly, when trying to pack the nuances of 20 plus studies into a single analysis and still keeping it brief, I get this sense that the analysis is like expanding against multiple taught chains being held down by 100 burly strong men and oxen. She's going to blow. Hold steady, men. because there's so much more to say. But I really think that if I continued, I'd be diving us deeper into confusion before emerging on the other end with some clarity. So why don't we just skip over the treacherously deep puddle and land safely on the other side of clarity? Now, here's where I land on all this. If you were convinced that vitamin K had rock solid evidence behind it, I'd go back to your source and check how many studies that source looked at because out of 10 or so randomized control trials, the majority indicate vitamin K is ineffective against arterial plaque and arterial calcification. I think that alone is a bombshell. We could argue that it might be beneficial for people who are metabolically compromised like with diabetes, cardiovascular disease and so on. But the data is so mixed including in those individuals that I don't feel confident in that throughine based on randomized control trials. So when we broaden to overall cardiovascular disease, we're now bringing in huge studies looking at associations albeit heavily adjusted between vitamin K and heart disease. And the best evidence on vitamin K1 indicates the relationship just isn't there except for the context of eating vitamin vitamin K1 rich foods which contribute to protecting against cardiovascular disease. On the other hand, vitamin K2 has a signal for benefit. The evidence quality isn't quite as good, but there's multiple lines that indicate that that a vitamin K2 intake is increased, there's reduced risk of heart disease. That same evidence points to vitamin K2 having an independent effect. The bottom line is that there's some big holes in the data that we need to fill, but the current evidence leans in favor of vitamin K2 being a benefit against cardiovascular disease. Though I don't think we can claim that with any strong certainty, much like the original systematic review that we discussed that vitamin K promotes arterial plaque removal or slowing. Assuming that you're bullish on vitamin K supplementation specifically, the doses most often used to effect were around 200 to 400 micrograms per day of vitamin K2. But also keep in mind the risk benefit of of it all. For example, in the systematic review that the researchers point out that vitamin K is usually pretty well tolerated, except there are some studies that indicated bad reactions, including bleeding events in people taking anti-coagulant medications as well, which makes sense considering that vitamin K is heavily involved in the clotting cascade. So, it might be okay for anyone not on certain medications, but that's a factor that you'll want to throw into the equation even more here. So, as always, but especially now, check in with your physician. But just because vitamin K isn't as impressive, or at least the evidence isn't, doesn't mean that there aren't other ways of improving your cardiovascular health. What's this? Another video, you say? Click right here. I knew this was a lot. Thanks for sticking out with me. I appreciate it. I'll be back to take you down another rabbit hole soon.