 perakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeakeake three fundamental aspects of health. If you want, consider them like three infinity stones that belong to the infinity glove of power. In the Marvel Universe, there are six, and in the health science universe, there are three, at least for the time being. The six are power, time, reality, soul, mind, and space. If you don't follow Marvel, don't worry about it. Let's just say that each stone is incredibly powerful in its own way, and once it's added to the infinity glove, the powers combine into a superpower. Now, in the health science universe, unlike the Marvel Universe, the stones read physical activity, nutrition, and sleep. Controlling these three stones will extend your life forever. Okay, maybe not forever, but it'll make a big difference, as I'll show you in a minute. But even more impressive, what happens when we just nudge them a little bit, five minutes more of one, two minutes more of another, and half a serving of the final one. We'll get to that. This study involved around 60,000 participants that were tracked over eight years to identify the risk of death at varying levels of, shall we say, commitment to the three pillars that we just discussed. This was quantified as a SPAN score, which stands for, are you ready for this? Sleep, physical activity, and nutrition score. SPAN, brilliant! So, in combination, there's a relatively linear relationship between SPAN score and lifespan improvements. The left side shows added years of life, and the horizontal axis indicates the increase in SPAN score. That's a good thing. Clearly, higher SPAN score relates to increased lifespan, up to about 11 or 12 years added. The same was true when looking at health SPAN as well. That was defined as being disease-free. Now, again, higher SPAN score related to greater odds of being disease-free for longer. The main point here is that if you work on these three pillars of health, physical activity, nutrition, and sleep, you are predicted to improve your lifespan and healthspan by years, even as much as a decade or longer. Now, I'm surprised by you. I really thought that if I sat here and told you the most obvious thing in the world, that you'd be blown away. I really underestimated you. Okay, okay, joking aside, what are these numbers? Five minutes, two minutes, and half a serving. There is an assumption of doing poorly in all three categories puts you in the bottom fifth percentile of each. Only sleeping five and a half hours, only getting seven minutes of physical activity per day, and a low diet quality score of 37. Now, if you increase your sleep by five minutes, add two more minutes of physical activity, and increase your diet quality score by five points, which amounts for half a serving more of vegetables, or one and a half servings of grains, the estimated longevity effect is a one-year gain. Now, several things to say here, some of which I feel I need to stipulate every time before my head is forfeit to the end of a spear like the Uruk-hai after the Rohirrim rode them down on the outskirts of Fangorn Forest. People will oftentimes feel pretty zesty about that last one, nutrition. I'd like to point out that if you're on a more specialized nutrition, like a vegan diet or a ketogenic diet and so on, these results will not apply to you one-to-one because none of the data was based on individuals following those diet patterns. Those small changes that we just went over are for the extremes in the lack of healthy nutrition, those consuming almost all the unhealthy ultra-processed foods with little whole foods. So, taking that comparison, the worst nutrition, the bottom five percent, and making subtle changes like the inclusion of a little more vegetables or grains, plus the numbers that we went over for sleep and physical activity, yields this one-year added life relationship. Then, from that initial improvement, small improvements yield more and more life extension. Again, relative to that bottom five percent in all those categories. Of course, if you already do some of these things, you can already factor in several years of added life extension simply because you are already not in the bottom five percent. Now, let's discuss what it takes to have a 10 or more year life extension. To raise your SPAN score to a point of 10 years or more added life, plus some improvements in health span, additional sleep from five and a half hours was marked at an additional three hours of sleep. So, a total of about eight hours, eight and a half hours, plus an additional 25 minutes of physical activity and a 35-point improvement in dietary quality score. For that level of dietary improvement, according to the study, it would amount to three or more servings of fruit, three or more servings of vegetables, three or more servings of whole grains, and cutting sugary drinks to a minimum. That would create an ideal consumption across those categories. There are other ways of getting to that level of improvement, however. That's just one example. Obviously, I can't detail every possible scenario and it probably doesn't matter because of what we'll discuss next. But the bottom line is that even a few minutes improvement in physical activity and sleep and small dietary changes can have outsized impact on longevity and reaching greater levels of each has tremendous impact on longevity. Now, as I alluded, your diet may not matter as much. And that's because one of the other two has significantly more impact on your longevity than the other two. Can you guess which? Is it sleep or is it physical activity? As you think about it, let me briefly mention that there's also estimates on life extension. If you are able to improve one or two of these pillars of health and keep the last one in a bad spot. And what is the minimum effort to achieve the best mortality risk reduction across all three health pillars and more? I'm covering that in the extended version of this video that you're watching, which also comes with a full article, a one paragraph summary of the most important factors. And oh yeah, you get access to all these perks right over here, like live sessions with me, a private podcast going over the month's investigations, a private email list, and more. It's the full access to all my work, the Physionic Insiders. Link to check it out is in the description. Okay, got your guess? If you guessed physical activity you are correct. We can see that here. Life expectancy is on the vertical axis again, and each condition is on the horizontal. Sleep, physical activity, and diet quality. The higher the lines go, the better. You'll notice that sleep and physical activity have huge effects, but diet quality does not. I'll explain why that is in a minute. But I'd also quick point out that the values here are slightly different than what we went over before. For example, the ideal sleep was around 7.5 hours, not 8.5 hours. The reason for that is because of how the data was analyzed. Initially, we were looking at them in combination, yet here we're looking at them in isolation. But why would nutrition have such a feeble relationship with longevity? Well, generally, it doesn't. But the researchers were looking at nutrition independent of calorie consumption and weight. These two factors play a massive role on our health. But the researchers were asking a different question than usual. They were asking about the impact of nutrition components, so independent of weight loss and weight gain, and their impact. In addition, the 60,000 participants that volunteered were part of a well-known data set called the UK Biobank, which even the researchers acknowledge has a healthy volunteer bias, meaning that the data set is already healthier than usual. There were some additional explanations like regression dilution bias and others, but that's getting into some technical fairyland that we rarely wander. The big point here is that yes, physical activity is the primary driver of longevity, then sleep, and then nutrition. But nutrition's impact is likely subdued and probably has more impact than what we're seeing here. Now, I realize I've thrown a lot, a bunch of numbers around at you, and it's not an easy study to wrap your head around. I was actually trying to understand the distinction between these analyses myself for a while. And truth be told, there are weaknesses to the study, like the fact that they only measured sleep, nutrition, and physical activity once. An inherent issue of these kinds of studies, or the healthy volunteer bias, or eliminating one of the causal benefits of nutrition, weight. Still, in broad strokes, we can take away two things. One, doing small amounts, even a few minutes of improvements in sleep and physical activity can have tremendous returns, far more than what might be expected since we're talking about years of extra life for a few minutes of input. And two, broad strokes. The ideal targets are to sleep 7.5 to eight hours per night, average 50 to 75 minutes of moderate to vigorous physical activity. That means like brisk walks, cycling, or anything that gets you at least a little out of breath. And finally, keeping in mind that the limitations, high vegetable, whole grain, and fruit intake, that is predicted to yield a decade of extra life, and better quality life too, than if you were to do none of those things. Some of that might seem obvious, some of it may be new, but even if it isn't novel to you, consider it a further reminder that the basics, the pillars, the three stones of health, of power, should always be the focus. And because physical activity was so potent, there's another study that I covered that discussed how you can manipulate physical activity and cram it into just a minute or two and create immense mortality protective effects for yourself. I also make a bit of a fool of myself. Just click here. Thanks for tuning in. It's always appreciated to see you in the next one. See ya.