A while back, we went over the clinical evidence indicating that fish oil and more specifically omega-3s positively impact your brain. In that analysis, we went over six or seven studies largely indicating that long-term exposure to omega-3s improve cognitive performance, especially memory, if I remember correctly. Maybe I need some more omega-3s. Anyway, I'd like to introduce you to several ways that omega-3 fats affect your brain. All of which are not anything I've ever seen discussed before, like ephox, synapsins, and more. In brief, if you're not familiar with omega-3s, they're polyunsaturated fats, which means that they have multiple kinks in a normally straight chain of carbon atoms like insaturated fat. These specific polyunsaturated fats can be consumed from fatty fish, fish oil, krill oil supplements, or as well as uh algae oil, at least the ones that we're concerned with. Uh since omega-3s come in different forms. So, what happens to your brain when you consume a fish oil supplement or otherwise? We're going to rely on these two scientific reviews. The first way omega-3s affect your brain is through the production of teased eoxes. These are, and this sounds so nerdy, electrofphilic fatty acid oxo derivatives. Okay, to simplify, normally enzymes in your cells called cylo oxygenases and lipoo oxygenases produce pro-inflammatory molecules called icosenoids. But fascinatingly, when they interact with omega-3 fats, they convert omega-3s to ephoxes. Now, ephoxes can be produced by the cells in the brain. And when they're produced, they're often kicked out of the cell and then they can bind to immune cells in the brain called microga. Now, when there's neuroinflammation, meaning that micro ga are abundant and activated called an M1 phase by older immunology terms, these cells can do damage to their surroundings because they can release varying pro-inflammatory molecules that cause stress to the surrounding cells in the brain like the various neurons and support cells like aststerytes. Yet when ephoxes bind these M1 activated microg GA they can convince them to become M2 or less activated. Functionally that means that the cells become focused on cleaning the brain, clearing debris, promoting repair instead of attacking perceived threats. Ephes are able to do that by entering the micro GA passively and binding to a potent master protein called pargamma. Par gamma can move into the cell's nucleus and change gene expression as in which genes are transcribed to become proteins. So instead of genes like inos interlucan 1 beta and other pro-inflammatory molecules, it'll encourage more M2 style genes like ARG1 and uh an anti-inflammatory molecule interlucan 10. What's cool about this mechanism is that par gamma is usually bound to varying molecules to activate or inactivate it. and ephoxes are not believed to be one that it usually binds to. So, it's really just a mimicking of the molecules that leads to this positive effect, which I think is so cool. Okay, you still with me? If that wasn't interesting to you, totally respect it. But it's about to get a heck of a lot more detailed on some of these other mechanisms. So, the door's over there. If you're along for the ride, let's get into the second mechanism. You remember that par gamma binding by EOX? Well, omega-3s even before being converted to Ephso bind par. One of the advantages of creating more binding with PAR gamma is also the bullying that PAR does. In your cells, you have this potent pro-inflammatory mechanism mediated by a master lethal protein called NFCappa B. If this protein, this complex is activated in the cytool of your cells, it'll travel inside the nucleus where your genes are kept there. It'll target binding pro-inflammatory genes to generate those pro-inflammatory proteins that we discussed. Luckily, PAR gamma when activated by something like omega-3s or its derivatives will sequester the activating proteins of NFCappa beta essentially stealing the keys to the car. Even cooler though, this same binding of omega-3s to PAR gamma leads to something called a post-transational modification where the protein has a tag attached to it. In this case, PAR is sumoilated, meaning a small ubiquitin protein is attached to it. Sumoilated PAR allows PAR to bind co-pressors of NFCappa B, meaning it'll pick up hitchhikers that hate NFCappa B and carry them into the nucleus to bind NFCappa B genes. And when NFCappa B tries to bind, it can't because par and its co-pressors are blocking it. Like I said, par gamma bullies NFCappa B. But then again, NFCappa B is a vicious when it's overactive. Okay, those are just some of the ways that omega-3s influence pars. But let's get into another maybe my favorite mechanism. The reality is that there are many, many more mechanisms I haven't seen anyone describe before, like long-term potentiation, stem cell activation, and more. I'm going to be covering much more in the extended version of this video that you're watching. If you're interested in nerding out beyond the ones that uh we're going to be about to go over, check out the Physionic Insiders, the full videos there along with many, many other benefits like the podcasts, uh live sessions, detailed research reviews, and actionable takeaways, a vibrant community, and more. Check it out. It's in the uh description box. One massive effect of omega-3s is the way that they change the brain cell membrane. Your cell membrane is critical for keeping your cell integrity. It keeps things out that aren't supposed to be in the cell, but it also allows molecules in and it allows molecules out. It's that last one where omega-3s can influence brain function. You see, your cells use proteins called synapsins to to coil to docking sites on the inside of the cell membrane. Your cells need to release communication molecules like neurotransmitters. And the efficiency of that release makes a huge difference on how your neurons in your brain can communicate with one another, creating thought. These vesicles are equipped with synapsins that anchor to the skeleton of the cell called the cytokeleton. These vesicles sit in reserve close to the cell membrane in case quick release is necessary. That's called a readily releasable pool. Omega-3s influence the production of more of these synaps and proteins, increasing the availability of more of these reserve vesicles packed with neurotransmitters to sit on the inside of the cell ready for quick release. So omega-3s can be transformed into ephoxes which can influence the master protein pam to produce more anti-inflammatory molecules, but it can also lead to a blocking of the NFCappa B pathway to reduce inflammation. Beyond that, omega-3s are believed to increase the reserve pool of immediately available neurotransmitters by increasing synaps and levels that anchor these neurotransmitter laden vesicles to the cell skeleton. While this is all mechanistic research and shouldn't be used for supplementation recommendations or changing intake, we do have clinical evidence indicating omega-3s are a brain benefit. So, in totality, the current scientific evidence supports consuming omega-3s through diet or supplementation. But there's a breakdown of clinical research along with a little more on the mechanisms here. Thanks for tuning in.