That warning is coming from your heart and you can detect it if you know how. We'll get into it along with the science behind it. This warning sign is called heart rate variability or HRV. It's simply the variation in time between heartbeats. Your heart doesn't beat exactly every x amount of milliseconds. It varies. Hence the variability component. Unfortunately, it's not something that we can detect by simply, you know, taking our pulse. But fortunately, it does tell us an indication of our health, our risk of death, as we'll get into. The more adaptable your heart rate variability, the better one's health generally. Why is that? It speaks to a concept of veagal tone. This was a fascinating concept that I learned about during my exercise physiology masters program. In fact, I'll explain why in a minute. But veagal tone is an incredibly important bundle of neurons that extend from your brain stem to your heart. There it controls your heart rhythm by branching and innervating or connecting at two major sites at the heart. The SA node or sinoatrial node and the AV node or atrial ventricular node. These regions of your heart control your heart rhythm and the vagus nerve actually slows your heart down. So more veagal tone or input, the slower your heart rate. Okay, but why does any of that actually matter? Well, multiple things influence your vag nerve and its function. Your blood pressure can influence the vagus nerve through sensors in your heart and the corroted artery called bar receptors. Uh cortisol from stress can suppress the veagal tone as well. And in the reverse direction, chronic bodily inflammation is a sign of reduced veagal tone as the vagus nerve can also reduce inflammation. There's plenty of other ways of creating these connections. The point being it isn't as simple as nerve connect heart nerve good. There's a lot of physiological interconnectedness that translates into something that we can pick up on by the heart rate variability measure. If your physiology is disregulated, unhealthy, pathological, even it uh gets picked up by this metric heart, heart rate variability. By the way, uh one of the fascinating things I learned about uh related to this vag nerve is that uh if you were to remove your heart from your body, effectively separating it from the vag nerve, your heart rate would increase up to 100 beats per minute. So, in the Indiana Jones movie, The Temple of Doom, the heart taken out of that one poor fellow probably should have been beating faster. Now, if only they'd consulted me for accuracy, something that they were clearly concerned with. Not to mention that I didn't exist. But let's put all those minor inconveniences aside. Okay, we know how physiologically speaking, heart rate variability ties into telling us about veagal tone and several indices of health, but does that actually bear out in the studies or am I just talking out of my rear end? Fortunately, there are recent analyses on this very topic like this one and this one. In this analysis, researchers quantified the risk of having a high heart rate variability or HRV versus low HRV on all-c causeed mortality and cardiovascular mortality. This was assessed in about 3,000 people already diagnosed with cardiovascular disease. Then they tracked these people over 1 to nine years to determine who died over that time and if more deaths occurred in relation to low or high HRV. If we pop open that data for all cause mortality, we see the included studies in the analysis along with the different ways that HRV was measured on the far left. The poolled HR or hazard ratio indicates the risk of an event in the low HRV groups versus the higher HRV groups. If the numbers are greater than one, that's increased risk. That's also represented in the middle with the dots and the lines from the dots. These correspond to the numbers that we just saw for the hazard ratio. What you need to know is if they move to the right of the vertical line there, there indicates increased risk. So across all these measurement types along with all these studies, the vast majority of the studies fall to the right or at least on the line indicating a trend for increased mortality risk with lower HRV. But like I briefly mentioned, this is in people with cardiovascular disease. So, is this still true in people who are not diagnosed with some pre-existing cardiovascular problem? For that, we can lean on this analysis that included a much larger 38,000 participants, of which a majority were classified as healthy, although not all. And these researchers did something pretty similar, comparing the risk with low versus high HRV. So, are these results consistent? Well, let's take a look. Now, normally I'd walk you through this, but this is such a mess and so difficult to read that I think uh we'll just switch this out for a more comprehensive, slightly easier to read graph. Here, we follow the same rules as the first graph that we looked at. The more it moves to the right, the greater the mortality risk from lower HRV. Again, almost all the sub analyses indicate either an increased risk or no relationship. In totality, it might indicate an increased risk with lower HRV. However, okay, so is that it? We just move on to what to look for for HRV? No. There's several things to say about these analyses. First, these analyses are the only recent ones that I could find looking at all cause mortality, but that doesn't make them particularly good. For example, the first analysis included 28 studies, which seems like a lot, but with only 3,000 or so participants included, this is a small analysis. My more major gripe with these analyses is the poor adjustments, as in uh poorly controlling for outside influencing factors that could explain these results. In fact, of the 28 studies included in the analysis, 23 adjusted for age, 14 adjusted for sex, 11 adjusted for diabetes. I mean, talk about all over the place. Generally, you'd want to have some sort of consistency and controls for confounders across all the included studies because otherwise, you'll see a significant heterogeneity in the results. And what do you know? If we look at the heterogeneity tests here, we see a lot. In addition, the researchers included a bunch of different ways of measuring HRV, but each type of measurement has a different sensitivities and may even evaluate HRV differently, speaking to different information that we can glean from HRV. So, lumping them all together just contributes to that heterogeneity. Overall, either this analysis just shouldn't have been performed because they did several things poorly in my mind or they should have just limited it to uh the data that could be more uniform and restrict their question more so as not to distill it with inapplicable data. Whatever does that then mean that all of this has been nonsense then? Well, I don't think so. We can still say there's a relationship between HRV and mortality, although it isn't as you know clean as I'd like it to be, which means we definitely need more targeted studies. Still, clearly there's a signal when adjusting for some major confounding factors, even if not all. Plus, we're not actually saying that HRV is contributing to mortality, just that it's a signal for it, which it seems to be. Okay, that mentioned, we've been discussing low and high HRV and how low HRV is indicative of mortality risk. Well, we'll get into what to look for when measuring your HRV. But if you're interested in a step-by-step guide on how to accurately measure your HRV along with the most sensitive consumer grade equipment, check out my Physionic Insiders membership. It can be found there. In addition, you'll also get access to all my work along with other guides, templates, exclusive videos, written research reviews, live sessions with me, and much more. The link is in the description. Hope to see you there, assuming your heart's up for it. Now, what's a low HRV to avoid? Well, a few things to say here. First, you'll need some form of HRV reader, like a monitor, a wearable with a sensor capable of identifying HRV. An Apple Watch can do it with limited capacity, for example. Then, as you saw from the graphs, there's a bunch of different ways of assessing HRV. These are based on a time domain or frequency domain measurement styles. We can ignore the frequency domain because it's not typically measured by consumer wearables and can be controversial. So, by the power of logic, we're left with time domain measurements. Even there there are different types but the most common in wearable devices are SDN or standard deviation of all normal to normal intervals really rolls off the tongue as well as RMSSD a root mean square successive differences between adjacent NN intervals again they left the hospital called that so let's respect their choice and name anyway this is all to explain that there are two methods that we can used to assess HRV. Most wearable watches like an Apple Watch or other wearables like UA and others only detect RMSSD, so we'll focus on that. And they do the math for you, so you don't need to strain your brain to high school math trying to remember how square roots work. The RMSSD, which is a measure of veagal tone that we described earlier, cutoff is 20 milliseconds. So if you have an HRV measured by RMSSSD used in Apple Watch or Aura Ring and most other basic wearables and your HRV is above 20 milliseconds, you are at lower risk of mortality and your physiology detected by HRV indicates robustness and overall decent health. Now, I'll discuss more on the specifics of HRV and more pre precise measures using SDNN in my guide included with the Physionic Insiders, but I should caution a few things here. One, the research was rudimentarily split between less than 20 milliseconds and over 20 milliseconds. That doesn't inform on what is normal and a 20 millisecond HRV is quite low. So the general idea is that uh the higher one's HRV, the better, assuming that there isn't some underlying pathology screwing up the reading. However, if your HRV is closer to 20 milliseconds, it might be an indication to consider looking at your life habits and working on them, nutrition, exercise, sleep, stress, and so on. It's a very useful metric in that regard. Two, consider taking an HRV reading multiple times across multiple days and averaging them. An overly stressful or even relaxed day can give you one reading and the next day can offer you a completely different one. Three, HRV isn't everything. It informs us on certain physiological states. But don't base something like cardiovascular disease risk or cancer risk or something to that effect based on a good HRV. Disease can still be present itself in spite of good readings. HRV is informing on the general physiological state and the relationship to general mortality. So the main points here are that HRV or heart rate variability has imperfect evidence suggesting that it relates to mortality risk. The lower one's HRV, the greater their all-c causeed mortality risk. You can assess your HRV using a basic HRV reader like an Aura ring or an Apple Watch or similar and hit a minimum of above 20 milliseconds HRV to be in reduced risk mortality based on this analysis. Now, like a used car salesman, how about an extended warranty on that heart of yours? I can add another 50,000 mi on that heart by improving your HRV through some of the most potent ways of improving your general health. Just sign, I mean, click right here.