Hey, how you doing? Brian Kane, your peak performance coach here and thanks for joining me on this Monday message. We're going back for the third week in a row to fabulous Las Vegas with the Fuddr Ruckers team where this week we're going to talk about the importance of control and the three steps of control that mind control leads to body control leads to skill control. Now, in baseball, skill control might be throwing a pitch or swinging a bat. In football, it might be making a read and then throwing a pass or catching a pass. And in your line, it might be a sales close. It might be teaching a great lesson. It might be being a great father, being a great mother. Whatever it is for you, it might be showing up and playing your best as an athlete or giving your best in the weight room that day. But it all starts with mind control and then body control and then skill control. Now, most people, they're going to work a lot on the body. They're going to spend time in exercise. They're going to spend time in conditioning. And as athletes, you spend a lot of time on skill control. How to kick a soccer ball, how to move with a hockey puck, whatever it is. Rarely do we spend time on mind control. And that's what the Monday message, and that's what we're committed to at Campaign Performance. That's what we want to help you with is close that gap on mind control so you then can continue your body control and then have better skill control. So to help you with that, we're going to go back to some daily mental practice audios that we created and videos that we created where you're simply going to learn how to get better mind control through a short meditation. So above this video in the text you're going to see links that will take you to some daily mental practice videos where you can do one a day or do it every other day for 3 to 5 minutes. And then below we want you to comment on what's your number one takehome from this mindbody skill control video. Thanks for watching this Monday message. Let's get to Vegas yourself. And how many of us are looking for ways to decrease stress in our life? Raise your hand and say I. I. Well, I got news for you. Unfortunately, it's always going to be there. The stress is always going to be there. Unless of course you're sitting in a Ruba having my ties, but then you'll be stressed out because you're not at work, right? So the stress will always be there. You either become better at managing stress or you don't. And remember, if you want more, you have to what? Become more. If you want more, you have to what? Become more. Try Headspace. You'll love it. If we go back to page 54, please comes back to Ken Revis's rules here. said, "Number two, you have very little control of what goes on around you, but total control of how you choose." Please underline the word choose. How you choose to respond to it. And we know this. We know that mind control. The first word there, mind control, you can draw an arrow on that dotted line, leads to body control leads to, you could say skill, the skill of sales, the skill of ticket times under 10 minutes, the skill of motivating and managing other others, the skill of whatever it is you want to be skillful at. You must be in control of yourself before you can control your performance. And one of the biggest things that derail human beings off of their path to success is exactly what is it Michael correct? What Michael was speaking about earlier about controlling what you can control. So here's what I'd like to do. I would like you to if you would please write down a list of the factors that you feel you can control, the factors that you cannot control that