Cole Reagan, fired up to have you on the Mental Performance Mastery podcast, brother. Thanks for being here. >> Yeah, thank you for having me. >> Yeah, man. It's been an awesome journey for you going back to, you know, 2016. You're a senior in high school, 9-0.9 RA, 104 punches in 70 innings. Go back to that moment of Cole Reagan, who's a first round pick, 30th pick overall, Texas Rangers, now having been an all-star in the big leagues, having had 200 punch outs in a year in the big leagues. like what would you go back and advice you give to that kid who's the prospect to be a first round pick in the draft coming out of high school or college? >> Yeah, I don't I don't know if I would change a single thing. I felt like I enjoyed high school baseball. Like I had a great group of friends. Um we enjoyed it. You know, there was never like I didn't I tried not to worry too much about the draft stuff. Um you know, I was never really projected to be a firstrounder that year. um just kind of happened. Um so it was I enjoyed it. I was like screw it. If I don't get drafted, I'm going to FSU with all my buddies that graduated before me and all my guys I you know play travel ball with and stuff. There was a bunch of us going to FSU and it was like you know whatever happens happens. It's uh out of my control a little bit. >> So kind of back in the day in high school, right? I mean whether you were doing it intentionally or not, you were like well I can't control the draft and if in best you know worst case scenario I'm going to college with my boys at FSU. How has your mentality just over time come into like if it's not controllable, it gets none of my time, energy, and attention? >> I mean, obviously, we started, you know, working together in June, and I think it's taken a big a big step forward in that sense of like control what I can control. You know, everybody wants to win. That's that's your thing. But that's something that's a little bit out of your control. Like you can you can do things that might help you win, but like winning is, you know, I'm going to execute it pitch by pitch. I'm going to worry about the pitch at hand and then the next one and so on and so forth. And that's what I can control is executing the pitch that is, you know, at hand. And that's, you know, do the best that do that to the best of my ability and then we'll see where we are at the end of the night. >> It's often I'll go into a college baseball locker room or or call it a spring training meeting with pitchers. I'll say, "What's your job?" And I'll hear from guys, get guys out, stay in the game, give my team a chance to win. And at the end of the day, your job is one word. >> Yeah. Execute. >> Execution. Right. And how did that kind of like switch flip for you when we started in terms of just like your commitment to my only thing I can control, which is execution? >> Yeah. I think uh listening to listening to the execution chapter, like the podcast part, you know, three, four times a week, u just kind of like over and over again. It's like you get to a point where it's, you know, you're listening to it and you're you're almost like repeating it. Like it's like you can get like sentences out of it where it's like I don't even not that I don't need to like sit here and listen to it, but it's like oh like I've listened to this so many times that it's almost like being it's being ingrained in my head essentially. like that's basically what I can control is executing the pitch at hand and you know then the next pitch and so on and so forth which I pretty sure is exactly what it says in the in the chapter. Um, but it's just like listening to that over and over again. It's like, all right, you know, this pitch, even if it's a bullpen, you know, and I obviously like I catch myself all the time like in a bullpen, it's like bam, bam, bam, bam, and I'm like I get done and I'm like, damn, like >> I kind of flew through that. Like I didn't take my time and focus on each pitch as probably as much as I should have, you know? And it's like if I can slow it down, then it's like and practice that here. It's It's going to be a little bit easier to practice that or not practice. It's going to be easier to do that when I'm in a game and it's really, you know, moving. >> Yeah. And I think you're always training one of two things, right? The great Charlie Smith, the mental performance coach of mine, has said, Kan, are you always training one of two things, discipline or distraction. And I think when you're in the bullpen and you're doing, you know, aerobic pitching like that where you're just going and you're kind of mindless because you've been throwing baseballs for a long time instead of being mindful, fully in the moment and intentionally focusing on the routine of each pitch like you would do if it was game seven of the World Series, right? >> You know, talk to us about that in-game routine of like when you're really intentional, the pre- batter routine, the pre- pitch routine, the breath. Walk us through pre- batter, pre- pitch, and the breath that you're hitting there. Yeah, I mean to me the biggest one like I've kind of always done the breath without really knowing that that's the reason I'm doing it. Like we've talked about this. Um, I think that the like, you know, oh, I've gone, you know, ball one, ball two to the last like two, three guys. Like, step off, find the spot you want to look, you know, take a couple deep breaths, you know, you're kind of talking to yourself. Um, and then you get back on the mound and go. And it's almost like a like it's a quick reset, like get you back, you know, where you want to be, back in that mindset. And I think that's the biggest one for me. And I I'll do it in like bullpens, too, like in the offseason. And I've done it a few times where it's like I'm [snorts] kind of a little bit like I wouldn't say spraying the ball, but I'm not doing what I want to do. And and you know, it'll be all right, step off. Let me just rub the ball up real quick and like take a couple breaths, get back on, and then it's like, all right, now we're back to, you know, doing it doing what we want to do with the baseball. >> And then talk to us about shadow bullpens, right, as a way to just practice the routine without a ball and what that does for you. Yeah, I I need to get better at it, but I've been like working on that a pretty good bit. And this offseason, the first time I like noticed like like holy cow, like that really did something for me was I've been working on my, you know, a slider, like I I've had the slider, but working on consistency with it. You know, I've kind of gone through grip changes and all this stuff. And I just sat in my living room one day this offseason and I was like bored and I was like screw it. I'm going to just do like a mini little shadow bullpen. Like my wife's in the living room over here. Like I've got we got some open space. Like she's watching TV. Like whatever. I'm going to I'm going to go out here and I just like visualize sl a slider in the zone. Slider in the zone. Like I was facing like just random hitter. No idea who it was. Just like a batters in the box and I'm like landing a slider. Oo. I'm going to throw it again. 01. I'm going to throw it again. 02. You know. Oh. All right. Let's say I hung that one. All right. You know, I'm going to step off, take a breath, get back on. Let's see the slider. Now we're going to go heater down and away back to the slider and just like and then the next day was like the best my slider had been all offseason. It was like in the zone movement was what I wanted it and it was just more so like >> sitting there visualizing like seeing it like I've we've all, you know, like we've thrown good pitches. We've thrown the slider the way we want to throw it. Now it's just making it happen more consistently. So it's like visualizing that good one in your head and you know with a batter in the box and then it's like the next day it's like all right you know and then you start finding little mental and physical cues that are like all right when I think this or when I do this like it's really good it's where I want it to be or you know things like that >> I think when you talk about the imagery right and I want the listeners to know that imagery is not like this voodoo magic that you do imagery and oh my god the next day my stuff's [laughter] incredible right it's it's basically mental reps at seeing yourself execute the way you want to And when we do mental imagery, it can be you getting up and doing a shadow bullpen where if we were watching you, you're practicing the mechanics you would use in the game, you know, not at the same speed, not with the same arm speed, but you're going through like working on the breath, working on seeing the pitch. Visualization, mental imagery also happens watching mind movie, highlight video of yourself. It happens with audios that we have based off of the start day of your fiveday sequence. Talk to us about the importance of the mind movie and you watching yourself in your best moments. Yeah, I think it just helps you like if you you know it reminds you that you're nasty. Like I'm I'm freaking good. Like I belong here. I'm good. Like you see, you know, as a pitcher, it's like you're putting a lot of strikeouts, swing and miss, stuff like that, freezes, things like that. It's like, I'm gross. Like, you know, then it just kind of like catapults you into your into your day of like, all right, I got this to work on. I just watch myself do that to guys in a game. Like, I know I can do it. you know, it might have been it might have been a little off here, but I know that it is in there now. It's like visualizing it and like, you know, getting it rolling again. >> And then so the mind movie, you know, allows you to see it on the screen of your best moments and we put it to music that you like and the words that fly up on the screen and things that you're working on, mindsets you want to have, execution one pitch at a time, big body language, get nasty, whatever it is. Then, you know, if someone were were to follow you around and get to shadow you for a day, they see you throw headphones in, you're doing maybe Mark Pro on the arm in the training room and you're closing your eyes and you're listening to an audio and visualizing. Take us through sort of that ball breathing affirmation. Look back, look forward process. >> I do mine while I red light. So, it's like we have a a little room in the field that's got a a red light bed and I'll just, you know, you're in there for 20 minutes. So, I throw that on and, you know, it's kind of like me time. You know, nobody else is in there. It's quiet in there. Throw my headphones in, >> you know, listen to it, do the breathing, stuff like that. And I just think, like I said, it's kind of >> I feel like I've it puts you into this routine of like, all right, I know when I do this, this, and this, like, I'm prepared. I'm ready to go for the day regardless of what happens. Like, obviously, you want to go out there and shove every single outing. The That's not realistic in a sense. Like it's just like there's guys that you know you you see the guys that are are are winning Sai Youngs and you know they have like a a two two. It's like they still had bad games but they had more good ones than bad ones. Their routine's so good and they don't dwell on the bad games and it's like move on. Like my routine stays the same regardless if I have a good day or a bad day. It's like I know I'm prepared. I've gone through my mental imagery. I've gone through all this stuff >> and it's just prepared me for the day. Like I do everything before I go out to the field. Um, so like mental imagery, my mind movie, all that is before I ever play catch that day. And it kind of just like locks you in of like, all right, let's go. >> So good. And I think, you know, there's as people listening to this that are not necessarily familiar with the mental game and the 10 pillar system that we're running. I mean, you're talking about a lot of things from shadow bullpens to mind movies to execution journal to, you know, the mental imagery and the daily routine, all that. One of the tools that we use is a success checklist. We use an app called Habit Share to keep that organized. How does having that checklist help you just stay organized with like knowing these are the things I got to do to prepare when it comes to mental game? >> Yeah, I think it's a it's a good way to hold yourself accountable. Like it's like like oh actually I forgot I needed to do that today. Like bam like that's what reminds me and then it's know like you're sharing yours with me. So, it's like I see yours pop up and I'm like, "Oh, like I forgot I needed to do that this morning." Or, you know, whatever. Or it's just like going through and it's like, "All right, [snorts] you know, I've I did my conditioning. Let's check it off. I did, you know, cold plunge. Check it off." Or, you know, "All right, my sleep from last night. Let's see how it's been going." You know, if you need to make some changes, whatever. It just kind of holds you you accountable to yourself. I feel like is like the biggest thing. Well, and I think it also increases awareness, right, of if I want to do mental imagery every day or a shadow bullpen two times a week and a mind movie bullpen days and start days, how do I know if I'm doing it? There's so many things that go on in the world of a major league baseball pitcher in a day. >> This is how you track it. It's no different than if you go in the weight room and you write down your weights, you're going to progress faster than the guy that doesn't. If you go to the bullpen and you throw with a Trackman versus you go to a bullpen where there is no Trackman, you're getting more data, more awareness, which allows you to grow faster. >> Yeah, 100%. >> Speaking of data to help you grow faster. Talk to us about sleep, Aura Ring, Whoop, the way you measure that. How do you use that data to help you kind of engineer a good night's sleep because I know you sleep like a savage. >> Yeah, I've worn I mean I Aura I've been doing for a little over a year now. Whoop. I've been doing I've worn it every day since uh I think it's like March of 2020 >> pre- pandemic. >> Every single every single I had it I originally had it in like 2017 and I stopped wearing it for a couple years and then I got hurt again and I wanted to start tracking it and I just kind of ran with it and >> I don't let it determine >> necessarily how I feel. Like if I wake up and I didn't sleep good it doesn't I still got to go out there and pitch >> good got to pitch >> like it's whatever. It's just more so of like holding myself accountable like why didn't I sleep good? Oh, >> I'm you know whatever. I didn't go to bed at the same I I >> on my phone in bed. >> Yeah. Like little little things that just kind of like you know help it. Like it's like oh I did some breathing stuff last night and all of a sudden I slept really good. Like it's like figuring out little things like that like help you sleep good or don't help you sleep good but I don't let it affect >> like my oh I had a you know whatever whoop was 45% recovery like I'm dragging today like no I don't let it do that like drink a cup of coffee and we roll like it doesn't matter if it's a 98% recovery or a 15% recovery it's not going to change what I have to do that day I don't let it you know I feel like previously I had gotten caught up in that but like I I you can't do that. Like that's you got you got you know you got [\h__\h] to do. >> You know, it's funny you talk about the awareness you get from Aura and from from um Whoop. Yeah. >> And I've seen too many athletes that wear it and they have a red light day or a bad recovery day and they go, "Oh man, it messes with my mindset going into the day." >> And I think you got to that point. And then when did you sort of evolve out of that to go, "No, I'm not letting a number dictate how I attack a day, but I am going to let a number allow me to reverse engineer what happened last night. Maybe I ate too late. Maybe I got in an argument. Maybe I was watching TV in bed and that impacted my sleep. So, I don't want to do that again, you know, or minimize that. How do you how when did you kind of make that shift? >> Yeah, I don't know exactly when I kind of made that shift. I just know like I was actually looking back uh the other day to see what time I was going to bed last spring training. Just curious. >> And I had like I think it was like the second week of spring. I had four red recoveries in a row. >> Uh I I don't know why. like AI think I ended up buying a new pillow after this because I was like [snorts] I was like maybe I'm just sleeping with like my head like cocked back. I'm mouth breathing really bad, you know, [laughter] something like that. And it's just like a four red recoveries in a row. Yeah, that's not good. But like I still got to wake up and go to the field and do my stuff. Like I got bullpens, I got lifts, I got games, whatever that may be that day. like it just kind of, you know, you use it to like help you, but I'm not I'm not going to let it affect how I actually feel. Like, yeah, there's going to be days where you're tired, >> but you still got to play. Like, it doesn't matter. Like, you find a way to like overpower yourself almost in the brain of like, no, it's still go time. >> Well, it's Yeah, it's like in a in a positive way, right? I remember when I was doing the Iron Man triathlon stuff. I had a h my my half iron man here in Arizona. I woke up with an eight a red recovery on Whoop. I'm like, "Well, it's cuz I'm excited and nervous and I'm not sleeping, you know, and I was super hydrated, going to the bathroom all the time, whatever." So, I woke up with him. I'm like, "Oh, I got an eight. I'm going to go absolutely get after as hard as I can with an eight and see what we can do." And I put out the best time I've ever done in a half iron man. So, it's like looking at that number going, "Oh, great. What a challenge now to see how we dig deep." You know, >> I had uh like one of the coaches I a few years ago told me that when people like most people perform at their highest when they're at like a yellow recovery on Whoop, like I think there was a study about it solely because when you're green, you're like, "Oh, I feel good." Like whatever. Yeah. And then when you're at yellow, you're like, "Dang, I got to >> I got to kind of get after it today. Like, let's go." And it kind of pushes you a little more. I don't know if that's >> more of your focus. >> Yeah. You're a little more focused, probably. So, I don't I don't know if that's true or not, but it's like I don't I look more like my biggest thing with like aura is like, yeah, I look at it look at the stuff we have on habit share to but I'm looking at like my HRV, my resting heart rate, like and how much sleep I got. I don't really >> it's like if I wake up and it's not a crown. I think a crown's like what 85 or something. >> So, it's like if it's not a crown, it's like how do I feel first? I some and some days I try to give myself time to wake up before I look so I can deter and I think that's what kind of helped me get to this point was like waking up and before I look at that I'm going to determine in my brain like >> where am I at? Yeah, I all right. I feel good. Or hey, I feel sluggish. And I got to the point where I was like I would wake up sometimes I'm like feel kind of like I'm dragging today. I look it's like 95% recovery and I'm like h and then some days I wake up like damn I feel really good and be like 55%. And I'm like see you can't like look at this stuff like it's like you know yeah you use it I use it to like track my sleep because I want to have good sleep but you know it's kind of >> it's somewhat non-controllable in a way. I mean, you can influence it, right? But you got kids, you're not going to sleep. >> You find things that like that help you like, "Oh, actually, I did this. I saunaed, you know, and then took a took a shower, went to bed, something like that." >> And it's like, I slept really good. I felt like I like slept like good deep sleep or whatever. And it's like, maybe I'll try that, you know? >> Yeah. >> Or supplementation, right? You try ZMA or Ashwagandha or something before. >> Oh, I had like AI had a snack last night and like aura rings tell me, "Did you have a late snack last night?" Like, how do you know that? Oh yeah. That's how we found out we were pregnant. My wife's heart rate was elevated, right, for a certain number of days and she's like, "This is weird." And it's one of the one of the markers. >> Crazy. >> Wild. >> Um, you talk about also, right, like the ba the game of baseball can be ruthless. >> Oh, yeah. >> You know, as you know, cuz let's go back in time a little bit here to, you know, 2016 first round pick and then you get into it in March of 2018, Tommy John, you're rehabbing. May of 2019, another one. Talk to us about what that was like for you being a guy who is first round pick and now all of a sudden, bang, it gets taken away from me and I'm rehabbing and then it happens again before you even get back. Like what was that all like for you? >> Yeah. So blow out the first time. Um I didn't know much about the arm. Like I just threw a baseball. Like I don't I you know I hadn't done any really like recovery stuff. I'm like 19 years old. I'm like still trying to figure stuff out. And so I I you know I blow out the first time, get surgery, and it's like I have a the group of guys I was with was a lot of guys that had kind of been around for a little bit. They got drafted before me. Um you know, and it was a we had a good good group. Um you know, and it was I was like screw it. Gives me you know whatever 16 months I think it is. And we get after it, we get big, we come back, you know, we're going to throw harder. like hell yeah. And then I'm 14 months in, two days from being in my first game. Like I'm like excited. Go to throw like a touch and feel like I'm going to throw like 12 15 pitches, you know, just feel the slope. I'm in a game in two days. Just kind of, you know, fine-tune some feels. And I like I think I threw six fast balls and I couldn't make it to home plate. Like they were like bouncing on the plate. Just kind of cut it off. Told the told the guys I was like, "Hey, something's not right. like we need to get this figured out. Get an MRI, it's torn again. Um, you know, kind of kicking the nuts right there. You know, you're kind of like, you got to be kidding me. And so, you know, Dr. [clears throat] Meister basically gave me two options. Either I, you know, they do with some guys, they'll do like where you shut down for like eight weeks, get a PRP, you know, whatever, or they get surgery. And so, I told him, I said, "Listen, basically, I need you to tell me what you think. you're the doctor here. Like what is going to I don't care if you give me a PRP and I you know I come back and I start throwing in eight weeks or I have to go through this for another 16 months like whatever it may be. I want to be done with this when I'm done. Like I don't want to I don't have to want this in the back of my head like bothering me. He's like all right let me go back in. And >> you know Keith Commtock is like the I don't know if you've ever heard that we call him commie. He's been with Texas for >> forever. like he's one of the best. And he kind of put it into perspective for me real quick. He's like, "Well, you got two options. You can either have surgery or you can hang them up and go home." And it kind of like like it brought tears to my eyes. I'm like, "Holy shit." Like, >> "No way. No way am I hanging these up." >> And my wife's going through this with me. We're like, you know, we got married young. We're living together. We're out here. And and you know, I told her and it was just kind of a gut punch to her, too. Like, she's living it with me. like we're stuck out here. >> Um, and so we, you know, we go through it and it was a grind. We had a completely different group of guys. Like all the guys in my second TJ were all drafted after me. They were all younger than me. >> And so it was like, oh, all right. Well, you know, now this these guys are kind of talking a little more, you know, a little more trash to me. Like now we're trying to get we're getting after it again. And, >> you know, then co hits. We go home. I'm like long tossing with my dad who had no business playing catch with me. [laughter] But, you know, that's what we that's what we had to do and you know, it was we we made it through it. >> So, you're back it's co you're back playing long toss with your dad. It's 2020, right? And you're you're four years after getting picked as a first round pick and you've had two Tommy Johns. Was there ever a moment for you where you were like, I don't know if this is going to work out? >> Oh, yeah. 100%. There was days where I was like, >> I better start figuring out what I'm going to do for my life. Yeah. Like what do I what do I want to do for a job? Like what do I need to figure out? Like you know, you start getting on Google and looking and seeing what kind of pays good, pays decent, what all your friends are doing and how they're living and you know, all that kind of stuff. And it it it kind of puts things into perspective pretty freaking quick how fast this game can be gone. And the game doesn't, like you said, the game is pretty ruthless. like it doesn't stop. Like it's going to keep going. There's guys coming. You know, there's I feel like guys get better and better every year. Um and so it's, you know, [snorts] you just got to keep going. >> And I think that's so important, man. I appreciate you sharing that because I think it's so important for guys to hear that are listening to this that are like they look at, you know, you or a Corbin Burns or a Bobby Wood Junior and like I'm these guys that just had smooth sailing all the way to the All-Star [snorts] game, you know, and it's like that ain't the case, man. you know, or or there times where like I think most of the guys that I work with, there's a time where they were like, I don't know if I'm going to be able to do this. I don't know if I want to do this, you know, and then and then they're able to like stay in the fight and stick with it. And then next thing you know, bang, they find themselves playing another 10 years. >> I mean, I had been I mean, after 2020, I've had 16, 17, 18, 19, five years in Pro Bowl. If you count the year I got drafted, they usually count that as a season because the ACL. So five years and I had been to short season. I had less than a 100red innings in pro ball under my belt in five years. >> And you've been to short season a >> Yeah. I've been to short season. So like you know it's I'm nothing. >> This is 2021 >> going into 21. >> Yeah. I've been to short season. >> Wow. >> And so like guys that I got drafted with are like in AAA and I'm I'm been to short season and you know 21 starts. I come in the spring I go to high A. Um, and I'm just like, this feels so good. Like, it just feels good to like have a normal routine of I'm going to the field. I got a bullpen today or I'm pitching in a game today or oh, it's day after like I got to lift like you know, I'm with the boys. It's like a team setting. It's not rehab. And I remember just like >> my wife and I always like kind of we were just, you know, take it day by day. >> Whatever Whatever the good Lord above's got planned for me, that's what he's got planned for me. But I'm going to take it day by day and you know, we'll see where it goes. >> And then where it goes is you make your debut in August of 2022 and then in 2023 you get traded from the Rangers to Kansas City. What was that like getting traded for the first time? >> Oh, wild. Like I Oh man, what a week. My whole that whole week. So I'd gotten optioned like two weeks prior to this to Round Rock. I was AI started the I made my first opening day that year as a reliever because I had a VO jump. I'm getting I mean I got whacked. I'm getting hit. I have like a six RA in the big leagues as a reliever. Like not throwing good. >> Um and the team's good. The team is they won the World Series there. Like they are they're freaking, you know, >> everybody's doing their thing. I'm like I'm struggling. So they sent me down. When they sent me down, they're like, you know, we're going to build you back up as a starter. um which I had started my whole life prior to that spring training. So, it's like two weeks in, we're in like we're I just flown to Vegas the day before. We're going to play the A's uh AAA team in Vegas. They call me in. They're like, "Hey, you're getting called back up." >> So, I fly to Dallas that night. Like, I'm like flying. I've Because you walk from the hotel from Red Rock to the field. >> Sprint back over there, grab an Uber straight to the airport on the plane, land in Dallas. My wife picks me up, >> go home. you know, it's late that night. Go home, wake up, you know, normal day the next day, go to the field. I go out, play catch, you know, do do all my stuff, play catch, come back in, and they call me in the office and I'm like, no way. >> I'm going back in >> like there. No. Yeah, they just called me up on accident. [laughter] Like, I'm getting sent back down because in my head I'm like, none of the starters are hurt. Like, what are they just like, we need an arm for a few days. I'm coming up. I got to cover some innings. Like, what's going on? call me in there. Then CY comes in, they shut the doors. I'm like, what is going on? Like, did I do something that I have no idea about? Like, you know, brain starts spinning >> and they tell me I'm traded to Kansas City and like Cy played for whatever 12 years or whatever it was. Like, he's been on both sides. He played for the Royals and, you know, nothing but respect for those guys over there. Like, they are awesome guys. Um, so, you know, a lot of phone calls start coming in once I get traded. you know, JJ's calling me Q, Sweeney, like all these guys are calling me and I'm trying to figure out, you know, saving numbers and who's who and all this stuff. And so then I the next morning, so I just flown in the night before. The next morning, I fly to Kansas City, get a rental, drive to Omaha, two days later, first start. The next day after my first start, we have like AI have to be at the airport at 3:00 a.m. because it's like July 4th. We have a game that night, but we had to wake up at 3:00 a.m., fly to Atlanta. We go to the hotel for a couple hours and then go play that night. And I remember getting to the hotel that night and I look at my wife and I go or I FaceTime my wife cuz she had just gone home cuz it was about to be the All-Star break. And I'm like I go, "Listen, if I don't reply for like 13 hours, >> I'm sleeping. >> I'm sleeping. I'm not like I am I am exhausted. Like I'm I'm just I'm setting my alarm. Like the bus was at like I think [sighs] 1:30 or 2. I set my alarm for 1:00 like and this is at like 10:30 the night before and I slept till 1:00. My alarm woke me up and went with it. But it was just like chaos like so many moving parts, you know, like >> our vehicles are here. We have a rental agreement here and get there and you know, it's just but it was I mean worked out for both of us. Blessing in disguise, you know, like all we had known was Texas at the time. Now, some of I'm going to have friends for the rest of my life from Kansas City that, you know, I've made over the past few years that are some of my best friends. And, you know, out there, >> best friends and best years. You go there, it's 2024 now, and you find yourself in the All-Star game and the fifth pitcher in the history of the Kansas City Royals that's had 200 punch outs in a year. >> So, like just the ex the the the low of low of the back-to-back surgery to like one of the best ever in a Kansas City Royals uniform in 2024. What was that high of highs like for you? All-star 2024 extension. What was that like? >> Crazy to look back on. Um, it was freaking awesome. Like we have a awesome group of people with Kansas City that everybody's pushing everyone. Everybody's pulling for everyone. Like everybody wants everybody to be the best they can be. It's an awesome group of guys. Our pitching staff is super close. Like starters are talking to each other after every outing. you know, what' you see, what' you feel, how'd you feel, you know, all these things. And it's like everybody's just everybody's genuinely happy for everyone when things happen, you know, like I mean, you get to play with the best shortstop in baseball and watch him do the things he does and you have S back there and then you have like all the you have Waka and Lugo as like the two vets on the pitching staff who have been doing this for so long and you know all their knowledge and just everybody and it's it's unbelievable. >> It's awesome, man. coming back into kind of some of the mental game. What What was it that in in you know July of 2025 we got started together? What was it that kind of made you want to explore getting into mental performance? >> Yeah. So I mean I had talked to Bob about you quite a bit. You all been working together for a while. Um just kind of you know he was just giving me little tidbits of like hey like you know showing me like his routine and how it was mapped out and like I was just like asking him like what do you feel like is the biggest thing that he's helped you with? And you know, we'd talk about stuff like that and I was like, hm, like it sounds pretty intriguing. Like I just got, you know, and then I got I'd just gotten hurt and like I was like your brain starts doing things and you're like, "All right, like I need to get get over it." Like I've been here before. And it was just kind of like, you know, talk to you on the on the phone there for like what 20 30 minutes and then at the end of it I was like, you know, I want to do this. I'd already talked to my wife about it, you know, like what she thought and she thought it was a great idea and now we're here rolling. >> Here we are rolling. And I think as you look back on it, right, it's like you're a major league baseball pitcher, you have a strength coach, you have a pitching coach, you have a nutrition coach. Like would you say that mental game is just another aspect of the development of being a high level athlete? >> 100%. I mean, you have the weight room stuff, you know, you're getting strong, but like you can be as strong as you want to be, but if you're not mentally tough, like there's going to be times that are going to challenge you mentally, not just physically. And it's like you got to find ways to like get out of that funk or, you know, whatever. Like, it doesn't matter how good you are, you're going to go through like, you know, you're going to have a couple bad outings in a row. It's like not just letting it go. Like, screw it, I'm on to the next, onto the next. like this is what I need to work on, but like I can't just sit here and dwell on that outing. Like I got to I feel like that's what what it helps with so much is like the past is the past. Like we're going to stay where our feet are. We're going to focus on the present. We're going to, you know, pitch by pitch and go from there. >> Whether it was a minute ago or a month ago, like it's over. What's next? We're moving on. You know, >> last question for you, Reagan. MVP process, right? Something where we always working on two things in the middle game. Working on performance and development. And as we're recording this, spring training is getting going and a lot of our work when we started was specifically on the performance aspect of pitching. And then as we get into the offseason, which we just kind of, you know, now transitioning back into performance, we work on development, the heroic book of the weeks, the MVP process, the vision board, the perspective poster. How our first offseason together, how did some of those tools you feel like help you from a mental game standpoint, whether it's perspective poster, vision board, heroic MVP? Yeah, I think that the heroic Oh, I'll start with that. The heroic book of the week is just kind of like they're never the same. It's like, you know, completely different. You know, one's talking about like standing up every 16 minutes or something and the the next one's talking about, you know, a certain mentality or, you know, things like that. And it's just completely different. But it just gives you like all of it kind of fuels into like the same thing, you know, of of doing stuff. And the MVP process and the vision board and all that kind of stuff. I feel like it, you know, for me like vision board when we did that, I think that was like towards the end of the season last year, it just kind of >> puts things into perspective of like what's important to you. Like, you know, at the end of the day, it's like, all right, maybe I did have a bad day at the field, but guess what? coming home to a wife or if you have kids, you know, you know, a kid or kids or whatever. And I've heard so many dads talk about it how like they come home, it's like kids don't care how how the field went. They don't care. They're just happy to see you. Like you're their, you know, their hero or whatever you want to call it. And so it's like, >> you know, putting things into perspective like what's important. Like yeah, I had a bad day at the field. Like that stuff matters. That's my job. But when I leave the field and I go home to my family, like now I need to, you know, I need to spend quality time with my wife or my kids or whatever that may be. And I think it, you know, it kind of helps all of that like transition like >> person to player, player to person. Yeah. >> Yeah. >> Yeah. It's awesome. Reagan's last question. I know I just said that again. I'm going to say it again. Biggest thing if you had to remove the skull cap of any players listening to this and plant one seed of success in their brain that would germinate that they would take with them of everything you've done in the mental game, what would you say be that one seed that you'd plant? Man, that's good. I feel like the biggest thing that I've over the past whatever it's been, seven months that has really like helped me is my routine is so dialed in that it's like when I wake up, I know exactly what I'm about to do. And I feel like that just kind of like pushes you into like your AM routine. It's like, you know, in the offseason, it's like by the time I got to the gym, I was ready to go. Like I'd already I I had checked off my my checklist of like, all right, I've I've listened to, you know, the execution chapter, the book of the week, the mental performance daily, the success um hotline, like I've cold plunged. Like it's like all these things. And I feel like the more you do them, the more it's like, all right, when you do those, it's like I'm ready for the day. No matter how I felt when I wked up, by the time I get done with that, I'm energized because I'm I've I've knocked out all this stuff. And it just kind of like jolts you into your day. >> Awesome. Be routine oriented. dominate the day. Cole Reagan, thanks for being with us with mental performance mastery, brother.