 TG, man, fired up to get you in the bunker, bro, and have you on the podcast. I think the last time we chopped it up was at the Texas High School Baseball Coaches Association, and you were on stage in the damn Savannah Banana Kilt, talking about, I think, infield play, and I was like, this cat is a savage, man. The energy was off the charts. One of the best speakers that I've seen on the circuit at baseball clinics. Phenomenal. Glad to have you here, man. Boom, baby, thanks for having me. This compound is unbelievable here. You've set up an environment for you to thrive every single day, and, man, I got it. I got to say thank you to you, man. You've poured into me for a long time without even knowing it because of what you've shared, and I think that's the important thing we do as coaches is share as much as we can to make an impact as much as we can. One thing I'll never forget that you did was at that Texas clinic, I stole stuff from me for a long time, right? And that's the first I've ever met you, 2019, Texas High School Baseball Clinic, and you're speaking after me, and even though you were speaking, you still took pictures of me. You got a camera with me, and you sent those pictures to me, and I never forgot that, so never forget, Mom, and I appreciate that, man. You're stud. I had forgotten I had done that, but that's badass. I'm glad I did that, but I remember. But, yeah, man, I mean, you brought energy on the stage. It was phenomenal, and that's what you do, man. I mean, that's who you are, whether it's at South Mountain, whether it's with bananas, whether it's with bet on yourself. I mean, your juicehead. I love that. Energy giver, man. Like, that's who you want to surround yourself with. That's what I've tried to surround myself with in every walks of life, you know, and I've been lucky to be around some high successful people, and they've made me better, and so viewing what they do, you know, you show up every day and bring that energy, and we love energy givers, and that's what we look for in the bananas, too, is energy givers. Yeah, you know, man, a lot of thrust on the pack today. I want to talk about betting on yourself. I want to talk about the mental game of baseball, obviously, but let's get started with the bananas, because I think if people have seen Banana Land documentary on ESPN, right, they've gone to the sellout crowds in Major League Baseball stadiums, is what you guys are doing. We're doing a different flair and a different energy and entertainment to baseball, so kind of give us, in your words, if you would, like your story of the bananas. Well, ESPN called us the greatest show in sports, and what we've tried to do since day one is be fans first in everything we've done, and so I think that's what the game changer is. It's a very clear cut vision mission of what we're trying to do is look at the game and the customer service experience through the fans' eyes. What do they like, and what do they not like? Whatever they don't like, quit doing it. I think that's a pretty easy business model, right? So what we did right out of the gate, Jesse and Emily Cole moved to Savannah, Georgia. They created the Savannah bananas, which created a ton of buzz, and right away they looked at the fan experience and said, what if we did all you can eat? Nobody ever did all you can eat with tickets. They didn't know how to do it, but they dove in. They weren't scared to go through the mess, and I think that's what a lot of people struggle with maybe is going through the mess. Ah, a failure here, a failure there. It's failing forward. We honestly test so many things, and we are where we are because we're not scared to fail and get after it. So we had all you can eat, and then it was open seating. So you go to a ball game, you can sit wherever you want, right? And so we've evolved a little bit since then, but in Savannah we still do the all you can eat, and that's a pretty cool scenario. If you're a family of four or five trying to go watch a ball game, and you don't have to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars to go do that. Yeah, you're not getting a $25 hot dog. You're getting all you can eat, right? That's right, baby. You know, TG, one of the things that I love you mentioned there was not being afraid to fail. I mean, I think so many times, even as a mental performance coach, I was a high school athletic director for eight years before I went full-time mental performance. I just had, I liked what I was doing. I enjoyed it, but there was definitely an element of fear of stepping into the unknown. And you've created companies like Ben and Yourself. You've been a junior college head coach and Uber successful and ran one of the best like mental performance educational programs as a part of that. So you seem to have used fear as fuel and just saying yes and take an action on it. So like, where does that mentality help you of embracing fear and using that as feedback? Yeah, if you're not doing something that shares the hell out of you, I think you're, you know, you're wasting your talent, you know? And so like what we're doing every single day with a banana is just testing new things that evolve us to the next level. Every single banana game show, we try 20 to 40 new things on the field. Promo's dances with players, trick plays. We're not scared to fail. We could do one thing all the time and run the same show and be like, OK, this is good and stay in our comfort zone like the Harlem Globetrotters. Like the home girl and we get compared to the Globetrotters a lot. But the difference is our game changes every single day. We test new things every single day and our game is competitive. It's not scripted. We script some of the entertainment pieces like how we celebrate, which is, I think, a mental performance unlock of what we're doing because it keeps guys loose, it keeps guys having fun and keeps guys less tense because they're honestly staying in motion so it gives them a better emotion. All right, so prepare the game. And so that's dances that's connecting with fans. And, you know, you can't be afraid to fail. You got to jump in and that's part of the learning process. But a lot of people are scared to do that. Yeah, I love the idea of like some of it is scripted, right? Because it has to be to be consistent and some of it is not. Like talk to us about for the people who have never been to a bananas game. How is that different than regular major league baseball? Like talk to us about the difference between bananas and a major league baseball game for the casual fan who's never been. So when we started, we were a summer collegiate baseball team and we said we want to be fans first and everything we do and we want to entertain. So we looked at all of the things, all the ways of the game where it might have been too slow or boring for the normal fan. And we said, how can we make this faster, more entertaining? And how can we connect more lives about connection? Everybody's trying to find their tribe. And I think that thing that we broke down as we broke down the wall between player and fan connection where we created this tribe of people that love the bananas. And what we do every single game is when the gates drop, the gates open, we're outside greeting fans saying, thank you for coming to the game. It's high fives, handshakes and hugs. We created a saying called H three. So there's that personal connection. And what, where I think that's a mental performance unlock is if you think about dopamine and serotonin and the life, chemistries, we are constantly being hit with dopamine and serotonin throughout because it's connection throughout the entire game. So we connect with fans before, during and after the game. We're signing autographs the entire time. We've got music playing the entire time. So in the past, being a baseball guy, you see chaos practices, right? Chaos bullpens where you're trying to prepare pitchers for the most crazy environment possible. Literally that is our game every single day. And then we throw on, Hey, we're going to do a choreograph dance. It's going to take you two minutes to learn that. Then you're going to try to throw a strike. So I think we're honestly creating one of the hardest games in sports, to be honest. That's unbelievable. Unbelievable, man. I love the emotion from being in motion and the high, the H three, which can be applied anywhere, high fives, handshakes and hugs. Let's dive into TG, the mental game of baseball. What is the mentally and baseball to you? Man, it's playing pitch by pitch. It's that's life, you know, can you dominate every second of the day? And, you know, what I, what I stole from you a long time ago was what your one 68, right? And I know you're, you're so great at that. And what I've seen high successful one percenters do is really plan out what that one 68 looks like their week. And then they go and execute whatever that looks like. So it becomes an execution instead of at a young age, when I was coach in junior college ball or even guys now it's time management and understanding. Hey, I'm intentional about my telescope goal. But what are my microscope goals? What are my daily zoom habits that are going to get me to that telescope? Because everybody has the telescope. Go everybody wants to be a big leader. Everybody wants to be high successful in business. But what separates everybody is those day to day actions and everybody can plan it out on piece of paper, but who shows up every day? And the one thing where I think I've had any success is I've been able to surround myself with great people and somehow get in the room with great people. But I'm not the smartest. I'm not the most talented, but I show up every single day. And I've been doing that since I was probably 10 years old. And that's how I've been able to stick around. And if I had an impact or any success, it's because literally I just showed up. Yeah, it's showing up with energy, I would say to write. You can't just show up and be a be a slug. Like you got to show up and bring juice, ma'am, because as I say with our team here, Brian can't be performance. I'm like, energy is your edge. If you're not bringing energy and your energy is not contagious. And if you walk into a room and then when you leave, people don't feel better and have more energy because of your presence, you're doing it wrong. You know, it's, and that just means you don't love what you're doing enough. I don't think to bring that type of juice. And you know, one of the guys that I, that I saw really do that was Tim Corbin, the baseball coach at Vanderbilt, right? And that staff of back in 2006 when I was working with those guys, it was him. It was Derek Johnson who was on the pitching coach with the Reds. And it was Eric Backich, who's the head coach at Clemson. And it was a team of, of energy guys. And I was like, damn, that's what it looks like. These are guys who just love playing and are playing at a high level. And I know, you know, one of the things that you did when you were the head coach at South Mountain here, one of the top junior college programs in the country in Arizona, you ran like a one hour classroom session where it was really tied into not just performance, but development. And I think as a mental performance coach, we're always doing two things. And the performance, like how do you compete one pitch at a time, but also development. How do you step into the best version of you and create systems that allow you to be the successful otter off the field? Talk to us about kind of that curriculum that you installed at South Mountain and what that looked like. So this is how it started back in 2015. I was reading a ton. I literally was in a small room and I tried to buy 150 books and just read as much as I possibly could. And I ran across the book called the no complaining role by John Gore. Sure. I read that book on a two hour fly from Oklahoma to from Phoenix to Oklahoma. And on that fly, it hit me is I was complaining too much. I was at junior college. We were a top 25 junior college in the country, but we weren't number one in the country and a lot of it I was complaining about. We didn't have resources and a lot of coaches around the country are dealing with this. Maybe it's NIL money or maybe it's facilities, but I was complaining. We didn't have locker rooms and we didn't have all the scholarship money that some of the other Jukos had. We, we had 18, $325 scholarships. The other Jukos had 24 full rides. We didn't have dorms. They had dorms. We didn't have a cafeteria. They had a cafeteria. So I was in this complaining mode. And after reading this book, I go, man, I got to stop this. And the book says you can't complain unless you got two solutions. So it's about being solution oriented. So I said, okay, instead of complaining about all this, how can I make our guys better? Because I thought we were, we were losing something on team chemistry because we didn't have a locker room. And when I played at Seminole State Junior College, we lived at the ball field. We lived in the locker room and I, all those guys are, we're still so close. That tradition at Seminole State is so close. And I thought we were missing that. So I said, I'm going to, I'm going to quit complaining and I'm going to create a classroom session where we can literally get to know each other because some of the most never forget moments or inspirational moments in all the teams that I've been on, or when we were in the locker room, sharing stories, real life stories about ourselves and how we were going to attack our problems or how we were going to win the day. And I said, we're missing that. We need to do that. So we created the growth toolbox. We did that in 2016 for the first time and it was a one hour classroom session on Fridays at 10 a.m. And we started with goal setting because if you don't know where you're going, you're going to be lost. You're just going to be driving around without a destination and we would start with goals and I think any coach or any player, that's where you should start is you got to know where your mission is, right? You got to know where you're going so you can basically get in the car and drive that way. But the next thing that we did right after we said, Hey, this is where we're going. We said, what's our time management? All right. How are you getting there? And that's where I stole the 168 from you. And I thought you would enjoy this. Uh, this is how I, I got guys to buy in. I said, okay, guys, tell me how many of you guys want to be a big leager and everybody has every, every dude throws that on there. But I still do. I'm like, sweet. There's, yeah. So I was like, all right, sweet. There's about 400,000 guys out there with the same goal. What's going to make you different? Right. And I was like, it's your time management plan. So Brian Cain showing me this. It's the one 68 plan. Every 30 minutes out of the day, we're going to get on our Google sheets and our Google calendar and we're going to map out exactly what we're going to do. So I let them do that. Right. The next time management session we came in. So this is session three. They come in. They haven't mapped out. It's color coded. We spend about two, two and a half hours on this. And then I go, okay, you guys got that. You think you guys can execute that and that's going to get you to the big leagues. I'm like, okay, cool. I need you guys to turn it up a notch and I want you to do something that scares the hell out of you. I want you to put a time on this. I want you to say in one year, if I don't execute my goal, something crazy is going to happen. Like I'm going to randomly die. Now that's crazy. A lot of people go, oh my gosh. That's something I always put myself on. And when I was in high school, we won four state championships. I would, I would do that exercise with myself all the time. If we don't win a state championship, if I don't, if I don't turn around this dirt road in my Honda Civic and turn it perfectly, we're not going to win a state championship. I'd put myself in these random, not real situations, but it would change my environment where I had to act and I had to act faster. So I was like, all right, if you don't achieve this by the end of the year, then something crazy, not fun would happen. And so they would go, okay, um, those two, those two hours I was going to hang out with my girlfriend, maybe I'm only hanging out one hour with her. Instead of hanging out in the cafeteria, I think I'm going to go hit in the cage for those 30 minutes in between classes. So they started looking at it differently. Once the problems might show up, if something negative happened. So that's a crazy scenario to throw yourself into, but it makes you act and move faster. Yeah. It's creating, it's creating a pressure to move, right? It's creating an urgency to move. And what you did there is you would call what I would say gamify. The gamify would be like with my daughter, I'd say, Hey, CK, you think we can pick up this room in two minutes? What do you think? How long is it going to take? Yeah. All right, ready? Here's the watch. Start to watch. Boom. Put all the toys away. Come back, look through time and gamify. If I said, see, I clean up the room, it's going to be a fight. If I said, see, K, can we think we can do this under two minutes? You want to do it together by yourself? You want to go by yourself for about three minutes, gamify. And now it's fun. So, right? So it's kind of that same sort of narrative that you tell yourself. Talk to me, you know, you mentioned the growth toolbox. You mentioned telescope and microscope goals, the mental game, playing it, pitch to pitch your 168 time block and talk to me about. Betting on yourself and this company that you've created around. Mindset and around being able to kind of do exactly that bet on yourself. What's that? Where's that come from? What's that all about? Yeah, man, my I grew up in small town, eight Oklahoma, 17,000 people. I grew up in the boondocks. My dad was a bull rider, so I grew up on the rodeo circuit and, you know, he's crazy getting on 200, you know, 2000 pound bulls that one buck you off and kill you. And so perfect, perfect father of the bananas manager. That's right. Betting on itself for a long time. You know, it's the rule of that is it's not if you get hurt, it's when. Well, yeah, you know, and so the story is when I was eight years old, the movie came out called Eight Seconds about Lane Frost, one of the best bull riders of all time. He's from Lane, Oklahoma. And my dad got to rodeo with him a little bit on the high school rodeo circuit. And we went to the movies as a family. We sat at the movies, movie theater. My mom's on the right. My little brother is on the right. My dad's on the left. And at the end of the movie, Lane Frost ends up passing away and dying and shy and whome and he gets horned in the back by a bull punctures his long true story. And I'm looking at this at eight years old and I'm like, what is happening? And I look over and my dad's crying. And it's the first time I ever saw my dad cry in life. And so in that moment, I was like, I think I would rather get hit by a 90 mile an hour fastball than horned by a bull. So that was my trajectory of going down this baseball route. And so along the along the way of every single level of baseball that I played from coach pitch to 10 and under to 12 and under, I would always play up my first year and I was always having to compete. I wasn't the fastest. I wasn't the biggest. I was the smallest. I wasn't the most talented. And I was always having to bet on myself just to get into the lineup, right? And find a way. As I got through college, my background story, kind of keeping it short, my mom and dad struggled with drugs and alcohol for a long time. My mom died of oxycotton overdose in 18. And my dad struggled with, you know, he's had five DUIs and they're phenomenal people. They're awesome people. They struggle, struggle with addiction. And baseball was always my getaway. Baseball was the baseball field was my cathedral. It was my way to kind of get Zen kind of get my happy place. And when I started high school, I didn't know it at the time, but I was lucky to be around Eddie Collins, which in 2021 he become the winning as high school baseball coach in the entire country with over 2116 wins. At the time, I didn't realize how good I got it. And everybody would look at those wins and they would say, man, that guy really knows how to coach baseball. But the truth is he taught me way more about life than he ever did about the game of baseball. He's pretty damn good at the game of baseball. And so I call him my hero. And so one of those John Gordon exercises is hero highlight hardship. And it's when people ask me that or I share that with with our players is Eddie Collins is my hero because he put me on the path of straight and narrow. And hey, this is how you show up every day. That dude showed up every single day. So when we talk about showing up, I watched that dude work on the field two hours before practice, two hours after practice, literally yet to have your hair cut, you had that everything was yes, sir, no, sir. Yes, ma'am, no, ma'am. And that that's different in today's world, but it was all about discipline and execution and respecting your opponent, but not being scared of anything. So it was always about betting on yourself. And we were at two a high school, two a high school, and we would get in six day tournaments, the highest level of tournament in Oklahoma. And we would beat that we'd win those tournaments. And the funny thing he would say all the time is, it doesn't matter who's in that other dugout, they put their pants on just like you do one leg at a time. And so we would get in those tournaments. We'd always bet on ourselves and we were always the underdog. So I've been playing this underdog role for a long time, but we're really bet on yourself started coming in is my junior year. I started working out at Seminole State Junior College. And I went there because I thought they worked harder than anybody else. They did morning weights at 430 in the morning. They would do burnouts, all these workouts. If you put them on social media, everybody would absolutely destroy them. But mentally, I thought I could, I thought I could run through every single wall and I could accomplish anything, even though I weighed 150 pounds and wasn't as talented as everybody else. But mentally, I was there and I was like Seminole's where I want to be because that's where the toughest, strongest, hardest working dudes are. And I get to my senior year. I've got multiple scholarship offers to different Jukos and some D2s. And the guy I look up to the most, Eddie Collins. I'll never forget it. I'm sitting in a Lidah high school parking lot right in front of the basketball gym. He walks out. I'm in my car, my front seat. He's like, hey, Gillum, where were you thinking about going to college next year? And I was like, I'm going to go to Seminole and he played at Seminole. And he's like, I don't know if you should go there. Like you've got you've got like multiple offers. Seminole didn't offer me a scholarship. And so he's like, I think it's better that you take a scholarship where you know you're going to play Seminole goes to the World Series everywhere every year. They win 50 games a year and they have over 10 guys drafted. And back then it was drafting follows. This was 06, 07. And he was like, you need to go somewhere where you can play and they're going to give you scholarship. And I never saw it that way. I never, I never saw it that way. I wanted to be in environments where I knew I was going to get better. It wasn't about playing. It was about what's your day to day, what's your date, your microscope goals, your zoom habits, how are they training, how are they working out? And what intrigued me was a lot of people didn't want to go to Seminole because they heard all the horror stories of how it was boot camp and they work too hard and they wake up at 430 in the morning and I'm like, sweet, that's the room I want to be in. And so I chose to go to Seminole. That was my first bet on yourself. They didn't offer me a scholarship. I was full financial aid. We didn't have a whole lot of money. So I had government assistant money and I'm Chickasaw Indian. I'm Native American. So they were able to help me with some books and tuition too as well. And so I went there for free on those types of scholarships, but I didn't have a baseball scholarship in today's world. Nobody on social media says that. Everybody says go where you're going to play, go where you're going to go get the most amount of money, especially in this NIL world. I chose where I thought I could develop the most. And so I wanted to be in that room and network with those people and work hard with those people. So I get to Seminole. That was my first bet on yourself story. I get to Seminole. We have 12 draft and follows. Tyler Gillam is not one of those dudes, man. I'm like, I'm 150 pounds soaking wet. I couldn't hit water if you fell out of a boat. I could play defense. I could turn a double play and that was that was what I was really good at. But I was really good at showing up. So we had 43 guys that first fall, 43 guys, 12 of them are draft and follows. We had we led the country and strikeouts that year. Our number five arm ended up getting to the big leagues. Jeremy Hefner, he's the pitching coach with the match right now. I go there and we have 16 guys quit that fall. It was so hard. Everybody quit. They didn't have to cut one guy. So I just outlasted everybody. So my bet on yourself story is showing up. Energy giver work harder than everybody else and try to outlast. Right. And so that was my first story and going through it a little bit more in 2017. I was listening to Entree Leadership Podcast by Dave Ramsey. There was a business leader on there and said, I never achieved any of my goals and until I started focusing on impacting people. And also I read a read a book that said, you should set goals that scare the hell out of you. And 2017, January 17, 2017, I wrote on my whiteboard. I want to have a positive impact on one million people through baseball, education and exercise. And with that goal, that's been my North Star since 2017. And we've been, you know, we've been better ourselves with the bananas and a long journey and kind of a cool number. Everybody was like, oh, that's stupid. That's crazy. That's never going to show up, you know, all the naysayers out there and critics and cool. That's fuel. Along this journey, you just focus on impacting one person a day. And I would say eventually it's going to show up somehow, some way in 2024, our last game of our banana ball tour, Miami Marlin Stadium. We sell it out and that was we surpassed one million fans on the 2024 tour. So that was one way it showed up. So it's cool. So we're still on that journey. Yeah, I love that. I'd say add a zero to that. But 10 million. That's actually the 10 X goal of this year. So I changed that goal and that's what I'm trying to do. Go 10 X, bet on yourself podcast. I'm giving out bet on yourself gloves around the country. I'm trying to give out 66 this year. We gave out 25 last year. I've got bet on yourself sweaters and shirts. All the proceeds go to buying baseball gloves for kids on on tour, man. And so we're just trying to inspire the next people that I feel like I got to give back the games giving me so much. And so in life, it's all about impacting other people. And you guys sell out the Miami Marlin Stadium, like the Savannah bananas bananas have gone from being a college summer team to selling out major league baseball stadiums. I mean, I've looked at out here in Arizona, right? We're recording this where we both live and and the spring training complex. You guys played a game at Sloan, the home of the Chicago Cubs sold out, right? You're playing at different places. The Linnale sold out like you guys are selling out. You're selling out major league baseball stadiums. The Marlins aren't doing that. You know what I'm saying? Like what's what is 2025 look like for the bananas? Yeah, so we said we said goals that scare the hell out of us. We live in the future, right? So one of the things that we say often is we live in the clouds, but we're also in the dirt at the same time, right? We're we're thinking five year plans, but we're also in the dirt in the trenches, getting things done every single day, testing things, going through the failure, going through the mess, figuring out how to evolve. And so our goal in the future is we want to reach a billion fans. That's literally our goal is to reach a billion fans. And so in 2025, we have 17 major league stadiums. We're going to play in four football stadiums. Three of those are NFL stadiums. We're going to be in over 40 cities this year. And we're going to be we're going to have over two million fans on the banana ball tour. So our goals are crazy. Our fans are probably crazier. We've got three million fans on the waitlist to get tickets. So three million fans. Yeah, the waitlist to get tickets. Yes. And so that waitlist is grown. And really one of our biggest friction points and problems right now is to play in bigger stadiums so we can get all these fans to games. And that's what we're trying to do. So unbelievable. I mean, I've had I've had guys I've worked with in college, right? That have gone on and played for the bananas. And talking about, you know, how much they love it in my catalog guy from Arizona State, right? Played and played in the league for a little bit. And with you guys, like from a baseball standpoint, how much different is it from a mental game standpoint for guys playing for the bananas versus playing for like their college or protein? So when we started in 2016, we were doing these things that nobody else was doing. So we were having to convince players to get them to buy in to do a player dance in the middle of the second inning. So our owner, Jesse Cole, basically what he evaluated was he was he was in a small market in Gastonian in the CPL coastal plain league. And it was hard to get fans there. And what he noticed was he wasn't in the baseball arena. He was in the entertainment business. So he had to figure out how to get fans there. And so one of those things that he did was have players dance, right? So a lot of our guys dance. So if you know Ryan Kellogg, you wouldn't think that that guy initially would be a guy that would get out there and dance, but I'll tell you what. And I had maybe at 2 a.m. on Mill Avenue, but I'm sure it's been enough time on Mill Ave at ASU. But I tell you what, Ryan Kellogg, I had probably four or five coaches tell me, I don't know if Kellogg's going to fit into what banana land is or what the bananas are. Ryan Kellogg has one of the best solo dances in 2023. Milwaukee. He did the entire dance from Napoleon Dynamite. Oh, yeah. Dressed up like he threw six innings, six innings at the end of the sixth inning. He gets behind the mound and he does the entire like two, three minute dance solo dance of Napoleon Dynamite and absolutely killed it. And so what the environment does, though, I think that's different is it gets you out of your comfort zone, which we're all trying to do as coaches, get them out of the comfort zone and it puts them in an environment where they're not setting around motionless, thinking about, Oh, I hope this goes well. I hope this doesn't go well. And they're kind of have monkey brain where a lot of guys struggle, mental performance. Yeah. Yeah. Now they're thinking about going to impact a fan. They're going to the stands to hand out a rose to a little girl. They're throwing t-shirts in the stands. They are on the mic doing something crazy, singing, dancing. And I think it makes them perform better, to be honest with you. The reason why I think that we started in summer collision baseball. We had a mathematician, a professor from Georgia Southern come out and do all the statistics of every team in the CPO and what he found in his statistics that all the banana players played better than their college stats. And that usually doesn't happen in the summer because it's wood bat. And literally he found out that you played better when you're wearing a banana's uniform, but I think there's some secrets to that success. It's we keep things fun. We focus.  we get out of our internal problems and we get external with it. And we think about others, we think about our teammates, H3, high five handshakes, there's the power of touch, right? And if you strike out, you don't have time to set on the bench and soak, you have to get your butt on the field with the speed of banana ball. Banana ball's so fast, it happens quick. The fastest inning banana ball is 46 seconds. The fastest strike out in banana ball is 8.6 seconds. So you're constantly moving and so that's why I think motion keeps a good emotion, right? Instead of being down in the dumps and you know what Kenra visited taught us and you taught us is figure out how to flush it, right? When Cal State Fullerton put that into play back in the day, I think our flush it is, hey, you got to get back on the field and interact with the fan, you got a H3 high five handshake, connect, you have to go do a dance, you have to go sing. That's what it looks like. So that's where the motion turns our emotion. Yeah, I'm just looking at like, if you're listening to this and you have not gone and looked at the bananas website, I mean, I'm looking at like the player of baseball cards on the website here and what these guys are doing. I mean, this is unbelievable, man. Whatever's normal to the exact opposite. Yeah, it's unbelievable. And I think we talked about motion creates emotion, movement changes mood, action changes attitudes. How quickly can you pour into your teammates? How quickly can you focus on somebody else, right? There's so many professional baseball players that, you know, and I understand why they do, they just ignore fans because of the negativity, because of the criticism, because they're locked in and what they're doing. They ignore fans. I had Michael Kodair on a podcast, former batting champ, you know, Colorado Rockies. And one of the things he said was when he was in high school, he, you know, was a big time prospect, first round pick, felt some pressure. And I want to say there was a moment where he kind of like had a little blow up, throw a helmet, bat, whatever it was. And his coach said to him, Hey, Cuddy, I want you to take the kids that are here watching you, all these kids that are here for this game, run to the wonder why they're here to here to see you. So they're watching what you're doing and you have no idea a butterfly effect of the ripples that will extend into these guys lives. So how you handle adversity is probably how they're going to do it. How you handle success is probably how they're going to do it. He said, So what I want you to do before games moving forward is I want you to take a baseball and I want you to sign it. I want you to walk and find a kid who's never seen you play before. And once you hit him that ball and once you have a little, little moment of connection, you know, what that's going to do is create accountability on you as you're playing this game, that all eyes are on you. How do you want to come across? And I believe it was when he was in high school, it may have been when he was in the minor leagues, but that moment for Cuddy, he said, completely changed his ability in the mental game to like play with a different purpose. And and he called it the power of accountability, being accountable to people that are watching you. And I think, you know, as we bring this podcast here to a close, like the power of accountability for what you guys are doing with the bananas in terms of the entertainment, but the impact and getting people to really fall back in love with like baseball and fall back in love with what you guys are doing and being willing to better themselves. And I think all the players, some of these guys on the roster that I've had when they were in college and taking a look at these guys, you know, and seeing them now step out of their comfort zone and do what they're doing. It's really cool, man. You're impacting a lot of lives. So thank you for bringing banana ball and what you keep doing, man. Keep betting on yourself. I love it, man. Thanks for having me here today. This is unbelievable. You've got an awesome compound. Everybody's got to come sit here to see it. And I love it. You're the man. Appreciate it, TG. The compound is here. We're trying to take mental performance into the house. You know, you guys are bringing banana ball to the world. If I could put the compound on wheels and drag it with me, I would. But trying to do it here where, you know, it's interesting. I was traveling 250, 280 days a year before the pandemic and doing mental performance, consulting, working with teams all over the place and loved it. And then when the pandemic hit, it was like, well, now what? Moved into zoom and moving into zoom, the consistency of going, you know, I was going to use Jim Schloss, they go as an example. And he was at TCU 06 2020. He's still there. Pandemic hits. I've been going to campus three, four times almost quarterly for 15 years. Pandemic hits. And I'm like, coach, I bet on myself, I said, we need to move this to 30 minutes a week, you and me. So you fill me out where the program is at and I can help you navigate what you need to do to help guys mentally during this pandemic and the team 30 minutes every week. And we started that in probably March when the season got canceled, I think of 2020 and we have not missed a 30 minute session with a team from TCU to when he was at AMM to know when he's in Texas because of the consistency. And I think when you look at the mental game and the influence and the impact, there's a lot of impact from like going to a bananas event and seeing that and experiencing that and that one moment can change your life. Like when big believer in the power of moments, right? Whether it be hearing you speak at a convention, whether it be listening to one podcast, whether it be picking up the book heads at baseball, like I did July 4th, 2000 and it changed the trajectory of my life. And there's also impact that can happen from just consistency and environment and accountability and being there. So, you know, when you bet on yourself, bet on yourself in those moments that can change your life, go into a conference, go into a seminar, picking up a book, but also bet on yourself of just the raw consistency. I do want to hear from you about routine and consistency and the impact that that has had on your life as you bet on yourself. Yeah. You know, to go back to 2011, I was coaching at East Central University and my routine was to show up every single day for players and I was 23 years old. They didn't have a full-time paid assistant. I was a grad assistant making $5,000, getting my master's degree in education. But the routine of showing up every single day with that energy, it didn't matter if it was 7am or 7pm being around, being consistent with that. There's the compound effect that happens for a long period of time. Right. And I read that book probably back in 2014, 15. That changed the game too, as well. And the compact, you know, it's just 1% better every single day. Right. 2011, I decided to take a bet on myself and move here to Phoenix, Arizona, because I thought it was the best place to do three things, learn, grow and network. And those three things have been my guiding star since 2011. But what I started figuring out was routines was you have to get up earlier than everybody. I started teaching in the classroom at eight o'clock in the morning at South Mountain. I had to get up at 435 30 in the morning to set my day on the right pattern with all my executions. So I had a journal in the morning. I had to read in the morning. Add I call it monkey brain. You have to get everything out on paper. And what we do with the bananas now is I deal poluses. So every day on Tuesday, we have an I dip, lose us. So you talk about routines. We do an idea, polusa. We call it an OTT meeting over the top meeting every Tuesday. And that is our entire organization. So it doesn't matter if you're the Jesse Cole, yellow tux guy that's coming up with 10 ideas every single morning since 2017, or you're the new intern that just came in. We want to hear what your ideas. And that's how a lot of our ideas show up in banana land. So we show up every single day, team meetings, OTTs. We take those ideas. We bring them to Wednesday's practice. We see them live. I think that's an important key. You can have an idea, but if you don't act on it and you don't figure out how to edit it, one of our principles with the bananas is plus it. How do you plus it? How do you plus what you are currently doing? A lot of people get consistent with what they're doing and they're like, OK, I'm good enough. How do you plus it? So you hear that throughout our entire organization. So you'll see that on Wednesday. We will do all the OTT entertainment ideas. They're usually pretty good. And then Thursday, we plus it a little bit more. Hey, what if we do this? Hey, what if we do this? What if we add this here? Friday comes along. Game day we rehearse for an hour on the field, usually at 1 PM for a seven o'clock game. And we usually plus it there. You have 20 people with cameras and different ideas and people go, hey, throw a glove on here. Do this here. Do this move here. And you come up with a product that, you know, is some of the, you know, I think we got some of the best dancing choreography in sports. It's crazy what our players are doing. Our guys that were first rounders, they're doing these dances and then they're hitting a 500 foot bomb in game. That's pretty wild. But that's one of our routines is those idea OTT, uh, Palooza's, but it's that show up. Be consistent every day. The compound effects going to take care of it. And, you know, that starts at the top. So if you're thinking about businesses or you're thinking about being a head coach in any program around the country, you have to live it every single day. People are going to follow what you do. And Jesse Cole is that idea Palooza vision guy and literally he has a yellow book that he's wrote down 10 ideas every single day. And then he shows up and he's in the trenches. That's not a normal owner. You know, his wife, Emily Cole, she's flipping burgers, taking out trash, making sure every 300 people in our organization. Now they all have happy birthday messages going out. She's the heart of the bananas. So it's easy to show up to work when you have owners that are in the trenches every day and I call those foxhole guys, you know, who's in your foxhole and Jesse Cole, namely, Cole or in my foxhole. And we got a lot of those foxhole guys in banana land. And I think that's why we're having success because of not the craziness because of the people. It's, it's people over profits. It's playing the long game. It's showing up every single day and moving the needle. That's something I say every day. How do we move the needle today? It might be one little target. And so if you go back to those routines in the morning, set your tone, set your temperature, how are you going to win the day? I want to share something with you, Brian. This is something really important with me. That's been inspiring for me in junior college. There was a poem called a new day. I don't know if you've ever heard this poem and my freshman year, our head coach, he was crazy. His name's Eric Meyer. So I wish I had another hour to tell you about crazy Eric Myers, but Eric Myers made us memorize this poem. It's called a new day. And he told us the first day of practice. Hey, memorize this poem. And then he didn't tell us anything else after that. Three months later, we're doing morning weights at 430. We, we do a half mile run. We go through an entire weight room circuit. The last thing we do is a ab circuit. And the last thing we do period is six inch leg holds and everybody that's done six inch leg holds for a long time knows how those get. And before we could be done for the day, the entire team had to recite a new day poem together. You know, right now, still. Let me see if I can say it because I read it every day. It's called a new day. It's so this is the beginning of a new day. I've been given this day to use as I will. I can waste or. I can waste it or. Use it for good. What I do today is important because I'm exchanging a day of my life for it. When tomorrow comes, this day will be gone forever. Having in its place, whatever I've trade for it, I pledge to myself that it should be gain, not loss, good, not evil, success, not failure in order that I shall not regret the price that I paid for this day. Amen. And I, when I say that and I read that every morning, I think about doing six inch leg holds. And we had to start over 11 times that morning. And I never forgot that poem after that. And I read it every morning, but that sets the tone. That's that's some of those routines and we could go on routines all day, man. But that's a couple of things that have impacted me over the years. The beginning of a new day, heart cell, Wilson. I'm going to post that in here. That's fantastic. TG, once again, man, coming to a close for a second time. Thank you, brother. Love you. Appreciate it. Appreciate it.