Brian, you've done some work with Matt Canol and the Baylor men's tennis team also. Yeah, competing for a Big 12 championship today, regular season champs, going to get the tournament today hopefully. And we'll meet with uh Coach Canol and the Bears next couple days to help get them primed and ready for a postseason run. Well, Brian, it's not uncommon. I see that the teams that you work with often excel. Know you've worked with TCU in the past. You've worked with a number of clubs, uh, you know, Cal State, Fton, but seemingly that the the mental edge that your processes provide are really important and provide a winning formula for a lot of teams. Well, it's interesting. You know, I had actually a chance this morning to spend some time with coach Ger from Texas, who's uh, five national championships in four different decades, over 1,800 wins. And that's exactly what he said, Pat, was that it's about the process. So many people get stuck on the outcome and trying to win versus what they need to do to win. Well, Brian, that's such an important point, focusing on the process and not the result, which is what we try to teach young players all the time because they're young kids are more focused on those results. They see the averages. They see the statistics and baseball is a statistical game. So, that's a great point you made. Well, if you look at the scoreboard, it says, you know, Langford 298, which is his batting average, but that doesn't tell the story. You know, if there's a runner on second base and no outs and he hits a ground ball to second to move that runner to third, that his batting average goes down, but his quality plate appearance goes up. And there's a sign, you know, in the Baylor dugout, that yellow sign that talks about quality plate appearances. And, you know, Steve John, their hitting coach, really puts an emphasis on the process of moving runners and having quality at bats much more than batting average. But what does everyone in the stands see? They see the scoreboard, not the sign in the dugout that the Bears are tracking off of. Well, so not only do you train a new process, you actually train a new measurement system. Absolutely. Well, well, measurement is motivation, and you measure what you measure, and what you measure gets done. So by them being able to measure the process, they get more process which leads to more outcome. Reaches out and guides this one into center field. Langford is two for two on the day. The Bears have a two out base runner in the bottom of the No, Pat, everyone thinks that when you get to two strikes, the pitcher has the advantage. You know, we teach the Baylor hitters is that when it gets to two strikes now, he thinks he's that close to getting you and he may make a mistake because he just doesn't want to walk you now. He's got you to two strikes. So get ready for get ready to get your mistake position. That's a reframe. Just a different way of thinking about it. I love it. Koule, one of the seniors recognized before the game today. Uh Brian, I'm interested on a on a senior day, how much can that benefit, you know, these guys or everybody else wanting to play well for us for for the seniors on a senior day? You know, I actually think it goes in the other direction is I think that it can cause you to press too much, try to do too much for to impress your family or to try to go out on a high note instead of just doing what you do every day and what got you here. And that's the conversation that that we had with the seniors before the game was, "Hey, it's senior day. Your family's here. There's going to be flowers. There's going to be teased hair. There's going to be pictures. Let's just go out and do what we do and play Baylor baseball." So maybe take a deeper breath. Stick with that final thought. Stick with your routine and just let the game come to you and really just try to enjoy it. But they should be enjoying it every day because it's such a great game. Great point. And one count on two you throw over to first. Is there a website we could direct people to? That'd be fantastic. Yeah, it's just my name.com. Brian Kane, B R I anc.com. If uh there's any Twitter Twitter followers out there, it's Brian Kanepak. And you know, I have a free newsletter on my website where I put something out once a week just to kind of keep people uh doing a little a lot, you know, not a lot, a little, and try to just give them little bits of information each week. If there's any coaches out there or just fans of the game looking to understand a little more about the mental game, uh that newsletter would be a tremendous source, I think, of information for them to continue to grow that side of their coaching repertoire. He wants to count on Tui at the plate. I would think Coach Smith would be one that would really be receptive to what you have to offer. There's a liner into right field. That's a base hit for Tui. Langford around first. He will pull into third without drawing a throw. The Bears have runners on the corners. Well, and it's interesting talking with Coach Smith, you know, before the game. This is the first time I said, "Hey, this is the first time I've ever been in a dugout where the head coach, his son, is pitching." So, how do you handle that emotion from a head coach standpoint? And he says, "It's the same way that the players hand it." I take a deep breath. I have to check in on myself. If I get out of control emotionally because it's my son who's pitching, I may make a mistake. So, I've got to really try to separate the personal and the professional and just play the game. And what Steve has done such a beautiful job of is, you know, he's got he's got who who's really running the offense and Trevor who's calling pitches. And Steve has really embraced being the the mental conditioning coach for the Baylor Bears and he's the motivator, you know, he's he's the he's the father, he's the godfather and he runs the whole ship so beautifully that they've really taken on that personality, I think, of him and have a lot of fun. Really, really high energy, fun team to be around. I think that starts with him. No question. Well, the mental emotional part of the game, Bri, as we've talked about, so important and, uh, I think anything you can do to gain an edge in that area just going to make you a better ball player. But, uh, what is the kind of the one thing you take the most pride in? What Baylor has learned from you this year? Yeah, I think what I take most pride in from what Baylor has learned, it's been a three-year process now, is really just having a process of training the mind and having a process of doing a little, a lot, not a lot of little. And if you look at the signs in the dugout, a lot of teams in the country, they're the same signs. with the same signs every day and they're not talked about every day that it's just wallpaper. But he changes them. Coach Smith talks about them every day. He uses them in the pregame meeting and it really I think sets the tone for that mindset of what they're trying to achieve and go into compete with on that day. So just the way that he has been able to run the ship and run the mental conditioning process has been beautiful. And that's kind of what makes me so proud is that they've been able to take it and run with it. And it's not it's not my program, it's their program. Well, they've absolutely taken ownership of it. I love the signs and I love how the players execute it, too. You can hear them from the dugout, all calling pitches and doing the same things that you talk about, how important it is for the players to have high energy and stay involved in the game, even if if you're on the bench. Well, it's even, you know, if you look at another shot of in the dugout, there's a sign they have posted that says offensive dugout participation. And those are all verbals that everyone in the dugout will say when that situation in the game dictates. For example, a pick at first base, everyone will say back. If there's a ball hit to the right side and we're on defense and the pitcher is supposed to go over to cover, everyone says get over. And the reason why they do that is not so much to impact what happens between the lines, but it's a system and a process to keep the guys in the dugout engaged so that when they get to go in and get a key pinch hit roll in the seventh, they feel like they've been in the battle pitch to pitch. And it's not a step up. It's a continuation of what they've been doing to pitch. That's great. You hear coaches all the time say, "Guys, stay in the game." That's how you do it. Two- two pitch lined over third into left field. That'll get Langford home. Warf is chugging for second base. He will beat the throw there. It's an RBI double by Nathan. Interesting on in the Friday night game. Not sure if you if you were here for that game, but there was a play to him, routine ground ball, and and makes an error and then comes back, I think two hitters later, and makes one of the best defensive plays I've ever seen. coming, you know, hard up up the middle, bare hand, throws a guy out at first base. And, you know, you wonder this his mentality where we actually will practice when you make an error, how do you release it? And if you if you see uh the next time a Baylor Bear makes an error, because that's probably going to happen cuz it's baseball, you'll see them, you either kick the dirt in front of them or even take their glove off and turn their back to home plate. And as they're doing that, they're allowing themselves a minute to beat themselves up and get negative. When the glove comes back on and the face comes back to home plate, it's the next pitch mentality and wanting that ball which helps them to then perform at their best and not let errors compound and make two or three in a row. You've got a term you call flush it. I think that's what some of the players are are taught to do. Just flush it. It's behind you. Yeah, it's flush it. So what next pitch we can't control it? It's in the past. We can't control what's going to happen in the future in terms of Big 12 championship. Let's just enjoy the moment and play for this pitch this day. Ryan Kane visiting with us. He's the strength and conditioning mental coach for Baylor baseball and Baylor tennis as well. I got a question for you. Having been a former Baylor Bear and a Major League Baseball player, what were the guys who were the best that you saw? What did they do mentally that you thought separated you and them from from other people? Yeah, it's a great question. I think it's it really came down to to the approach, the bulldog attitude that I had on the mound. Uh, and I pitched angry, so I had a kind of a thing I went through myself. But, uh, I think it it really was it was that mental approach. When I stepped on the rubber, nobody was going to beat me. If he got a hit, it was just lucky or I just made a bad pitch. But that's the approach that I had as a pitcher. Ron, not only do you work with Baylor, you work with a number of teams. So, Baylor has not bought the exclusive. Imagine that would have cost too much. So, how many teams are you currently working with? Uh, right now I've got about 20 22 division one college baseball programs and overall with all sports. I'm just under 50. I got 48. Uh, so looking to get two more and then I will be capped because there's only so many days in a year. Ryan, thanks very much. Appreciate it. Thank you for having me on. I I enjoy it very much. And uh Sickum Bears. All right. Brian Kane with us. Works with Baylor, the mental side of the game. Check out his website, Brian Kane, Cin.com. Brian previously, and appreciate you lining that up, him come up here and visit with us. I knew Baylor had someone that they worked with in this category, but I'd never met Brian before, and I got a couple of copies of his books, and I look forward to reading them. Uh well, fantastic guy and he's really done some great work and he did come to South Lake and teach our kids a few years back and had a chance to sit with Brian and actually we do some work together on the side. So, no, he's he's great. Love his approach and as we talked about that mental approach to the game is so important.