I'm not leaving nothing to chance. So, I got a little checklist here I'm going through for Iron Man and Chattanooga. And I'm kind of checking off everything as I pack it in my bags to make sure I got everything that I need. So, um, you know, create the list, check it twice, should be good to go. So, always pack the same clothes when I travel. Sometimes I get out of my routine and I uh when I get out of my routine, I've got to kind of get back organized. But generally when I travel, I'm bringing the same exact clothes with me every time I go. So, it's pretty simple. Eliminate decisions, man. Put it all on autopilot. Well, it's about 11:57 p.m. Just got done packing up for the Iron Man. Going to be rolling out of here to the airport probably about 5:15. Chaps coming with. Just got done packing up shop. Going to go hit the rack. Ready to go. Got the Seek and Destroy t-shirt on that only comes out around Iron Man time. Got my morning pasta inside the six-pack. Got some more stuff in here. I got some vitamins. Got some uh it's all going to fall out, but I got, you know, six six containers of food to smash before the plane in Birmingham. Make a 2 and 1 half hour drive to Chattanooga. So, just fueling here in the airport. I like airports most of the time. Your phone's off. It's quiet. It's like my uh sanctuary. It's the only time I really get privacy. Not privacy, but get uh some alone time, you know, fall asleep on a plane or get some work done. It's quality quality time on a airplane. I really don't I don't really dig about airports is all the presidential news and other stuff going on. Doesn't interest me. This place does just landed in Birmingham, Alabama. I used to smash at this place here, Jim and Nick's Barbecue. Every time I was driving from working at UAB, so we landed here in Birmingham, pick up the bike, pick up the gear, pick up a car, and drive about 3 hours to Chattanooga, and then it's on. Got to get the bike ready. Got to get checked in. Got to get everything ready to go to dominate the Iron Man. I need to start hydrating, though. Feeling a little heart for that plane ride. Sitting here in traffic, driving two hours from Birmingham airport to Chattanooga, Tennessee, just working the phone, locking down on some emails, opening up some opportunities for coaches to get educated, empowered, and energized. You can get a lot of work done from a vehicle, but a great office. Finally on site here in the Chattanooga Iron Man 70.3 racing tomorrow with team zero to put an end to prostate cancer. Should be a fun race. One mile 70.3 times. 4:54 a.m. Uh I'm I'm ready to go. It's kind of like a switch has been flipped. Maybe the last 24 48 hours I kind of had been like level three maybe level four mode trying to kind of get the recovery piece on and now it's ready to go unleash hell on myself in the old version of Vain. I think my first triathlon was 2008. It was a sprint triathlon which is like a half mile swim. Um might have been about a quarter half mile swimk bike and a 5k run I think. Colchester, Vermont. My mentor in college, University of Vermont, Dr. Declan Connelly, exercise physiologist for the New York Rangers, absolute stud. He uh said, you know, Mr. Kane, with his Irish accent, he said, Mr. Kane, you want to do a triathlon? Cuz you you look like you're fat. You're out of shape. You need to get your in shape. Cuz if you want to go around the country and be a peak performance coach and you want to work with elite athletes, you can't go out there and be fat. Leaders aren't fat. That day changed my life. I was 240 lbs. lying to myself thinking I was committed to excellence. Lying to myself thinking that I was a leader. And uh I went and did that triathlon. Didn't know how to swim. I show up, no goggles, gym shorts, like basketball shorts. Everyone else is in a freaking wet suit, has goggles. I was the last guy in. I go out, I don't put my head in the water. I'm basically doggy paddling the whole time. And I was I was the last one out. I got beat by every male, every female. That was a big moment in my life looking back at that because I got out of I got out of the comfort zone and I went and did it, you know, and I knew I knew it wasn't going to be easy and I knew I wasn't good at any of those things. Should I even know how to swim? Um, when I say that I didn't know how to swim, I wasn't going to drown. I wasn't going anywhere. But you have to get out and you just have to go do it sometimes, man. You got to go out of the comfort zone. If at that moment you ever said, "Hey, would you do an iron man?" I would have said you were crazy. You say you do five of them in a year, I would have said, "There's no shot." But you get hooked, man. It's fun, you know, because what else would I be doing? I'd be sleeping right now. I probably would have gone out and had some beers with my buddies last night. Uh but instead, I'm doing something that's productive. I'm doing something that that not only is healthy for me, but I'm helping team zero and putting an end to prostate cancer. And when we did the one in Arizona, it was Smile Train. You know, and you're fundraising to help kids who have born with a cleft lip or cleft pallet at a disadvantage and you're trying to make a difference for them. So, if you go to briancane.com/smilerain, you're going to see a little documentary that we did kind of capturing my journey into uh Iron Man, Arizona. So, check that out. Again, 240 and it's simply about consistency. 5:45 a.m. here and had a question for you. When's a good time to do an Iron Man? When's a good time to get outside of the comfort zone and go do something that maybe you don't think you can do? Well, the answer is never or always. It's really up to you. See, a year ago today, I had never done an iron man. I had never didn't even own a bike. I didn't know how to swim. And this will be my fifth race since then. And um I would encourage you to get get involved. Give it a shot. You know, as as a people as a former college baseball player, some of a fizz teacher kind of been around activities and athletics my entire life. I think it's a great community event. It's super cool the people that you meet. Um and it's definitely something that you want to try. Anyone can do it. You just got to put in the time. It's a consistency game, right? You don't have to go win a race. You just got to go get in the race. Be consistent. Consistency is the key to unlock all doors. So, if you simply get on the bike, simply get out and move your feet. You simply get in the water and learn how to swim. I'll see you at the finish. Be a great time. If you ever want to do one, hit me up. I'm always looking for people to get after me. Hot Shot preventing muscle cramps in Iron Man athletes worldwide. Brian Kane's coming in with a relay team song. Older Dirt team older than Dirt. All right. That must be a bit older than that. Here we go. You ready? Give that a seven. Here's the start, stop, continue. Start uh preparing better. You know, my chain fell off one time. We'll talk about that in a minute. But I didn't I wore a pair of goggles for the first time ever in the in the water. You're not supposed to do that. You don't bring stuff out the first time on game day. That was dumb. water in the eyes the whole time. Uh just start preparing better, you know. I didn't I didn't My my bike got wet last night. My food was wet. My pills were wet. It was It was good, but I got to do that better. Just the the uh stop stop missing workouts. You're cutting workouts short. I' I've lacked discipline the last couple weeks and uh that shit's got to stop and I got to get back on the horse to continue. Just continue showing up. Continue showing up. Tell you what, learned some good stuff today, man. There's a difference between adversity and inconvenience. Chain falls off, I go in red lights. Water in the goggles, I go in red lights. see a guy running with one arm. That's adversity. I suffered inconvenience when my chain fell off. I I got in red lights. Learned from it. It'll make me better. But I tell you what, man. It's an overwhelming overwhelming sense of gratitude for the people that put this on. you guys for watching this, for the people that donated to team zero, my team, Jacob, Griff, Matt, the bear that allows me to do this stuff. Gratitude, man. There's over a thousand volunteers here, people passing out energy. Awesome. Tell you what, anybody can do an Iron Man. I saw a guy out there 87 years old pushing the rock. I saw a 300lb woman pushing the rock. What are you doing? What excuses are you making? Why don't you stop watching this and start training? When are you going to make a decision, man? There's no good time. There's never a good time. But the best investment you can make is into yourself. So, why don't you get started? Why don't you stop watching and start participating? Done.