ußen,ußen,ußen,ußen,ußen,ußen, Now we're going to uncover what that is and we're going to talk about how you can use this as an athlete, as a coach, to help get a better idea of where your team's at from a readiness standpoint, where your team's at in terms of their agility, where their team's at with their focus, to give you kind of an analytic around the mental game, which is an exciting concept because in 20 years of mental performance coaching, one of the things that we've been missing is a cognitive or mental game analytic that you can use to test readiness and also identify where you're at so that you can improve before a competition. So Zach, Mark, thank you for being here. Obviously, Zach, our audience has had an exposure to you in the past. Mark, if you would, could you kind of give us your story in your career in terms of how you got to where you are today as the VP of Sport Operation with Pison? Yeah, thanks, Cater. Excited to be on here. I've followed you and Zach for many years now and glad to finally be a part of it. So my track to Pison technology is obviously through my career in baseball. Had a long career playing, enjoyed that part of the game and then transitioned that part of the game into the youth sports culture where I started training in athletes, you know, to hopefully get back to the game I enjoyed so much. Along the way, I met a fellow named John Croto, who is now the CEO of Pison, and I trained his son. So during that time, elevated Ben, his son, from 12B Baseball all the way to Colby College, where he's at now, as a catcher. And John and I always, you know, talked baseball, talked business along the way, which was really interesting, you know, kind of combining the both and collaborating on how to work together at the end of the day. We started a business along with Zach and Mark Budzinski, first base coach for the Blue Jays, called Life Skills Baseball Academy. John was our go-to there from the business side of things. That business took off. He got that going. From there, he went and became the CEO of Pison. Last November, John came to me and said, hey, listen, I've got something I want to throw in front of you and see how it potentially adapts into the baseball side of things. So we met, showed me the device and what it was capable of, and he said, does this work? And I said, absolutely, it works. So let's dial in and figure out how we can move this forward. And, you know, not only Major League Baseball, all the way down to the youth culture. So that's kind of a long and short of how I got involved with Pison and how we formed the sports operations department. Yeah, and Zach, I mean, I think, you know, most of the people in our mental performance mastery community, they know you as a mental performance coach who's worked with the Texas Rangers, who's worked with the Atlanta Braves, who's done consulting with colleges all across the country. How did you come to getting involved with Pison from a mental performance and cognitive space? Yeah, pretty awesome. You know, I got reconnected with Mark as he brought this technology to my attention. And as he approached me with that, I got super excited. I'm like, wow, if we can test and gather the data and then we can find ways to take the information we're gathering and apply some of the strategies that we work on day in and day out to give to our athletes, we can get them that much more ready for first pitch or whatever sport they're talking to. So Mark and I collaborated. We said, man, this could be a powerful thing. This could impact players in a positive way. And as everybody here knows, like, all we really care about everybody on this is helping everybody to get a little bit better. You know, and Mark, what's really cool about Pison is it's the world's first cognitive performance tracker. And, you know, I think when you look at sports now, there's a massive trend around the analytics. And there has been a gap in the mental performance in the cognitive space around analytics and the use of those analytics as it relates to performance. So can you kind of unpack for our listeners sort of the Pison story and just the importance of cognitive performance tracking? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So what's interesting about this product is it was developed by the co-founders for more preventative measures for ALS and generative diseases, which their family members had. And what's interesting about that, it evolved from there into the military and special ops and subconcussive type measuring and so on. And then from there, as I mentioned earlier, John Crono approached me about how it can be adapted to the sports industry, most specifically baseball, based on reaction time testing. And, you know, Zach, when you and I played, you know, the game was evolving at that point. And we did have mental performance coaches and we utilized them, but nowhere near to the information we have at this point. And we're gathering now with all the technology and devices and, you know, you've got catapults, you've got Hawkeye and so on and so forth. But to be able to have a wearable device on body that's giving you instantaneous measuring down to the millisecond is pretty impactful on how we can get players, like Zach said, developed better on an instantaneous basis. Yeah, I think when you, you know, it's pretty neat that you guys gave me a little preview and able to get in and kind of play with the app beforehand. And when you go in and you go into the Pison Ready app, it's really cool that there's three tests you can take. You can test your readiness, you can test your agility, and you can test your focus. And I think, Mark, maybe just diving into each of those tests at a little bit of a deeper level to kind of let our listeners know, like, what is readiness and what does that test look like? Why is that important? Yeah, so the readiness test is our shortest test, but one of our most impactful. And it's basically a way to get information to process the capabilities of a person's nervous system at the end of the day. So it's about an 18 to 20 second test. And what you're doing is you're seeing a white stimuli on your device. When you see that white stimuli, it goes into your eye, into the, you know, the brain and the frontal cortex area. And from there, you're giving a response or a finger gesture based on that white stimuli and how quickly you can respond to that white stimuli. And before you can even make that finger gesture, the device is measuring the neurons in your wrist and how quickly you respond to that. So what we're seeing right now with our pilot studies, for instance, West Virginia, Auburn, and Oklahoma State at the Power 5 levels, is the correlation to in-game or play development performance. And it's been pretty interesting. The more data and the more studies we get on that reaction time test on how it correlates to what these players are doing in at-bats, for instance. You know, so maybe a player based off their, you know, their 130 baseline is scoring a 150 one day. Maybe they were out late the night before. Maybe they were studying for exams. Maybe they weren't hydrated properly. Their test isn't great. Their quality at-bats work for that particular day. They might have went 0-4 with a couple punch-outs and a couple, you know, soft ground balls in the infield. And we're seeing that data translate a little bit now, which is very impactful. Our second test is the agility test. Go, no-go type test where it's, we relate it to baseball with swing, no sway. So can you make the decision-making processing in your brain to say, I'm going to swing at a 95-mile-an-hour fastball up in the zone, or I'm going to take that pitch and lay off it? And that's what that particular test is. That test gives you a white stimuli or an orange stimuli on the device. You're responding to a white as quickly as you can. You're not responding to an orange. So, again, swing, no swing, which is pretty impactful in the game of baseball, right? And you have that discipline at the plate to be able to have that control. So the first test is your readiness. Second test would be your agility of the go, no-go agility, basically being to make a decision based off of what you see, which is baseball. You know, and I wouldn't necessarily say that is golf, but I'd say that 100% is baseball. That can be football. That can be basketball. That can be these reaction-type sports, lacrosse, soccer, ice hockey, for sure, MMA fighting, where you have to be able to have that agility to know what do I see and do I take action on what I see or do I not? So I think when you identify agility, that makes sense of making sense of what I see. You know, readiness being almost a test of if I'm a low readiness, how do I then do some sort of behavior protocol to get myself where I want to be? And I know, Zach, that was one of the things that you mentioned before we started recording was the importance of that readiness score so that players can potentially modulate or modify some of their pregame routine to be able to increase that readiness for competition. Could you unpack that a little bit for us? Yeah, I think this is where this gets exciting for me, and I know for you as well, Brian, because it's like, okay, we're going to get a baseline on where we are at today. We know where our normal baseline is based on our previous testing. When I walk into the clubhouse, I'm going to take a test, and I'm going to know where I'm at today, and that is my baseline for now. I've got four hours until the first pitch. What am I going to do about it? And you think about that. That's where the research is coming right now. We're doing lots of work on that. Okay, what's going to help? Is it cryo? Is it a cold plunge real quick? Do we need some caffeine? Do we need to go out for a run, extra exercise, extra work? Do we need to modify our pregame workout because we are a little bit tired or gassed or a little bit low on our scores? So that's what we're putting together right now, which is going to be a full product for everybody who's part of this. But as you can tell, we think that there's going to be some great information here that's really going to help individuals get ready for the tip-off, the first pitch or whatever it is, which is go time. Yeah, I think a lot of times the missing link I look at like, say, a whoop or an aura and then giving a readiness score. I wake up and here's where my readiness is. And I hear this from players that I coach, professional athletes that I coach in the NFL, the NHL, the UFC, PGA Tour. They all will say, oh, I don't like wearing those devices. And I know what they're going to say. They're going to say, well, if I wake up and I'm in a red or I wake up and my readiness is low, I still have to go perform that day and it messes with me mentally all day. So I just don't even wear it. And then I always try to encourage them to say, look, well, if you wear it and your readiness is off, when you wake up, you don't wake up and roll right into the uni and play. Like you got an entire day to be able to modify your behavior to get yourself to be more ready. Like your readiness just doesn't go down all day because you're awake. Like, what are you doing? Are you doing any cold plunge? Are you doing cryo? Are you going to go float? Can you hit a red light PBM bed? Can you do some type of norma tech recovery or compression therapy? Right. What can you do? Can you take a nap? Can you do meditation or imagery? Like, what can you do to help almost quote unquote spike your readiness to get you ready to perform? And a lot of those, you know, recovery modalities, let's call them that we just listed, get built into the routines of the athletes that we work with. But I can't, I can't allow the guys I work with to say, hey, I don't want to wear the device because my readiness score is off. And then it messes with me all day. Like, let's get, let's get past that. You know, let's get past that and say, look, if my readiness is this, let me get curious, not furious. And let me look backwards and say, hmm, what did I do last night that maybe caused this? Did I have alcohol? Did I eat red meat late? Was I on my phone in bed? Did I get out of my normal sleep cycle? What happened? Was it a travel day? So I can actually learn from it to improve as I move forward. So when I get that readiness score, I'm able to look back at the behaviors and what happened, let's say before a night's sleep or yesterday's behavior. And then what can I do today to try to like work my way back into it because I have to go perform no matter what. So I think the readiness, the agility, but let's talk about the focus, the third test. Again, for our listeners, the three tests, readiness, agility, and focus. Mark, if you would unpack for us, what is the focus test and how does that correlate with the performance of the athletes that you're coaching? Yeah. So good question. Our focus test is our longest test, about three minutes long. And it's basically a simple, it's a longer reaction time test, right? And it's basically seeing how long you can stay dialed in. Over that period of time, you know, you may have certain things that are trying to carry away from that white stimuli. The objective here, of course, is to see how long you can keep that. And again, how does that correlate to a game? You know, say you've got a 15 pitch at bat. Is your shortstop or right field dialed in for all those 15 pitches? For that matter, can the pitch stay dialed in on, you know, a 3-2 count where the hit is following off multiple, multiple, multiple pitches in a row? So that's kind of how we're correlating that pitch or that test to baseball. Again, if you've got to stay dialed in, it's a NASA use test at this point. NASCAR, one of our partners, is also using the test for their drivers because they may be behind the wheel for hours at a time, right? That's how we're using that test. A lot of baseball players like it. However, they're, you know, they're learning that the more they take it, the more they're exercising the brain, the more they're able to stay focused. So again, it's a more, I guess, a less efficient test as far as the time goes. But at the end of the day, it causes a lot more focus throughout the day. Well, and then you can go looking at different focus type activities or trainings that they could do, right? Like concentration grids. We've talked about a mental performance mastery podcast. We've talked about, you know, doing a form of a meditation or another type of like a focus present moment training. And there's other devices or modalities that live out there like Neurotracker X, which is one in terms of tracking, right? And decision making and being able to follow, which essentially can be a focus exercise. You know, you could consider like the Wim Hof breathing could be a focus exercise. Can I stay present with my breath? So there's a lot of different focus training drills that we talk about in the mental performance community. But to be able to quantify and bring an analytic to where is your focus and put a score to it and then actually go do the training, come back and test later, whether it be later that day or later that month or that season to see where your focus is at. Can you go and build those skills? And I think that, Zach, that's one of the things when you were talking to me about Pison and how excited you were about it, you know, bringing some analytic into this mental performance and cognitive space. How do you see this unfolding? Obviously, as the technology improves and as athletes get used to using this, how do you see this impacting performance in an athletic arena? Yeah. The biggest thing I see here is this is what we're always chasing is an advantage. Okay. Okay. An advantage over everybody else, but an advantage over where we were at when we woke up. You know, now lately I've been teaching that we wake up in the zone. Okay. But it's our thoughts that take us out of the zone. So if we test and get a baseline, we now have information and then we can roll into what you're talking about. All right. I think it's a great idea to do cryo. I don't know when to do it. Now I do. I know that I need to go do cryo when my scores are off. Okay. You know, all of the above. The focus testing we're talking about, immediately I started thinking about PGA Tour and our golfers that are on the tour. How often are we in contention? But it's that's, you know, the 16th whole third shot where we, you know, we misfire. Is that just because we picked the wrong club or is that because our focus was a little bit off? Interesting. So now we have a purpose behind doing all of the tests that you're talking about. You know, just the other day I was in the clubhouse and they had the vision board where the lights light up and, you know, you push, you push the buttons on the lights. It's a vision test. And I was talking to Mark about this and I'm like, is it a vision test or is it a focus test? Because if I can stay focused, I'm going to be locked in on that. Right? So it's a focus test in my opinion. And so now all of these tests that have been out there and the training that you can do means so much more because like you mentioned, Cater, it's all going to be able to be quantified with this device. So, yeah. Go ahead, Mark. When we were down at the baseball winter meeting, Zach was there, John Crono, our CEO, was there. We met with many major league baseball teams, sports performance people, you know, sports science people, et cetera. Right? One of the conversations that stuck out to me was Nat Pachata with the Texas Rangers. He's in the sports performance department. He's like, listen, we want to gather data. We want as much as we can get. He goes, the problem is we don't know what to do when we get it. We want to be able to weaponize the data that we're getting. And that's where it's really exciting to see you on board, Cater, and having Zach and Mark Pizinski with the Blue Jays, Case, and all those guys. We can now give you guys this data and you can help us to form these interventions, mitigations, into how we can best use this information to make it practical and easy for these players to be able to be more aware of their mental and their cognitive states. But now, how do we use it to optimize play on the field? Yeah. I like what you said there about how do we make it simple and usable? And I think that's one of the pieces of feedback that I get a lot from coaches and athletes that I work with as we get into the analytic conversations is they're like, yeah, there's so much data. But to your point, even the guy with the Texas Rangers, hey, the World Series champions, we don't know what to do with it. Right. So I think making that piece as simple and easy to use for the amateur athletes, the high school athletes, the youth athletes, but also making the information valuable enough for the professional athletes is going to be a complete game changer. And, you know, you're testing readiness, you're testing agility, you're testing focus. And I know that there's some work being done, too, to also be able to bring in other data. Is that right? Like a recovery score, tracking maybe steps throughout the day. It also works as a watch. I mean, one of the things I didn't like about using Whoop was Whoop never told me what time it was. And I know most people probably don't wear a watch because they can look at their phone, but I don't like carrying my phone all day because I feel like it just sucks me out in the present moment. But I wear a watch and I always felt weird wearing, too. So if there was a device that would give me steps, that would give me a recovery readiness score, that would give me a sleep score, that would track, you know, my heart rate variability, that would give me the opportunity to also know what time it was and to set an alarm to wake up so I don't have to have my phone next to my bed because I want to be off that thing at night so I can get a better sleep. Then that's going to be a complete game changer in the field and in the space of cognitive performance. So, you know, Zach, I know one of the things that you had mentioned was some of what's coming with PYSON, you know, and getting people excited about the cognitive testing and getting people excited about the technology, but also what's coming with it to take it even to another level. Where is it going? What are some of those other kind of devices that are within development right now or aspects of the device in development? Yeah, I think this is where this gets exciting for me, too, especially someone like me who, you know, every time Kane calls and asks me to come down to Arizona, you know, I'm like, well, what are we going to do when I get there? And usually it involves me going into full body cramping and, you know, maybe even ended up in the hospital. That was before two kids. That was before two kids. Yeah, yeah, yeah. But what I'm speaking of is like dehydration. Okay. So, I mean, what if you could actually have a number unawareable that can tell you where you're at when it comes to dehydration and all your HRV and this and that. So, Mark, why don't you take that question from here? Talk about what direction this is headed, all the advancements we're having on top of us just getting these tests and scores on readiness, reaction, time, and focus. Yeah. So, Kane, what's interesting is one of the first times we met and we kind of introduced this product to you, you talked about, you know, you work Armin and you have Whoop and you get Arra and all these other different platforms that you train your clients on, right? But you're going to different areas to try to get it. So, it's not an efficient part of the day for you. So, what's exciting about us right now is, yeah, we've got the first wearable for cognitive on the wrist, but we're now also making it an all-in-one product with, like Zach said, all the HRV components, strain, what's happening, you know, during the day as far as hydration. We've got a chronometer on there that's basically telling you, you know, direction you're going, first step quickness, all these things you can detail except baseball and the baseball physical analytics as well. So, all-in-one platform, which is exciting down the road, which is even more exciting is a lot of the stuff that, for instance, a Whoop or an Orr is doing is all inference-based. It's based on movement while you're in bed and so on and so forth. We just finished a study with the Navy Sleep Lab. It's now dialing into more of what's happening during your REM sleep. And we're finding out impactful stuff that we can, you know, utilize every single day and, you know, to get better sleep, better rest, but not only that, to be able to perform better that next day, whether it's in an athletic environment or just an everyday work environment for people. Yeah, very good. I like what the technology, where it's going. And, you know, Mark, I noticed that you showed that on the wrist. Could you kind of take us through and maybe give us just a quick tour of the PYSON device? I know you held that up and showed it earlier, but I wanted people to be able to kind of see if they happen to be listening to this podcast on the YouTube channel. Most likely they're listening to it while they're driving, which is kind of what our community does is they're moving around in the car, listening to their podcast in Automobile University. But if you can, if they were interested and they want to come check it out, could you kind of show the device and give us a quick little, like, physical tour through it? Yeah, of course. So here's the device right here, similar to a Whoop. Pretty sleek, you know, pretty low profile as far as what you're seeing from the side. So really comfortable on the wrist. As we mentioned earlier, you've got a white stimuli right here on the top of the device. Down here, you've got a little push button, which will enable you to see time or change from different tests, the three that we have. The reaction time test, the agility test, or the PVT, the psychomotor vigilance test. And then, you know, you've got a nice strap with a, you know, Velcro at the back of it. And that's going to help you to kind of tighten it down to your wrist to where it needs to be snug to be able to get those readings properly. On the back of the device, currently what we have are those six electrodes, which sit on the top of your skin surface, which are measuring the three nerve bundles in your wrist. And that's kind of how you're getting the measurement at this point. Once we get going with Sebring V, which is the HRB capability, the hydration, which Zach talked about earlier, all the baseball physical analytics tools, the gyroscope, the gyrometer, et cetera, the PPT, those will all be sitting inside of this area right here. So again, all contained, all efficient. And for you, Kater, now it's one platform to get all your readings and make your day a lot more efficient. Yeah, for sure. Which is huge because there's, you know, only so much time during the day and the data and the analytics is important. It just also can be time consuming if you have to go hunting in a bunch of different places to get it. And I think, you know, just to kind of bring this podcast sort of to a closer, one of the things I wanted to differentiate too was, you know, cognitive performance tracking and mental performance coaching. And I think when you're looking at mental performance coaching for the people that are listening to this, it's the 10 pillars of mental performance mastery, right? It's coaching people on how to grow an elite mindset, improve their motivation and commitment, their focus and awareness, their self-control and discipline, their ability to focus on process over outcome, their routines and habits of excellence, their time management and organization, right? Their ability to develop leadership and culture skills. It's those 10 pillars. And what the cognitive testing does is it gives you more data to be able to improve the focus and awareness, to be able to improve their abilities to, you know, make better decisions with self-control and discipline based off of the data that they get. So I see where these two things mirror together where, you know, the cognitive performance testing gives us data they're able to then use as mental performance coaches to improve the performance of our athletes. And pretty exciting what you guys have going on. And, you know, I know that you had talked about West Virginia and Auburn and Oklahoma State and some of those really big power five baseball programs that are using the device. Excited to hear from those coaches and from those, you know, sports science staffs about how they're using that data. So excited for Pison and where it's going and what you guys are bringing to the market, man. It's been long overdue and excited for it. Back to kind of the mental performance space. You know, since we got two guys here, Zach, that played Major League Baseball, Mark, being a draft also by the Cleveland Indians in 1995 as a shortstop, turned into a pitcher out of UMass Lowell. While I have you guys here, I want to kind of pick your brain just from your experience in professional baseball about mental performance. And, you know, Mark, I'll go to you because I want to hear, like, what is the mental game to you and what excited you about mental performance? I mean, for me, more so on the pitching perspective. Once I was on the mound, you know, the spotlight kind of was on you and you dictated, you know, the pace of the game, the tempo, so on and so forth. However, when I found myself, the space I found myself getting into, especially when I was in a closing role, was putting a lot of pressure on myself to be able to go out there and perform on a nightly basis, right? If I don't do that, I'm going to let the team down. You know, the coaching staff's not going to run me out there the next night, so on and so forth. So I had to find a way on the mental performance game to be able to get myself in the right nights at the right space to be able to go out there and compete from pitch to pitch and understand how to attack hitters from pitch to pitch. So I started diving into the mental game a little bit. Zach, we had some pretty good guys at Cleveland. When I was at the Red Sox, we had Bob Tewksbury, who gave me a lot of different tips to be able to get myself into that space. So for me, the game extended my career. I'm sorry, the mental space extended my career for probably an extra five years, being able just to dial in and understand, you know, how to slow my heart rate down, how to create better tempo, how to have more mild composure from pitch to pitch. You know, for instance, if I've got a bases loaded jam with a one run lead with nobody out, instead of saying, you know, I hope I don't give up the ball in here, what I'm saying is, hey, I need a big strikeout and a double play ball to get myself out of this inning. So more positive thought process, more positive connotation to create that outcome that I wanted. But it took me a while to learn that process to create that achievable outcome. Really good. I didn't realize you had the opportunity to work with Tewks. Did you ever come across Harvey Dorfman or Ken Revisa in your career? Just reading material. But yeah, I love their books. Yeah, excited. You know, Sean Casey, we've mentioned a bunch on this podcast. Sean's career was dramatically impacted by Harvey Dorfman. You know, Ken Revisa impacted my life. I have a tattoo of him over my heart. And one of the things that I was recently talking with Al Leiter and Sean Casey, both guys who were impacted by Harvey, and we talked about a series that we're going to run here on the Mental Performance Mastery podcast. Well, this is a little precursor, letting people know what's coming, is it's going to be called The Conversations, Content, and Careers, The Impact of Harvey Dorfman. And bringing on, you know, those guests and those baseball players trying to go get maybe an Alex Rodriguez, go get a Greg Maddox and some of these big-time players that had their careers impacted through a mental performance coach that wrote the book, The Mental ABCs of Pitching, The Mental Keys to Hitting, The Mental Game of Baseball, Coaching the Mental Game. And as I'm talking about it, I'm getting more and more excited because there's a couple books here that people don't know that Harvey wrote, which I'm going to give people a heads up here because we're going to be breaking these down. But Harvey wrote these four anecdotal bibliographies, copying it down, each needle, each branch, babbling echoes in Persuasion of My Days, which are like his biographies, and kind of just tell his whole story. People don't even know they exist. They're awesome. They're not really Mental Game of Baseball books where he's talking about players and all that, but it's more of like his journey into being a mental coach. So I'm very excited to be bringing that to it. But, you know, Zach, back to you. Obviously, you know, your life and career has been dramatically impacted by mental performance. You're now one of the premier mental performance coaches working in Major League Baseball. You've got one of the guys who's one of the top golfers in the world right now, you know, and Chris Kirk, and they're talking about you on CBS as he's walking down the fairway on 18, winning the first golf tournament of the year. Like, what is mental performance to you? And what kind of, you know, was the turning point in your career where you were like, man, this is something I want to get into deeper? Yeah, I needed more. I needed more as a player, and I didn't need to just talk about it. I needed strategies, and that's what I was chasing. And so that's when I decided, hey, you know, there's unbelievable coaches out there that are teaching on-field performance, physical performance. But what about this mental space? And everywhere I went, everyone's like, you know, the games, whatever, 90% mental. Tukes, you know, Tukes wrote his book about that. Yeah, 90% mental, yeah. And I heard that over and over and over again, and it just didn't make sense to me. But why aren't we coaching it? Why aren't we teaching it? Why aren't we attacking it? And so I decided to get into it. Then I, shortly thereafter, I tried to find the gurus in the game. Of course, I was reading Revisa. I was reading Dorfman. And then I came across Brian Kane. And that's where our journey started. And I'll tell you what, even though I'm a little upset with you because you weren't around when I was playing or you weren't helping me when I was playing, I thank you for everything you've done for me because I feel like together we've been able to impact some players. And that's what my mission is, is to impact people up and down the game. And not even with just the game, but with life. And I think that's what we're setting out to do. Zach, I think I was still in diapers when you were playing. No, I'm not. I think I'm actually older than you. I'm just kidding. Mark, you were saying? Yeah. So, sorry to interrupt, but what Zach just said was impactful for me. He said, not only just so we, you know, attacking athletes and training them how to be better athletes, but it's life in general. My family listens to both of you guys, your daily podcasts daily, right? And it's impactful for us because at the end of the day, you can use this stuff on the field and to train with and develop with, but we use it in everyday life. My wife's an avid tennis player. We're avid pickleball players. We use it in that space. We use it with our kid as far as, you know, discipline. You know, did you do your homework? You have good habits today. You know, are you repeating the good things in life and making good choices? I found so much of that stuff in your, in your material on an everyday basis. So, you're not only impacting athletes, you're impacting people. That's awesome. And that's what we're after, right? Is we're after impact and trying to help people step into being the best version of themselves. And that's where, when, you know, we started, Zach, you started educating me about Pison and what they were doing with the cognitive performance tracking and the ability to test readiness and test agility and test focus. I was like, man, this is, this is, I've not, I've not heard about this. This seems like this could be pretty, pretty simple to execute on and simple to do, but really powerful in terms of giving a baseline assessment. Because, you know, my, my undergrad was in physical education and exercise science. Like I wanted to be a strength coach. It doesn't look like it, but I wanted to be a strength coach. And one of the things that, that I remember they used to say all the time was you test, you give a protocol and you retest. And the hard part with the mental game I've always found was like, how do I give you a test to test your focus or test your readiness or test, you know, mental agility, the go, no go, how you're going to make decision and then give you a protocol and retest. But we now have that ability with Pison to test and it's only going to get better as the technology improves. It's always going to get better as the app continues to evolve. And I think that's one of the, the, the things I've been most impressed with. Mark is just the company's overall vision and wanting to continue to pursue excellence and just get better today than yesterday and be better tomorrow than today. Yeah, that's a good point. It's impressed me every day with this company and there's no stopping now. It's full steam ahead with this in many different spaces, not just the sports industry, but you know, health and wellness, aviation, transportation, military special ops. It's all over the place at this point. And what's also interesting is how these teams are using it, right? So if we just stick with the baseball operations piece for a second, you know, West Virginia is using it differently than Oklahoma state and then Auburn and the Red Sox are using it differently than the Toronto Blue Jays. So we can be customizable to what each, you know, teams and organizations needs are. West Virginia uses it as a, as a clubhouse type camaraderie tool where they're looking to see a leaderboard. Who's got the best reaction time this day. So it brings the clubhouse together in their, in their mind. They also use it. They'll be using it as a sleep tracker, you know, and that's promoting good health and wellness for their players to get a better experience on the field and more production. Right. So it's been fun to see how everybody's customizing it to their needs at this point. Yeah. Yeah. I'd be excited to get, to get, you know, Butch Thompson from Auburn and holiday from Oklahoma state and Randy Masey from West Virginia on here to talk about how they use that. Cause I think that's one of the cool things is, you know, they hear, they hear from, you hear it from a sports scientist and they're always like, well, yeah, you can do that. Cause you're, you're a biomechanist, right. Or you can do that because you're a sports scientist. But when you hear it from Randy Masey, or you hear it from holiday, or you hear it from Butch that are just, you know, great baseball coaches, but they're baseball guys. You guys are baseball guys, you know, and when we hear it from you, it just, it sounds like it's something that actually I can take and I can use. And I think that's one of the biggest gaps that I've been excited about placing, trying to close is the usability and the elementary of like, how do I make this simple enough where it can be used on a consistent basis? So super excited about where, where we're going with this. And you guys joining us here with, with mental performance daily as the presenting sponsor for the mental performance daily podcast. So for our listeners, if you want to learn more about Pison, the world's first cognitive performance app and wearable, there's going to be a link in the show notes below. You're also going to be able to find that link in our mental performance daily podcasts, whenever you are ready to test your readiness, to test your agility, to test your focus and to step into growth with Pison. Mark, Zach, thank you guys for being here. Any parting thoughts or anything that you want to leave our audience with, we'll go Zach. And then Mark will have you finish it up. Zach, we're going to bring you in for the setup guy and Mark's going to be the closer. What you got, Zach? I love this. I just think that we're always seeking an advantage. You know, that's the lesson I learned from players. I played with Roberto Alomar and all of these guys. We all, it's always worth our time to invest in something that's going to give us an advantage. And I'm here to tell you that this is what this is going to do for you in all aspects of your life. So if you want an advantage and you want to keep pushing the envelope with testing and tracking where you're at today, today in real time, and then applying all the strategies that Kaner's been throwing at you for the past year after year after year, this, this is something that you really need to keep your eyes open for. Mark, anything, closing thoughts, kind of that you want to leave our mental performance mastery community with? Tough to, tough to top that one right there. But no, I second Zach right there. Again, it's about the measurements, it's about the data we collect, right? And everybody wants more data in this day and age and how we weaponize that data. It's going to, it's going to be what's impactful to our athletes and the health and wellness of the individuals using this moving forward. It's just a start right here for Pison and excited about the future and get in front of everybody. It's awesome. And if you're a competitor, if you're an athlete, if you're anybody looking for an advantage in the space of fitness and cognitive performance, you've been introduced to Pison. And with Pison, you have the capability of testing readiness, agility, focus, cognition, fatigue, and recovery. You're gathering data with a simple reaction time test, a go, no go test, a psychomotor vigilance test. And you're going to be able to use that data to improve performance. And what's coming is that neurological, that sleep tracking, and giving you certain biomarker alerts around disease. You see, Pison is a game changing device, and it's giving you a significant competitive advantage. You can check it out and learn more by visiting their website at the link below. Mark, thanks for being here. Zach, thanks for being here. Dominate the day. Philips at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time at the time