wivesallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallallall athletes on the planet. So I want you to print this worksheet and then fill it out as we go through this video together. Well, now that you have your worksheet printed, you're going to see that there's two areas for you to focus on a list that you cannot control in a list that you can control. So what I want you to do is map out on your own, all the things related to your sport performance or your life that you cannot control. And then go make a list of what you feel like you can control. Now that you've made your two lists, take a look at what you cannot control. Do you have coaches, fans, media, how you feel, outcome of competition, referees, umpires, what other people say, what other people think, and the outcome of your performance. When you look at what you can control, you should simply have yourself and your ape. Now ape is an umbrella for all the things that we can control, such as my attitude, my appearance, my body language, my preparation, including my sleep, my nutrition, my hydration, my video study, my process, what I do in game for routines to keep me in control of myself, because you got to be in control of yourself before you can control your performance. Also my performance, how hard do I play? How hard do I work in that competition? And then the E of ape is my energy, my effort, and my emotions. You see, all you can control is yourself and your ape. And when you do, you have a much more productive focus. That's going to allow you to step into the best version of you as a competitor and give you the best chance for success. I also want you to understand that as you look at your list of what you cannot control, there's many items on there that you want being an all American, getting drafted, getting a scholarship, winning, the outcome of the performance that you want. And here's the big takeaway. You give yourself the best chance to get those items that you cannot control, but you can influence. You give yourself the best chance to get those by going all in on what you can control. Let me say that again. You give yourself the best chance to get what it is you cannot control, but you want by going all in on what you can control. So let's get clear about what we can control ourself and our ape, what we cannot control and choose, choose to go all in on what we can control to give us the best chance for success.