All right, everyone. Let's get it going. Jeremy, what do you got? A guy who 16 months ago had never played in the major leagues, but now he's been elected to two All-Star teams, won the Rookie of the Year award in the American League unanimously, and many people in baseball are saying that he has the potential to be the best ever at his position. Where was he a year and a half ago? That's the thing that makes Evan Longori in a lot of ways so special. I mean, he really did come out of nowhere in a sense. Not only was he not drafted out of high school, not only was he not recruited by a single division one baseball program, he was barely recruited by division 3, which doesn't award scholarships. What changed for him? Well, he'll tell you the most important thing that changed for him was his mental maturation. Walk slow to the plate. Remember your breathing. Well, there's a drive. Keep that alive. Stick with the approach. Keep the routine going. Takes that one to left field. That is deep. Way back. Get into the game. Don't worry about the result. To left field. How far is this one going to go? Evan Longoria with a monster blast. What goes on in the mind of Tampa Bay Rays third baseman Evan Longoria has helped him emerge as one of the game's highest profile young stars. The focus, the sense of calm, the faith and process. They're all essential components of his makeup. Everybody says the same thing to me. They watch him go up to the plate, holds the bat like he's sleeping until he explodes at the ball. Longoria drives the first pitch into right center field and Dean Johnson is back to the wall off the right tank. A home run. At the age of 23, Longoria is already a two-time all-star. His highly developed mental approach to the game, not to mention his willingness to discuss it, distinguishes him from his peers. It also gives him an edge to us. It looks like it just happens naturally, but there is a a method. His ability to be in the present moment makes him one of the best. When the pitch is being thrown, he's already forgotten about last at bat. And all that exists is this particular pitch. And this particular pitch is coming to me right now. I see a lot of guys who have a lot of physical ability but don't uh have enough up top to, you know, be able to control certain situations or, you know, some guys don't really buy into the whole uh mental training side of baseball, I guess. But for me, I've been doing it for so long that it's it's something that I trust. Lori has been doing it for 5 years. Before then, there was no reason to believe he'd develop into a major leaguer. In 2003, when he graduated from high school, 1,480 players were selected in the baseball draft. He wasn't one of them, nor was he recruited to play Division 1 college baseball. Did you deserve to be overlooked when you were coming out of high school? Definitely. Yeah, I was I wasn't good. I mean, I I I knew the game. Uh I enjoyed playing the game. as far as ability and talent. I wasn't a professional player at at that time. To continue to play the game, Longoria enrolled at Rio Hondo, a junior college just a few miles from his hometown in Southern California. After hitting 430, Longoria transferred to Division 1 Long Beach State. There he was introduced to the theories of Ken Ravvisa, a professor of kinesiology and author of several books on sports psychology. The essence is the idea of learning to be comfortable being uncomfortable and having something to go to when the garbage hits the fan because the garbage will hit the fan and let's be ready for it. More than anything else, Rvisa preaches the gospel of mental preparation and structure. He teaches players to recognize failure as an unavoidable part of the game and how not to dwell on it. In the last two decades, he's been a paid adviser to several college and major league teams. At Long Beach State, his most apt pupils included Longoria and his teammate Troy Tulowitzki. now in his third season with the Colorado Rockies. Ken Revisa, he's done a lot of good things for for me and and Evan. It's all about relaxing, taking your breath, and uh just making sure that the game's not moving too quick. When you first were exposed to Ken's teachings, even you said, "Come on, this stuff can't really work." What was the turning point? You think we started playing in a lot of stadiums where um it was a packed house or you know the pressure was on and that and that's when I started to realize when the game becomes more of a mental grind. I I needed something to go to. How do you think those theories helped him? I think it calmed him. I think the mental game really helped him and how he was way balanced after bad at bats or bad games. Well, come on. You can't just turn it over like that. As Longoria matured physically, his mental training allowed him to maximize his talents. He emerged as a top prospect in the summer of 2005 when he was named MVP of the Cape Cod League, a traditional breeding ground for high draft picks. In the 2006 draft, 3 years after failing to be selected at all, Longoria was the third overall pick. The Tampa Bay Double Rays select Evan How did he get so much better so quickly? I think his openness that it didn't come easy, that he went through the rejection and he was willing to take the risk to grow versus playing it safe all the time. Longoria's mental maturity helped convince the Rays that he could be the cornerstone of the franchise. Just six games into his major league career, they signed him to a 9-year contract worth up to $44.5 million. Coincidentally, Longoria had found another true believer in Ray's manager Joe Madden. A longtime proponent of the Revisa method. What Ken does is it's an attempt to make you think in a different or more clear way, controlling the controllable aspects of of playing this game. Every time I see Evan, you know, it's hello and what do you got for me today, Ken? When you're putting on the batting gloves, put on the batting gloves. When you step into the box, be in the box. Be where you need to be when you need to be there. Swing and rocketed into left center field. That's going to roll all the way to the warning track. There is a zen-like quality to Longoria's focusing techniques. Ken talks a lot about the focal point. If I make an error in the field or if I swing at a pitch in the dirt at the plate and I really feel like, you know, I've lost control of of, you know, either my emotions or the at bat, that's when I step out. I always look at the left field foul pole at the top of the left field foul pole. Um, just wherever you are, just Yeah. Just because I know there's always going to be a top of the left field foul pole. So, and it works for you. It works for me. Even when he's not in the lineup, Longoria follows a mental routine. He'll slide on his batting gloves and imagine himself at bat. When he is playing, rituals help him relax and focus. But let's say, for example, here comes his pitch. He follows it off. He will step out of the box. He'll undo his gloves, release that pitch, grips the gloves back on, steps in the box, and he's back. Where do you draw the line between what you think is superstition, what is habit, and what is really about focusing? There are so many weird things that us baseball players do that um you it would be classified all as superstition. But, you know, I think superstition would be, you know, if my mind was all messed up when I got to the plate if I didn't do that. So, and it's not that. No, no, it's not that at all. Hey, me and you ground ball. Come on. Not everyone attributes Longoria's success to his mental focus. There's his work ethic, his bat speed, and another undeniable factor. Your buddies out in California that we spoke to said that they thought it was actually a big moment in your career and development when Eva Longoria became famous. It seemed like everywhere I went, I mean, that was the only thing I heard for two and a half, three years now. But it kind of got my name out there, you know, whether it was Eva or Evan. I mean, obviously they remember the last name. From what I understand, last year she got you a bottle of champagne when you made the All-Star team. What did she get you this year? Nah, she gave up. She gave up on me. In the 2008 World Series, the chant Eva Eva floated through the air in Philadelphia. Whether or not the taunting bothered him, Evan Longoria went 1 for 20 against the Phillies. It could have been the pressure that I was putting on myself. Um it could have been um the outside distractions that I let get to me and I look back now and kind of kick myself in the butt for that. Things kind of sped up on me. I think that was part of the whole experience for me too is just learning learning those feelings. I mean, he gets upset, but he's got some tools that he uses and he knows that's part of the game. And then this goes back to his background where it didn't come easy. He had to struggle at times from undrafted and unrecruited to the All-Star game and the World Series. It's been a quick trip for Revan Longoria. Now comes the hard part, maintaining focus. Do you think there will be a day when you don't need a focal point? When you don't need mental exercises that you do? No, I don't think there will be because uh as soon as you start believing that in this game, you'll you'll get humbled in a heartbeat. I'll always have that to to kind of keep in the back of my mind and when I need it, use it. Get rid of those negative thoughts. Get back to the moment. Prepare to get a hit.