Mitch Spence, fired up to have you on the Mental Performance Mastery podcast, brother. Thanks for being here. >> Thanks for having me. >> Yeah, man. Excited to break down your mental game and your journey. And I think one of the things that's that's most impressive is not drafted, not even recruited to a division one school out of high school. You go to division 2 USC Aken, end up getting drafted by the Yankees in the 10th round out of there in 2019. What advice would you give to those amateur baseball players that, you know, now recruiting happens so early, right? there's kids commit to the SEC in like 8th grade and nth grade. What advice would you give to those guys that maybe feel like they're being a little bit overlooked or haven't quite gotten scouted or noticed quite yet when they're in high school? >> I would just say that, you know, hard work and dedication, it can take you places that you could never imagine. And I think as long as you take the most out of your opportunity and you know you're good enough, someone will end up finding you somewhere. >> So they found you at USC Aken, right? Yankees take you in the 10th round 2019 pandemic year everybody misses in 2020. You end up getting up into AAA with those guys and then get rule fived by the A's in 2023. What exactly is the rule five draft for the people listening that maybe aren't quite aware? >> Yeah. So the rule five so leading up to the rule five draft um a team has to make a roster decision about you about whether they want to put you on their 40man which and on the 40man you can either get called up um or sent down and you know you had the opportunity in the big leagues. Um, and the Yankees did not protect me. And so I went to what's called the rule five, which is where teams can take players from other teams. And in the AAA phase or the big league phase, I guess, um, you have to be put on the big league 26-man roster for an entire year. Um, otherwise they would send you back. Um, and so it's it's it's a really big deal. It's kind of a shot in the dark. You know, leading up to that rule five draft, I wasn't sure if I was going to get taken. Um, you know, I was hopeful, but you know, you never know with those kinds of things. And, um, you know, I was very fortunate to get an opportunity. >> I think you were the first pick in the real five. >> Yeah, it was it was it was a pretty special day because leading up to it, you know, the guys I'm working out with obviously knew it was coming up and they were kind of giving me crap about it and um, you know, I'm sitting there eating lunch with my wife while she was working and you know, we had the radio broadcast on and my name gets called first and we just went absolutely bananas. So, >> so now you're in then you know you're in the big leagues on a 26 man or you're rolling back. Yeah, at least knew I was going to get an opportunity and that's all I could ask for and um it was just it was almost better than getting drafted because it's like, you know what, I'm getting opportunity to to, you know, fulfill a dream. >> Wow. How about that? I mean, as long as I've worked in baseball, I didn't I didn't know that the rule five draft worked that way. You know, there's so many moving parts when you're not playing. You know, you pay attention to certain things. But that that's fascinating. I didn't realize that. That's badass. So, that's actually probably a bigger moment for you than when you get drafted in the 10th >> round. Yeah. because it's like, you know, you get drafted in like I mean for me especially like being a guy who's like I was never really supposed to be drafted so getting drafted was an unbelievable thing. Um and then getting taken on the rule five it's like you're getting an opportunity to make a big league team >> and that's another dream within itself. So it was yeah it was a pretty pretty awesome moment. >> You know one of the things as we were working together that we did was a perspective poster and you had on there a picture of a Target dog and as soon as we got done with the call I literally went on to eBay and I bought myself the stuffed dog target dog. talk to us, tell us about that story, man. Because I think as as an audience listening to this and especially the young players listening to this, they look at guys in the big leagues and they think like whatever their path was there, they don't understand sometimes how hard that path can be. I think they look at guys and think that they're just like born on top of the mountain, right? And you're an awesome example of a guy that has has worked and disciplined and dedicated yourself to the big leagues. Talk to us about the target experience, brother. Yeah. So during uh that COVID year, uh it was it was after I had just gotten drafted in 2019, so COVID year, uh the minor league season gets canceled and I was kind of just sitting at home. I was training. Um I was throwing. The Yankees were trying to kind of put us through a program to where it simulated a season. And I would spend most of my days just kind of doing nothing, playing video games and stuff like that. And so I went uh and I and I applied for a job at Target as a seasonal employee um in the fulfillment department, which is like um it was kind of a new thing back then, but it was like the whole online ordering. So, it was like, you know, you're shopping for people, people order stuff online, you walk around the store, you pick it up, um you bag it, and then people would come in and and and pick it up. And so, I was very fortunate. The the HR manager there was from uh upstate New York and she was a huge Yankees fan. And so, I put that on my resume. It was like New York Yankees minor, like drafted by the New York Yankees, current New York Yankees minor leaguer. And so, she saw that and that's why she hired me. Um and so, yeah, so I got an opport I was working there uh until I got taken on the role five. So I I spent um 2021 2 and parts of of the 20 23 offseason working at Target. >> How about that? It's so good, man. So in the offseason, right, take us through like what that time of year, you're obviously getting up, you're training, and then you're going to work at Target like during the day or are you working at Target during the day and training at night? Like what's that look like for people? >> Yeah, so for me it was I I would get up and I'd go work. I'd do all my workout, all my baseball stuff first because like that was the more important thing. And then I would usually work nights. So it was like 3:00 to 10. I was working at Target, coming home, um, going right to bed and getting up and doing it all over again. And it was crazy because it's like during the peak season, like, you know, the holiday season at Target, it's like you're putting in 35, 40 hours a week because, you know, they need you, >> man. I love that, you know, and then you get rule fived and you're like, "Okay, now I'm rule five. I'm not going back to Target." >> Yeah. Yeah. It was like, "Hey, I I have to, you know, be ready to go into camp because I got to try and win a spot here." >> Yeah. And then that manager who who who allowed you to come work at Target and hired you because you were playing for the Yankees gives you the stuffed animal. >> Yeah. So last year Yeah. So last year for my birthday, I got a a package in the mail um in Sacramento and it just had a little a little card in it and it was from from the that HR manager and she's like, "Hey, I saw I saw this and thought of you." So she sent it to me and it's a little Target dog with a little baseball glove. >> Um so it's been in my locker ever since. It's it's a great it's a great reminder of like, >> you know, all those times I was walking around the store like hoping to be here >> and it's like I mean I now I'm here now. So it's Yeah. >> You go from hoping to be there working at Target >> to now you're in the big leagues with with at the time the the Oakland days, right? The athletics. >> When you get to the big leagues, you're starting you're in the bullpen. What's it like as a pitcher when you're in the big leagues and you're kind of doing that sort of dual role of a starter and a bullpen guy? What's kind of the message you have for those guys? Because I have a lot of guys early in their career when they get up there, they're doing both. Corbin Burns is doing both. Ryan Nelson's done both. You know, what are some of the things that you would go back and say like to the younger version of you or to somebody who's going through that now? >> I would just say it's it's not an easy thing to do. I think it's it's it's definitely hard. Um, but the biggest thing is it's like be where your feet are. Like no matter what your role is, your job is like we've just talked about this. It's it's to execute pitches. And so when it's your turn to get the ball, all you can do is focus on the task at hand. And whether that's in the rotation or that's out of the bullpen, like your job is to execute that next pitch. And I think that's the the best way to go about it. And and when I my first year in in Oakland, uh there was an older guy, Ross Trippling, who was he had done that a lot with um early in his career with the Dodgers, and he that that's kind of the message he gave to me. It was like just making sure make sure you know you get all your prep work done and you're ready to go no matter what the role is. But it's it's it's all the same once you're out there on the mound. >> Yeah. Once you're out there on the mound, what's your job in one word? >> Execute. >> Execution, right? And one of the things we look at with with pitchers is keeping an execution journal where after you throw, we go look and see, well, how did I do it at executing those pitches? And one of the things that we build in your routine is, you know, a mental performance coach and legend Harvey Dorfman, the guy that wrote the mental game of baseball, the mental VCs of pitching, the mental keys to hitting. We have you go through his chapter on execution in a podcast, which I'll link to below this. Talk to us just in in your mental game about the importance of just focusing on execution. We got a guest. We got a little moth that's flying through here. One take. Good. Landing on you. It's good luck. >> Yeah, I think it's good luck. >> I think Yeah, the biggest thing in terms of just focusing on execution is it it it brings you into the present. >> I think, you know, and I I'm I'm going to reference a couple games, but you know, there was a couple games last year where it's just like you're in that flow state and it's like you're just locked in. all you're focusing on is that next pitch. And then you have the games where things kind of get out of control and you're worried about, oh, I just gave up a hit. Oh, I just gave up a homer. And it and it just you get caught up on those things that have already happened or could happen and you're not focused on that present pitch and you do your best work when you're focused on that next pitch and the execution of that next pitch because honestly, I mean, as soon as we talk about this all the time, as soon as it leaves your hand, it's out of your control. M and and I think just that idea of staying in the present moment, right? George Horton, head baseball coach at Cal State Fullerton when I'm a grad assistant there. 2002 and three, they win the national title in 2004. When they win the national title in 2004, he's the first speaker at the National Baseball Coaches Convention as the division one college baseball national champion coaches every year. And the topic of his talk was present process positive, the mental game of baseball. and he just was ingrained in us while we were there. Whether it's Auggie Greo, George Horton, Ken Revvis, Cal State Fullerton baseball, is stay in the present moment, one pitch at a time. Focus on the process, the things you can control, your in-game routines, and and stay positive, meaning expect a positive outcome that you're going to get the pitch that you want, that this ball is going to be in the dirt you're going to run, that you're going to get the call that you want or the swing that's going to get the double play on the pitch that you're trying to throw. You know, positive expectation of what's going to happen. So when we talk about the controllables, right, in the process of focusing on what you can control, one of the exercises that we did was literally draw a line down the center of a piece of paper, what you can control, what you can't control. How foundational is that you think from a good mental game standpoint? >> I mean, it keeps you it keeps you focused on what's important. I think um you know there's so many variables in this game that can just absolutely wear you down and take your take your mind away from what's important and that's how you prepare um the work that you put in and being able to go out there and just execute to the best of your ability. >> Yeah. You speaking about executing to your best of your ability, one of the things that we do is keep a checklist, right? We use the app habit share. It's a checklist of the behaviors and things you want to do consistently. very similar to how like a strength coach might use team builder, you know, as giving you your exercises you're going to do. How has that checklist of drills from a mental game standpoint helped you this off seasonason and kind of your first offseason going through mental game work? >> Yeah, I mean it's good because it keeps you honest. I think it's good to have the reminder of like you can go through and be like, "Okay, did I get this done today? Did I get that done today?" But then it's also got, you know, it's in the back of your mind of like I don't do this, I'm not going to be able to click that green and I'm not going to get the satisfaction dopamine hit. >> Yeah. I'm not getting a little satisfaction of that I did that task today. Um, but I think it's also really good because it's building habits. Like, you know, I can, you can put whatever you want on there. And I think for me it's like this offseason I put things on there like, you know, just reading before I go to bed or, you know, putting my phone in the bathroom to make sure I'm not playing on it before I go to bed. And just seeing how I can stack those days and then you look back at the end of the office, it's like, wow, I did that 95% of the time. And, you know, because I put my phone in the bathroom, my aura ring scores are better. Um, I'm feeling better. I'm recovering better. So, it's like these little habits that have these big effects that, you know, you you don't realize until, you know, you look back over the the couple of months and it's like, "Wow, I I really did that." >> It's the compound effect of all those little little simple behaviors, right? We talk about the the rule of two easys. It's so easy to do, it's also easy not to do, right? and and it's so easy to do to put your phone in bed or the guy who's over your shoulder there, Bobby Wit, a new teammate of yours with Kansas City, is you know, one of the things we've worked on for the last couple years that he said has had a massive impact is the no phone in bed rule. And I think for all the all the players listening to this, the no phone and bed rule falls into the category or the camp of the two easys is so easy to do, it's easy not to do. But just think about when you have your phone next to you as an alarm or you're on it in bed, all you're doing is keeping yourself awake and basically choosing to distract yourself over choosing to get sleep and get recovery so you can attack the day tomorrow. >> 100%. >> You know, from a mental game standpoint, you mentioned like handling the difficulty of things in game and we've talked about signal lights, green light, yellow light, red light. What does the signal lights mean for you? >> I think for me it's just the ability to keep yourself in control of your own emotions. And I think there's and I I said it earlier about, you know, that being in that flow state. It's like looking back at those games where I felt like I was in those flow states. >> It's like I was clearly in a bunch of green lights. Um and and so now it's like going forward having the idea of like, okay, I fall behind to a hitter. It's like, okay, I'm in a yellow light, so I have a little release routine and I can get back into a green light. Um, and it just keeps you focused on that task and allows you to just gather yourself so that you can make that next pitch. >> Walk us through for watching you, let's say, and you were hitting a release routine in a game and they were going, "Okay, he's getting back in control, getting back in the green lights, let's say, handling that yellow." What would that look like? >> Uh, for me it's like, you know, you're you're rubbing up the ball to to wipe away that last pitch. Uh, I'm taking a breath looking at the left field foul pole to kind of try and leave that pitch behind. And then I'm usually going to say something to myself like, "Hey, let's get the next one. let's execute the next one. Um, and then that way it's you're doing something to help you get focused on the next the next pitch. >> Awesome. And and for the listeners, you heard him clear you heard Mitch clearly just say the three-step release process that we teach, right? Where I'm going to physically rub up the ball and I'm doing that physical action to let go of that last pitch. I'm looking at the left field foul pole focal point, taking a deep breath to get back in control, and I'm having a verbal trigger to say to myself, "Hey, let's focus on that next pitch." Beautiful. Couple more questions for you, Mitch. Um, in terms of like using visualization, whether it be watching specific pitches on video, watching a mind movie of all highlight pitches and punch outs, or just like closing your eyes and visualizing, listening to an audio or on your own. Talk to us about your mental imagery or visualization practice. What does that look like? >> Yeah, so for me, I that's something I I really tried to implement a lot this off seasonason and just doing it daily. Um, I think one of the biggest goals I had in in working together was building confidence in the sinker that I throw because it's been a pitch that for the past couple years it's there I feel like there's been a little bit of a mental block there because of taking it from practice into competition has been very difficult. And so I've used the visualization aspect to help build confidence with that. So, I'm taking video of good good pitches that I've thrown, good sinkers that I've thrown, watching it, and then seeing myself doing it in the future and just building that that confidence so that when I go out there, it's just it feels like second nature. >> Yeah. And then the results, have you seen you've seen already in the short amount of time you've been with spring training good results with the sinker already? >> Yeah. Yeah. So, I threw uh a live batting practice the day and yeah, I it kind of just clicked a little bit. So, you know, take one good day and and build upon it. Speaking of taking good days and building upon it, stacking days, right? Something you've been doing since we started this like four months ago. Talk about the importance of just the mentality of consistency dayto-day and stacking days. >> Yeah, I think it's it makes it breaks things down. I think you always talk about it like how do you eat an elephant? >> One bite at a time. I think that's that's just a great way to look at goals of like how are you going to achieve these big you have these big goals and how you going to do it? You're going to do it one day at a time and I think the success checklist helps you do that. think it just helps you make things manageable and just taking one day at a time trying to have a good day and build upon that day and have a good day tomorrow like it just it helps break things down. I think when you start to it looking at like what what is a good day, right? And I'll ask players that I work with all the time, hey, what what does your ideal day look like? And I think if you also say what does my ideal life look like from a life design standpoint, that's a lot of the work that we've done with the MVP process, right? Identify the mission, the vision, the principles, the goals that I have, my one word focus, my three keys, my identity, my affirmations, all that. How has an MVP process exercise and going through that sort of helped you get kind of clarity and more focused on like what you can control and how you want to show up? Yeah, the MVP process gives you, you know, a little bit of a purpose. It's like, you know, every day when I wake up, this is these are standards that I want to live by. Um, and just gives you, >> you know, a a way to go towards something that you envision. >> It's awesome. Mitch Spence, last question for you. if you could remove the skull cap of all the players listening to this. So go back through your career of the guy who wasn't drafted out of high school, the guy who's playing division two college baseball, the guy that gets signed, the guy that's working at Target during a pandemic, who gets rule five, who makes his major league debut, who's in a rotation, who's in the bullpen, who's been traded, going through all of that, talking to yourself throughout that whole career, if you could remove the skull cap of those guys and plant a seed of success inside of that those heads or any the heads of anybody listening to this and it would take hold and they would do it, what would that one piece of advice be? I would just say, you know, hard work and and and dedication, like that's you'll be amazed at where that'll take you. And just like you said, the compound effect is is a real thing. And just taking it day by day and trying to get better every single day, you'll be amazed at at where you'll end up. >> Can't close it any better than that. Mitch Spence, thanks for being with us on the Metal Performance Mastery Podcast, brother. >> Thanks for having me. He got it.