How to train focus like a muscle. You see, focusing awareness. They're the, at the foundation of elite mental performance. You can't control what you're not aware of and you can't execute what you're not focused on. I won't work with a PGA golfer who had implode after one bad shot. One bad swing turned into three bad holes, turned into missing cuts, turned into losing your card. And when we introduced a simple awareness routine of a deep breath, a little, a club tap is a reset. Cleaning the club, putting it back in the bag and letting that go. Handing your club to your caddy when you're ready to let that shot go. And holding onto that club as an example of me holding onto that last shot. He was able to let that shot go and play free. One shot at a time. You see every hole, same sequence. He began to recognize the emotional tells in his body, a clinched jaw, a shallow breath, the way he would talk to himself, and he'd be able to reset as he was walking before he got to the next shot. And before that emotional response derailed him, the thing that he learned was to respond to his response. And that makes all the difference. And that's awareness in action. Recognizing when you've drifted. Choose to lock it back in. You see, focus on the other hand, is your ability to aim that awareness intentionally. Picture a flashlight awareness is the light itself. Focus is where you aim it. Too many athletes, they scatter their beam across everything. That they can't control the opponents, referees, the results, the future, the great ones, they, they narrow it down to what they can control, their breath, their body language, their focus, self-talk in the next play. So as a coach, teaching awareness and focus is about repetition and routine. Let's start every session that we have with our athletes with an intentional reset to be grounded in where our feet are. End every game with a reflection question. Every practice. What did we learn today? Because in life, there's winners and learners, and those who will learn will improve their focus and awareness and give them the best chance for success. So how can you, as a coach, build reset reps into your practice? Into your training? So your athletes can train focus, not just their physical skills.