 packageddashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdash the time and the opportunity. Obviously talking with you is really cool as a professional athlete. Someone always working on my mental performance game. You're the guy. So it's always a pleasure. Well, bro, talk to us about the season, man. Before we start diving into kind of picing and improving reaction time and kind of what you do in a reaction time sport like NASCAR or like baseball, first just talk to us about how is the grind of the season going for you right now? It's been a grind to say the least. You have racing for those sports that it's full of ups and downs. And unlike most other sports, just because there's 40 of the best in the world on the track, all of us, no matter how good you are, are going to lose more races than you win. And that's a difficult mental challenge to face for any driver. But you go through slumps sometimes where you were just on top of the world running up front every week, being competitive. And then sometimes there's a lot of stuff out of your control. And we've had that this year. So we've had some great runs. Most of the time we've had really good speed, which is a positive. But unfortunately, we've had a lot of things out of our control happen, like just mechanical failures, get caught up in a crash of somebody else's mess. And that's a part of racing. I think the important thing is if we fail and it's because of something we did or I did behind the wheel, we look at it as an opportunity to learn and grow and get better. But sometimes you do everything right in your power and it just isn't meant to be. So I think wrestling with that, knowing how to take things away is learning opportunities and when to just keep your head down and keep digging, as we say, in racing, just to go out at another race. There's always another race the next week, thankfully. And we've, like I said, it's been a roller coaster so far. But we've certainly had some ups and downs, but keeping a level ahead. Sounds a lot like being a baseball hitter, man, where you talk about the things that are outside of your control. So when I talked a lot with hitters, one of the questions I always ask, mostly guys that are relatively new to the mental game, is I would say, how are you evaluating your success at the plate beyond your batting average? Or in your case, how are you evaluating success as a driver other than like where you finish, which can largely be outside of your control? So like, how do you evaluate success for yourself, Anthony, as a driver on the circuit? Well, that's a really great question because in racing, contrary to popular belief, I think we've talked about this last time I was on, is not every car is the same. So you're only as fast as your car, right? Your goal is to go out there and do the absolute best you can behind the wheel. Be, execute on restarts, on pit road, keep your car clean, you know, don't knock defenders off it. Pit crew gets you on and off pit road well, crew chief make good strategy calls. So everyone's gotta be firing on all cylinders, they're no pun intended. But you have to kind of gauge your success based on your resources, right? For my personal situation, I drive for a smaller team. We have about a third to a quarter of the budget that most teams have. And having that financial stability at the larger teams that allows you to buy more people, more equipment, new parts, better parts and pieces to build faster cars and speed costs, how much do you wanna spend? So for us, racing on a budget, you know, there's a lot of used parts that we're running and we're kind of mileageing out things. And sometimes that's what leads to mechanical failures, but our backs against the wall, we go out there and understand that. So don't try to go run 10th with a 15th place car and wreck it, you know, take that top 15. And then the next week, when you do have a top 10 or a top five car, make sure you do everything you can to execute. So you're constantly gauging your performance, A, off of you personally making sure you did everything right, if you didn't, how could you be better? And then other times, even though it doesn't feel good, you have to just kinda look at the big picture and understand your circumstances. If you don't have the fastest car, don't be so caught up in the fact that maybe you didn't finish up front. It's more important to focus on completing all the laps, keeping your car together and being able to make that car better for the next time you get out on track. And the last thing you wanna do is tear it up, because you're not getting better at wrecking cars. Speaking about being able to go out there and perform at your best, one of the things that becomes so important that I wanna shift the conversation to is that reaction time, right? That readiness, getting a good night's sleep and making sure that you're recovered. All the data that you're getting from the Pison device that you wear as one of the professional athletes using this data to help you in a reaction time sport, how is it, Anthony, that you're using Pison and some of the testing and the data to really improve your personal performance? Well, it's really cool because I've seen a lot of environmental factors in my life affect all those things you've mentioned. So my sleep, just whether I'm stressed or maybe I had caffeine too late in the day or maybe there's just something going on at work, but other times, seeing how a good night's rest does affect me, affect my training sessions and ultimately my performance on the track. So to see that play into competition as a professional athlete, but also my daily life, I've actually been able to bio hack as we like to say it, Pison, because I can literally use caffeine as a tool. I know that if I have caffeine that two hours later, I'm operating at my peak mental performance. It's not necessarily 30 minutes after, like maybe some people think it and maybe it is, everybody's different, but for me, I'm able to utilize that now by having caffeine two hours prior to a race or a workout, not as soon as I walk into the gym because by the time I'm leaving the gym, I haven't even utilized it. So it's pretty cool to learn those things thanks to Pison and seeing that in the app. I can tag all my readiness tests and agility tests to see what kind of things are going on in my life in that moment and ultimately how it affects me personally. So now as a race car driver, getting myself dialed in into that state of mind, right? It's not about clocking in, it's about locking in, as I like to say, and when you put that helmet on, it's alter ego, you gotta go out there and execute at a super high level, and sometimes you don't get the best night's sleep or sometimes there's a time difference, you get a long flight that morning or the day before. So how do you get yourself race ready? Well, now it's not just about those environmental factors, I can utilize the tests on the Pison device to kind of dial myself in despite how I'm feeling, which is really cool and something that is just a huge advantage for me. I mean, a lot of guys are testing with these reaction time devices, the fit lights on the wall and stuff, well, now you've got it on your wrist. So it doesn't matter if you're at the racetrack in the hotel room or me literally on the grid about to strap in my race car, I can get myself into the right state of mind and even just keep checking in on myself on what mental state I'm in. Or at home if you're driving the simulator and you wanna use it to see if it improves on the simulator too, right? Or if you're in the gym and you're getting ready to train and I think the cool part about Pison is it's so easy, it's so portable, and it now functions as a watch where it gives you time, it gives you steps, it's giving you HRV data. So it's giving you a lot of the same data that people would be accustomed to with say like a whoop or with an aura. They've made some tremendous upgrades with it. And I think one of the things that I've gotten the best feedback from, from the baseball players I'm working with that use it is like you've said, if they show up and they're not at a readiness state or reaction time that they wanna be at, they will do some modalities, let's call them, to get them where they need to be, cryo, if they have that at their stadium, cold plunge, which everybody has. One I heard that was great was like a rhythmic movement with an increased heart rate. So think about like jump rope, agility ladders, hockey player that I work with in the NHL playoffs, was doing wall juggling with it to kind of get himself to be locked in, right? That kind of like cognitive testing and making myself have to move. Anything that you found, Anthony, that like helps you increase readiness reaction time before a race that's a part of your protocol, which maybe you don't wanna share because of the comp, you don't want the competition to know which I get to. No, honestly, a big part of it's kind of just getting moving, getting the blood flowing, getting outside in the heat to get my body acclimated and stretching, just some warming up. Listening to music is actually amazing how that affects my mind prior to a race, just getting me kind of pumped up. But the test themselves or how I get myself into the right state of mind. So I'll test and sometimes I'm ready to go, but I'll still do two or three to just to get consistent results. But when I'm not feeling myself, I'll do five, six, seven, however many I need to. And it's, you can kind of train yourself to start getting into that state of mind faster and faster. Now it takes me less tests than it used to. What's really cool is I had been testing with the readiness test for the longest time, which is just straight up reaction time. And it's actually interesting because I'm super duper fast, but now that I started focusing more on the agility test, I've noticed that I'm quick, but I don't always make the right decision quickly. And that's something that's critical in racing, right? If there's a crash in front of you, how are you gonna avoid it at 200 miles an hour? Are you gonna go high, are you gonna go low? Are you just gonna slow down? Whatever the case may be, well now with the agility test, which is kind of a no go, a go, no go test, knowing right or wrong, I've been able to train myself to make the right decision, not only more frequently, but quicker, which is a huge advantage in competition, but even just throughout daily life, I feel like I'm operating in this peak, flow state now. I'm performing at a higher capacity in the simulator, in the gym and on the track. Yeah, I think that idea of the go, no go test, right? And how that we've used that with baseball in terms of the recognition and do I go, right? So like if I'm looking for a fastball and I see spin, and unless like, you know, depending on the situation, I have to get to baseball, but if there's not too shrikes, so I'm looking for a fastball and I get spin, and if I'm not related, we're gonna spin on that and get to the next pitch and keep battling, right? So like the ability to react to what you see, right? And one of my friends who's a neuroscientist, he says, look, in baseball, probably like NASCAR, it's not ever gonna go slower. Guys aren't gonna throw slower. Cars are not gonna go, hey, it's going too fast. Let's move the, let's set a cap on how fast you can go and stick it at 160. You're like, I think it'll happen, right? So if the baseballs are gonna get thrown harder and the cars are gonna go faster, other than just human evolution, how do we get better at slowing it down? Well, we're not slowing down the car, we're not slowing down the ball. What we're actually doing is we're increasing the processor in our brain to make it seem like we have more time. And that is a massive competitive advantage. 100%. And that's how I feel more recently, the last couple of years stuff and using Tyson on the track is, you know, coming into the national series as a rookie, you know, I've raced at the lower levels. Every step is a whole new learning curve. The tracks are bigger, the cars are faster. And, you know, you find yourself a little tensed up on the wheel, maybe the nerves are getting to you. You got those butterflies, which I live for. I still get that, it's my passion, I love what I do. But I think there's a difference between excitement and unsteady nerves, right? Well, now I get on the track and people ask me all the time, what does it feel like? Are you gripping the wheel super tight? Are you tensed up? And I tell them, no, I'm pretty chilling there. I just get in there and I'm in my happy place and I feel confident in what I'm doing, my ability, my decisions, and I truly believe a lot of that is just the mental performance aspect where I've improved my cognitive function with Tyson. You know, in addition to obviously doing all the physical training necessary, but those go hand in hand and they're equally as important. Yeah, you know, I think in terms of understanding that you can train readiness, that you can train reaction time. Is this pretty common amongst your competitors and they're 39 drivers that are the most elite in the world or are you see other guys doing this or is this still kind of like maybe the next wave? Like I look at sports psychology and where it was even 10 years ago and guys weren't doing it. And now, back then there might have been 20% that were doing it and now maybe it's 50%, which is way more than it's been and it's more socially acceptable and it's more common and teams and organizations have mental performance coaches, but it's still not where it's gonna be, right? It's still behind like strength and conditioning. Where would you feel like, do you see other people that are doing like cognitive testing and readiness agility testing in your sport? Yeah, 100% and I think it's something that's developing, right, as you mentioned, these guys are coming into the sport and they're younger, faster, stronger and I'm in that wave of drivers that are in addition to that more aggressive, making bigger, bolder moves on the track and that comes down to confidence, right? And a lot of that is that decision-making process. So reaction time training has been huge in this new generation of race car drivers and any motorsports discipline. But like you said, I still think the sky is the limit and there's gonna be a big future and emphasis put on that kind of training, but for me to have pison is the ultimate convenience because I feel like I can do all the most important or most useful training routines right on my wrist or at the palm of my hand, essentially, no matter where I'm in. So I'm on the plane, I'm in the hotel, I'm at the track or on the grid, even in the gym, I'm testing to see, you know, what, well, now I could see my heart rate on the device, which is great, because I can try to keep my heart rate at what it is in the car. That's the difference between working out and training, right? I'm specifically preparing for something. So to try to keep my heart rate at the same it is in the car for X amount of time, and then see my reaction time potentially decline throughout a workout because of fatigue. Now I've found I'm training myself to perform better or maybe even get faster throughout routine just from adrenaline and stuff. So there's a lot of neat discoveries I've made and to have this as a legitimate training tool that's just more convenient than any of the other resources out there currently is really special. And I think that's why Pison's this the new wave and a revolutionary device. Yeah, totally agree. And I think the last question is just on the confidence, right? And I think when we look at the highest level of performance, majorly based on UFC, which I know some of the fighters that I'm working with that are working with Pison, they're like, man, my ability to react and slippage ad and counter strike has been better than it's ever been. I'm like, well, how much of that is reaction and readiness and agility? And they're like all of it, right? So those guys starting to train and in that sport, like one punch makes a difference, one slip and you land and you get a guy in the eye or whatever it is, like that makes a huge difference in terms of the outcome of the fight. So when you're fighting at the highest level for those margins of error, where the margin of error is so costly because the margin of error is so thin, any advantage that you can get is massive. And I think when you look at confidence, confidence coming from knowing you're ready, knowing you're recovered and knowing that you're switched on and ready to go, how does Pison impact your confidence, Anthony? As I mentioned, honestly, just the way I feel in the car has made me more confident. I feel that I'm in a more advanced mental state than my competition, which makes me feel like I have a huge advantage just knowing that I'm gonna make better decisions. I think I'm timing runs and setting up passes and avoiding crashes and doing all those things better than other people, which is what it takes to be competitive and ultimately get good results. So I've enjoyed seeing that kind of come to fruition through my mental training. But like you said, making decisions that could greatly affect your race, you can get into a crash and get hurt or hurt somebody else. And it's important for all the competitors to be doing their part, right? To be in a good state of mind when they're behind the wheel. For us, we're going so fast, what people don't realize is you can spin another car out or cause a crash without even touching someone. That's how sensitive the air is at that speed and the cars are on the ragged edge of control as we've talked about before. So you really can't afford to make a mistake and feeling confident in the car or feeling like everything's slowing down has been huge. And you're still gonna make mistakes, but I think the important thing is learning from them. And while I'm studying film and looking at data, kind of correlating that to my decision-making testing has really been something I've seen an improvement in on the racetrack. That's awesome. We're the Anthony Alfredo NASCAR driver. If you wanna engage with him, check him out on Instagram, Anthony Alfredo at Anthony Alfredo, I should say on Instagram. Anthony, any parting thoughts, anything that wanna leave our listeners with just about reaction time, readiness, pysyn or anything else that you think would be a good seed to maybe plant in their brain that would germinate they take with them. I think the big thing is, is you don't have to be a professional athlete for this to have an impact on your life. I mean, I've been, I drive a simulator during the week, not just for my competition, but actually work for another team doing that. And I feel like I'm doing a better job in the workplace behind the wheel and seeing results for them, not just myself. At home, I'm more productive on the business side of racing. I'm sharper and even doing stuff like this, I'm just more present. So I think there's a, the sky is the limit for mental performance. And when you can start kind of taking advantage of where you're at, learning your circadian rhythm, which we didn't really touch on that, but that's revolutionary new tech with pysyn. You can really just take advantage of, you know, the human body and ultimately perform at your peak all the time. Well, if we can unpack that for us, talk to us about the circadian rhythm cause you just caught my attention with that. What do you got on that? What have you learned from that? So it takes a little while, you have to do basically multiple readiness tests every two hour window throughout the day from the time you wake up to the time you go to bed. And the more you do it, the more accurate it gets. And for a lot of people, you see this, right? Maybe they get up there slow or maybe they start fast and then they slow down at lunch. They pick up after they eat caffeine, whatever. And that's why tagging all your tests is critical. So you can see how things affect you. But for me, once I saw that, I started testing more frequently. And this is prior to me focusing more on the agility test now. I've got my circadian rhythm pretty level and not just level at a slower speed, pretty level at a fast speed. I'm operating at significantly above the average person's reaction time throughout the day. And I might have an advantage because of racing. I've trained for that for a long time, right? But the cool thing is anybody can do this with a device snap and it might take some time, but you can see your circadian rhythm and then you can improve it. And what that means is you could basically see your cognitive state throughout the day from weeks or months at a time. And that data is invaluable. I mean, and how I've used that for me is I've always been a guy that wakes up and works out like sweats before screens. I like to work out early in the morning because I feel like it gets me woken up for the day and I go into the day with energy and I don't have this workout looming over me for the rest of the day. But with the circadian rhythm, what I found is that my workouts in the morning, I'm like, they're just not good. Like, so it's a difference between exercise and training. Like if I'm just exercising and moving for moving sake to feel good and like it and to get woken up, it doesn't really matter. But I've, you know, 20 weeks out of a back surgery, I'm starting to train to be a little bit, I wanna be more competitive on the golf course. I wanna be more competitive with this marathon training that I'm doing. And I've noticed that like, if I wait till later in the day, even like 9 a.m., right? Instead of 4.30 or 5 a.m. If I just wait till 9 a.m. and I train there, I'm so much more locked in and the quality of my training is so much better. Now it could be the caffeine kicking in and I have not played with that. So I gotta start checking that. But I do feel like understanding that circadian rhythm and then at night, like same sort of deal. If I start coaching past like 6, 7 o'clock p.m., I feel like I'm gonna fog, you know? And then that's me coming down and then getting ready to come back up. So having some quantifiable data that you can use with that is gonna be massive, I think, for people understanding them. Well, if I have to, if I was a major baseball player and had to perform at 7 o'clock, well, I better figure out how to shift that circadian rhythm and use that data. Otherwise, I'm not gonna be a professional baseball player for very long. Exactly, exactly. Like you said, just whether it's in the gym or for me, racing, most of our races are about four o'clock in the afternoon and during the week, I kinda slow down at that time. So how do I figure out how to be more alert so it comes Saturday on race day? That's my best time of the day, right? So there's a lot of interesting things in there that you can discover and start to maximize. And you can, it's not just, okay, I have this data, now what do I do? It's really nice to have something that just a reachable goal, right? Being able to set standards and train to it and achieve kinda what you're looking for and see those results is a huge advantage for no matter what you're doing. That's awesome. Anthony, man, I appreciate you coming back on the Mentor Performance Mastery Podcast and always fired up to watch you get behind the wheel and go do your thing on weekends, brother. So keep putting the skinny pedal to the floor, getting after it and doing what you do, man, fired up to watch it. So thanks again for being with us. Thank you so much for having me, I appreciate it. I hope you enjoyed this episode of the Mentor Performance Mastery Podcast. Please be sure to check out our sister and companion podcast, Mental Performance Daily, linked below in the show notes. And if you've got any questions or comments that you think can help us to improve Mental Performance Mastery or Mental Performance Daily, please don't hesitate to share those, whether it's leaving a comment here in a review or heading over to Instagram and dropping me a direct message at Brian Kane Peak. I value your suggestions, I value your time, and I wanna make sure that we're constantly delivering you the value to help you close the gap from where you are to where you wanna be. Thanks for being with us and let's dominate the day.