Is the biggest part of the journey, how it's the start that stops most people and how overcoming hesitation and building momentum is critical to your success. You see, we know it's the start that stops most people, so we can't let the start stop you. I share that in almost every seminar that I do, every coaching session I have. It's the start that stops Most people. Don't let the start stop you. You're gonna be like a rocket ship and use more of your fuel at the beginning of the journey to get outta orbit than you will the rest of the journey because the start that stops most people is true in sports, business and life. I worked with a high school track athlete. Somebody went on to be a state champion, a regional champion, and finished in the top three in the nation. But before we started working together, this athlete had been paralyzed by perfectionism. She'd overthink every me wanting to feel confident. Before performing. We reframed her mindset around action and realized that confidence was a choice, and that confidence also came from her preparation. She leaned into learning how to act different than how she feel and acted her way into confidence and allowed that preparation to show up in performance. She didn't wait for a good performance to act confident, no. She brought that confidence to the performance to get the results that she wanted. It's like you as an athlete choosing to bring your identity to your sport, not taking your identity from your sport. There's a Japanese proverb that says The journey of a thousand miles begins with a simple step. It's simple, but profound because once you take that first step and you get started, momentum becomes your ally. Our job as coaches is to lower that barrier to starting to help our athletes get started, to help athletes take action before they think they're ready. You see, action creates clarity, and clarity builds confidence. So as a coach, where in your life, in your career are you coaching the athletes that you have? What's one small step you can take today to help your athletes get started?