Josh Young, repeat guest here on the Metal Performance Mastery podcast, man. Thanks for coming back. >> Yeah, thanks for having me, Brian. >> Yeah, I mean, since we had you last, you've been a Major League All-Star. You've won a World Series. You know what people may not know about you as they look at you as a first round pick out of Texas Tech, a guy they saw as a college baseball all-American, Team USA, world, you know, World Series champ allstar. What they don't know was you weren't drafted out of high school. For anybody who's listening to this that like wasn't drafted out of high school, has aspirations to go play D1 and make it to the show, what advice would you give like the Josh Young who wasn't drafted out of high school? What advice would you go back and give your younger self? >> Continue working every day. I mean, that was really the main thing. It's like I didn't get drafted out of high school. Um went to Texas Tech and every day I was grinding in the cage. I because that's just what I wanted. I wanted to go in there and outwork everybody. Like that was my goal on a daily basis. Um so that's what I would tell my younger self. just go outwork everybody and everything will fall into place. >> Yeah, I think if you're going to outwork everybody, like turning your life over to just routine and structure and I think of all the guys I've ever coached, you're one of the most routine and structure oriented guys that I've that I've worked with. Talk about the importance of routine and structure in your life. >> Well, for one, it gives me a what to do every single day. That's the big part. But then also too, like when you get into the clubhouse and you're you're in routine with class or whatever it is, like you know what you have to do on a daily basis and it's basically a checklist of like did I do this. So when I lay down at night, it's did I do everything I possibly could to get that 1% better today? And if I did, great. You know, we talked about also in your day, you have the obviously the routines that we do on the field, which we'll talk about, but talk about the importance over the course of your career, whether it's going all the way back to like junior high when you went through the Pride program and started getting into mental performance all the way to now, you know, as as one of the premier guys in the big leagues. The importance of like an AM and a PM routine of how you start and shut your day. How important is that for you? >> I mean, it's massive. And I mean, it's changed so much. My PM routine is way better now than it ever has been. But um just the importance of sleep I think is the biggest thing for me. I did when I was younger I didn't realize how vital sleep was to recovery. And now you know being this going on year four it's like no sleep is everything. So I have to find a way to wind down postgame and sleep. So now it's like blue light blocking glasses. I got my EMF beanie. We're going melat. We're doing all this the supplements to just wind down and um go throw a show on, keep the phone away. Um and yeah, and once those eyes get tired, it's like, "All right, here we go. Going to bed." >> Well, and the PM routine, I think, kickstarts the AM routine, right? When you execute your PM routine, do you find the AM routine and going to the next day is much easier? >> Yeah. You feel better, too? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. So, then get up, get right into the cold tub, and let's go. >> Talk about some of the key key pieces of your AM routine. Obviously, that's going to change from offseason to in season, in season at home, in season on the road, but what are some of those key things that you think make your morning routine give you that momentum into the day to be great? >> So, my AM routine isn't as super elaborate as my PM routine right now, especially in the offseason, but it was the cold plunge was the big thing for me because it's something I don't really want to do because it's cold. So, I start my day doing something I know I don't really want to do or it's not easy for me to do. And it literally just sets up the rest of the day like, "All right, I already kicked one thing's butt. Now the rest of the day is going to be pretty easy." >> Yeah, that was a great podcast. And Andrew Humeman and David Gogggins were talking about how actually when you get yourself to do the thing you don't want to do, you are building mental toughness by actually building a stronger brain with a gray matter in your brain every time you say yes and get yourself to do the thing you don't want to do. Right? And we've talked about making your bed or a cold shower or a cold plunge in the morning, which sucks. Nobody wants to do either of those two things, but that allows you to know that you have discipline over yourself and allow you to get better during the day. >> And I really like cold brew, but I literally feel like when I do my cold plunge consistently, I don't even need caffeine because I'm just ready to go. >> Yeah, I got to get back on that routine because I've been [laughter] ripping caffeine, but I've been avoiding the cold plunge, so I got to get back to that. In terms of the mental game of baseball, right, what would you say is the mental game of baseball for Josh Young? >> It's pretty elaborate. I mean, I go back to the inner game of tennis last year and um trying to eliminate thoughts. I think for me that's the biggest thing because I want to control everything >> when really all I can control is taking my best swing, which to me is just releasing the swing. I can't think about taking a good swing. I just got to release the swing. Or on defense, I you can't like force yourself to make a play. You just got to go make the play. So for me right now, it's literally how can I play the game without thinking and without attaching my ego or emotions to outcomes because baseball is so hard and you're going to foul pitches off that you wish you hit 400 feet or you're going to get calls that don't go your way and it's like how can I be emotionless with those results and just keep playing the game. >> Man, a lot to lot to unpack there. I want to talk about the idea of ego is the enemy and come back to that. But this idea of no thoughts for somebody who's listening to this that goes, "Man, I wish I knew how to turn my brain off so that I wasn't thinking or I was thinking so much in the present moment. It appeared like I wasn't thinking." What advice would you give to that player about how to really quiet that mind and be so in the present moment that it's like you're not thinking? >> I practice it every single day. I get into the cage and I'm taking my swings and it's like how many swings in a row can I take where I don't think about anything >> because if I start thinking about mechanics or I start thinking about you know where my elbow is. Next thing you know my swing is all over the place. It's not consistent. So I literally practice my reps and if I feel myself getting clouded to me right now that's like my yellow light. Now I'm taking a step back. I have to clear the brain. Or if I'm hitting off the machine it's like no I'm not swinging at this pitch. I'm stepping out because I didn't clear my thoughts. And so I I mean I practice it every single day. >> Do you also practice it off the field like with meditation or breath work at all? Just like getting quiet with yourself. >> Yeah. I mean meditation is a big part of what I do. It's my like red light sauna routine is when I go in there and I just breathe and I try to just focus on my breathing and then it gets frustrating because then my mind's all over the place. And um but that's the part that's the process, right? Like there's no such thing as perfect with any of it. Like you're gonna you're gonna think you're gonna want to try and control everything. and you're going to you I call it white knuckling. You're going to grab hold and you just want to never let go. But the moment that you do, you'll find that freedom. And for me, it's like the inner game attendance, just getting into that flow state. And the only way to do that is to turn the whole brain off. >> Yeah. I think so many times guys when they get when they're new to meditation, they think that they're going to like become a monk instantly and there's no thoughts, you know, where really when you're meditating, it's about, hey, my thoughts wander. Can I bring it back? Can I bring it back? Talk about the difference in your evolution as somebody who has a meditation practice from it's got to be perfect and no thoughts monk mode to no I'm going to have my mind bounce to different things but I that's the goal is to bring it back. Talk about sort of that transition for you. >> I will probably say I've never had a meditation where I was perfect ever because my mind wants to go to all different places like it's not just about baseball. It's not just about, you know, the podcast that I listen to that day or the book I'm reading or whatever it is. Like, it's always bouncing around to just random stuff, but it's again detaching from it and being like, you know what, it's okay that my brain wandered. >> Can I bring it back to the present moment and just focus on my breath? >> Because that's what baseball requires you. >> That's exactly what you do. your focus when you're in your spot and then can you >> take a step back see what's going on around the field and then you're right back into that focus because I mean the pitch is what three seconds 5 seconds so it's like in out constantly so like when your brain's doing that in meditation it's almost like the es and flows of the game >> so good present not perfect focus on what's coming next what's now talk about your approach getting into the box like from walking from the on deck circle until you see that first pitch of an at bat what are you doing and why Shoot, I'm grabbing the barrel with my right hand. Um, that's something from the Pride videos a long time ago. But it's just feeling big. I want to have big body language, big body posture. Walk across the plate. I want to step on the plate with my right foot, walk across the box. I mean, sometimes you come from the other dugout, right? And you can't control that. But, um, get the signs or whatever. And now I'm going to start digging in. Um, dig in a little bit, but then I step back out and I've been calling it my rectangle. It's my rectangle where I don't want to think, but when I'm outside of that rectangle, I can I can have my little self dialogue. I can have my thoughts and um like right now my thoughts in the box are I want to be two balls above it. I want to swing down and I want to see contact and that's just kind of what's helped me throughout the offseason kind of get the the swing feel that I want. Um so that's all outside the box. I look at the six on my bat. Um in my model, the JJ6 model, there's a little six. I look at that. That's my focal point and I take my big deep breath and I want to feel the breath because that means I'm in the present moment. And then when I get into the box is try to just eliminate all the thoughts. I call it noise. Eliminate the noise. And then just dance with the pitcher. >> That's so good, man. And then once you're in there and you see that next pitch, bang, it's ball one. You see it, not your pitch. You take it. You win that pitch. What's it look like between that moment and the next pitch? >> So if I'm in my green light, I'm just redigging, taking my breath as I dig, and now it's right back on the pitcher. Because with the with the pitch clock, if I try to step out and kind of do it all over again, I get a little rushed. Yeah. So that's the big thing. I've been fighting since the pitch clock. So for it's just red dig, deep breath, get just right back on the pitcher. I don't want him waiting on me. I want him to feel like I'm waiting on him to come to me. >> Yeah, you're playing offense. You're ready before he is. >> And then if we get into a a a yellow red light where the brain won't turn off, I'm kind of panicking a little bit. He's pitching me. I did the way I didn't expect or whatever. I use my timeout, step out, you know, readjust the batting glove, throw some dirt, and then it's kind of restart. Big deep breath on the focal point. Dig back in. Now let's go. >> So good. And what what he's talking about there, right, is the focal point looking at the six on your JJ6 model bat. I look at that focal point. I take a breath. If I take that breath on my focal point and I'm in control of myself, I can be in control of my performance. As Ken Revisa, heads up baseball, which you've probably read 30 times, right, would say, you have to be in control of yourself before you can control your performance. And looking at that six focal point on your bat, whatever it is, Evan Longoria used to go left field follow pole that says I'm in control. You get into yellow lights or red lights, right? Use the analogy of a signal like green means I'm in control. Yellow I'm losing control. Red I've lost control. You go to your three steps. Physical action, batting gloves, grab dirt, throw it, take another deep breath to release that. And then you're back on your focal point of pre- pitch JJ6 and in the box. Um the way you describe that so fast, right? It sounds so easy. How long have you been working on that whole routine? >> Forever. And it's still not perfect, but I mean I've been working on it forever. >> Forever. Since like junior high school. >> Yeah. Since I was 11 years old. And you're how old now? >> 28. >> So that's what 17 years you've been working on the mental game. >> Yep. >> 17 years you've been working on the mental game and you're still into it. How is it some players go, "Oh, I got it." They read a book, I got it. They do one year of mental performance coaching. I got it. And you're in it 17 years now. How do Why do you stay in it and still work with a mental performance coach, still read books, still do that? >> I mean, some people like great, like they did it, great. But for me, I know that there's no finish line. And so, you can always get a little bit better. And for me, it it's like the awareness part, right? Like, I've done so much. You always bring me back to just little bitty things that I hadn't thought about in forever, and it clicks right away. But it's just the awareness and the attention to detail for me. Um, in the game, routine, etc. that just keeps me going. Like, I just love dulging in that routine every day. M well thing is your life evolves too, right? I mean, there's a little bit a little bit different lifestyle, a little bit different pressure on you now than maybe there was when you were a freshman at Texas Tech, you know? I mean, a little bit more expectation, a little bit more on the line. So, being able to continue to build the skills that you need for the level that you're at, that's also, I think, something that that it's just like training your body, just like training your swing. You know, you don't go, "Oh, I got it. I was an all-star. I don't need to go to the cage anymore." >> I mean, the crazy thing is like when I say I got it, that's when the struggles happen. Amen. because you get out of it. And last year I was optioned right in the middle of the season. And >> it was like, no, it's not a time to disengage. It's a time to re-engage. It's time to kind of go overboard with the middle game because now you're dealing with more nonsense that you don't want to happen. But that's kind of just what happens in this game. >> It's out of your control. And it's like, we don't need a recreation. I remember specifically having this conversation, right? We don't need a recreation. We need a recommitment. And the recommitment back to simple, fundamental, controllable, one pitch at a time. Be like water. >> Yep. You know, you mentioned earlier though, ego is the enemy and ego gets in the way. I know you're a huge Ryan Holiday fan. One of my favorite podcasts I've ever listened to was when you were ripping it with him. Talk about some of Ryan Holidayiday's work and how that's impacted you from like a stoic philosophy standpoint. >> It's crazy because the more you like you look at stoicism and you think, oh, it's emotionless, but it's like no, no, no, no. Stoicism is just the awareness of your daily actions, which is what you bring to on your daily routine, daily basis. So, um, yeah, I love reading [clears throat] Ryan Holidayiday stuff. I've got a little bit of a personal connection with him that I can bounce ideas off of. He actually gave me the inner book of tennis um last last February. But um but yeah, it the philosophy it just it helps me develop kind of new thoughts and >> it just helps me see things in a different light and truly that's kind of what it is because the obstacles the way was the first book he wrote and it was of the series of the stoic series and it was incredible because no matter what your goals are like there's something trying to impede you from getting to that goal whether it's yourself whether it's a pitcher whe whatever it is and it's like how can I get through you because going around you isn't an option. I want to go through you because ultimately to dethrone somebody, right? You have to take over. Um so yeah, that's just kind of the mentality, but ego is the enemy coming from the end of game of tennis. Plus with Ryan Holidayiday talking to him about it a little bit, it's your ego wants to control everything. It wants to give um a definition or it wants to um be emotional about results. And when you're emotional about results, that's when you start riding that roller coaster. But if you look at each pitch as an independent um outcome, you always say one pitch at a time. It's like every it doesn't matter. I don't care if it's 2- two. No, no, it's the next pitch. I don't care if I'm 0 for 25 with 25 strikeouts. No, no, no. It's the next pitch because the next pitch is the only thing that I can compete with and control. Can't control the past. Can't control the future. I can only control what I do right now. >> Well, every pitch has a life and history of its own. It's like Kurt Signetti, the football coach in Indiana talking about every play in football has a life and history of its own that he picked up from Nick Sabin when he was there in 2010. And it's the same thing in baseball. It's like that pitch just happened whether it was a minute ago or a month ago, it's over. What are you doing now? And how quickly from your meditation practice to tie this back full circle. How quickly can I get back to the present moment? >> Talk about the importance of present moment focus for a baseball player. >> I mean, it's everything, right? again like you're you're in either in the box or for me playing defense and it's like you have that 3 to 5 seconds where the pitch is coming and it's like take a step back >> and then you know the pitch clock's doing whatever and it's like I'm back in but now I'm back out and I'm back in and it's being able to do that consistently you know for however long the game is three hours or whatever let's say you're on defense for 170 pitches that night whatever it is like being able to do that consistently >> and staying into it >> like you're not just there playing the you're into the game. You're getting after it every single pitch. Um, but that's what my meditation practice helps with that because your mind is going to wander and it's like, "No, no, no, bring it back. Real back in." >> And having those like we call it action between the action, like there's something going on between each pitch. So, whatever your kind of routine is, whether it's like you look around to just let the let the mind relax for a second or whatever, whatever it is. And now with the pitchcom, you know when the pitch is called. >> So, I mean, there's a lot of different things you can do there. But for a long time, I wanted to like take a breath and kind of scan, just scan kind of the field or the stands or whatever. And then you hear that pitch and it's like boom, right back into this little circle. And then it's like, nope, right back out. Take a deep breath, relax, see what's going on, and boom, right back into it. Or in the box, kind of same thing. >> You talk about that circle. You say the circle, right? The circle of focus defensively. We saw we talk so much here with baseball players about the pre- pitch routine. You know, whether it's Cole Reagan's talking about his pre- pitch routine, get one going on the mound or Corbin Burns or you or Bobby Whit talking about pre- pitch routine, getting in the box. We don't put enough emphasis on the defensive routine. You mentioned the circle. Take us to if we're watching you play defense, there's a pitch. What's it like between that and the next pitch for you? >> Well, I try to get off the mark. Like I'm trying to anticipate. So, like we do a bunch of stuff pregame, so you kind of know tendencies of of hitters. Um, specifically per pitch type. Let's say we have Evaldi on the mound, right? He's got a four seam. Um, he's got the big splitter. A lot of guys are going to yank that splitter. So, I hear splitter in the headset. It's like, all right, I know that this specific hitter likes to yank yank change ups or splitters. So, I'm going to anticipate to my right, but I also know that my shorts stop's going to do the same thing. So he kind of covers me. If I'm a step this way, he's a step this way also. Um or a fast ball, right? Like I can anticipate the six hole. So like a bunch of um >> stuff goes into it pregame to then prepare me for the game. So um so that basically what you would see is like boom, pitch is made. I'm kind of moving like here's a splitter. Boom. Kind of to my right a little bit. Now you'll see me do like a little half circle and that's my like getting out of the circle. And then I'll put my feet where I want them, back in my position, and then I take that deep breath. Here we go again. Next pitch. >> Talk about using mental imagery and visualization, right? Whether it's whether it's after a game going back through the game or pregame in preparation of who you're going to face. How do you use visualization and mental imagery? >> That way I'm never surprised for something to happen that I like when I do it in real life, it's like the second or third time I've done it. That way when it happens, it's not just something that happened for the first time ever. Um, so like pitchers, I want to see their pitch shapes and I want to see me having success off of them. Um, you know, we're facing a righty's got a nasty slider. I want to see myself driving that slider into right center. He throws a fast ball in, I'm crushing it into left center. That way when I get into the game, it's like I've already got four, five, six at bats off this guy. And I and for me, you know, going on year four, I still haven't seen every pitcher in the league >> and new guys are getting called up all the time. So, there's a lot of guys that you've never ever really seen before. So, it's like, am I do I want to go into the game? >> I call it kind of naked, unprepared, or I want go do I want to go into the game and be prepared. I've mentally I've had it bats off this guy today. And the traject is what that machine's called where you can actually see the pitch shapes now, too. That helps too. And I I go in and track and you know I I see the pitch coming. I'm like, "Yes, that's a strike." I see it go by, but then I take like a little swing and it's like, "Yeah, I would have gotten to that one." And it's always that positive like reinforcement. It's never the ah dang it, I missed it. It's like, "Oh, just missed it." >> And that kind of goes into it. >> Concentration grids, something you've done for a long time. You still use those as a way of trying to lock in your focus pregame? >> Oh, yeah. I use concentration grids all the time. 6x6. I try to do it another 20 seconds. >> Nice. Why 20 seconds? >> Cuz that's pretty much what the pitch clock is, right? It's either 15 or I guess 17 or 18 or whatever it is. So 20 seconds is kind of the where you kind of got to lock in for that amount of time >> for pitch. So instead of doing a 10 x 10 that might take you five minutes, you're doing a 20 a 6x6. It takes you 20 seconds and you're probably doing what sets of like five or eight because you're probably going to see that many pitches in an app bat. Yeah. Trying to simulate the focus that you need for that. >> I do three to five right before I go take the field. >> Nice. Um, I do my uh mental imagery video. I do my highlight tape and then while I'm listening, watching my highlight tape on my phone, I have my iPad doing my concentration grid. And I try to do three to five. If I do three in a row where I beat the time every time, done. I'm good. >> Now, if my mind's wandering and I'm not beating it, that's when I'll get to five. >> But I kind of cap it at five because I don't want to like overdo it before I go >> Love that. What about journaling? Is that something that you've doing kind of like pregame, postgame, breaking down at bats or setting an intention going into the game? What's that look like for you? >> Yeah, it's just breaking down postgame kind of what I'm feeling, what I saw, what I felt. Um, a lot of it's based on kind of what the pitcher did, like what did the pitch shapes look like to me. Yeah. >> That way I can kind of see later, especially in division. Like those are the most important because you're going to see those guys, you know, 13 times this year. So you might see a starter three times. >> Yeah. So, it's like, yeah, I kind of want to know what those pitch, but also too, like being honest with myself, like, man, I really wasn't seeing it great today. So, I got to kind of mark that, too, because when you're seeing it great and everything's going good, you're nasty. >> Sometimes when you get into grind mode because you're not seeing it as good. Like, that's just the game. Like, you're going to go through those es and flows, but doing all my routines pregame kind of helps those es and flows kind of level out so it's not as drastic down the roller coaster. You I know you mentioned this earlier when we were talking about the the hitting routine and you said >> two balls above C contact, right? You talked about your three keys. You didn't frame it in saying three keys, but when we talk about your three keys to keep it simple at the plate, what are they and why do you do that? >> Okay. Yeah. My three keys are two balls above it. So when I'm when I see the pitch coming in, in my head I'm telling myself I want to swing two balls above it. That kind of keeps me above the ball. Um my issue I get too vertical bat path and I miss or I like make an adjustment but no I just want to stay above the ball and I want to backspin it. So in my mind thinking two balls above it helps me kind of stay above it posture-wise instead of breaking posture. Um swing [clears throat] down is the other one. So those kind of go hand in hand. Swing down is just for me it probably my swing probably doesn't look like a swing down but I'm telling myself that to make sure I stay tight. I don't want to be all loose. I want to stay tight and swing down. on. And then my last one's seed off the bat. >> Um, for me, I feel like I lose my gaze out in front a lot, specifically when I'm trying to trying to force results instead of letting my my eyes kind of track it all the way to the plate and see it off the bat because I mean, pitchers are so good with tunneling now that I mean, that last 10 feet is massive from hitting it on the sweet spot or hitting off the end or getting jammed. So, if you missed that last 10 feet because you kept your gaze out front, um I mean that that's pretty vital. And I know it's probably really hard to do. Seeing contact is almost impossible, but for me it helps me in a thought specifically in the cage or BP um to really just feel that like I want to boom kind of drop my eyes on the barrel as I'm making my move. >> Want to shift into motivation for a second, right? Obviously, when you're in high school, it's to get to division one college baseball. While you're in college baseball, it's to get to Omaha. It's to play for the national team. It's to be a first round pick, which you did. Then in the minor leagues, it's to get to the big leagues. In the big leagues, it's to be an all-star. It's to win a World Series. You've done all that. What motivates you today? >> Do it again. Why not? Honestly, and then it's just like, good. Okay, you had a you had a rough season. Good. Let's get after it. We talked about re-engaging. We talked about recommitting. >> Getting obsessed again with the game. Good. Let's do it every single day, no matter what. Love that. Last question for you. If you could remove the skull cap of everybody listening to this, all the players listening to this from little league to the big leagues, and you could plant one seed in their brain that would germinate around the mental game, what would that one seed be of Josh Young that they could take with them? Just stay obsessed, love the game, love the routine. Because when things aren't going well and you stick to that routine, you can still lay your head down at night and said, "I did everything I possibly could. It didn't go my way tonight, but tomorrow it will." Josh Young, repeat guest. Thanks for being here, brother. Appreciate you.