 brodybrax, fired up to have you on the Men's Performance Mastery Podcast, brother. Let's get it, baby. Thanks for having me. Yeah, absolutely. Fired up. Couldn't be more excited to have you here. Take us back, man. Talk to us about your journey into the mental game. Where did it all begin for you? Yeah, I would say it began for me, like really began for me halfway through my draft year, this past year, when I reached out to you and first started working with you. Like, I'd been, I'd been met with, meeting with our like team psychologist, and like just some basic visualization and stuff like that, but it was more so like, I don't know, like mental health, I would say, like just, you know, how's your, how's the year going? How's your week going? How's the day going? Whatever. But like with you, like it's mental performance, right? So it's, it's so much more detailed and about like excelling on the field, like not, you know, just off the field. Like, you know, how's the week going? How's school going? That type of stuff. Like it was really just dialing in how we can be our best self and then perform to the best of our ability. And I mean, you know, it changed, you know, of course in my year last year, so it was awesome. So 2024, right? You, the Colorado Rockies take you in the collective bargaining agreement over 38th pick overall, essentially first round pick of the Colorado Rockies, right? And you're at the University of Iowa and you go into the season, you had played for Team USA, you're going into the season as a projected top 10 pick, a lot of pressure, a lot of expectation going in. And then I think it was, I don't know, maybe with seven weeks or so left in the season. So let's say about halfway through the big 10 conference season at the University of Iowa, we get connected. How did that all happen? If you go back, like how did it, how did we get connected and what made you say, OK, I want to do this now? Yeah. So, I mean, going into that first, or going into that season, like December, January, like I was, I mean, I was dialed in, like I was throwing the best pens I've thrown, you know, going into the season. I felt like I was ready to go and like, all right, here we go. This is the year we're going. We're going crazy, like you said, top 10 pick, whatever. But I think I got, I got carried up in, you know, the expectations of others outside noise. And so I felt a lot of pressure, you know, I was trying to control things that I can't control. You know, we talk about, you know, the fans expectations of others, like I can't control that. The only thing I can control is, you know, the execution of a pitch and I didn't realize it at that point. So for me, it was, it was, you know, I started, you know, the year I started pretty good. But then, you know, I kind of, I really got into like a, you know, slump for, you know, about five weeks where I was just mentally all over the place. I was like, did I'm not like, my mind was on draft stock. My mind was on, you know, what's everybody saying about me on social media? Like my mind was just on all the wrong things. And like you said, I think it was, you know, halfway through May, you know, we started to work or halfway through April, we started working together. And my mind was pretty much just like, all right, the seasons obviously hasn't gone the way we've wanted it to. Like how can we take things in our own hands? How can we, you know, put ourselves in the best position just to finish out the season, just have fun. Like I was not having fun at that point. So how can we just have fun the rest of the year? And so I'd been listening to your podcast for probably about a year now. One of the teammates got me on it. And I was like, and literally like that the first week, the week before I started texting you at the end of the podcast, it was like, if you want to start working together, like, you know, like, here's my email, here's all this stuff. And I was like, you know what, like, let's do it. Man, let's send it, let's just see what happens. Worst thing that happens, I don't like it. We stop, right? But at least we, at least we try it. I mean, it was just crazy. Like I think that first week we met for, you know, four days in a row and we got everything dialed in that first week. Like I'd gone seven innings twice. My first three years, you know, I was at Iowa and ever since we met together, I think I went seven innings four times in a row. Like it was just, I was just so much more dialed in on my process, things I can control. Like, like deleted, you know, Twitter. So I wasn't, you know, going on it and looking at what people were saying about me. Like I was totally focused on my process, the execution of a pitch and it just changed my whole season. I mean, let's go further into some of the things that you feel like you do that are your mental game, right? So that's April. We're now recording this as you're heading into your first spring training. It's February. It's what we call it on here, Waste Management Sunday, Aka Super Bowl Sunday, you know, being a guy that played football and baseball at Iowa, which we'll get into. But you're going to go into your first season of spring training. So it's only been, it's been 10 months since you've been in a mental game. Yeah. And your understanding and your application of the mental game in anyone I've ever worked with. And this includes a George St. Pierre and a Bobby Wood Jr. and a Corbin Burns is as on point as anyone I've ever worked with. And what are the things that you feel like you do that are the mental game? Like what is the mental game now, Therbrodi Brecht? Yeah, I mean, for me, for me, the biggest thing that's helped me is just my success checklist, you know, Habit Share. We talk about that, right? And it really, it does three things for me. Really want to keep me accountable, right? I have all my habits shared with you so you can go in and see, you know, as buddy staying up late, is he not doing his mental imagery, is he not doing his concentration grids, all this stuff. So it keeps me accountable to it. It's all things I can control. Like it gives me motivation. So like I go in after my end routine and I see all this green and it carries me throughout the day. It's like, dude, I want to keep going. I want to keep stacking, you know, the day is keeping, you know, I just want to keep checking the, you know, the green box. Right? That's all I want to do. So it gives me accountability, motivation. And then another big thing is, you know, especially once again, the season confidence when I go through, when I'm going through my mental performance routine, my shadow pens, all that stuff. I see like, dude, I did all this throughout the week. I've, you know, I've done shadow pens for, you know, four straight innings of this team that we're going against. Right? Like I'm, like I'm dialed in. Like I feel like I've already handled, you know, all the adversity I can handle, right? Just, you know, on a shadow pen, like it's just so it gives me confidence going into the game. Like, hey, I'm, I've done, like I've already faced you five times in my head, right? Like, like there's no way you're winning. Like I'm going out there and I'm dominating. And so I think the success checklist has been really big. And then, you know, just a mental imagery, like just, you know, that ball of meditation, you know, breathe affirmations, looking back and looking forward, like that's just, it's just been something really big for me. Like, you know, we go through and you talk about, you know, just your affirmations that you repeat yourself. You know, I, you know, I tell myself my, you know, three keys to keep it simple out there has been, has been really big for me. Looking back at your, you know, past success and just bringing that to where you're going. You know, the next time you're throwing and, you know, I just, that my movie has been very good too. Like just seeing yourself, you know, just like, like every single time I watch my my movie, like I'm faking throwing that pitch too. So it's like a, you know, slider outside corner. Like I'm like, when I see it out of my hand, I'm like, like I do it physically with my hand, just, you know, correlate in mind and body. And so, I mean, there's just been so much that has helped me. I mean, those are the few that I think are, you know, the really big ones, but. Yeah. And we didn't even mention aura, Dexa, Macros, Chef Whitney calendar. Right. There's so many, so much stuff that we can get into, but I want to, you talked about shadow bullpens a lot there for the people that don't know. Brody, give us like, like, what is a shadow bullpen? How does it help you? How often are you doing it? Are you doing just like immaculate innings or you actually seen yourself handle adversity? Like really give us a, give us a masterclass on shadow bullpen. So I really started to get like, I'd always done like a little bit of like visualization, like just, all right. You know, I'm going to get on the mountain. I'm going to, you know, I'm going to throw, you know, three pitches here, like the first guy that needs striking out, whatever. But then I listened to, you know, execution podcasts or just that chapter, that book, and he talks about it. And then you podcast with Corbin Burns. You did. And just like the detail he goes into it. So that's when I really started to apply shadow bullpens. And like you said, you don't always want to just do the good out there. So you don't, you don't go up there. You face three badders. You throw nine pitches and you're out of there. Right. Like that's, that's almost never going to happen. So for me, it's like, all right, I'm going to practice my pre-pitch routine first and foremost. Like I'm going to do everything. Harvey Dorfman talks about it and, you know, heads up baseball or Kendra Vizs, who talks about it, heads up baseball. He always says, you know, make a practice just like a game. So in a game, you can make it just like practice. And so like when I'm doing my shadow pens, you know, I'm doing everything. I'm getting catching the ball back from third base, doing my pre-pitch routine, pre-battery routine, getting on it. And then, you know, yeah, for the first one, you know, I might do a four pitch strikeout, get the confidence rolling. All right. But then, all right, I'm, I'm behind two. I want a guy, I got to reset, got to wipe the rubber off, do a deep breath. Like you got to practice adversity because if you don't practice the adversity, you know, if you're only practicing the good stuff in a game, what happens when adversity? It's what happens when you walk a guy, you give up a home run. Are you going to tumble or are you going to be able to lock it back in? So I think you got to practice the good and the bad. So with the shadow bullpen, you're actually, are you doing this a sit down visualization or are you actually doing it on a mound, going through the routine? No, I'm doing it on a mound. Like I'm practicing everything that I would do. Like I'm picking out my focal points. I'm wiping away the rubber when I need to reset and I get behind, you know, I'm going through my pitching motion and it's just really good because your body can only, your arm can only physically throw so many baseballs, right? Like you can't, you can't throw 100 baseballs every day. Your arms going to give out, right? So like you can, your mind, it doesn't differentiate between, you know, what's real and what's in your mind. So you can throw as many fake pitches as you, as you want to on a shadow pen. So, you know, I, every day I'm not throwing an actual pen or any game. Like I'm, you know, I'm trying to do 20, 25 pitches, just, you know, go through an ending, go through two endings, you know, just see what's, what's happening, what's working, how I'm attack this guy. And so yeah, it's, it's, it's really good. You know, for the mental performance coaches that are listening to this, if they're thinking, okay, well, how do I structure shadow bullpens into a pitcher's routine? So let's say you're a major league pitcher, you're on a five day routine, right? Day one is the day after you throw. So day one, you would do a shadow of the day, the game from the day before, and you'd reinforce what you did well and re-correct. Like if you hung a slider and got hit for a double, you'd throw the hung slider and then go back and bang the slider to get the swing and miss that you're looking for. Exactly. Day two, you're throwing a bullpen and you may not shadow that day. Day three would probably be a shadow related to the team that you're going to be facing on day five. So day three, you've kind of done your scouting report. Let's say you're pitching against the Yankees and you're going to go, all right, today I'm going to go shadow either one through nine. If I see them all, a couple pitches, what they look like, or I'm going to go one through five and the next day I'm going to do six through nine. But there's a specific purpose to what we're doing with the shadows and you're working on the different pitching routines, the pre-batter, the pre-pitch, the red yellow light release. Walk us through those three things. So if we're watching you pitch this year, what's your pre-batter routine? Yeah. So my pre-batter routine, you know, so I'm getting the ball, or so I get the ball from, like this is my, like my pre-inning, like first, first batter, the inning, like I'm getting the ball from the third baseman. I do my sign, you know, to God, and I make a cross on the back of the rubber. Take a deep breath to focus myself and I'm ready to go. A batter walks in, I take a deep breath on the line, like the wire above home plate. And, you know, I mean, that's kind of like my, you know, pre-batter routine. And then my pre-pitch routine. Well, before you go there, what does that breath do for you on the wire? Why do you think that breath? It just gets me focused, right? Like on a focal point, right? So like intent and action. So like what I'm getting to next is like my, my three keys are CSA, breathe and let it rip. So you want to have, you know, a breath, you know, on a focal point in words with association, like in a physical action, right? So, you know, for me, that just, that breath, it just keeps me centered and focused. Like it's like, all right, let me be present. I'm here. My mind's not on the fans. My mind's not on, you know, I, you know, the last warm up pitch I threw was a ball. Like my mind's not focused on that. Like my mind is right here right now. We're attacking this guy and we're going to execute this pitch. So it just keeps me focused. So you hit that breath on the wire, pre-batter routine. Now you step on the rubber, take us through the pre-pitch routine. So my three keys are CSA, breathe and let it rip. So, you know, when I, when I'm on the mound, like I'm not getting on the mound until I'm ready. Like I have the pitch that I know I'm throwing. I get on the mound. I'm staring at the catcher's glove. Like I'm seeing myself hit that pitch, visualizing, like sometimes like I'll even envision like it in reverse order. So like the gloves there and then it comes up, comes back up into my arm. So I just visualize that, you know, I, you know, I say it. So I'm like, all right, all right, fastball in one spot, slider down. Like, like, I'll just like, like just say it in my mind and then let it rip. It's just my like sign to just like, just trust it, like fully, fully commit to it. Have total conviction. I can't revisit. He always says the wrong pitch, the total conviction is better than the right pitch thrown without. And so just, just dialing in, like, you know, whether I'm, you know, I'm throwing just, you know, a fastball slide or whatever it is, even if it's like the wrong pitch per se, like I'm totally, I'm committing to it. Right. And I have total belief I'm going to execute the pitch and the rest is going to happen. I'm going to control what I can control. So that's my, my pre-pitch and then, you know, my reset routine. Yep. I kind of have two. So one is like, you know, if I get behind one, oh, two, oh, whatever. Yeah, I'll like, yeah, just, I'll just wipe the rubber, get back on the, get back. I'll wipe the rubber, get back on. So you'd say, breathe, let it rip. If I need a big one, I just walk a guy, I gave up a home run, might get off the mound a little bit, take that deep breath on the focal point again, say my keys. And I'm right back on it. So I kind of got two, one, because one, I mean, we only got so much time, right? With the, with the pitch clock and stuff. So, you know, one is if I need a bigger reset, like I said, like I'm, you know, I'm stepping off and gathering myself a little bit more. But if I'm, you know, just fell behind a pitch or two, you know, just wipe the rubber, get back on and attack. So if you break that down, right? For our, our, our pitchers, our baseball coaches, our mental performance coaches that are listening to this, the yellow light release is I catch the ball, I swipe the rubber and I'm back on and that swipe the rubber is a physical action that I make with an association that I'm letting go of that last pitch. And my red light release would basically be doing my pre-batter routine again, within the middle of the app. At right. So I go, I go to, I give up a hit to, whatever it is. I'm going to red light step off behind the rubber. Maybe I swipe, I rub up the ball, I look at the wire, take a breath, I get back on. It's too well and I'm treating it like it's. Exactly. Exactly. Man. So we talked about shadow bullpens practice in the pre-batter, pre-pitch in the, in the radio light release. You talked about the ball meditation of mental imagery, breathe, affirm, look back, look forward. Now we've created audios for you to be able to rip through that, right? So do you always do it with the audio? Do you ever do it on your own? Without the audio? I mean, yeah, like, I mean, just before, like a game, like just before games, like, you know, when I'm stretching, like, and I just listen to music, like, I don't know, like for me, like whatever, like if I'm rolling out on a specific, like I'm like envisioning, like, all right, this muscles activating during this, like where I'm at in my pitch, like, I don't know, like just throughout the day, like I'll just envision, like, all right, like, you know, I'm just do a batter today, like I'm going to just go through it in my mind, like how I'm attack. But I mean, most of the time I do do it with the, you know, with the audio, but there's, there's times throughout the day, for sure, where I'll just, you know, like, all right, let's, let's feel this fastball. It's, you know, I want to think about getting on top of the slider real quick. So where does that audio fit in the routine? Now, is it like when you were back at Iowa, did it fit in something you do? Like in the morning, would you do it at the field before you'd start getting ready to go? Would you do it like last thing before you go out to start throwing before a game? How did that fit into your like routine over the course of a week? Let's say. Yeah. So I was, so in, in season, I would do it, you know, at the field. So if it was, it was part of like my activation routine, like it was the, it was the first thing like that was kind of my, you know, Clark Kent, a Superman. Yeah. Mental activation. Yeah. It's kind of like when I turned into a ball player, right? So like that was like the first thing I did, getting me present and locked in. And then like before the game, I would do it closer to when I would, you know, throw, like if I was pitching that day, I'd do closer to like, I would, you know, warm up a little bit, you know, get the heart rate up. And then that would kind of be like my center, like let's get focused again, calm the breath down. So I would do it kind of right before I went outside and started playing catch. And then out of season, you know, I would switch to MVP process and I would do that as my PM routine, kind of just, you know, looking back on how did I do this throughout the day? You know, did I live my, you know, core principles throughout the day? You know, or if not, you know, visualizing doing it tomorrow. So, but yeah, I'd definitely say, you know, I mean, I'm ripping it every day. Like it's, it's just super important to me. So you mentioned MVP process unpacked out for people. What is the MVP process? So your MVP process is, you know, mission, vision and core principles, right? So your mission, you know, for me is I live my life and I'm, you know, I live my life in the line with Christ. And my mission is to show love through faith, hard work, how I live my life and what I do, right? And so that's my mission. My vision is, you know, pretty much like what you want, like, what does this look like? Like how do you want to accomplish, like all these things you want to accomplish, right? Like your vision board almost. And then your principles, you know, for me as Christ, you know, confidence, honesty, resilient, intentional, selfless and trust. And then you have meanings for each of those that, you know, for me, confidence is belief myself, my process, honesty is doing what I say we'll do. Resiliency is not dead, can't quit. Intentional, intentional is closing the gap of where I am going to be selfless, the best version of me. So I can be my best version for others and trust is doing my part of the process and trusting God's play in the outcome. So for me, it's just, am I living my life in alignment with those? Like that's my definition of success. Am I living my, if I live in my life in alignment with those core principles. And so when I do my process before I go to bed, like when I'm listening to that, it's just like, all right, today did I do these? I live by these core principles and it's, you know, an accountability check, but it's also, it's like, all right, yeah, I did. So I mean, we won today, right? Yeah, man. So I mean, bro, so much in there, man. This is phenomenal. I'm talking about winning the day that I win the day in alignment with my definition of success. You have your core principles, you have your definition of your core principles, you know your mission. I mean, you're just saying these things like it's no big deal, right? How are you so top of mind aware of what these are, like your mission, your vision, your principles, your definitions, your definition of success, right? You talk about your three keys to keep it simple. How are you so aware of those things like you would be your birthday? Yeah, I mean, I think the biggest thing is, you know, you always say, like do a little lot, not a lot of little, right? Like it's just repeated repetition or space repetition, right? And so like for me, like we're doing, you know, the 30 day we're doing the 10 pillars or we're doing, you know, mental ABC is a pitching, right? Like I'm hitting just simple things every single day. And I'm just saying, like, like you said, like we got 86,400 seconds in the day, right? So time is the only thing we're all the same. The difference is how we use it. And so I mean, just like we all got free time, like I'm spending like it. So my sleep block is usually, you know, 10 hours, right? And then I'm working out for, you know, four hours treatment for probably, you know, hour, two hours, you know, so how else am I spending the other eight hours, right? And it's like, you know, I'm diving into my mental game, right? Like I'm, I'm doing, you know, all my visualization, I'm reading, you know, heroic book of the week, like I'm doing this stuff, like just hitting on it to just keep it, you know, just, just fresh in my mind. Like so, you know, on your 30 day, right? Like, you know, some people will just, you know, go through it once, but then they forget everything, right? But then it's 30 days, right? There's, you know, 30 days in about every month. So just one day, hit day one again, day two, hit day two, like just keep continue to go through it and do a little lot of the compound effect. And now it's like just engraved into my memory almost. So, so good. I mean, that's the system, right? You're trying to my 30 day program. You go through it once, you watch the videos, you read that, you read the training manual, you take your notes, you put them on your calendar. So today, I didn't know what today, today's February 9th. So at the time we're recording this, so you look today at day nine of the 30 day program and go, do I know what this is? Am I doing that? Exactly. We also do the same thing with the 10 pillars program and put your 10 pillars notes on your calendar that repeats every 10 days. So you look today at pillar nine leadership. Am I doing this? Do I know what this is? And then the ABCs of pitching by Harvey Dorfman, there's 80 chapters. So you have put on 80 day rotation. So you're just looking at the cliff notes every day on your calendar. Right? And you also mentioned the 86,400 seconds in a day, your sleep block, your AMPM routine, and you just rip through your day like again, it's so intentional. Talk to me about when you started using Google Calendar and time blocking and the difference that's made for you. Yeah. So when we first started using Google Calendar was, I mean, right when we started working together, like it was, it was just planning on my day, like being, you know, where I needed to be when I needed to be there. And it wasn't as detailed as it was now. Like it was just like, all right, I'm, you know, I'm going to bed at this time. I got practice at the time class at this time. Right? Like that was pretty much it, which still made night and day difference of where I was at. Like I was just kind of winging it through the day, like was not intentional with my time at all. But like now you go through my Google Calendar, like the whole day has a block on it. And even if it's just a chill block, right? Like it's like, all right, this is my time to be chill. This is what I'm supposed to be present, right? And I think that's the biggest thing is like, all right, this time, this block, whether it's my workout routine, all right, so I'm going to be present during this workout. And I can be thinking about, you know, the game tonight, or I'm not going to be thinking about, you know, watching a movie tonight or, you know, playing video games late, like I'm totally focused during this workout. And then when I get home, all right, my treatment block, all right, so I need to go to, you know, go do my red light, go do my cryo therapy, whatever it is, like I'm present doing this recovery. And then if it's just a chill, all right, let's, let's just chill, you know, we don't watch a movie, play video games, whatever it is, like at least my, I'm intentional with my time. And I know like this is my designated time to rest. And then as soon as the PM routine hits, all right, let's start winding down and getting ready to sleep. Then am routine in the morning, and you're ready to go. Like it's just stacking days. It's just stacking days, exactly. Compound effect. Like you just dominate the day. You talk about stacking days. What does that mean to you? Right? Like we've talked a lot about how do I put together a great offseason, right? And having a great offseason is literally just a compound effect of stacking days on top of days. What does it mean to you stack days? For me, it's just, you know, it's breaking the rock, you know, some I will tell that we always have the rock in our, in the weight room whenever we would lift, right? And it's like the rock hammers pledge. So it's like, you know, when I'm pounding away at the rock, and I break it on the hundred and first try, I don't think that was the time that did it. It was the hundred that came before it, right? And so we think when we think about growth, we think about success. It's very rarely it's overnight, right? Everything's a compound effect. It's it's exponential growth, right? Like so it's very little, very little. And then it's and then you hit it, right? And everybody thinks it's overnight success, but it's like they didn't see the continued bricks being stacked before it. And so I think stacking days is just like, like, you're not like every like, one of the books in the heroic talks about like having good bad days, right? Like you're going to have, you know, a bad day where you know, you weren't on it, you know, you, you know, you slacked off, you stayed up late, like we're all human, right? But then like being able to recognize that and dominate the next day, like don't make one turn into two, turn into four, right? So just continue to like just just win that day, be present in that time block, win that time block, move to the next one and just, you know, like you said, like it's like we're not I'm trying to think of the book. It talks about like the next light pole, right? Like when you if you're running a marathon, yes, Spartan up. Yes, yes, yes. Like if you're running a marathon, like it's very hard, like you're very hard for your mind to comprehend running, you know, 24 miles or whatever, right? But it's like your mind can handle a lot when you break it up into short pieces over time. So it's like, you know, when you're running like, All right, let me get to the next light pole, let me get to the next stop sign. And then you just continue to keep stacking it and stacking it. And so it's like, All right, let me, let me, let me, let me dominate this workout. All right, let me go dominate the recovery. Let me, you know, get through this day, we'll get like just take it, you know, one block at a time. And so, yeah, that's what I say for that. Yeah, man, shout out, Brian Johnson, the team at Heroic Joe DeSenne, the team at Spartan, you know, Brody, you're talking about some of those heroic books, not something that we've gotten into, you know, where, where there's a book of the week, you're reading it, you're listening to it. And then when we get on our weekly coaching call, that's part of what we break down. And you mentioned before we went on the air that you've read more in the last 10 months that you had since you were probably in fifth grade. Yeah. Talk first, talk about why have you started to read more? Yeah, I mean, it's just like, it's just continuing to take more and more information in and like learning from all these elite people. Right. And so like, like you said, like, I don't think I checked out a book once after fifth grade, like unless I had to for a book class that I just look up on Spark Nuts, right? So like, I mean, it's just for me, like, I just love taking information from elite people that have done elite things. Like right now I'm taking wisdom over bullfrog by Admiral McRaven, who's, you know, a four star admiral, you know, former Navy SEAL. So like, I'm just learning like, you know, just his views. And I'm taking all these things like, you know, right, like, I'm not going to memorize everything he says, but when I'm going through it, I'm underlining, you know, just things that hit me, things that resonate with me. And so when I read through it again sometime, I don't have to read the whole book, right? I just read the underlying sections I got. And so I think reading like it's something I never thought I would ever like get into almost as like a hobby, but it's just like, it's just something that like just eases me like at night, like I read it and it just, it calms me, gets my heart rate low, like I'm not looking at, you know, screens screens like screens before bed. So just it's just cool to like just hear, you know, what people have to say, like all these experiences that have been through and just, you know, hearing elite minds and just, you know, what are they doing that I can apply to my life? Yeah, I mean, I think that's the key with all this, right? If you're an athlete that's going to say, well, that might work for Brody. I'm not a guy that likes to read. Well, neither did he and neither did I until I came across heads up baseball and the book changed my life. And I have the author's face tattooed on my chest and you've mentioned him a bunch in Ken Revisah. So I think with reading, it's like when you're in academics and you're in high school and you're in college and you're reading books because you have to for class. There's a, there's a big difference between I'm reading because I have to and I'm reading because I want to, right? And I'm reading, I want to and I'm reading necessarily full books. I'm reading often six page book summaries that heroic and Brian Johnson does such an amazing job of synthesizing the big takeaways and the big ideas so that you as a professional athlete can take them and apply them. Exactly. Talk to me about just heroic and how you use that and the difference that that's made for you. Yeah, heroic has been awesome. Like you said, shout out, you know, Brian Johnson, like he's been, I mean, awesome. Like it's just, like just the fact that he's taken, I mean, how many, it's 1000. I mean, just, I mean, amazing books from the most elite human beings have ever walked on this earth, right? And he's just breaking that, you know, 200, 300 page book into six pages with the most important stuff. And so just being able to like pretty much read an elite book like that and, you know, 10 minutes, you know, and just underlining what's your key takeaways from that and just hitting one of those every day. Like I've probably read, you know, all the books and heroic, you know, probably, you know, five times by now by how many times I've gone through it, you know, and, you know, for me, if like a specific books or book hits me like a certain way, like I'm like, dude, I actually want to read that one like front to back. And that's what I do. Like I got a list of my phone right now of books and heroic that I actually want to read, you know, front to back. And so, you know, it's just, it's just super cool. Like it, I don't know. Like, like I said, like it gives me like motivation, like, all right, let me live this out because that's part of my aim routine. So it's like, all right, let me, let me live this out today, you know, sparring up, right? Like, you know, all right, let me make it to the next, you know, make it the next life. Exactly. And then, you know, and Dr. Rob Gilbert says, you know, I may not be able to do, you know, 10 or 10 reps, but I can do one rep 10 times, right? So like just, you know, taking it one thing at a time. Talked about Dr. Rob Gilbert. The man, baby. Just like you said, I mean, it's, it's just so easy. Like it's, you know, three, four minutes, like you get like on my way to the workout. Like I just like, I'll just listen to it, see what he's got to say. Like, I mean, he's been doing this for, I think today was 12,484. I don't know. Something like, I mean, he's been doing this for January 22nd, 1992. What year were you born? 10 years after that. Three minute messages for 10 years before you were born. Like, and it's just, it's just really good. Like, it's, like, it's just three and a half minutes of just pure wisdom, like just being dropped on you from a legend. And so, I mean, it's just really cool. Like just to hear that and just hear his experience, like he's done a lot. He's a fantastic, you know, professor and just, I mean, just his creativity. I mean, he's, the fact that he's come up with different, these many different messages for over 30 years is just, it's just crazy. And so, no, it's awesome. And if you look behind Brody here, you can see, like, there's some blue images up on the wall, you know, and what that is, is that's my wall of mentors. And on that wall of mentors is my mother, Declan Connolly, my professor at the University of Vermont, Harvey Dorfman, Ken Raviza, Rob Gilbert, my wife, Aaron is up there, other people up there as well. And when I look at those, it provides me that inspiration, you know, and when Brody's talking about Ken Raviza and Dr. Rob Gilbert, like this, this, it fires me up, man. So I, that, that's really, really exciting for me that you're just referencing those guys. And what success hotline is, is I first heard Dr. Gilbert in March 2006. And he's on stage in Vermont and I'm sitting there and my hand is cramping because I'm taking so, you know, so fast and just absolutely blown away at this rock star on stage. And at the end, he says, you know, hey, if you took notes today and you were inspired, raise your hand. If you thought today was, was impactful, maybe life changing, raise a hand. He says, well, I got news for you. Most people won't do anything without they learned in the day. But if you do a little, a lot, which you said earlier, you can change and you can grow. And he goes, so I put the other hotline called success hotline where if you call and listen for three minutes a day and I've done that since March of 2006, it's now 2025. So for almost 20 years, I've listened to success hotline most days of my life. And the majority of what I teach in mental performance has come from a Ken Raviza or Rob Gilbert. You know, I'm like a, like a historian on those guys and a researcher that's putting all that stuff together. So when you, you talk about, you know, success hotline, mental performance daily, you mentioned earlier in the podcast that you listened to my three minute podcast, which is a direct, you know, attempt at me to try a success hotline and try to continue to carry the torch, you know, like Dr. Gilbert does in mental performance, trying to synthesize and simplify. And when I asked him about doing that, he said, one of the things it does is it helps you speak succinctly and in, in like chunks so you can get a lot of information across quickly. Yeah. What, um, talk about mental performance daily for the person that's maybe listening to this podcast that doesn't listen to that. How do you use that podcast and one that I do every day? Yeah. I mean, it's part of my aim routine too. You know, and it's, I think it's cool because like when you do it, like it's, it's pretty much like what you're talking about with guys, right? It's like their experiences and, you know, just kind of what you're coaching. You always say, always be coaching, right? Like that. So for me, just like hitting that in the morning, just like, you know, just like that's, it's almost like that's my key for the day. Like, all right, let me do this, right? And so I think it's, it's, I mean, I've been listening to almost every day for less 550 days now. Like it's, and I got, take notes on it every day. Like, I'm like, all right, let me listen to it. You know, what's the title of it? And then the big takeaways, like it's just, I don't know, like you said, like just, you know, hearing you talk about here, Dr. Rob Gilbert reading her out, like it's just all these elite minds in the mental game coming to work. And it's just like me applying it to my life because, you know, you know, become the average of the five people you hang out with the most or the, you know, the five people you, you know, listen to the most, right? So, you know, I think when you're just taking in all this information from elite guys, like just, you know, writing down just the most, like not just, you know, listening to it, right? But like writing down what's the most important things that you're taking away from this and just trying to apply it for that day. So I think a lot of coaches too, right? And you played high school football, obviously played at the University of Iowa, which want to come back and talk about that. And a lot of coaches will hang up quotes and it's like, well, quotes are great, but action is what changes, changes results, right?  so how do I put it into action? I think that's what you get with, you talk about the average of the five people you associate with most, well, you can associate with those people who you don't necessarily spend face-to-face time with, or maybe never meet, or they may not even be alive, but if you're listening to Success Hotline, Mental Performance Daily, and doing a heroic book of the week, you're getting Brian Johnson, Brian Cain, Dr. Rob Gilbert, like those are three pretty good mental game voices, really good to be able to put with you, right? And then another one, if you're into faith, which I know you are, you're spending time with the Lord, like there's four or five, you know? And it's pretty, it's pretty hard to beat with that. Let's go back and talk about Iowa football, right? So you mentioned Break the Rock, and I remember I used to work with Jack Dom, shout out in the University of Iowa baseball program, and I would go in the football weight room, and you'd see this huge rock that would say Break the Rock for the Hawkeyes logo on there. So being a guy that was a receiver at University of Iowa, talk about just like the mentality and the structure and how being a college football player helped you with what you're doing now as a professional athlete in terms of like that structure and the discipline that it takes. Yeah, I mean, I think the biggest, I mean, like the discipline is the biggest thing, like Iowa football isn't for everybody. Like, we're not really getting a whole lot of five-star and four-star guys. Like we're getting a lot of homegrown kids from Iowa, and it's a developmental program, and how you get development is, we're cracking pads every day, the workouts suck, right? Like you're learning what hard work takes and what it takes to be great. So just, when you're doing that, much of a physically demanding sport, every day, you're just learning what it takes to be great and hard work, and just, when you're applying that to baseball, where it's physically demanding, but it's so much more mental, like just the mental strength that you get from all those workouts, from like memorizing the playbook, like scouting film, like you can apply that to baseball. Like the biggest thing for me is like, I love watching film and football, but baseball, it was kind of hard, like I never really thought about watching film and breaking down guys' swings, but like, when I've been training at this offseason, like is doing a lot of like scouting reports, right? So like, what I know about football, like we're scouting coverage is, how do DBS play certain coverage, they disguise it, what's their press man technique, what's their bail technique, all this stuff, so I can apply that to baseball, it's like, all right, when this guy's front foot is, is he over the top, and what does that mean for what pitch, to pitch him and stuff like that? So, I mean, it's very translatable, and high school is even more, because I played center field, so catching the balls and everything was really cool, but I mean, yeah, just discipline, hard work, like I said, Iowa football isn't for everybody, like it's a lot of grinding, like we practice very hard, like it's no walkthroughs, like it's hitting every day, and so just, you know, taking that hard work over to the, over to the diamond was really cool, so. When did the point come for you where you said, okay, I'm gonna go all in on baseball? Like when did that decision come? Yeah, you know, so I started thinking about it, my sophomore year, right after the, right after we played Nebraska over Thanksgiving, that was, that's probably when I first started like, like really thinking about it, because it was tough for me, because football's always been my first love, like it's, probably always will be my favorite sport, but that's when I was like, I'd been dealing with, you know, a couple of injuries, like soft tissue stuff that wasn't really going away, and so I started thinking about it, I was like, man, like, do I, like, I know baseball's probably my future, but like, my heart's in football so much, so I was like, you know, I'm just gonna keep riding it out, like we'll get to bull prep and that's the type of stuff, but I mean, it was just tough, like it's like, I'm stuck, I put my body on the line every day, and you know, it's like. And you're a first round pickin' baseball. Exactly, so it's like, you know, something could happen where, you know, that all goes away, so it was just, it was just tough to think about, and then, you know, as that spring came along, those first, you know, few weeks, I was pitching pretty good, and you know, I was just like, you know, I think this is what I need to do, like, you know, if I can just get a healthy fall, you know, if I can just, because at that point, like I'd only been starting to play catch, like, end of December, right? So like, my arm was, you know, kind of falling off towards the end of baseball season because I didn't really have like a buildup or ramp, and so I was just like, you know, let's just fully dive into this baseball thing, let's see what can happen, like, yes, I love football, but, you know, I can watch not TV, right? I can live through my brothers that are, you know, playing, right, so it's just, it was tough, but you know, I think it was a retro, like I'd make it, you know, 10 times over, like I know baseball is, you know, what God, you know, God has best, you know, playing for me, and so, you know, I'm excited with one of them, like it was tough, but, you know, I'd make it 10 times over, so. Yeah, that's awesome. I think when you were looking at, too, like playing football, obviously the way that you lift can be different than what you do in baseball, that your body and your size, the weight that you carry, even though you're a receiver, right? I mean, you still have to be big because you're playing physical in the big 10, right? And when you look at like this offseason that you had, which essentially, you get done, your sophomore year of college in Iowa, you're playing football, you're the leading receiver, I believe, right? Or what, no? Thirdly, thirdly receiver. So one of the leading receivers there, and then you go, and you go, all right, I'm gonna play my sophomore year of baseball, and then you have summer, Team USA, and then you have fall at Iowa, and then you have your spring season, your junior year, and the draft. I haven't had an offseason, haven't had an offseason. You haven't had an offseason, ever. So like, this is your first real full offseason into baseball, you get married. I got married, yeah. In Iowa. In Iowa. But you choose to live in Arizona. Yeah, yeah. I mean, you get married, and you choose to live in Arizona, and your wife is back in Iowa. Like, that's a massive commitment to your development. That's a very mature decision, like in putting your professional career. Talk about making that decision. Yeah, I mean, it's tough, right? Like, we were engaged throughout this whole offseason. Like we got married in January, but like I said, I've been down here since, after the draft, I was here July, August, September, was back in October for three weeks, and then I've been down here first week of November since. And so, like you said, I guess tough. You know, you're, you know, you're, you know, my wife now, she was planning everything, like just all the wedding stuff. Like I'm missing out on, you know, meeting with the, you know, cater and all this stuff. And it's just, it's tough because you want to be there, you want to experience those things. But, you know, I think, you know, I wanted to, you know, put myself in the best position for success this upcoming season. And, you know, I couldn't have done that without, you know, my wife, because she knew that was best for me to be down here and, you know, be training on site and, you know, be down here with you working. And so, you know, I couldn't have done it without her. Like, you know, just having her support, you know, really helped. But like you said, like it's, you got to have, like to be elite, you got to, you got to make tough decisions. And, you know, it's, it's, I mean, I would do it again. Like it, like I've had the best, I mean, even though this is my only offseason, like I feel like I've had an amazing offseason, like physically, I've, you know, I'm up, you know, eight pounds of muscle down, six pounds of fat. Like I've had a really good, you know, offseason. So yeah, it's tough, you know, being away, you know, especially now, like, I mean, we were on a honeymoon and then the day we get back from a honeymoon food down here for, you know, camp and been down here since. So it's, it's been tough, but, you know, if you want to be great, you got to make, you got to, you know, it's, I think Nick Saban says it's not sacrifices. It's a decision when you want to be great, right? So, yeah, yeah, decision is not sacrifices. And then also it's the delayed gratification, right? It's like, put off what you want in the moment for what you want most. And what you want most is to be a major league baseball player and have a 10 plus year career, you know, but what you want in the moment is maybe to be home, you know? And I think a lot of athletes will actually get that backwards and they'll put off what they want most for what they want in the moment, you know? And then, and then they wonder why they're not getting the results that they want when the margin for error is so small and the competition is so fierce. So you casually drop that you put on eight pounds of lean tissue and drop six pounds of fat as measured by adex scan. Talk about what adex scan does for you because I think a lot of people listen to this, maybe don't know the importance of where that fits into their training plan. Yeah, so I think, I mean, dex, I mean, really what it is you're laying on a machine and it measures all your stuff, but for me what it is, it's really like, is what we're doing working, right? So it's like- It's accountability. Exactly, it's accountability check. Like you're training, you know, for these, you know, five months in the offseason, like, all right, let's see if you really have, you know, put in the work. Like, let's see if this program is really working for you. So like you said, it's just an accountability check like, all right, let's see where we're at. So I mean, I think I was, you know, I think the first time I did it, I was, you know, 231 with, you know, 178 pounds of muscle, whatever it was. And then the next time I did it, I was, you know, 232 with 185 pounds of muscle. Like it's like, so it's like, all right, what we're doing is working. So let's just continue to work it. Like on your podcast a few days ago, it was like when to double down. When to double down, when what you're doing is working. When what you're doing is working. Don't go, I got it. Exactly, exactly. Yeah, go all in. And that, and the DEXA is the accountability not only to your nutrition, but also to the conditioning program that you're doing. So if you're an athlete and you're not getting a DEXA scan, a DEXA scan tells you your, your body weight, your lean tissue and your body fat and body fat percent. Exactly. So if part of your training program, which it probably is and should be, is to increase lean tissue and decrease body fat. It's not the only thing we're trying to do. We're trying to increase power with force plate jumps. And we're trying to do all those, you know, those things, but body composition, adding lean tissue, decreasing body fat. Well, how are we accountable to that? Right? And you can do an in body and you can do a bod pod and you can do all these different tests, my Garmin scale, you know, but gold standard being a DEXA and having what that looks like. And then every three months you go and get it again to see, okay, have I sustained or continue to improve what I want, you know? So that's huge. Talk about the importance of like a decision that you made this offseason to go all in on your nutrition and with the chef service and with macro nutrition. What difference has that made for you? I mean, it's been, shout out, chef Whitney Jacobs. Shout out, chef Whitney, man. She is awesome. I mean, it's just been, like for me, like I've always tried to eat healthy, right? But it's like, you know, I mean, I don't consider it lazy, but like, you know, going to the store, like picking out what you got to eat, like It's work. Trying to, exactly, it's work. Like, you know, tracking your own macros is a lot. But like when you just put it into your sheet that we got from, I think, Anuman, right? Tom Anuman, yeah. Yeah. You know, we put it in, I'm like, all right, I'm 230 and I want to recomb. I put these in. I give them to chef Whitney. I get five star meals, three meals a week, or three meals a day for seven days a week. And just, you know, it's good food. Like she puts what's in it, how many grams of fat, protein, carbs, like all this stuff. And it's just, I mean, I've been eating fantastic meals for the last six months now. And it's just been, I mean, like, like, weight room, like it's great. Like, but like nutrition is such a big part of that. Like, you know, You have to blend them. Exactly. You have to. Like, you can't, like if you're lit, you can be the hardest working lifter. But if you're eating, you know, fried foods and all this stuff, like you're not going to be, you're not going to gain as much as you want. But when you put it together, man, it's, I mean, it's crazy. It's interesting. It's about body composition, right? And the importance of, of, in your, in your offseason, your professional athlete, you have really big goals. When your nutrition is on point and your, and your training is on point, you're going to see gains, massive gains. Quick too. Right? Like my situation, I got a current dealing with the, with the back issue. So I can't really do the training that I want to do, close to for the last six months. I've been just maintenance. But my nutrition has been on point. So my body composition hasn't changed. I haven't gained lean tissue, but I haven't lost and haven't really gone backwards. Exactly. Right? And when you go on a vacation, you go on a cruise, you go over Italy for a couple of weeks and your training slacks, cause you're on vacation and your nutrition slacks, you go backwards. Just like you work so hard to go forward with training and nutrition being alignment. When both of those fall off, you go backwards. So the thing that we've learned is like, look, if you're going to go on vacation, if you're dealing with an injury, like you cannot let your training and your nutrition slip at the same time. Like that's the death sentence. And I think like just like, yes, there's going to be things you can't control, right? But it's like, can you still make an elite decision? Like when I got down here, when I flew back down here in October, like I got in late. The only thing that was open was McDonald's. And I'm like, dude, I haven't had fast food in forever. Like I was like, I was like, but I, like I need something. So it's like, all right, I Googled, what's the healthiest thing on McDonald's menu? It was just a cheeseburger. So I just got the regular, like it's like, obviously it's not very healthy, but it's like, it's the healthiest option. Like it's like, and for me, it was like, my bad meal or that bad day was better than, like my bad days now are better than my best days six months ago, right? And so I think that's really good too. Like you're going to have, you know, a bad day, right? But it's like my bad days now are 10 times better than my best days six months ago. And what Brian Johnson calls that, right? And make your best, your new baseline. Exactly. The way that you train right now, when you were your absolute best version of Brody Brecht 10 months ago, like your absolute best 10 months ago is like your bare minimum right now. Raise the best. And probably way higher than that, right? Exactly. And it's like, if you just continue to stack days and move forward, I mean, people always ask like, hey, you worked with George St. Pierre for like a decade. What made that guy so great? And I would say he just continued to make his best as new baseline. Guys would go through an eight week fight camp and then they would go disappear and they would go and they'd vacation and they put on 25 pounds and have to cut to get back into the weight class. And he was just like winning fights and then taking two days and he's back in the gym. And it's like, his level of fitness on his worst day of a year was probably better than more than half of the UFC roster's level of fitness on their best day. And a guy I like that now is Sean Brady. Raise the best. And I think that's why you're gonna see Sean Brady win a UFC title in 2025. Absolutely. Year first, right? So I think like the idea of make your best, your new baseline and just continuing to move forward, is huge. Man, so much to unpack here. So good. Let me just take a quick look here and see what else, order ring, talk about the importance of sleep, right? So sleep and tracking sleep with an order ring and what that does or a whoop and what that does for you. I think just, sleep is like, it's the best recovery, right? I mean, that's how your body, that's how your muscles heal and all that stuff. So just being able to track your sleep and just, it's not like, all right, I'm getting, like I think for me has been consistent sleep has been the best thing, right? Like I'm not, yes, I'm not perfect. Like yes, on Friday I might go to bed a little bit later than I did on Tuesday throughout the week. But it's like, for the most part, like I'm within an hour bedtime, for pretty much the last six months. Like it's been going to bed at the same time, waking up at the same time, getting that circadian rhythm in line. So just your body can maximize the healing aspect and just, like for me, like I said earlier, the 10 hours of sleep, that's like my block. So like my, like when that 10 hours hit, so usually like right now I'm 10 to eight, like 10 p.m. to 8 a.m. And so once 10 p.m. hits, like that's, when I'm in bed, like I'm done with my p.m. routine, I'm trying to fall asleep right now and then 8 a.m. I wake up and that's like my ideal, like my body is fully recovered, I'm ready to go and just being able to track that on the whoop, like it tracks or whatever you got, like at least just tracking it, it's accountability. I have my login shared with you, like I'm tracking it. And so just being able to see where you're at, all right? Did I get a good restorative sleep last night? Was I, is my HRV down? And working with Tom Newman, like if it's my HRVs down three days in a row, it's like, all right, maybe I need to go float, maybe I need to go do something to like get my rhythm back on. Break the cycle and get back up. Exactly, exactly. So I think it's just really good, just accountability. Like all these things is really just like accountability, like just tracking it because, you know, it's so, like I talked about writing things down, like writing things down is way better than just keeping it in your head. Your head, you're gonna forget, but you go on the notes, it's there. You track all your stuff, like in my, you know, Google doc and my success checklist, like I got everything. I'm like, all right, what was my sleep percentage? It was over my 90% goal that I get four hours of restorative sleep, like all this stuff, just tracking everything. Yeah, man, so good. And what's absolutely is mind blowing to me is that you've only been in this for 10 months. You know, like you came over here and we're gonna wash the Super Bowl and as you're over here, I'm sitting there, I'm going brody, like I feel like this is your fourth season of pro baseball and you haven't even thrown a pitch in like affiliated ball yet. You know what I'm saying? I mean, you're just getting ready to go here into spring training, which is mind blowing to me. And I think for the people listening to this, for the mental performance coaches listening to this, like this is what's possible. This is what's possible when you have an athlete who's Uber motivated and hasn't had mental performance training, wants it, and then you have a system that allows him to step into growth, you know? In terms of the system, like we've pretty much talked weekly since like April. April, yeah. You know, and I think sometimes coaches say, well, man, when you talk to somebody weekly, like what do you talk to him about? You know, it's like you're talking to him every week. So I know how to answer that. Like I know my game plan going in, but like how has the weekly rhythm been for you working with a mental performance coach? I mean, like, you know, I wanna back up first. It's like, you know, like you said, it's only been 10 months since I've been in this, but what's crazy about it is it's all things I can control, right? Like all this stuff, like it's not like I'm doing super human things, like right? Like I'm, this is all controllable stuff. Like I can go get a Dexascan. I can listen to my mental, like imagery stuff. Like it's all stuff you can control. So like you said, like you just do little things a lot, then it adds up and it's exponential growth. So yeah, and then, sorry. Talking about just the 30 minutes every week calls. Oh yeah. And like how does that frequency feel overwhelming? Or is that, what is that like for you? Yeah, like it may seem like it's like, people may have seen like, oh, you're like, what are you supposed to talk about every week for, you know, 30 minutes, 40 minutes, whatever it is, but it's like, like I think you said it was Corburn's like, and I grew up with it now, like you almost know my process better than I know it now. Like, cause I have everything shared with you, like we always talk about it. Like we're always, you know, diving into a heroic book of the week, how can I apply this, all this stuff? And it's just like, you know my pro, like when something's not going good, like you know my process, right? Better than almost I do. So you can get me back on track. You're my accountability partner. And like, you just be surprised, like every week, like we got something new to talk about. Like you just be surprised by how much comes up within a week. And so it's just, it's just good to talk to somebody that understands your process, understands how to get you back on track and that type of stuff. So it's been, I mean, it's been awesome. Ever since we've been working together, it's been just like, not even on the field, but just off the field as well. Like just, you know, being present with my wife, with my family, like, you know, all that stuff has just been 100% better than what it was. That's awesome, man. And I think you're looking at, right, for coaches when we talked about this, but the performance and the development. You're looking at performance, which is on the field, pre-patter routine, pre-pitch routine, mental imagery, we're having a release routine, the five day pitching program, which we're gonna dive into it was the seven day when you were the Friday guy at Iowa. And then you have development, MVP process, heroic books, dexascans, macro nutrition, aura rings, MVP process, meditation. And just, you know, the idea is around like, you become the average of the five people you associate with most. What are we doing there? Success hotline. I mean, there's so much that you reviewed here, Brody, and three keys to keep it simple can happen on the field and off, so it can be performance and development. So, so much unpack here, man. And what you, like you said, it all comes back to controlling what you can control. Exactly, 100%. Anything that we're doing here, right? So like, if you were going back, and you could go back to Brody Brecht of, let's say, the moment you made that decision, let's say your sophomore year, you decided to go, okay, I'm going all in on baseball, you play that sophomore summer, you go do team USA, and you come back. It's now, let's say, start of the semester in September. If you could go back and talk to Brody Brecht in September of your junior year, so that would be, so like 15 months ago, basically. Right, a year ago was January, starting your senior, your junior season. So a couple months before that, just getting done with team USA. If you could go back and talk to that guy, like preparing for your draft year, what would you say to him? I mean, I think the biggest thing for me in the mental game is controlling what you can control, right? So it's like, for me, it would be like, you go like, hey, Brody, just control what you can control this year, execute the pitch. That's the only thing you can control. You can't control what people are saying about you. You know what they're gonna say, you're pitching good, always the best, you're pitching bad, this dude sucks, right? Like, you already know that. Don't like, the expectations of other people, don't put that on you. You can't control that. You can't control, you know, if the dude hits a home run on a great pitch, right? Like, you executed the pitch, that's your only goal. So just control what you can control and execute the pitch. I think that is the biggest thing, and that's the biggest thing for me. I think, as a baseball pitcher, like, you know, kind of, keep us stupid simple, right? And we're simple stupid. And just execute the pitch. It's the only thing you can control, man. It's the only thing you should be worrying about. You shouldn't be worrying about, you know, the fans, the coaches, the batter almost. Like, the only thing you can do is just execute the pitch. And if you execute the pitch at the micro level on the field, but if you back it up, hopefully what people took out of this is that you're executing a massive plan on a day-to-day basis. In your plan, if you look at your calendar, is there's 168 hours in a week, and as you quoted 86,000 four and seconds in a day. And you know where those are going. Exactly. That's the plan, right? That's execute to the day. So almost execute the process. Yes. That's what it is, right? And so like, that was my offseason, right? It was planted, those are my keys in the offseason. Like, you know, we talked about my three keys to keep us simple on the mound, but my three keys in the offseason were plan attack, execute. So plan, my Google calendar, my success checklist. That's my plan, right? Attack that, be present where you're at, execute it, man. That's all you gotta do. And if you keep it that simple, it is simple. And then you do it for 10 months, for 10 years. 10 years. And you like where you end up. Exactly. You know, and I think that we look at the 10 years, and we go, oh my God, that's so far. It's like running the marathon, right? Which marathon is 26.2 miles, bro, you're not 24. Just so you know. Because when you've ran one, those last 2.2 miles are legit, man, those are real. You know, so that's when the race starts. If you think about taking your approach to the last 10 months, you stretch that out over the next 10 years, but you're not trying to do it for the next 10 years, you're trying to do it one day at a time. Exactly. It's like you're not trying to have a good outing, you're trying to execute a good pitch. And a good pitch leads to a good outing, leads to a good week, leads to a good month, a good season, see what happens and we keep rolling. Next 200 feet. That's it, stacking days. Brody, thanks for being here, man. Thanks for having me, I loved it, enjoyed it. Yeah, it's awesome. For people to follow you, if they want to engage with you on Instagram or social media anywhere and follow your career and see where you're up to, it's the best way for people to follow what you got going. Follow what I got going. Are you active on any social? Yeah, I'd say Instagram probably. I deleted Twitter, I got talked about. I'm not trying to listen to all the fancy what they're saying, so Instagram is, yeah, that's probably the best way. Good, we'll put that in the show notes, Brody. It's been great, man, thank you. Appreciate you, man. My pleasure.