

=== FILE: After 20 Years Of Coaching... This Is The #1 Tool That Leads To Success [ZNLriCV-u9Q].txt ===

 if your athletes are underperforming and they're not consistent, this is the reason why. I'm Brian Cain, mental performance coach and creator of the mental performance coaches certification course and for the last 20 years, I've had the privilege to work with some of the top coaches and athletes in the world. And if I were to take 20 years of mental performance coaching experience, 8 UFC world champions, 4 Siamese world winners, a Heisman Trophy winner, countless state and national champions, Olympic mentalists, and break that down into one strategy that you as a mental performance coach should be using with your clients, it would be this, the success checklist. The success checklist is literally having your clients write down their process of what it is they're going to do during different parts of their day to make them more consistent with their preparation and development, which leads to more confidence, which leads to better in competition performance. Look, you're not going to rise to the occasion, you're going to sink to your training. And your training has to be intentional, has to be intense, and it has to be documented. Out of your head on paper, here's what I'm doing, insert the success checklist. There's a great coach by the name of Marshall Goldsmith, he wrote a book called, What Got You Here Won't Get You There, a book called Triggers. And when I interviewed Marshall for a podcast, I said, in your awesome experience as a coach, what's the number one strategy you use with your clients? And he said, success checklist. I'm a slow learner. It took me over a decade to implement that with my clients. And when I did, I saw consistency and confidence go through the roof. I saw production go through the roof. It's one of the first strategies that I installed with Corbin Burns, who I started to work with in 2019. And he won the Cy Young in 2021 as the best pitcher in baseball. He's been a three time all star and one of the best in the game. It's a strategy that you should be implementing immediately with your clients, because what it does is it increases awareness. It brings clarity to strategy and allows your athletes to get started with taking action. Three steps to maximum growth, awareness, strategy, action, awareness, what should I be doing? That's your checklist strategy. That's what's on the checklist action. I go and do it. And when do I do it? We break up your checklist into certain aspects of the day, typically an AM routine, and then middle of the day, if it's an athlete might be at the field routine. If it's a corporate executive, it might be in the office routine. And then we have a PM routine. What I do before I go to bed or when I get home for the day, and maybe we have a family routine, maybe there's a section for other. So we break our day up into blocks and into sections. And on our checklist are those routes that we talked about in our last video. If you missed that, click on the link below to check that out where we talked about the difference between the fruit, the outcome goals, and the root, the process goals that deliver the fruit. Well, your success checklist are those routes. It are those process goals that are going to deliver the fruit or the outcome goals that you want. And if we go back to our first worksheet, which if you missed that, check that out in the link below as well, is to allow you to control the things that you can control. So if it's controllable, we focus on it and we dominate it. If it's not controllable, we let it go. So we take that outcome goal, that fruit, and we reverse engineer that back into these routes to say, this is what I'm going to do to produce that fruit. We take those routes and then we put them into a success checklist. And as a coach, when we put those routes into our success checklist, we now provide that clarity, accountability, and support, the three traits of greatness for our clients. Now, where this really moves the needle for you as a coach is strengthening of the relationship. I know exactly what my clients should be working on and when they're going to do it. We intentionally set the triggers. If you understand what we talk about here in pillar seven, routines and habits of excellence where triggers start behaviors. So if I want a client to listen to my mental performance daily podcast, I have a set of trigger either having breakfast or when they're on their way to the field or on their way to school. If I want them to read, we're going to set that trigger when they get into bed. If I want them to send me any data, maybe throughout the day of a ordering score or some type of recovery, we're going to set that trigger. So setting triggers of an AM routine, an at field routine, or a PM routine, allow your clients to be more consistent. It allows you to then hold them more accountable and provide that support that they need to do the little routes, to do the little everyday activities and behaviors and tasks that are going to align with those outcome goals. So the app that we use for this success checklist is a free app called HabitShare. And on the worksheet that you can download below, you're going to see a QR code that you can scan to get this free app. And now on that app, if you go to the friends section up on the top, you can add a friend. I have every one of my clients as friends in HabitShare. Every time we get on a call, we start with looking at their routes, their success checklist. And we see, are they checking the box green, meaning they did it? Are they checking it red? They didn't do it. Are they checking it gray? They didn't need to do it that day, or they not checking it at all. And I know from the experience that if they're not checking it at all, it's a slippery slope, because we cannot rely on our head to remember to do all the things that it takes to be elite. We've got to rely on our system. And our system is a success checklist. So doing it in HabitShare allows me to see, and I can set up notifications for an athlete, that every time they check in on HabitShare, I get a notification. I can quickly hit them back with a text. They know that I'm in the fight with them. That we are arm in arm locked in, and they get that support from me. The other part I like about it is as a coach, I have my success checklist. And every time I do it, they get a notification that I'm living what it is I'm teaching. And I think as a coach, if you want to have maximum influence and impact, it has to be authentic. It has to be genuine. It has to be a part of you. It has to be in you before it's in what you do. What we're trying to teach in mental performance coaches, as much as it's taught, it's really caught. They're going to catch it from you. Are you living a process over outcome? How are you living on a daily basis? It's going to allow what it is you're doing to come across in your coaching. It's got to be genuine. It's got to be authentic. So I think for you as a coach, using the success checklist with your clients, it's going to create clarity what to do. And when you create those blocks of the day, AM, at field, PM routine, when they're going to do it, it's going to allow you to hold them accountable so you can inspect what you expect when you get on your calls. And it's a great way to start all of your coaching calls. How are you doing with Habit Share? You can go through a process of well better how? What do you feel like you did well this week? What do you think you can do better next week? How are you going to do it? So you can provide that accountability and the support. If you check their Habit Share, maybe every day, maybe every third day, and someone hasn't checked in, you can hit them with a text message between your calls, between your coaching sessions, and say, Hey, are you doing okay? It's unlike you to not check in on your success checklist. Is everything okay? And you're able to provide that support so they know that you're with them in the fight. So this is our third video in this little series we're putting together where we're providing you worksheets that you can use with your clients and athletes to help enhance your mental performance coaching. And if you're a team coach, you can use these with your teams to really start implementing a mental performance program around the controllables, around the outcomes that you want as a team, but the roots as to how you're going to get there around each individual player having a Habit Share success checklist, you create accountability. Now, if you are a team support coach, this is how we've used Habit Share to also enhance leadership. So for example, let's take the Texas A&M baseball program. They've got 40 players. So what we did is we took eight boat crew members, eight student athlete leaders, and we put together eight teams of five. So player one had four players on his boat crew that he was leading. And that one player was responsible to make sure that the other four in his boat crew were checking in on Habit Share daily. So there's no one person looking at all 40 athletes, although I have all of them in my Habit Share. So when I meet with them one on one, I'm able to check in and see where they're all at. And that one person was able to monitor those five. And what we would do is each week or each two weeks, we would switch who the boat crew leader was who was responsible for checking in on the Habit Share of their teammates. And then those eight members would report back and say, Hey, here's who's who's accomplished what here's who's on. And that way it really provided a culture of high performance where if somebody wasn't checking Habit Share, they had someone looking at that and they could address it and keep everybody moving forward. And it's largely how that program was the number one team in the country this season. So if you're looking to create leadership and you're looking to create culture and high performance in his Alabama football coach, Nick Saban would say, you'd say people who are mediocre don't like being around high performers and high performers don't like being around those who are mediocre. So if you're a coach and your your livelihood is relied on the performance of those 18 call call it 14 to 24 year old athletes, wouldn't you want to know if someone's a high performer and they're into a process that's going to deliver results by keeping a success checklist? Wouldn't you like to know maybe this person needs a little bit more accountability, a little bit more support because they can't consistently follow through and do the things that they said they were going to do rather than wait until that person drops the ball that that person doesn't perform when needed because they're not prepared and then they lack confidence because they haven't had a checklist that they followed on a daily basis to keep them organized to keep them prepared and confident. Wouldn't you like to know that ahead of time so that you can troubleshoot that and support that athlete to be the best version of them? Well, this is how you do it with the success checklist and using an app habit share is what we suggest. So again, controlling what you can control, setting that fruit, what do we want to accomplish and watering those routes to help us to get there, taking those routes, putting them into a success checklist so we can create clarity, accountability and support and create that confidence from preparation so that we can deliver results. Hope you've enjoyed this video. If I check out the worksheet below, use it with your clients with your team, share the video with those other coaches, other high performers that you know and thanks for being here. You dominate the day.

=== FILE: Athletes Have Been Lied To [Z0VRPO0Qcyc].txt ===

 Your athletes are gonna fall short of their potential and their goals because you're making this one critical mistake. I'm Brian Cain, a mental performance coach, and I've had the privilege to work with some of the top coaches and athletes in the world, and the majority of them make the same mistake that your athletes are making. They focus too much on the outcome and not enough on the process. They've been lied to, thinking that they have to have these big, hairy, audacious goals, when in reality, it comes down to what are you doing today to help you achieve those goals. Now, in this video, I'm gonna walk you through a worksheet that I use with every client, every team, every athlete that I work with, to help bring awareness to what their outcome goals are that they want, but most importantly, reverse engineer those goals into a process that they can take action on. The analogy that we use is the fruit of the tree, the outcome and the root of the tree. You see the fruit, it's what everybody sees, it's what everybody wants, it's what we talk about, it's what motivates most people, but it's the root that's what's gonna help you accomplish those goals. So with this worksheet, you as a coach are gonna help your athletes to lock in on what they're doing today, because today plus today plus today equals their career, and often your win-loss record and how successful you are as a coach. You see, your success as a coach is hidden in the routines of the daily lives by your athletes. And if you're gonna talk about trusting the process with your team, that's a mistake, unless you have a process that you can actually trust. Most of your athletes are gonna set outcome goals, or you as a coach are gonna talk about, we gotta win. Well, what are you doing to win? And the best coaches and athletes that I've been around, they have a process that they follow, that they run to give them that best chance to get the outcome, also known as they water the roots to produce the fruit, the outcome that they want. So in this worksheet, you're gonna see that we've drawn up a tree here with some fruit on it and some roots down below. And you as a coach want your athletes to talk about the outcome goals that they want, and then pick any one of those outcome goals, those fruits, and have them identify three to six roots, things they can do on a daily, on a weekly basis, to allow them to get closer towards being the person who can achieve that fruit. And when your athletes have a process, a series of steps that they follow on a consistent basis, they give themselves the best chance to accomplish the fruit. Now, I'm a believer that you should set outcome goals, that you should set the fruit that you want. You should know the target that you're after, you should know the game that you're playing, and then reverse engineer that back to what you can do today and this week as a part of that process. A lot of people will say, put the process over the outcome, but they don't have a process that they can put above the outcome, it's just lip service. And as a coach, when you just give lip service, your athletes see that, see, they want the substance. They wanna know what is our process. And when you can create that process for your athletes, what it does is it allows them to have something tangible that they can bite onto, they can grab onto, and do in the moment. And when they're focused on what's important now, the win, right, WYN, what's important now, that keeps them where their feet are, that keeps them in the present, and being in the present moment is where the magic happens. See, if you've got athletes on your team that get suffocated by anxiety, it's because they're looking into the future, they're looking at the fruit on the tree. And they don't have something like the root to keep them grounded in the present moment. And if you've got athletes that suffer from depression, it's often because they're too far looking into the past saying, man, I should have, I would have, I could have. And what this exercise is gonna do for you as a coach is help you bring your athletes back to the present moment to say, look, that's where we wanna go, that's the fruit that you wanna accomplish. And I'm gonna help you to get there, but we're gonna do it by watering these roots. And what's our process? What are the steps we're gonna take to help you get us there? What's the steps we're gonna take to help us be the person that deserves to get that fruit? So this is an exercise in pillar five of our 10 Pillars of Mental Performance Mastery System, putting the process over the outcome. And we talk a lot about trusting the process, but more importantly, show me the process that you trust. And as a coach, I've been able to develop a stronger relationship with my clients. I've been able to develop trust with some of the top performing athletes in the world because I can help them sharpen their process, because I can help them stay organized with what they want. And most importantly, the steps that they can take to give themselves the best chance for success to get there. So if you're a coach who struggles to help your athletes create processes and you just talk about outcome goals, your trust is gonna be eroded. Trust is not in talking about the fruit, trust comes from planting the roots, getting into the dirt, getting into the trenches, getting into the detail with your clients, because it's easy. Anybody can talk about the fruit. What do we wanna do? Win a state championship, lift X number of weight on the bench. I wanna achieve this. What are you gonna do to get there? And I think as a mental performance coach or any coach in general, your ability to help your athletes reverse engineer or work backwards from their fruit into the root and plant those roots on a consistent basis, that's gonna be the biggest needle mover and difference maker for you building that relationship, knowing what their outcome goals are, and then working that process with them, the roots, to help them achieve those outcome goals. Now, if you go back to our first worksheet, which we're gonna link to below in our first video here, we talked about controlling what you can control. And the only thing that you can control is your ape, your attitude, your appearance, your body language, your preparation, your performance, what you do, and the energy and effort with which you do it with. So as you're helping your clients or athletes to identify those roots that they wanna plant down into the ground, you wanna make sure that they're controllable. The outcome goals are not always controllable, but the outcome goals are often what's motivating. That's what we want. And as a coach, we wanna speak in outcomes with our athletes and that this is where they're gonna go. This is what we see in them. You see, great coaches see the potential and their athletes more so than the athletes seeing themselves. And then what we've gotta do though, is bring that back into the roots. So in this worksheet, you're gonna help your clients identify what their outcome goals are, and then help them create the roots in the process to achieve those outcome goals. And they're gonna make sure that they're controllable. And in our next video, I'm gonna share with you a strategy that you can use as a coach to help your clients be even more structured, and more disciplined, and more clear with what it is that they're after. You see as a coach, you provide what I call the three traits of greatness for your athletes. And we're doing this exercise with them about the root and the fruit of the tree is gonna help strengthen that relationship, and it's gonna help strengthen that trust because you're gonna provide the three traits of greatness. Here they are. Clarity, what is it that your client wants? Accountability, what are you holding them accountable to doing every time you meet with your athletes? Just like I do, I'm gonna say, hey, you set this piece of fruit out there, this outcome goal, let's take a look at the roots, what you said you wanted to do. And then you can give support. Clarity, accountability, and support. You can provide that support to say, look, planting roots, growing a big tree, and producing fruit, that's hard, that's not easy to do. Creating a process that aligns with your outcome goal and going to achieve that outcome goal, that's not easy to do, that's hard to do. You need guidance, you need direction, you need accountability, you need support. Most importantly, you need clarity. What is it you want for your outcome goal and how are we gonna get there, the process? So I invite you to use this worksheet below with yourself, use this with your team, use this with your clients, the athletes that you're leading, and help them to produce the fruit that they want, their goals by watering those roots and identifying what those roots are. Because as a coach, the best way for you to retain your clients is to help them get the results that they want. Through clarity, accountability, and support, and through pillar number five, process over outcome thinking and planning, by drilling those roots down as far as they can go, to stand firm, to stand strong, wear your feet are in the present, not looking to the future, not looking to the past, but being wear your feet are in growing roots today, because today plus today plus today equals your career. So let's water those roots, let's produce that fruit, and let's use this worksheet with our clients together, we can dominate today.

=== FILE: Bet on Yourself In Bananaland with Tyler Gillum [vlBC8KNj21k].txt ===

 TG, man, fired up to get you in the bunker, bro, and have you on the podcast. I think the last time we chopped it up was at the Texas High School Baseball Coaches Association, and you were on stage in the damn Savannah Banana Kilt, talking about, I think, infield play, and I was like, this cat is a savage, man. The energy was off the charts. One of the best speakers that I've seen on the circuit at baseball clinics. Phenomenal. Glad to have you here, man. Boom, baby, thanks for having me. This compound is unbelievable here. You've set up an environment for you to thrive every single day, and, man, I got it. I got to say thank you to you, man. You've poured into me for a long time without even knowing it because of what you've shared, and I think that's the important thing we do as coaches is share as much as we can to make an impact as much as we can. One thing I'll never forget that you did was at that Texas clinic, I stole stuff from me for a long time, right? And that's the first I've ever met you, 2019, Texas High School Baseball Clinic, and you're speaking after me, and even though you were speaking, you still took pictures of me. You got a camera with me, and you sent those pictures to me, and I never forgot that, so never forget, Mom, and I appreciate that, man. You're stud. I had forgotten I had done that, but that's badass. I'm glad I did that, but I remember. But, yeah, man, I mean, you brought energy on the stage. It was phenomenal, and that's what you do, man. I mean, that's who you are, whether it's at South Mountain, whether it's with bananas, whether it's with bet on yourself. I mean, your juicehead. I love that. Energy giver, man. Like, that's who you want to surround yourself with. That's what I've tried to surround myself with in every walks of life, you know, and I've been lucky to be around some high successful people, and they've made me better, and so viewing what they do, you know, you show up every day and bring that energy, and we love energy givers, and that's what we look for in the bananas, too, is energy givers. Yeah, you know, man, a lot of thrust on the pack today. I want to talk about betting on yourself. I want to talk about the mental game of baseball, obviously, but let's get started with the bananas, because I think if people have seen Banana Land documentary on ESPN, right, they've gone to the sellout crowds in Major League Baseball stadiums, is what you guys are doing. We're doing a different flair and a different energy and entertainment to baseball, so kind of give us, in your words, if you would, like your story of the bananas. Well, ESPN called us the greatest show in sports, and what we've tried to do since day one is be fans first in everything we've done, and so I think that's what the game changer is. It's a very clear cut vision mission of what we're trying to do is look at the game and the customer service experience through the fans' eyes. What do they like, and what do they not like? Whatever they don't like, quit doing it. I think that's a pretty easy business model, right? So what we did right out of the gate, Jesse and Emily Cole moved to Savannah, Georgia. They created the Savannah bananas, which created a ton of buzz, and right away they looked at the fan experience and said, what if we did all you can eat? Nobody ever did all you can eat with tickets. They didn't know how to do it, but they dove in. They weren't scared to go through the mess, and I think that's what a lot of people struggle with maybe is going through the mess. Ah, a failure here, a failure there. It's failing forward. We honestly test so many things, and we are where we are because we're not scared to fail and get after it. So we had all you can eat, and then it was open seating. So you go to a ball game, you can sit wherever you want, right? And so we've evolved a little bit since then, but in Savannah we still do the all you can eat, and that's a pretty cool scenario. If you're a family of four or five trying to go watch a ball game, and you don't have to pay hundreds of thousands of dollars to go do that. Yeah, you're not getting a $25 hot dog. You're getting all you can eat, right? That's right, baby. You know, TG, one of the things that I love you mentioned there was not being afraid to fail. I mean, I think so many times, even as a mental performance coach, I was a high school athletic director for eight years before I went full-time mental performance. I just had, I liked what I was doing. I enjoyed it, but there was definitely an element of fear of stepping into the unknown. And you've created companies like Ben and Yourself. You've been a junior college head coach and Uber successful and ran one of the best like mental performance educational programs as a part of that. So you seem to have used fear as fuel and just saying yes and take an action on it. So like, where does that mentality help you of embracing fear and using that as feedback? Yeah, if you're not doing something that shares the hell out of you, I think you're, you know, you're wasting your talent, you know? And so like what we're doing every single day with a banana is just testing new things that evolve us to the next level. Every single banana game show, we try 20 to 40 new things on the field. Promo's dances with players, trick plays. We're not scared to fail. We could do one thing all the time and run the same show and be like, OK, this is good and stay in our comfort zone like the Harlem Globetrotters. Like the home girl and we get compared to the Globetrotters a lot. But the difference is our game changes every single day. We test new things every single day and our game is competitive. It's not scripted. We script some of the entertainment pieces like how we celebrate, which is, I think, a mental performance unlock of what we're doing because it keeps guys loose, it keeps guys having fun and keeps guys less tense because they're honestly staying in motion so it gives them a better emotion. All right, so prepare the game. And so that's dances that's connecting with fans. And, you know, you can't be afraid to fail. You got to jump in and that's part of the learning process. But a lot of people are scared to do that. Yeah, I love the idea of like some of it is scripted, right? Because it has to be to be consistent and some of it is not. Like talk to us about for the people who have never been to a bananas game. How is that different than regular major league baseball? Like talk to us about the difference between bananas and a major league baseball game for the casual fan who's never been. So when we started, we were a summer collegiate baseball team and we said we want to be fans first and everything we do and we want to entertain. So we looked at all of the things, all the ways of the game where it might have been too slow or boring for the normal fan. And we said, how can we make this faster, more entertaining? And how can we connect more lives about connection? Everybody's trying to find their tribe. And I think that thing that we broke down as we broke down the wall between player and fan connection where we created this tribe of people that love the bananas. And what we do every single game is when the gates drop, the gates open, we're outside greeting fans saying, thank you for coming to the game. It's high fives, handshakes and hugs. We created a saying called H three. So there's that personal connection. And what, where I think that's a mental performance unlock is if you think about dopamine and serotonin and the life, chemistries, we are constantly being hit with dopamine and serotonin throughout because it's connection throughout the entire game. So we connect with fans before, during and after the game. We're signing autographs the entire time. We've got music playing the entire time. So in the past, being a baseball guy, you see chaos practices, right? Chaos bullpens where you're trying to prepare pitchers for the most crazy environment possible. Literally that is our game every single day. And then we throw on, Hey, we're going to do a choreograph dance. It's going to take you two minutes to learn that. Then you're going to try to throw a strike. So I think we're honestly creating one of the hardest games in sports, to be honest. That's unbelievable. Unbelievable, man. I love the emotion from being in motion and the high, the H three, which can be applied anywhere, high fives, handshakes and hugs. Let's dive into TG, the mental game of baseball. What is the mentally and baseball to you? Man, it's playing pitch by pitch. It's that's life, you know, can you dominate every second of the day? And, you know, what I, what I stole from you a long time ago was what your one 68, right? And I know you're, you're so great at that. And what I've seen high successful one percenters do is really plan out what that one 68 looks like their week. And then they go and execute whatever that looks like. So it becomes an execution instead of at a young age, when I was coach in junior college ball or even guys now it's time management and understanding. Hey, I'm intentional about my telescope goal. But what are my microscope goals? What are my daily zoom habits that are going to get me to that telescope? Because everybody has the telescope. Go everybody wants to be a big leader. Everybody wants to be high successful in business. But what separates everybody is those day to day actions and everybody can plan it out on piece of paper, but who shows up every day? And the one thing where I think I've had any success is I've been able to surround myself with great people and somehow get in the room with great people. But I'm not the smartest. I'm not the most talented, but I show up every single day. And I've been doing that since I was probably 10 years old. And that's how I've been able to stick around. And if I had an impact or any success, it's because literally I just showed up. Yeah, it's showing up with energy, I would say to write. You can't just show up and be a be a slug. Like you got to show up and bring juice, ma'am, because as I say with our team here, Brian can't be performance. I'm like, energy is your edge. If you're not bringing energy and your energy is not contagious. And if you walk into a room and then when you leave, people don't feel better and have more energy because of your presence, you're doing it wrong. You know, it's, and that just means you don't love what you're doing enough. I don't think to bring that type of juice. And you know, one of the guys that I, that I saw really do that was Tim Corbin, the baseball coach at Vanderbilt, right? And that staff of back in 2006 when I was working with those guys, it was him. It was Derek Johnson who was on the pitching coach with the Reds. And it was Eric Backich, who's the head coach at Clemson. And it was a team of, of energy guys. And I was like, damn, that's what it looks like. These are guys who just love playing and are playing at a high level. And I know, you know, one of the things that you did when you were the head coach at South Mountain here, one of the top junior college programs in the country in Arizona, you ran like a one hour classroom session where it was really tied into not just performance, but development. And I think as a mental performance coach, we're always doing two things. And the performance, like how do you compete one pitch at a time, but also development. How do you step into the best version of you and create systems that allow you to be the successful otter off the field? Talk to us about kind of that curriculum that you installed at South Mountain and what that looked like. So this is how it started back in 2015. I was reading a ton. I literally was in a small room and I tried to buy 150 books and just read as much as I possibly could. And I ran across the book called the no complaining role by John Gore. Sure. I read that book on a two hour fly from Oklahoma to from Phoenix to Oklahoma. And on that fly, it hit me is I was complaining too much. I was at junior college. We were a top 25 junior college in the country, but we weren't number one in the country and a lot of it I was complaining about. We didn't have resources and a lot of coaches around the country are dealing with this. Maybe it's NIL money or maybe it's facilities, but I was complaining. We didn't have locker rooms and we didn't have all the scholarship money that some of the other Jukos had. We, we had 18, $325 scholarships. The other Jukos had 24 full rides. We didn't have dorms. They had dorms. We didn't have a cafeteria. They had a cafeteria. So I was in this complaining mode. And after reading this book, I go, man, I got to stop this. And the book says you can't complain unless you got two solutions. So it's about being solution oriented. So I said, okay, instead of complaining about all this, how can I make our guys better? Because I thought we were, we were losing something on team chemistry because we didn't have a locker room. And when I played at Seminole State Junior College, we lived at the ball field. We lived in the locker room and I, all those guys are, we're still so close. That tradition at Seminole State is so close. And I thought we were missing that. So I said, I'm going to, I'm going to quit complaining and I'm going to create a classroom session where we can literally get to know each other because some of the most never forget moments or inspirational moments in all the teams that I've been on, or when we were in the locker room, sharing stories, real life stories about ourselves and how we were going to attack our problems or how we were going to win the day. And I said, we're missing that. We need to do that. So we created the growth toolbox. We did that in 2016 for the first time and it was a one hour classroom session on Fridays at 10 a.m. And we started with goal setting because if you don't know where you're going, you're going to be lost. You're just going to be driving around without a destination and we would start with goals and I think any coach or any player, that's where you should start is you got to know where your mission is, right? You got to know where you're going so you can basically get in the car and drive that way. But the next thing that we did right after we said, Hey, this is where we're going. We said, what's our time management? All right. How are you getting there? And that's where I stole the 168 from you. And I thought you would enjoy this. Uh, this is how I, I got guys to buy in. I said, okay, guys, tell me how many of you guys want to be a big leager and everybody has every, every dude throws that on there. But I still do. I'm like, sweet. There's, yeah. So I was like, all right, sweet. There's about 400,000 guys out there with the same goal. What's going to make you different? Right. And I was like, it's your time management plan. So Brian Cain showing me this. It's the one 68 plan. Every 30 minutes out of the day, we're going to get on our Google sheets and our Google calendar and we're going to map out exactly what we're going to do. So I let them do that. Right. The next time management session we came in. So this is session three. They come in. They haven't mapped out. It's color coded. We spend about two, two and a half hours on this. And then I go, okay, you guys got that. You think you guys can execute that and that's going to get you to the big leagues. I'm like, okay, cool. I need you guys to turn it up a notch and I want you to do something that scares the hell out of you. I want you to put a time on this. I want you to say in one year, if I don't execute my goal, something crazy is going to happen. Like I'm going to randomly die. Now that's crazy. A lot of people go, oh my gosh. That's something I always put myself on. And when I was in high school, we won four state championships. I would, I would do that exercise with myself all the time. If we don't win a state championship, if I don't, if I don't turn around this dirt road in my Honda Civic and turn it perfectly, we're not going to win a state championship. I'd put myself in these random, not real situations, but it would change my environment where I had to act and I had to act faster. So I was like, all right, if you don't achieve this by the end of the year, then something crazy, not fun would happen. And so they would go, okay, um, those two, those two hours I was going to hang out with my girlfriend, maybe I'm only hanging out one hour with her. Instead of hanging out in the cafeteria, I think I'm going to go hit in the cage for those 30 minutes in between classes. So they started looking at it differently. Once the problems might show up, if something negative happened. So that's a crazy scenario to throw yourself into, but it makes you act and move faster. Yeah. It's creating, it's creating a pressure to move, right? It's creating an urgency to move. And what you did there is you would call what I would say gamify. The gamify would be like with my daughter, I'd say, Hey, CK, you think we can pick up this room in two minutes? What do you think? How long is it going to take? Yeah. All right, ready? Here's the watch. Start to watch. Boom. Put all the toys away. Come back, look through time and gamify. If I said, see, I clean up the room, it's going to be a fight. If I said, see, K, can we think we can do this under two minutes? You want to do it together by yourself? You want to go by yourself for about three minutes, gamify. And now it's fun. So, right? So it's kind of that same sort of narrative that you tell yourself. Talk to me, you know, you mentioned the growth toolbox. You mentioned telescope and microscope goals, the mental game, playing it, pitch to pitch your 168 time block and talk to me about. Betting on yourself and this company that you've created around. Mindset and around being able to kind of do exactly that bet on yourself. What's that? Where's that come from? What's that all about? Yeah, man, my I grew up in small town, eight Oklahoma, 17,000 people. I grew up in the boondocks. My dad was a bull rider, so I grew up on the rodeo circuit and, you know, he's crazy getting on 200, you know, 2000 pound bulls that one buck you off and kill you. And so perfect, perfect father of the bananas manager. That's right. Betting on itself for a long time. You know, it's the rule of that is it's not if you get hurt, it's when. Well, yeah, you know, and so the story is when I was eight years old, the movie came out called Eight Seconds about Lane Frost, one of the best bull riders of all time. He's from Lane, Oklahoma. And my dad got to rodeo with him a little bit on the high school rodeo circuit. And we went to the movies as a family. We sat at the movies, movie theater. My mom's on the right. My little brother is on the right. My dad's on the left. And at the end of the movie, Lane Frost ends up passing away and dying and shy and whome and he gets horned in the back by a bull punctures his long true story. And I'm looking at this at eight years old and I'm like, what is happening? And I look over and my dad's crying. And it's the first time I ever saw my dad cry in life. And so in that moment, I was like, I think I would rather get hit by a 90 mile an hour fastball than horned by a bull. So that was my trajectory of going down this baseball route. And so along the along the way of every single level of baseball that I played from coach pitch to 10 and under to 12 and under, I would always play up my first year and I was always having to compete. I wasn't the fastest. I wasn't the biggest. I was the smallest. I wasn't the most talented. And I was always having to bet on myself just to get into the lineup, right? And find a way. As I got through college, my background story, kind of keeping it short, my mom and dad struggled with drugs and alcohol for a long time. My mom died of oxycotton overdose in 18. And my dad struggled with, you know, he's had five DUIs and they're phenomenal people. They're awesome people. They struggle, struggle with addiction. And baseball was always my getaway. Baseball was the baseball field was my cathedral. It was my way to kind of get Zen kind of get my happy place. And when I started high school, I didn't know it at the time, but I was lucky to be around Eddie Collins, which in 2021 he become the winning as high school baseball coach in the entire country with over 2116 wins. At the time, I didn't realize how good I got it. And everybody would look at those wins and they would say, man, that guy really knows how to coach baseball. But the truth is he taught me way more about life than he ever did about the game of baseball. He's pretty damn good at the game of baseball. And so I call him my hero. And so one of those John Gordon exercises is hero highlight hardship. And it's when people ask me that or I share that with with our players is Eddie Collins is my hero because he put me on the path of straight and narrow. And hey, this is how you show up every day. That dude showed up every single day. So when we talk about showing up, I watched that dude work on the field two hours before practice, two hours after practice, literally yet to have your hair cut, you had that everything was yes, sir, no, sir. Yes, ma'am, no, ma'am. And that that's different in today's world, but it was all about discipline and execution and respecting your opponent, but not being scared of anything. So it was always about betting on yourself. And we were at two a high school, two a high school, and we would get in six day tournaments, the highest level of tournament in Oklahoma. And we would beat that we'd win those tournaments. And the funny thing he would say all the time is, it doesn't matter who's in that other dugout, they put their pants on just like you do one leg at a time. And so we would get in those tournaments. We'd always bet on ourselves and we were always the underdog. So I've been playing this underdog role for a long time, but we're really bet on yourself started coming in is my junior year. I started working out at Seminole State Junior College. And I went there because I thought they worked harder than anybody else. They did morning weights at 430 in the morning. They would do burnouts, all these workouts. If you put them on social media, everybody would absolutely destroy them. But mentally, I thought I could, I thought I could run through every single wall and I could accomplish anything, even though I weighed 150 pounds and wasn't as talented as everybody else. But mentally, I was there and I was like Seminole's where I want to be because that's where the toughest, strongest, hardest working dudes are. And I get to my senior year. I've got multiple scholarship offers to different Jukos and some D2s. And the guy I look up to the most, Eddie Collins. I'll never forget it. I'm sitting in a Lidah high school parking lot right in front of the basketball gym. He walks out. I'm in my car, my front seat. He's like, hey, Gillum, where were you thinking about going to college next year? And I was like, I'm going to go to Seminole and he played at Seminole. And he's like, I don't know if you should go there. Like you've got you've got like multiple offers. Seminole didn't offer me a scholarship. And so he's like, I think it's better that you take a scholarship where you know you're going to play Seminole goes to the World Series everywhere every year. They win 50 games a year and they have over 10 guys drafted. And back then it was drafting follows. This was 06, 07. And he was like, you need to go somewhere where you can play and they're going to give you scholarship. And I never saw it that way. I never, I never saw it that way. I wanted to be in environments where I knew I was going to get better. It wasn't about playing. It was about what's your day to day, what's your date, your microscope goals, your zoom habits, how are they training, how are they working out? And what intrigued me was a lot of people didn't want to go to Seminole because they heard all the horror stories of how it was boot camp and they work too hard and they wake up at 430 in the morning and I'm like, sweet, that's the room I want to be in. And so I chose to go to Seminole. That was my first bet on yourself. They didn't offer me a scholarship. I was full financial aid. We didn't have a whole lot of money. So I had government assistant money and I'm Chickasaw Indian. I'm Native American. So they were able to help me with some books and tuition too as well. And so I went there for free on those types of scholarships, but I didn't have a baseball scholarship in today's world. Nobody on social media says that. Everybody says go where you're going to play, go where you're going to go get the most amount of money, especially in this NIL world. I chose where I thought I could develop the most. And so I wanted to be in that room and network with those people and work hard with those people. So I get to Seminole. That was my first bet on yourself story. I get to Seminole. We have 12 draft and follows. Tyler Gillam is not one of those dudes, man. I'm like, I'm 150 pounds soaking wet. I couldn't hit water if you fell out of a boat. I could play defense. I could turn a double play and that was that was what I was really good at. But I was really good at showing up. So we had 43 guys that first fall, 43 guys, 12 of them are draft and follows. We had we led the country and strikeouts that year. Our number five arm ended up getting to the big leagues. Jeremy Hefner, he's the pitching coach with the match right now. I go there and we have 16 guys quit that fall. It was so hard. Everybody quit. They didn't have to cut one guy. So I just outlasted everybody. So my bet on yourself story is showing up. Energy giver work harder than everybody else and try to outlast. Right. And so that was my first story and going through it a little bit more in 2017. I was listening to Entree Leadership Podcast by Dave Ramsey. There was a business leader on there and said, I never achieved any of my goals and until I started focusing on impacting people. And also I read a read a book that said, you should set goals that scare the hell out of you. And 2017, January 17, 2017, I wrote on my whiteboard. I want to have a positive impact on one million people through baseball, education and exercise. And with that goal, that's been my North Star since 2017. And we've been, you know, we've been better ourselves with the bananas and a long journey and kind of a cool number. Everybody was like, oh, that's stupid. That's crazy. That's never going to show up, you know, all the naysayers out there and critics and cool. That's fuel. Along this journey, you just focus on impacting one person a day. And I would say eventually it's going to show up somehow, some way in 2024, our last game of our banana ball tour, Miami Marlin Stadium. We sell it out and that was we surpassed one million fans on the 2024 tour. So that was one way it showed up. So it's cool. So we're still on that journey. Yeah, I love that. I'd say add a zero to that. But 10 million. That's actually the 10 X goal of this year. So I changed that goal and that's what I'm trying to do. Go 10 X, bet on yourself podcast. I'm giving out bet on yourself gloves around the country. I'm trying to give out 66 this year. We gave out 25 last year. I've got bet on yourself sweaters and shirts. All the proceeds go to buying baseball gloves for kids on on tour, man. And so we're just trying to inspire the next people that I feel like I got to give back the games giving me so much. And so in life, it's all about impacting other people. And you guys sell out the Miami Marlin Stadium, like the Savannah bananas bananas have gone from being a college summer team to selling out major league baseball stadiums. I mean, I've looked at out here in Arizona, right? We're recording this where we both live and and the spring training complex. You guys played a game at Sloan, the home of the Chicago Cubs sold out, right? You're playing at different places. The Linnale sold out like you guys are selling out. You're selling out major league baseball stadiums. The Marlins aren't doing that. You know what I'm saying? Like what's what is 2025 look like for the bananas? Yeah, so we said we said goals that scare the hell out of us. We live in the future, right? So one of the things that we say often is we live in the clouds, but we're also in the dirt at the same time, right? We're we're thinking five year plans, but we're also in the dirt in the trenches, getting things done every single day, testing things, going through the failure, going through the mess, figuring out how to evolve. And so our goal in the future is we want to reach a billion fans. That's literally our goal is to reach a billion fans. And so in 2025, we have 17 major league stadiums. We're going to play in four football stadiums. Three of those are NFL stadiums. We're going to be in over 40 cities this year. And we're going to be we're going to have over two million fans on the banana ball tour. So our goals are crazy. Our fans are probably crazier. We've got three million fans on the waitlist to get tickets. So three million fans. Yeah, the waitlist to get tickets. Yes. And so that waitlist is grown. And really one of our biggest friction points and problems right now is to play in bigger stadiums so we can get all these fans to games. And that's what we're trying to do. So unbelievable. I mean, I've had I've had guys I've worked with in college, right? That have gone on and played for the bananas. And talking about, you know, how much they love it in my catalog guy from Arizona State, right? Played and played in the league for a little bit. And with you guys, like from a baseball standpoint, how much different is it from a mental game standpoint for guys playing for the bananas versus playing for like their college or protein? So when we started in 2016, we were doing these things that nobody else was doing. So we were having to convince players to get them to buy in to do a player dance in the middle of the second inning. So our owner, Jesse Cole, basically what he evaluated was he was he was in a small market in Gastonian in the CPL coastal plain league. And it was hard to get fans there. And what he noticed was he wasn't in the baseball arena. He was in the entertainment business. So he had to figure out how to get fans there. And so one of those things that he did was have players dance, right? So a lot of our guys dance. So if you know Ryan Kellogg, you wouldn't think that that guy initially would be a guy that would get out there and dance, but I'll tell you what. And I had maybe at 2 a.m. on Mill Avenue, but I'm sure it's been enough time on Mill Ave at ASU. But I tell you what, Ryan Kellogg, I had probably four or five coaches tell me, I don't know if Kellogg's going to fit into what banana land is or what the bananas are. Ryan Kellogg has one of the best solo dances in 2023. Milwaukee. He did the entire dance from Napoleon Dynamite. Oh, yeah. Dressed up like he threw six innings, six innings at the end of the sixth inning. He gets behind the mound and he does the entire like two, three minute dance solo dance of Napoleon Dynamite and absolutely killed it. And so what the environment does, though, I think that's different is it gets you out of your comfort zone, which we're all trying to do as coaches, get them out of the comfort zone and it puts them in an environment where they're not setting around motionless, thinking about, Oh, I hope this goes well. I hope this doesn't go well. And they're kind of have monkey brain where a lot of guys struggle, mental performance. Yeah. Yeah. Now they're thinking about going to impact a fan. They're going to the stands to hand out a rose to a little girl. They're throwing t-shirts in the stands. They are on the mic doing something crazy, singing, dancing. And I think it makes them perform better, to be honest with you. The reason why I think that we started in summer collision baseball. We had a mathematician, a professor from Georgia Southern come out and do all the statistics of every team in the CPO and what he found in his statistics that all the banana players played better than their college stats. And that usually doesn't happen in the summer because it's wood bat. And literally he found out that you played better when you're wearing a banana's uniform, but I think there's some secrets to that success. It's we keep things fun. We focus.  we get out of our internal problems and we get external with it. And we think about others, we think about our teammates, H3, high five handshakes, there's the power of touch, right? And if you strike out, you don't have time to set on the bench and soak, you have to get your butt on the field with the speed of banana ball. Banana ball's so fast, it happens quick. The fastest inning banana ball is 46 seconds. The fastest strike out in banana ball is 8.6 seconds. So you're constantly moving and so that's why I think motion keeps a good emotion, right? Instead of being down in the dumps and you know what Kenra visited taught us and you taught us is figure out how to flush it, right? When Cal State Fullerton put that into play back in the day, I think our flush it is, hey, you got to get back on the field and interact with the fan, you got a H3 high five handshake, connect, you have to go do a dance, you have to go sing. That's what it looks like. So that's where the motion turns our emotion. Yeah, I'm just looking at like, if you're listening to this and you have not gone and looked at the bananas website, I mean, I'm looking at like the player of baseball cards on the website here and what these guys are doing. I mean, this is unbelievable, man. Whatever's normal to the exact opposite. Yeah, it's unbelievable. And I think we talked about motion creates emotion, movement changes mood, action changes attitudes. How quickly can you pour into your teammates? How quickly can you focus on somebody else, right? There's so many professional baseball players that, you know, and I understand why they do, they just ignore fans because of the negativity, because of the criticism, because they're locked in and what they're doing. They ignore fans. I had Michael Kodair on a podcast, former batting champ, you know, Colorado Rockies. And one of the things he said was when he was in high school, he, you know, was a big time prospect, first round pick, felt some pressure. And I want to say there was a moment where he kind of like had a little blow up, throw a helmet, bat, whatever it was. And his coach said to him, Hey, Cuddy, I want you to take the kids that are here watching you, all these kids that are here for this game, run to the wonder why they're here to here to see you. So they're watching what you're doing and you have no idea a butterfly effect of the ripples that will extend into these guys lives. So how you handle adversity is probably how they're going to do it. How you handle success is probably how they're going to do it. He said, So what I want you to do before games moving forward is I want you to take a baseball and I want you to sign it. I want you to walk and find a kid who's never seen you play before. And once you hit him that ball and once you have a little, little moment of connection, you know, what that's going to do is create accountability on you as you're playing this game, that all eyes are on you. How do you want to come across? And I believe it was when he was in high school, it may have been when he was in the minor leagues, but that moment for Cuddy, he said, completely changed his ability in the mental game to like play with a different purpose. And and he called it the power of accountability, being accountable to people that are watching you. And I think, you know, as we bring this podcast here to a close, like the power of accountability for what you guys are doing with the bananas in terms of the entertainment, but the impact and getting people to really fall back in love with like baseball and fall back in love with what you guys are doing and being willing to better themselves. And I think all the players, some of these guys on the roster that I've had when they were in college and taking a look at these guys, you know, and seeing them now step out of their comfort zone and do what they're doing. It's really cool, man. You're impacting a lot of lives. So thank you for bringing banana ball and what you keep doing, man. Keep betting on yourself. I love it, man. Thanks for having me here today. This is unbelievable. You've got an awesome compound. Everybody's got to come sit here to see it. And I love it. You're the man. Appreciate it, TG. The compound is here. We're trying to take mental performance into the house. You know, you guys are bringing banana ball to the world. If I could put the compound on wheels and drag it with me, I would. But trying to do it here where, you know, it's interesting. I was traveling 250, 280 days a year before the pandemic and doing mental performance, consulting, working with teams all over the place and loved it. And then when the pandemic hit, it was like, well, now what? Moved into zoom and moving into zoom, the consistency of going, you know, I was going to use Jim Schloss, they go as an example. And he was at TCU 06 2020. He's still there. Pandemic hits. I've been going to campus three, four times almost quarterly for 15 years. Pandemic hits. And I'm like, coach, I bet on myself, I said, we need to move this to 30 minutes a week, you and me. So you fill me out where the program is at and I can help you navigate what you need to do to help guys mentally during this pandemic and the team 30 minutes every week. And we started that in probably March when the season got canceled, I think of 2020 and we have not missed a 30 minute session with a team from TCU to when he was at AMM to know when he's in Texas because of the consistency. And I think when you look at the mental game and the influence and the impact, there's a lot of impact from like going to a bananas event and seeing that and experiencing that and that one moment can change your life. Like when big believer in the power of moments, right? Whether it be hearing you speak at a convention, whether it be listening to one podcast, whether it be picking up the book heads at baseball, like I did July 4th, 2000 and it changed the trajectory of my life. And there's also impact that can happen from just consistency and environment and accountability and being there. So, you know, when you bet on yourself, bet on yourself in those moments that can change your life, go into a conference, go into a seminar, picking up a book, but also bet on yourself of just the raw consistency. I do want to hear from you about routine and consistency and the impact that that has had on your life as you bet on yourself. Yeah. You know, to go back to 2011, I was coaching at East Central University and my routine was to show up every single day for players and I was 23 years old. They didn't have a full-time paid assistant. I was a grad assistant making $5,000, getting my master's degree in education. But the routine of showing up every single day with that energy, it didn't matter if it was 7am or 7pm being around, being consistent with that. There's the compound effect that happens for a long period of time. Right. And I read that book probably back in 2014, 15. That changed the game too, as well. And the compact, you know, it's just 1% better every single day. Right. 2011, I decided to take a bet on myself and move here to Phoenix, Arizona, because I thought it was the best place to do three things, learn, grow and network. And those three things have been my guiding star since 2011. But what I started figuring out was routines was you have to get up earlier than everybody. I started teaching in the classroom at eight o'clock in the morning at South Mountain. I had to get up at 435 30 in the morning to set my day on the right pattern with all my executions. So I had a journal in the morning. I had to read in the morning. Add I call it monkey brain. You have to get everything out on paper. And what we do with the bananas now is I deal poluses. So every day on Tuesday, we have an I dip, lose us. So you talk about routines. We do an idea, polusa. We call it an OTT meeting over the top meeting every Tuesday. And that is our entire organization. So it doesn't matter if you're the Jesse Cole, yellow tux guy that's coming up with 10 ideas every single morning since 2017, or you're the new intern that just came in. We want to hear what your ideas. And that's how a lot of our ideas show up in banana land. So we show up every single day, team meetings, OTTs. We take those ideas. We bring them to Wednesday's practice. We see them live. I think that's an important key. You can have an idea, but if you don't act on it and you don't figure out how to edit it, one of our principles with the bananas is plus it. How do you plus it? How do you plus what you are currently doing? A lot of people get consistent with what they're doing and they're like, OK, I'm good enough. How do you plus it? So you hear that throughout our entire organization. So you'll see that on Wednesday. We will do all the OTT entertainment ideas. They're usually pretty good. And then Thursday, we plus it a little bit more. Hey, what if we do this? Hey, what if we do this? What if we add this here? Friday comes along. Game day we rehearse for an hour on the field, usually at 1 PM for a seven o'clock game. And we usually plus it there. You have 20 people with cameras and different ideas and people go, hey, throw a glove on here. Do this here. Do this move here. And you come up with a product that, you know, is some of the, you know, I think we got some of the best dancing choreography in sports. It's crazy what our players are doing. Our guys that were first rounders, they're doing these dances and then they're hitting a 500 foot bomb in game. That's pretty wild. But that's one of our routines is those idea OTT, uh, Palooza's, but it's that show up. Be consistent every day. The compound effects going to take care of it. And, you know, that starts at the top. So if you're thinking about businesses or you're thinking about being a head coach in any program around the country, you have to live it every single day. People are going to follow what you do. And Jesse Cole is that idea Palooza vision guy and literally he has a yellow book that he's wrote down 10 ideas every single day. And then he shows up and he's in the trenches. That's not a normal owner. You know, his wife, Emily Cole, she's flipping burgers, taking out trash, making sure every 300 people in our organization. Now they all have happy birthday messages going out. She's the heart of the bananas. So it's easy to show up to work when you have owners that are in the trenches every day and I call those foxhole guys, you know, who's in your foxhole and Jesse Cole, namely, Cole or in my foxhole. And we got a lot of those foxhole guys in banana land. And I think that's why we're having success because of not the craziness because of the people. It's, it's people over profits. It's playing the long game. It's showing up every single day and moving the needle. That's something I say every day. How do we move the needle today? It might be one little target. And so if you go back to those routines in the morning, set your tone, set your temperature, how are you going to win the day? I want to share something with you, Brian. This is something really important with me. That's been inspiring for me in junior college. There was a poem called a new day. I don't know if you've ever heard this poem and my freshman year, our head coach, he was crazy. His name's Eric Meyer. So I wish I had another hour to tell you about crazy Eric Myers, but Eric Myers made us memorize this poem. It's called a new day. And he told us the first day of practice. Hey, memorize this poem. And then he didn't tell us anything else after that. Three months later, we're doing morning weights at 430. We, we do a half mile run. We go through an entire weight room circuit. The last thing we do is a ab circuit. And the last thing we do period is six inch leg holds and everybody that's done six inch leg holds for a long time knows how those get. And before we could be done for the day, the entire team had to recite a new day poem together. You know, right now, still. Let me see if I can say it because I read it every day. It's called a new day. It's so this is the beginning of a new day. I've been given this day to use as I will. I can waste or. I can waste it or. Use it for good. What I do today is important because I'm exchanging a day of my life for it. When tomorrow comes, this day will be gone forever. Having in its place, whatever I've trade for it, I pledge to myself that it should be gain, not loss, good, not evil, success, not failure in order that I shall not regret the price that I paid for this day. Amen. And I, when I say that and I read that every morning, I think about doing six inch leg holds. And we had to start over 11 times that morning. And I never forgot that poem after that. And I read it every morning, but that sets the tone. That's that's some of those routines and we could go on routines all day, man. But that's a couple of things that have impacted me over the years. The beginning of a new day, heart cell, Wilson. I'm going to post that in here. That's fantastic. TG, once again, man, coming to a close for a second time. Thank you, brother. Love you. Appreciate it. Appreciate it.

=== FILE: Building Culture from x4 HS Baseball State Championship Winning Coach Tim Albertson [TP7RVoQ1u0o].txt ===

 guys. Hey, how you doing? Brian Kane, host of the Coaching Matters Group Coaching Podcast and Program here. I just wanted to take a moment and welcome everyone to the Coaching Matters Group Coaching Podcast and Program sponsored by Fundraising University. We'd like to take the time to say thank you to any current Fundraising University coaches and administrators joining us on the call tonight with Tim Albertson. Fundraising University is the top high school fundraising company in the United States, helping raise over $150 million for programs since its inception in 2009. Tonight, I'm super excited to welcome my friend and coach Tim Albertson to the Coaching Matters Group Coaching Program to talk about team building and culture development strategies for coaches. Tim is an NPM certified coach. He's the athletic director at Stowe High School in Stowe, Vermont in his first season there about five months in. He's received his master's in sports administration from Southern New Hampshire University. And as a high school baseball coach at Champlain Valley Union High School, Tim has led the Red Hawks to four state championships, 2012, 13, 19, and 2021. It was a five time state coach of the year. He's also coached wrestling and football. Super excited to welcome coach Tim Albertson tonight to talk about team building and culture development for all coaches. Tim, thanks for being with us. Man, glad you're here. Tanner, thanks for having me. Excited to be here. Yeah. First off, congrats to you with Corbin on Sa Young. Yeah. Yeah. Super exciting last week. Corbin Burns, Sa Young Ward winner. You know, if you haven't yet checked out that podcast, I'll put a link to that inside of our chat here. But you know, pretty cool when one of our NPM trained athletes achieves something like that, you know, is the best pitcher in baseball. So super excited about that. And Tim, haven't been a baseball coach for so long and been, you know, at the highest level in the state of Vermont, four state championships. What are some of the things that you have found a lot of success with? These around team building and culture creation that you feel like any of the high school coaches, college coaches that are on this call tonight, they might be able to take and use in their programs. What are some of those key strategies? I think the first thing is you got to love what you do. You got to love what you do. You got to show a lot of passion. You got to put your whole heart into it. And the kids got, your players need to know it. The second thing is they got to, you got to care for your kids. Okay. That's, that's probably the biggest thing is you got to show them you care that you're in it, not just for the W's, but you're in it for them as well, that you want to see them be successful. Once you, once you can get in their hearts, they're going to do anything for you. And Kander, I'm going to start sharing my screen here. Yeah. Let's go here. Beautiful. Screen share tonight is the first on coaching matters. I love this. Let's go. Just working. Is it there for you? You're good to go, brother. Absolutely. Alrighty. I'm going to start here. Kander already gave you my whole background, but the other thing I, he didn't mention, I'm a husband and a father. Lucky to be a father for two beautiful daughters. I've been married for 12 years and obviously the rest, he's already told you. So we're going to get past that. Here's the big thing. What changed my life was Brian came. I met Brian in 2005. I believe that's when you were up at Mount Mansfield. Yeah. And Brian handed me a binder full of DVDs and CDs. And that kind of changed everything moving forward. That was a collection of all of his recordings that he had ever had with anybody and everybody who would meet with him. So that was awesome. The pride program I bring up in there. That's something I've used for my program and that was the first of the mental program that I use and it's personal responsibility and daily excellence. It was a program that Brian originally originated has definitely moved on beyond, but I always thought it was one of his best. He books ABCA conference. There's a lot of stories there for Brian and I. I've had Brian with me three times. So and then obviously the rest keys success already talked about you got to have the energy energy day in and day out. We talk about it with our teams. How many touches can we get this bomb side? I coach baseball. So every time you come around third, you know, at some point, whether you stop or not, we're going to have some sort of contact when somebody comes in, whether they strike out, whether they hit home run, they BUN somebody over, do something productive. There's some sort of fist bump or congratulations or nice job or we'll get them better. But we got to create that buy in as coaches. For sure. You know, we're looking at it. We want to be able to get everybody involved and start to grasp what we are looking to develop as coaches, as people, CEOs, whoever, whatever we're doing. Me as an athletic director, I came into a new school this year and I had to get people to understand who I am and why I'm there. Signs of success, promote, promote, promote. You got to have, you got to put picture. If you want to, if you want things to change in your culture, you've got to advertise as much as possible. I'm sure you've heard this from Brian before, but I can't tell you enough. We used to put signs up in the dugout every single day and the kids would always come running into the dugout and look and start reading and try and figure things out. We had a game plan for that day. We'd post it up, but we'd make sure it was plastered all over the dugout. You know, you got to have, as a team, we got to develop something and we're going to talk about it here. I know you've spoken about core covenants and the MVP process, but you got to have something to go to as a team. That one word that's going to make your team come back together, you know, whether it's a gap day or whether it's just, you know, I think we had, we had a bunch of different, a bunch. Kaizan was one of the first ones we had, you know, and that was the biggest thing that the kids bought into is getting better daily, you know, and how we can bring that together and do that together. So something we'd always, we'd say, you know, things got tough. Hey guys, Kaizan or the old Jocko Wellink, good, let's keep going. Surround yourself with people who have similar goals and that can make you better. Okay. I want to make sure that I'm getting myself better as well as making the rest of my team better, but I need people who are going to support and send the same message that I am. I think that's really crucial. And the biggest thing with your team is creating a sense of belonging. And as coaches and as for our kids, don't stop learning. So I think the big point is setting the tone. Okay. I came into CVU as a brand new coach, the program had kind of gone down a little downhill a little bit and I brought in this brought pride back to the program. I brought this red booklet and I'm going to share that booklet for you real quick. I'm going to get into it here. And the red book, is that like Nick Savins blue book, which is kind of like the mindset and the operating sort of culture playbook for your program. This is the sense of expectations and kind of what I try not to let anything. Let's see if it comes up. Is this being seen here? No, I still see setting the tone, maybe do a screen stop and then restart the share. All right, stop share. Screen one. All right. Share. All right. Get to the top here. Yep. Perfect. Now we see it. All right. So every season I start to see a lot of people who are going to be in the program. All right. So every season I started off with this booklet. Every year. This is a 37 page document. I'm not going to show it to you all, but first thing it says the success is the results of how hard we work. You work, prepare, practice and strive to improve every day. First thing my kids are going to read about the upcoming season. Okay. I was a part of four or five championships there at CVU. So we make sure that we say, Hey, you know what, this is, this is the ultimate goal. We talked about how the great things that go on in our program. We set the tone, get the kids to buy into the fact that how important it is and how great it is to be a part of our program. You know, and then as I continue to go through, we talked about what what our goals are. It's not always about it's about promoting and winning and promoting winning set high standards and go after league championships. And obviously we want to go after state championships, but that's not the number one thing we talk about is provide a top top notch baseball experience for every player in the program. We're going to win. We all know that winning is a byproduct of the things that you do day after day after day after day to get yourself to that point. Right. The goals that we set during games are, yes, we want to win the game, but how are we going to do that? Maybe we got to score a run this inning. We got to get somebody on base. We got to move that person over. We got to hit that person in. That's how we're going to move ourselves. We're going to focus on that moment that inning, whichever same thing we talked about the program. It's more than it's more than the game talking about life skills, the values that it all sets how it applies beyond baseball, beyond whatever you're doing within your school. I want my kids to be great citizens. So, and this whole booklet continues to go through it talks about my staff. I bring in the history of our program. I talked about all the kids that have had success, the award winners, kids that have gone on to play in college. I just had two kids signed to go play for Rob Cole over at Manhattan College. Nice. Nice. So I'm going to stop sharing this. Tim, is it possible? Could you maybe upload that document into the zoom chat here so we could get that and everybody could have that as a PDF and they can kind of use that as a guide? Yep, I can. I'll send that to you. Perfect. Yeah. If you email that to me, I can send it out to everybody or if you want to just upload it in the chat, you can. Yeah, with that, with that, that red book that you have, is that something where you sit in like one meeting and go over it with your whole team? Or is it something that you kind of do a page a day? I know John Wooden, one of the things he said is he never gave his players more than one page of their playbook or rulebook at a time because he wanted them to focus solely on that one page. This was something I gave to every single kid who came out for our program. So that way they could go, they could take it home, share it with their families, share it with their parents. I wanted them to read it because I wanted there to be no questions asked. Did you lose me here? All right, you got me back? Do you see me again? I can't hear you. We can hear, we can, we can hear you. I can't see you. Okay, I don't know what's happening with my, I don't know what happened to my visual. All good. I don't understand anything. Anyway, it was something that I had with me all the time that I gave out to every single kid. So let me see. Can you see this? Yep, now we can see your screen. So I think we are now back to setting the tone. Yep. So that's what the, that's what the red booklet did. It set the tone for everything else. So we set the standards and just kind of talked about our goals, which I already explained. I talked about the mental work. You know, mental work is huge. So the moving on to something different. What sets your program apart from everybody else? Well, I'm going to tell you right now, we were the mentally strongest kids on the field. We had the mentally strongest in the state. We were the strongest kids on the field every single day, whether it was in our routines during VP, whether it was talking about our routines in between practice or in between ground balls, or we were just talking about everything. The fact was, is I had always told my kids, we would never go into a game unprepared. Okay, failing to prepare is preparing to fail. You've all heard that line before. And I'm sure that when we continued to progress, we were getting better at every single game. Questions for you. I love the fact that you said our team was the most mentally tough team in the state and when you're on the field anytime. What is it that allowed you to see, because I know you know you're an NPM trained coach and you've been into sports psychology now for over a decade. What is it that you could go out to a state championship game, which you won four of, or go into these games and you can look at a team, you know, in Vermont, the talent gap is not big, right? Everyone's kind of about the same. There might be one Division I college baseball player coming out a year, maybe every two or three years there's one, right? There's not a ton. So the talent gap is pretty similar amongst those bigger schools in Vermont. How did you know you were the most mentally tough team? What stuff would you see your team do that would say these guys are mentally tough and other teams maybe do that would say, you know, do the training that we do. We made sure I could always see it in the way we approach when we came to games, but when we arrived at Centennial, our kids look like they had already been there. And it wasn't because we had played there the year before, or, you know, because both our champion, all four of our championships were back to back in two separate time periods. But you could tell that they were comfortable, that they were relaxed in a good way with having those butterflies that I always encourage. You know, butterflies means you care. You know, we knew that we were ready. We knew that we were ready to put our best foot forward. We had prepped ourselves, but we also had things to take us back to. I'm sure Brian's talked to you throughout this about just being able to have a focal point or have something to go to when adversity hits the fan. And just, we were always able to come in, have that confidence knowing that we had put on our uniforms, school was over, put on our uniforms, transformed into baseball players. And we knew that we were making that park our home. It didn't matter which stuff that we're in, we're ready to go. Let's unpack that for a second. I just funny, I just got off a call with the LSU gymnastics team before we got onto this call. And that was one of the things I talked about. It was a call with their first year student athletes. And it was one of the things we talked about was when you change your clothes, you change your being, right? When you change from your street clothes into your baseball gear or your street clothes into your gymnastics gear, whatever sport you're coaching, there's a time period where people go into a locker room somewhere and they change their clothes from student into athlete. Was that something that you were intentional about teaching them was when you change your clothes, you change your mindset? And this is how we get present for practice? Yep. So we actually put, I actually put up the Superman symbol on the back of our, on the back of the lock, of the locker room door. So every time they looked at it, they would see that symbol as I walked out. So they knew they'd either just transformed into a baseball player, because we always made them put on baseball uniforms and wear t-shirts with our logo on it. And then as they walked out, they would see that and then they would come and there's a road that actually crosses from our school to our field. We're very fortunate to be next to the field of the school. And they knew that once they got under that grass, it was baseball time. And they knew once they came off and across that pavement across the road, they knew that, you know what, it's over. So that's what that game's over with. We're done. Now I'm going to go take my uniform off. I'm going to go get back in my street clothes and everything I had going on before is now back in present. I got to focus on that. That game's over. Love that. I love that. Beautiful. Tim, continue, man. This is great. Other mental game strategies that you found success with your high school athletes, whether it was coaching baseball, football, wrestling or things that maybe you've now tried to implement as an athletic director that you think other coaches on this call could take and use to help build that mental toughness, build that team and build that culture in their program. Yeah, setting the bar and raising it was one of the first first things I learned. Moving forward is that we're going to we're going to set that bar. Here's where we want to go. Once we improve, we're going to continue to go and continue to improve. Go beyond the minimum. You know, you can get away with playing baseball and just do what you do and be really good at what you do. If you want to set that standard and increase everybody else's expectations, you've got to continue to get better. So that was one of the things that we always thought is, and I know that you've talked about before is we're going to get 1% better. And one of the quotes that actually stood out to me and this came from an alumnus after it graduated was like do today what others won't. So tomorrow you can do what others can't. So we did multiple things in practice so that the next day we could do something even more a little elite in order to be better than the next team. I always talk to my teams about being GPA leaders. I want guys that are going to be high academic achievers. I want that are taking AP courses that are pushing themselves to be better. We tie. No, thank no, that's great. I love that. Keep going Tim. Core covenants. I know that I don't I'm pretty sure you probably covered this but I'm going to go through it anyway. I always had a core covenant for our team. I had a shirt, which I couldn't find the video, the picture of, but that was the shape of a baseball field that had words that line baselines that went across from first to second, second to third. The first baseline was hustle. You know, the third baseline to home plate was grit. We're going to find a way to score. That's how hard that's what we do. That's how we do things. Aggressive was right across the mound. So we use different words that everybody would understand and I actually took all those words from my alumni. After my first five years here coaching it's when I was at CVU. And those were the common words that came about team brotherhood were some other things that kind of came about. We also did it for the season. So every season we'd said, Okay, what is going to stand us out this year from the other teams that have been involved at CVU. And that's where those one words would come out. Like I said, Kaiser was one year. We had multiple, you know, finish the job was one year, you know, they've made it to they've made it into the playoffs. Now it's our time to finish it. We're going to be better than we were last year. So we did different things. Yep. Yeah, Tim, I keep going. I want you to unpack that more in the one word in terms of did you have the players come up with the one word did they contribute to that was that something that you picked before the season like talk. And I think that's a good thing to expand on that one word coaching that one word concept because I think it's something I've used a lot with teams. Jim Schloss, Nagle now the baseball coach, and then who was at TCU and players would show up on campus he'd give them all the baseball, and they would write one word on it for the year. And if you were there for four or five years you'd have one ball with four or five words on it and the crazy thing is now 10 years later since we started doing that. And I think that's one of their former players in a one on one coaching capacity he's a he's a vice president of a real estate company in Dallas. And every time we get on a call on the bookshelf behind his desk I can see that one word baseball that he's had 10 years since being at TCU so I think this concept of one word focus is something that you can install on your high school program but they can take with them forever. Absolutely. This was something that I may have slightly guided just to kind of give him questions like what type of team are you going to be this year. Okay guys, we're going to be guys that are focused. Okay, we'll focus up on the board. Okay, what else we'll be coach we're going to hustle all the time alright put hustle up there. Coach we're going to be relentless okay talk to me about being relentless. Okay well coach we're never going to give up we'll be a team that plays to the end okay, and they would go through and they would create like four or five words and we would put those five words underneath the one word that they decided was going to be there go to. And then we would go to the next where all of a sudden it would be like okay so how are we going to define this season. Okay when you get into this. How do you want to, how are you going to motivate the team with one word when all of a sudden, again, stuff starting to hit the fan, what are we going to do. Well coach, I'm going to say Kaiser onto the team or I'm going to say now, or when, because that's what's important now. We're going to focus on this moment. Well, it's finished the job. You know, I know that's a few words but it was one of those phrases that they all locked in on. It just was easier we had hope was one year because we had a lot going on at our school so we use each of the letters to dictate something different that was going on so that we knew it could always be worse, or something could always be something else was always happening. Okay, right now we're going to get through this one of those moments so that's kind of how we use our one word. Beautiful so you're kind of you and what you're sounds like you're doing is you're helping your your student athletes create a language that they can use to help lead, whether that language be around, you know, a motto that you had for the year of one pitch Warriors or so what next pitch but you're giving them opportunities and things to go to when it gets hard. Like you said jockeau good which is a great one to be able to get back onto the productive path. I know one pk was one. I was glad I'm grateful you just said that DTD dominate the day was one of the ones with one of the phrases views as well. Next thing is just promote those, you know, put them on so use them on your social media feeds put them on your website put them on any message you email or that automatically text out to your kids. Put it on clothing, you know, we always talk about heart and hustle or I had a heart and hustle word after every game is a guy who showed the most grit sometimes it was a guy who got the most foul balls. You know, canner always talk to me about the yellow shirt award the guy who had the best defensive day you got to wear the yellow shirt for practice the next day. Just being able to kind of put that motto into into process into action. Like I said signs in the locker room on web pages learn and just make sure for you and this is where I predict the guidance is just make sure it adds into your philosophy both offensively defensively on the mound when at the plate, because you want to be able to incorporate that core common and every single thing that these your kid your team does. I got a great question come in here that I want to have you address on the topic came in from coach Al and coach Al said he says how does coach Albertson reinforce right bring to life. Those concepts from the t shirt to everyday practice like how do you bring those core those core covenants to practice every day and you kind of talked about creating the language and then seeing it right you talked about promoting with having the t shirt given to the player who brings that to life that they can use to practice. Is there anything else that you did to help take those from being words on a wall or words on a t shirt into everyday actions. Yeah, it's something we talk about every day whether it was before after practice. It was something I held to them so when we the way we presented ourselves during practice we didn't have a great day. You know hey fellas did we really show that we had focused today that we really show that we do all the that we did all of this or we're doing kind of how we went about getting this done or do we kind of just sit back and be like, All right, just another thing we got to do today. It was something that we made sure that when we went through those core covenants. We talked about how does it look in practice how do these things look in the community how do these things look when we're in school. How do these look when we're on the field and when we're off the field so we tried to make sure that we related that. So you tied your core principles your core covenants into specific behaviors of what it looks like on and off the field so if we're going to say we're going to be relentless specifically relentless is sitting in the front row relentless is getting getting to you know, it's getting to the gym four days a week in the offseason relentless is extra work after practice twice a week on your own did you address those specific behaviors. Yes, yes, absolutely all the time, and it's one of those things as we continue to move forward I actually hit upon all that and a little bit. I have time. Yeah, I keep going here Tim you're good. You know one of the things we talk about is being role models well it starts with us as the head person, the person on the top. And it all trickles down and everything we do so as we as we promote to our assistants our assistants promote to our players, our players promote to the fans and families when they're out and about or to their community members. And, you know, just being able to make sure we present ourselves the way we say that's where we go back to those core covenants. We talked about those pieces. I'm going to be into whatever I'm doing I'm going to be involved when I'm there I'm going to be be where my feet are. You know, make people want to be a part of my program and because of the way what we do and how we do it. You know that's the big thing that's how I talk to my guys about role modeling. I utilize my alumni, you know I have them come back talk to my kids talk to them about what carried over from our program into the regular lives I've now got kids that have been out of school for 13 years I come back and I got to see. And they're talking about, you know, one of the things like I said, Kaiser on coach I was sitting in class and Kaiser on came in my business class and I was like hey I know exactly what this is all about. And then, obviously, the one of the bigger things is just making sure our kids express gratitude and everything and anything that they do. Just being able to say you know what hey mom and dad thanks for all your support. Kind of like when we do at the end of the senior of the end of our year. Getting into traditions, create your traditions one of the things we used to do is every three years, and I'm going to jump down a little bit do something special. We used to go to Cooper's town. I live close enough to the Hall of Fame so I was grateful. It's a five hour trip but we went down we go down with our team every three years we'd scrimmage out of state. I go and find some teams that were better than us and then I hope we're better than us to go and play. I would try and play at a big, big venue. Okay, the biggest venue we have in Vermont and Centennial field. It's one of the oldest ballparks in the country, but it's not as grand as going and playing up in Montreal or being able to go play it. Texas a and m or state college on their field on their fields. Doing something special I used to have spike ball tournaments dodge ball tournaments to ball tournaments. Kids get crazy and fanatic about those and when you start adding a team element to those things. They start supporting one another they start making sure each other's doing the right things. A lot of fun and then we usually have some sort of quick celebration for the, for the end of those events so. When I talk about the Red Hawk way I'll go back to the top how we do things when I'm sitting in there and I show those kids that booklet. What I tell them that red booklet that I talked about the beginning. And here's the things that we know we hustle on and off the field all the time we want to we want to be on the field before our opponents off and we want to be off the field before our opponent is fully on there. We want to be ready to be able to see as many pitches as we want. We want to be make sure that we can have some quick conferences, so that we're not missing out we can see as many pitches as possible or we can rush the other team we want to set the tone. We want the tone to be set against us. We keep things. My biggest thing when I was growing up is make sure things are left better than you found them. Well, I feel like I've did that after the last 13 years before I became an AD but I'm, I felt like I left CBU better than it was our dugouts. Okay, I was going through first kid. After the championship game. There was another game after ours. And kids coming out. I'm cleaning up the dugout because my kids are celebrating. And one of the kids that's going to be in my school comes up and shakes extends his hands says, I just heard you're going to be our new athletic director. Can I help you clean up the dugout. It's the greatest thing I was like, Oh my God, I can't wait to be at this school I just can't wait for this to happen. You know, the other thing was the dugout when we got into it was atrocious from a kid who I coach prior to that. So, and he had just won it. So, but it was his first championship. So, let him let him go with it, but make leave things better than leave things better than they were. You know, have community events. You know, we were unfortunately we had had some kids who whose family or themselves that had cancer. So we tried to do things to support them have fundraisers and do some great things. One of the kids that I coached. Survive leukemia is actually doing really great went down to play some college ball down at Union College this past year. Mental health games as you know mental health has been a big concentration recently. Unfortunately, right before 2019 season. One of my players took his life. And so we decided that we were going to support he and his family. And we we've now done a mental health game each season. In order to make sure that we're checking in and get that awareness out for everybody. And we continue to we go to there. They have some hope rows and things like that. And that was part of the reason why that year we chose hope. So, but one of the thing the last thing I talk about here is actually I kind of stole it from the all blacks, but I've always felt this way. The New Zealand rugby team passing of the torch leave the uniform better than you received it. So, I want kids to take pride and when kids come into our program and when they come up through the ranks, whether it's the JV team or the freshman team and they get up. I want them to feel like they're getting something that they need to leave better than they got. So, I think this is a good point to kind of press pause for a second and I just want to take a moment to once again, you know, recognize fundraising university and owner Mike is the official sponsor for the coaching matters group coaching podcast and current coaches. If you'd like to be a coaching matters ambassador coach in your state and earn between five and $20,000 part time contact Mike, Bihun M B A H U N at fundraising the letter you fundraising you dot net that's M Bihun at fundraising you dot net to acquire about our new ambassador coach program. Thanks for being with us.  man, if you would, if you could kind of continue down the path that you were on, talking about team building and culture and mental performance that you use, not only as an athletic director, but also used as a coach. You got, Brian. And again, I apologize. I don't know why I'm having problems with my video, but I apologize. So here we go. So I've got build up your youth program. So one of the things that I always found useful for me was going in and being a part of our little leagues, our Babe Ruths, our Legion programs, and making presentations into those. And just making sure that I bring my players in. I want these guys, those kids and those coaches, to see our players so that they bring their kids out to see our teams play. I have them demonstrate the drills, educate them. I try to educate them about what I see for a philosophy. I try and give them advice in regards to kind of what they should be focused on. And there's, I think, sometimes we try to accelerate our youth too quickly before giving them the fundamental skills of what they need. I try and give them as many booklets. I created a couple of booklets. I don't have it electronically though. That would add skills and drills that I would provide those programs. And hopefully they could go and put those on the websites. I'd have the team either go to a couple of the literally practices or invite those teams to come to our practices so we could do something or come be a part of a special game that we were hosting. I try to be active at all events. I try to be very visible. I went to all all star games, whether it was the, you know, the regionals or if we had a team from our district that made states, I try and make sure and go as well as being a part of their opening day ceremonies at their schools or at their fields. And lastly, we hosted a camp for Little League at our school where actually all my players ran the whole thing and I kind of just orchestrated and made sure that everybody was getting what they needed during those camps. You know, one of the things I talk about is getting 1% better. Find ways to make yourself and your team better. You know, one of the things that kind of got us to the championship this last year is we were atrocious two games in a row with our defense. We had eight errors and one game went a lot where we ended up giving up eight runs. We ended up losing eight, six. And then we had one game where it went in by two and we couldn't get it out. Balls were going through legs, making bad throws. We were, you know, we weren't using our process and staying strong mentally. So the kids all of a sudden we problem shot. We talked about well, better how, you know, what can we do? Well, what did we do? Well, today. We need to do better and how are we going to do it? Well, we got done that game and they said, coach, we're going to start taking more ground balls. We're going to start throwing across the diamond like we mean it every time we do it. I will tell you that our games got better. Our defense got more. We went from having an average in like three errors a game to half an error game by the end of the season and 20 games season. The kids would go and they would left in the mornings. They'd go for runs. They found ways to get together and go take care of that. Kids were doing mental reps. You know, we didn't get out in the outfield. We didn't, you know, and do like a mental training there, but we would have the kids during warmups or during practice taking mental reps when they weren't getting physical reps. This is something that Brian taught me when he first came out. He actually came and watched one of my practices and he was like, hey, why are the guys all just standing around as you sit there and hit ground balls all around? They could be doing other things. So they started doing some mental reps or extending the rep where they would each take a baseball out with them, put it in their back pocket. And so when their group wasn't going, they were doing different drills until it was their turn. Well, we kind of give them a pre-warning of like, hey, just going to the first basement, third basement, be ready. Okay. Working to the short stops. And most times we always try to have two or three fungos going at once, but it allowed those kids, the guy who was behind them would go and would take a mental rep where he was fielding our ground ball, even though his partner in front of him would be taking that. So he would go through the entire motion. Boom. What's up, Kater? Tim, unpack that a little bit more, maybe outside of a baseball context. You were a wrestling coach. You were a football coach. Now as an athletic director, you go out to a lot of practices at Stowe High School. Where can coaches around this call come in from all different sports? Where can they build those mental reps into their practice? You can build it everywhere. And that's where you taught me a lot on that. You know, obviously the more lines you can have, the better off you are, the more ways you can get kids involved. But when you don't have enough balls or you don't have enough ways in wrestling, we used to shadow wrestle. You know, we used to do it by ourselves. There may be two guys wrestling. You were in a group of three. That other guy would practice some of the shots or work on other things. If I was in soccer, I'd be working on creating motion and making sure I'm cutting through where I need to be so that we can have that one touch. And working on getting into those situations. If it was football, I was thinking about what the call was and I would pretend in my head that I was running the same route as the guy in front of me. Or if I was running back and I was the next guy up, coach would say, okay, 33 draw. Okay, what am I doing? Okay, I'm taking a small step to the side. I'm sitting for a second. Okay, and mentally I'm going through with my eyes closed. But there's many ways that we can go about that. Coaches making calls and you're on the sideline, just seeing yourself going through the process of those drills. Or what my responsibilities were for that play. You want me to keep rolling here? I love that. I love that concept of mental reps. You go to a practice and for the coaches here, obviously if you get to watch another team practice who's on your campus and you get to go see, you'll see how many times people are standing around instead of maybe mentally engaging in what they could be doing. So if it's, for example, football practice, you've got the 11 guys running a play on air and you've got 50 standing behind watching. Instead of those 50 maybe lining up in multiple position groups behind 10 yards back and they're doing the same thing that the group in front of them is doing. So now that you're not running your ones and then your twos and then your threes, you're running your ones twos and threes all at the same time, 20 yards separate from each other or 30 yards separate from each other and you're just moving up and down the field like five yards, turn around five yards the next way or whatever it is or 10 yards this way, 10 yards that way. So they're getting three times as many reps during practice and some of the feedback here from coaches is, well, I like to watch my guys get reps. Well, you can still watch your guys get reps because while you're watching your twos, your ones are doing nothing. So now just watch your twos and your ones will still be getting better because they'll be getting reps at what you're doing. So I think it's just a different way to think about practice. And Tim, if I can, I want to, as an athletic director, what are some of the biggest mistakes that maybe you see coaches making that you could help speed up the learning curve or some of the coaches on this coaching matters group coaching call? What are some of those mistakes that maybe you see coaches making that maybe some of the coaches on this call are making that you could help them to avoid? I would say the first thing is making sure keeping, try and keep, don't always focus on your ones because what happens is you're one, somebody's going to get hurt. Okay. So you want to make sure that your twos and your threes are ready to go. They need to be up to snuff so that when they get in, just because they're not your most talented kid, you may need to work actually focus more on them and build them up more. You know, some of the other things is try not to, try not to make your practices stagnant. You know, add some new things, make sure that you're able to hit everybody's abilities, whether it's working on fundamentals or it's advancing some of your better players, you know, don't just because your best player is really good and he does things really well. It doesn't mean that he, he needs to stop improving. Don't just assume that he's going to continue to make himself better. Most times they actually start to press back and we tend to not focus on them. We focus sometimes too much on the lower half as well. So make sure you're hitting everybody in your practices because you got to make everybody better. That's what they're all there for. And that's kind of what their expectation is of you is that at the end of the day, they're going to be 1% better at the end of practice. Just like that, the number 16 guy on the bench, your number one guy needs just as much attention. Beautiful. Awesome. Thanks, Tim. Talk to us more about this concept to get in 1% better. I know that's one thing that's been really big, you know, with fundraising university is this concept of just continually trying to get 1% better. And as somebody who's, who's already on the forefront of leading fundraising and high school sports, I think the best are always trying to get better. And sometimes I think trying to get better, we can look at like we have this mountain to climb. And if I'm taking over a new program, often you're taking over a new program as a coach because there's a lot of work to do. And the guy who is there, a gal who was there before you wasn't doing that work. So now you have to dig that out. But just talk about this concept of 1% better and how you use this with your team, you know, and that concept of 14 minutes and 24 seconds is 1%. How do you use this, Tim, with your program? I try not to have my drills go, you know, when we're working on team drills or things like that, I try not to let them go too long. But when you look at the 14, 24, you know, making sure that those kids understand that if they go and they take ground balls up by themselves for 14 minutes, they've now utilized 1% of their day to get better, you know, and I think as you sit around and you look at it like every morning, our team used to get together before a game and take BP guy and they would go, we have a couple of cages that were set up and it allowed the kids kind of talk to one another and just kind of wake up together. But the other part is they were getting better because they had now already taken swings, they had already gone and made themselves, prepared themselves for today's game before, so the before school. And now they're going to go be better in education because they're proving out, they're proving in school that if you go and you take a PE class first and you go to science, you're going to be better in that science class and vice versa. And as you continue to look into your other classes, but being 1% better, making sure that, you know, taking 14 minutes and 24 seconds to study for a class is going to make me 1% better in that class, you know, and as we sit there, sometimes kids drown themselves, you know, studying for too many hours, trying to focus on and not allowing themselves to take those breaks. Just let them know, hey, 1424, let's get 1% better, make sure you're doing that, whether it's in the morning, whether it's right before you go to bed, it doesn't always have to be right at once. You know, one of the things that is good as coaches is have a 360 perspective. This is a hard one for all of us, but get that full circle view of who you are and what your program is about. Sometimes it might be some humbling things that you hear, you may find out that there may be things that you think you're doing all the time, but all of a sudden you hear from somebody that, you know, who comes to your games and you're like, hey, what do you think about our team? Well, they don't hustle. Yeah, we do. No, no, they don't hustle all the time. You think they do, but they don't. You know, there's always a little bit more, where all of a sudden is, you know what, your guys don't show as good a sportsmanship as you think they do. They kind of have a little arrogance to it. Okay, what do you think I need to do to fix that? But always being able to get that, that allows you to be a little bit better as a coach. Then post game, I always talk about praise the game, praise the great things your teams did and talk with your players about the game. Let's talk about, have them be involved in that conversation. Don't always be the dictator. What do we do well? What do we do better? How can we do it better? Or, you know, what was good? What can be better? What's next? How can we do that better next? So, yeah, Tim, I want you to unpack this concept of well better how and good better next, because the well better how is something that, you know, that Corbin Burns would do after every start this year and in his, in his young season is he would, he would look at the statistics, you know, from his start, he would watch, he would watch every pitch that he threw, he would track whether he executed or didn't execute, and then he would do a well better how he would send it to me, then that would start up a conversation. So I want to have you unpack how you use well better how here in a second. But first, I just want our coaches who are on the call with us here tonight are listening to the podcast to understand that fundraising university is always looking for individuals who are competitive, self-starters, empathetic, organized, and teachable to partner with. And if you're a current coach on this call or interested in learning more about how fundraising university can help you raise funds, you can dream big and do more. Or if it's, if you're interested in becoming an assistant coach or area representative with positions open within fundraising university and adding an extra five to $20,000 for your efforts, please contact Mike Behoon and Behoon at fundraising you.net. Or you can visit fundraising you.net slash franchising to find out more about becoming a fundraising university franchise owner. Tim, unpack that concept of well better how. How often would you do that with your team? And when you're talking about doing a 360 evaluation, would you do a well better how outside just the players in your program? Would you go into, you know, people you respected in the school, other coaches, people in the community, parents, like how far out of your inner circle would you go with that well better how? Well, the well better how I'll start with my team. I do that with every facet of our game. How what do we do well as an offense? Okay, or at the plate. What do we do? What can we do better at the plate? Well, coach, we can, we can be better disciplined at seeing pitches. I felt like we were always jumping out on the first pitch and we were rolling it over. Or how can we and what how can we go about fixing this in the future? We do it with a running game. You know, what do we do well? Well coach, I felt like we all made our turns really well. I thought we went first to third really well because we saw the ball all the way through to the outfield. We took the peak at the right time or supposed to when we were stealing. Okay, well, what didn't we do well? Well, coach, some of us were slowing up before we got the home plate. It almost bit us on an out that was made, but I so and so happened to make it. And then we would do it with pitching, you know, we talked with our pitchers about it. We talked with our bench, you know, how can you cheer on the team a little bit better? Or it was our was our culture good on the bench? Were we staying in the game where we focused? Or could we be better at that? And how are we going to do that? You know, I thought our chair, I thought we kind of got complacent and kind of sat back. Looking at the 360 view, you know, again, it was I would talk to some of my administration. I had constant conversations with my AADs. I would talk to some of the people that I constantly would see at our games. My biggest critic was my wife. So I would always come home and I would ask her questions about what she saw because she has a really good perspective. She was a college softball player. So she's got a really good natural game. And then, you know, I would talk to some of the parents, some of the families, and then even some of my friends that would come to games. Hey, what'd you say? What would interest you? You know, what were you on impressed with? You know, some of those are tough questions to ask. And some of those answers are even harder to receive because it may be something that you may take pride in that comes back to you. And I would talk to my alumni when they came to games and say, hey, you know, what do you think? You've gotten soft, you know, you get that every once in a while. You're not jumping all over people anymore. You know, you've lightened up. Well, no, I got a new perspective. I'm trying to work with these kids to make them better. I'm not looking to attack them and get all over people. So that's how the 360 typically worked. And I would sometimes do it anonymously with kids where I would just I would just want answers. I'd send out a Google Doc and say, hey, fill this out. I don't want to know who's sending it to me back. But here you go. So. And other questions coming in here for for coach Tim Albertson. Feel free to post those inside of our chat. We'll make sure we get those answered. And Tim, appreciate you being with us here, man. And I know you're about to talk about how to handle adversity, which is something I think we all can benefit from. So I think one of the things that we need to talk that we do talk about not enough, though, is how we do handle situations, whether it's on the field, whether it's during a moment in the game or just how we handle ourselves when stuff gets tough in life. And I think this is one of the moments that we need to talk about with our kids a little bit more, you know, whether it's teaching them how to go to something. I'm going to, you know, coach, I didn't make that pitch or I didn't get that call. I'm going to turn and look at the scoreboard. I'm going to go and turn at the left foul, foul pole because every field's got a left foul pole or everybody's got there's a sign, you know, that I'm going to look at at our field. Okay. I'm going to take some deep breaths. I'm going to center myself. I'm going to look up and down my body and I'm going to be ready when I get back on the mound or when I get back in the box or I'm going to swipe the box clean after a pitch that I, before I get into the, before I get into the batter's box because that last person's that bats over my last that bats over. This is a new I want to clean beautiful box to step into because now this is my put my batter's box. Having something to say to ourselves. Good. Guess what? I we're going to get better because that happened. Jocko Willink. I've read all his books. I love them. He can be a little too blunt at times, but he's pretty funny. But he, you know, one of his things is that if you've ever heard a Spotify song, he just sits there and the whole thing is just good. We're going to get better. Hey, we don't have enough cannons. Good. We're going to have to find another way to do that. We don't have, we don't have, they're taking away one of our alleys. Good. We have to find another way to do this. You know, Kane, I read his book. So what next pitch? You know, that's one of the ones I constantly use with my kids. Hey, something's happening. Hey, that pitch is over. We got to play for this next one. When what's important now. Trevor Moad. Great book. It takes what it takes. Keep moving forward. He talks about the quarterback from Seattle. And now he continues. He's in a close. He's in a game where they're, they may be out of reach and he continues to focus on just that moment. Hey, we've got to do this. We've got to continue to move forward. We got to focus on now. And if we can go and get these points, that's all we can do right now. And then Sorenson and Kane having routines to handle adversity and being able to slow down the moment. Sometimes in life, we don't slow down enough. And we've got to be able to do that as well. And then understanding that adversity is going to happen in life. How are we going to handle it? It's about more than just the game. It's about how we approach it in life. Yeah, I think you keep going here, Matt. Great. Appreciate you. Okay, no problem. Make it memorable. That's the other thing is make it memorable. Do the little things for your teams. You know, give them team pictures, game booklets, honor your seniors. I was continuing to go on here and then I was texting with Kane when I was going through this stat. But make it memorable for the kids. My philosophy has always been, I want the kids to live. To live this knowing that they had a good time. Whether we went to state championship or was in the quarters or, you know, we play a great game or we get blown out. Okay, what do we take from this? What did we do well? Let's make sure it's a good memory or just the season. You know, my first season, we were 4 and 13. We almost beat the team that went on to be state champs. They had to throw us out. They had a perfect throw home to catch us to beat us. Guess what? That's a great season. We did some things well. We culminated and we played really, really well. We peaked at the right time. You know, focusing on the things that we can control and being able to make those possibilities happen. Canner? Yeah, question comes in from Tyler Whitebread. Tyler said, Coach Tim, what's an example of a routine that can be used during an adverse situation to help a player get back to being present? Great question. First things first, take a deep breath. Step off, take a breath. Now allow yourself to slow down. I don't know if Canner's done the box breathing with you, but just breathe in for five seconds. Hold it for five seconds. Breathe out for five seconds. And just take that moment to slow everything down. Step off the rubber. Allow yourself. Rub the ball off while you're doing this if you're a pitcher. If you're in the batter's box, you know, just step out, take a deep breath. Look down at your coach after you've taken that breath. Get your sign. Get yourself. Maybe take a look. I don't know if you have a spot. I always, like I had an Easton bat, so I was looked at the big E that was on there before I got into the box. So I'd hold my back straight out and look at it. Take another breath. Tap the other side of the plate as I got into the box, stepped in. And now all of a sudden I'm telling myself, rip, rip, rip, giving myself an opportunity. Or if I'm getting on the mound, I get my sign, I take another breath. Pound it. Pound it. Pound it. And now I'm looking to pound that spot that my catcher's given me. Awesome. Tim, another question came in from Al. He said, as an athletic director now at Stowe High School, have any of the other teams in your school, right, any other teams on your campus, have they bought into the same mental performance practices and principles? Has it spread throughout the other teams at your school yet? We're getting there. You know, it's been an interesting five months. But yes, I've actually been fortunate enough. I have a couple of coaches. I love listening to our girls soccer coach. He just won his back-to-back championships this vast fall. And listening to him talk about the different adversities that have been going on during games and getting his girls to focus on, here's what we need to do to be able to be better. And this is what's got to happen. He's constantly coaching those kids as they come off the field and telling them about things. But, you know, he always talks about, listen, this is our game. This is why it's our game because today could be the day that they play their best game. So we've got to come out and we've got to play our best game every single time we come out here. And that was one of the most impressive things I had seen. So yes, I've gotten some buy-in. One of the bigger things is that I'm not a big fan of body language. You know, I think body language presents itself to everybody in the crowd. It teaches people how you're doing, how you're feeling. If I start sagging my arms or I start throwing my hands out, guess what? I was an opponent. I'm beating you. I know I've got you beat. I'm going to keep attacking you. And as soon as your head goes down, we're going to attack you with a ball and soccer or we're going to come at you after a big play. If you're closing down, we're coming after you again in football. So my coach has talked a lot about that. My boys coach did a great job with that and just making sure that they continue to fight and battle. And hey, we have no control over his perspective. We've got to continue to play this game. We've got to continue to move forward. I had a field hockey team who's been in the state finals the last 10 years and has had an unfortunate outcomes most of those times. But this year we didn't have enough girls, guess what? We had to field the team, but yet they continue to stay together and try and play a JV season. I was really impressed by the coach and how she handled that situation and taught those girls, listen, we're going to make the best of this situation. We're going to have the best time when possible. Other questions, Brian? I'm trying to continue to unmute myself here. I got diagnosed with a COVID yesterday. So I was sitting here coughing the whole time. So I keep forgetting to unmute myself. I don't unmute myself. So Tim, last thing here, I know, man, you have some book here. Some favorite authors that you have on there. So maybe let's have you run through that. And then I'll ask you our final question here and we'll call it a day, man. I appreciate you being with us here on the Coaching Matters Group Coaching Podcast. Absolutely. Appreciate you having me. Obviously any of Kane's 12 pillar series, if you can go through that whole book series, that thing outlines everything that he talks about with the 10 pillars. At the beginning, he had 12. He's compacted some of those, which I appreciated. But it all runs together and it's great and it's a great story. I'm telling you, my nine-year-old could read the whole thing. She would love it. So what next pitch was a great one, the leadership clock. Again, talking about role modeling and how to approach situations and teach leadership. Great book. John Gordon, I think, is one of the best books called The Energy Bus. And it's all about bringing energy and how different having energy and not having energy can be. It's about being that fountain not the drain. Wind in the locker room first is a great one. And again, I love one word. That was a great book. Trevor Moad, it takes what it takes. It's a great story. Again, if I could just remember what the quarterback's name is for the Seahawks, but he did a great... It's basically a book relating with him and kind of just his transformation with Trevor moving forward. It's a great book. It actually was recommended by Kane and I can only pass it on. Darren Donnelly, he's got some great books. Josh Medcalf, Wind in the Dark is one of my favorites. It actually got me working out in the morning. And it just... The fact is, is that everything you can do behind closed doors that nobody sees is only going to make you shine more in the spotlight. So it's a great book. Pound the Stone, Chopwood, Kerry Water, Understanding, Daily Routines, Getting 1% Better, Continuing to Stay Focused and Grinding. And then Afromo, his books, I just think are great. He just came out with a leadership book that I just started and I'm halfway through. So, and a couple of my favorites here for you. There's my podcast selection on my ride to Stowe and from Stowe. I love... I listened to Zach Sorensen. If you're on here, congratulations, man, on the World Series. I know you've been involved in a few of these, but I know you also presented earlier this month. Mental performance daily at three minute. Words of advice or perspective from Canter has always been a good one. Success hotline. I know Rob Gilbert has done a lot for Canter, but he turned me on to this and I've been listening to it or calling in on a daily basis. One that I found is Lindsay Wilson. She was a basketball player. She adds in some mindfulness. She does some... What she calls a braver, which is some breathing exercises right after she gives her... motivational peace or perspective change, but the braver's been great. They do some affirmations at the end. Justin Sua, increase your impact. He does a great job. If I recall, Canter is Jake Thompson trying to become an NPM. Is that what I saw this morning? You're muted, bud. He's muted. Yeah. Yeah. Good. Yeah, he is. He's been one that I've been following for quite a while and he has so many great podcasts. His Monday Fridays are very quick like Canter does on a daily basis, but his Wednesday one is a really great focus on different things. He's got some great motto words, outwork your talent is one of the ones that I've always found and enjoyed. The Mayor's Office, Sean Casey, ever since I had him on the podcast before with us, I've been following those and he's done a great job with that. Awesome. I would recommend all of these to your kids. Beautiful. Well, Tim, man, I appreciate you taking time out of your hectic schedule, being a father and being a new AD and just all the stuff that you got going on. Last question I have for you here tonight, and thanks again for being a guest on the Coaching Matters Group Coaching podcast sponsored by Fundraising University. If we could remove the skullcap of everybody listening to this podcast and we could plant one seed of success that would germinate and that would be the Tim Albertson seed. So the one tip, the one thought, the one piece that you want our coaches to take away, what would that one seed be, Tim? Oh, geez, here we go. Smile. Smile and greet everybody like it's the first time you've ever met them because your first impression to all of those people is going to could be a lasting lifetime impact to that person. It may be the only time you ever meet them, but you know, one of the first things that came to me from a student here is in a note that I got from one of the teams was you're always smiling and it makes my day when I get to see when I see you at school because you always are cheerful and ready to go. Let the kids know that you enjoy them and love what you do. You know, we all stress over some of the little things and we work really hard at what we do, but the bigger part is if you do the smile, that's what everybody sees. Nobody sees what's going on underneath. It's kind of like the duck. Be calm up top, but inside you can be running all over the place or swimming all over. Awesome. Tim Albertson, it's been a pleasure, man, to reconnect and to get you on the coaching matters group coaching podcast sponsored by fundraising university. Best to you this holiday season. I appreciate you making time to sit down and join us and make us all better, man. Thanks for being here. Kenner, thanks for having me. Good luck to all the coaches and everybody on here. Awesome. Thanks for everybody joining us here. Our next coaching matters group coaching podcast will be on Monday, December 6th, and we will talk about building and championship culture and coaching the mental game with the  the Eric Bakic, head baseball coach at the University of Michigan. That will be from 8 to 9 PM Eastern Monday, December 6, 2021. We'll see you then.

=== FILE: How To Reflect on Your Performance Like Kobe Bryant [wx5rpQz1kmw].txt ===

 the success cycle that when you run your guaranteed success. Hi, I'm Brian Cain, mental performance coach, in the success cycle, it's three steps. Prepare, perform, reflect. Ask yourself as a coach, ask yourself as an athlete. How much of your time goes into preparation, performance, and reflection? And unequivocally, most people will say, most of my time goes into preparation and performance. The problem with that is that when reflection happens, that's where most of the learning happens. So if you're missing reflection, you don't even necessarily know what adjustments you need to make from performance in preparation to get better for the next performance. Prepare, perform, reflect on performance, prepare, perform, reflect on performance, reflection. It can happen in a lot of ways. One way is you look at video of your performance, and you look at not just the mechanics of your performance and the strategy of your performance, but the body language of your performance, the presence of your performance. And you evaluate off of video, just like you would if you were looking at game tape and you were trying to scout an opponent, you gotta scout yourself, the self scout. It's a great way to assess yourself on video. Second way to assess is to simply do what's called a well-better how or a start, stop, continue. When the competition is over, maybe before you take the uniform off in the locker room before you take a shower to wash off the day, you can reflect by writing down, what did I do well? What do I want to do better the next time? How am I going to do that? Lewis Howe is in his podcast in the School of Greatness featured a clip with Kobe Bryant talking about how after every game you have to process it the same way, whether you win or you lose, and you ask yourself, what did I do well? What do I want to do better? How am I going to do the things that I did well again? And how do I do the things I want to do better, better moving forward? So Kobe Bryant, one of the greatest of all time, using a well-better how process to reflect on performance, whether he won or whether he lost. You see, the outcome of the performance is neutral until you label it as good or bad. Now the winner loss is dictated by the scoreboard, but we don't win or lose, we win or learn. And the way that we learn is we do reflection, a piece that most often gets stepped over or mistaken. So the reflection can be the well-better how or start, stop, continue. For example, after a game, a post game, some of the best coaches I've been around, I've seen them take their team and their team would get into smaller groups and do a start, stop, continue based off maybe their position, or based off a certain aspect of the game, like DOC, Defense, Offense, Culture. The coach would come back with a team and say, defensively, start, stop, continue. Offensively, start, stop, continue, culture. And they would process it that way, being player led, instead of it being coach fed all the time. So the well-better how, the start, stop, continue process, those are ways for you to reflect and really extract that learning that you can from performance to allow you to then have more specific and better preparation moving forward so that ideally your performances continue to get better. So understand the three step success cycle. Prepare, perform, and then reflect. So you learn from that performance and can use that in the next cycle of preparation. With the worksheet that's below, I encourage you to go through the reflection process of well-better how and start, stop, continue from the recent performance, generate a discussion with your team about what you can learn, both individually and collectively as a group. You can do a reflection on your own performance, on your team performance, and then collaborate together so that you can learn and make that next cycle of preparation that much more specific and that much better so you can help your next performance.

=== FILE: Improving Reaction Time - Anthony Alfredo, NASCAR Driver [T63XqN-Xprc].txt ===

 packageddashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdashdash the time and the opportunity. Obviously talking with you is really cool as a professional athlete. Someone always working on my mental performance game. You're the guy. So it's always a pleasure. Well, bro, talk to us about the season, man. Before we start diving into kind of picing and improving reaction time and kind of what you do in a reaction time sport like NASCAR or like baseball, first just talk to us about how is the grind of the season going for you right now? It's been a grind to say the least. You have racing for those sports that it's full of ups and downs. And unlike most other sports, just because there's 40 of the best in the world on the track, all of us, no matter how good you are, are going to lose more races than you win. And that's a difficult mental challenge to face for any driver. But you go through slumps sometimes where you were just on top of the world running up front every week, being competitive. And then sometimes there's a lot of stuff out of your control. And we've had that this year. So we've had some great runs. Most of the time we've had really good speed, which is a positive. But unfortunately, we've had a lot of things out of our control happen, like just mechanical failures, get caught up in a crash of somebody else's mess. And that's a part of racing. I think the important thing is if we fail and it's because of something we did or I did behind the wheel, we look at it as an opportunity to learn and grow and get better. But sometimes you do everything right in your power and it just isn't meant to be. So I think wrestling with that, knowing how to take things away is learning opportunities and when to just keep your head down and keep digging, as we say, in racing, just to go out at another race. There's always another race the next week, thankfully. And we've, like I said, it's been a roller coaster so far. But we've certainly had some ups and downs, but keeping a level ahead. Sounds a lot like being a baseball hitter, man, where you talk about the things that are outside of your control. So when I talked a lot with hitters, one of the questions I always ask, mostly guys that are relatively new to the mental game, is I would say, how are you evaluating your success at the plate beyond your batting average? Or in your case, how are you evaluating success as a driver other than like where you finish, which can largely be outside of your control? So like, how do you evaluate success for yourself, Anthony, as a driver on the circuit? Well, that's a really great question because in racing, contrary to popular belief, I think we've talked about this last time I was on, is not every car is the same. So you're only as fast as your car, right? Your goal is to go out there and do the absolute best you can behind the wheel. Be, execute on restarts, on pit road, keep your car clean, you know, don't knock defenders off it. Pit crew gets you on and off pit road well, crew chief make good strategy calls. So everyone's gotta be firing on all cylinders, they're no pun intended. But you have to kind of gauge your success based on your resources, right? For my personal situation, I drive for a smaller team. We have about a third to a quarter of the budget that most teams have. And having that financial stability at the larger teams that allows you to buy more people, more equipment, new parts, better parts and pieces to build faster cars and speed costs, how much do you wanna spend? So for us, racing on a budget, you know, there's a lot of used parts that we're running and we're kind of mileageing out things. And sometimes that's what leads to mechanical failures, but our backs against the wall, we go out there and understand that. So don't try to go run 10th with a 15th place car and wreck it, you know, take that top 15. And then the next week, when you do have a top 10 or a top five car, make sure you do everything you can to execute. So you're constantly gauging your performance, A, off of you personally making sure you did everything right, if you didn't, how could you be better? And then other times, even though it doesn't feel good, you have to just kinda look at the big picture and understand your circumstances. If you don't have the fastest car, don't be so caught up in the fact that maybe you didn't finish up front. It's more important to focus on completing all the laps, keeping your car together and being able to make that car better for the next time you get out on track. And the last thing you wanna do is tear it up, because you're not getting better at wrecking cars. Speaking about being able to go out there and perform at your best, one of the things that becomes so important that I wanna shift the conversation to is that reaction time, right? That readiness, getting a good night's sleep and making sure that you're recovered. All the data that you're getting from the Pison device that you wear as one of the professional athletes using this data to help you in a reaction time sport, how is it, Anthony, that you're using Pison and some of the testing and the data to really improve your personal performance? Well, it's really cool because I've seen a lot of environmental factors in my life affect all those things you've mentioned. So my sleep, just whether I'm stressed or maybe I had caffeine too late in the day or maybe there's just something going on at work, but other times, seeing how a good night's rest does affect me, affect my training sessions and ultimately my performance on the track. So to see that play into competition as a professional athlete, but also my daily life, I've actually been able to bio hack as we like to say it, Pison, because I can literally use caffeine as a tool. I know that if I have caffeine that two hours later, I'm operating at my peak mental performance. It's not necessarily 30 minutes after, like maybe some people think it and maybe it is, everybody's different, but for me, I'm able to utilize that now by having caffeine two hours prior to a race or a workout, not as soon as I walk into the gym because by the time I'm leaving the gym, I haven't even utilized it. So it's pretty cool to learn those things thanks to Pison and seeing that in the app. I can tag all my readiness tests and agility tests to see what kind of things are going on in my life in that moment and ultimately how it affects me personally. So now as a race car driver, getting myself dialed in into that state of mind, right? It's not about clocking in, it's about locking in, as I like to say, and when you put that helmet on, it's alter ego, you gotta go out there and execute at a super high level, and sometimes you don't get the best night's sleep or sometimes there's a time difference, you get a long flight that morning or the day before. So how do you get yourself race ready? Well, now it's not just about those environmental factors, I can utilize the tests on the Pison device to kind of dial myself in despite how I'm feeling, which is really cool and something that is just a huge advantage for me. I mean, a lot of guys are testing with these reaction time devices, the fit lights on the wall and stuff, well, now you've got it on your wrist. So it doesn't matter if you're at the racetrack in the hotel room or me literally on the grid about to strap in my race car, I can get myself into the right state of mind and even just keep checking in on myself on what mental state I'm in. Or at home if you're driving the simulator and you wanna use it to see if it improves on the simulator too, right? Or if you're in the gym and you're getting ready to train and I think the cool part about Pison is it's so easy, it's so portable, and it now functions as a watch where it gives you time, it gives you steps, it's giving you HRV data. So it's giving you a lot of the same data that people would be accustomed to with say like a whoop or with an aura. They've made some tremendous upgrades with it. And I think one of the things that I've gotten the best feedback from, from the baseball players I'm working with that use it is like you've said, if they show up and they're not at a readiness state or reaction time that they wanna be at, they will do some modalities, let's call them, to get them where they need to be, cryo, if they have that at their stadium, cold plunge, which everybody has. One I heard that was great was like a rhythmic movement with an increased heart rate. So think about like jump rope, agility ladders, hockey player that I work with in the NHL playoffs, was doing wall juggling with it to kind of get himself to be locked in, right? That kind of like cognitive testing and making myself have to move. Anything that you found, Anthony, that like helps you increase readiness reaction time before a race that's a part of your protocol, which maybe you don't wanna share because of the comp, you don't want the competition to know which I get to. No, honestly, a big part of it's kind of just getting moving, getting the blood flowing, getting outside in the heat to get my body acclimated and stretching, just some warming up. Listening to music is actually amazing how that affects my mind prior to a race, just getting me kind of pumped up. But the test themselves or how I get myself into the right state of mind. So I'll test and sometimes I'm ready to go, but I'll still do two or three to just to get consistent results. But when I'm not feeling myself, I'll do five, six, seven, however many I need to. And it's, you can kind of train yourself to start getting into that state of mind faster and faster. Now it takes me less tests than it used to. What's really cool is I had been testing with the readiness test for the longest time, which is just straight up reaction time. And it's actually interesting because I'm super duper fast, but now that I started focusing more on the agility test, I've noticed that I'm quick, but I don't always make the right decision quickly. And that's something that's critical in racing, right? If there's a crash in front of you, how are you gonna avoid it at 200 miles an hour? Are you gonna go high, are you gonna go low? Are you just gonna slow down? Whatever the case may be, well now with the agility test, which is kind of a no go, a go, no go test, knowing right or wrong, I've been able to train myself to make the right decision, not only more frequently, but quicker, which is a huge advantage in competition, but even just throughout daily life, I feel like I'm operating in this peak, flow state now. I'm performing at a higher capacity in the simulator, in the gym and on the track. Yeah, I think that idea of the go, no go test, right? And how that we've used that with baseball in terms of the recognition and do I go, right? So like if I'm looking for a fastball and I see spin, and unless like, you know, depending on the situation, I have to get to baseball, but if there's not too shrikes, so I'm looking for a fastball and I get spin, and if I'm not related, we're gonna spin on that and get to the next pitch and keep battling, right? So like the ability to react to what you see, right? And one of my friends who's a neuroscientist, he says, look, in baseball, probably like NASCAR, it's not ever gonna go slower. Guys aren't gonna throw slower. Cars are not gonna go, hey, it's going too fast. Let's move the, let's set a cap on how fast you can go and stick it at 160. You're like, I think it'll happen, right? So if the baseballs are gonna get thrown harder and the cars are gonna go faster, other than just human evolution, how do we get better at slowing it down? Well, we're not slowing down the car, we're not slowing down the ball. What we're actually doing is we're increasing the processor in our brain to make it seem like we have more time. And that is a massive competitive advantage. 100%. And that's how I feel more recently, the last couple of years stuff and using Tyson on the track is, you know, coming into the national series as a rookie, you know, I've raced at the lower levels. Every step is a whole new learning curve. The tracks are bigger, the cars are faster. And, you know, you find yourself a little tensed up on the wheel, maybe the nerves are getting to you. You got those butterflies, which I live for. I still get that, it's my passion, I love what I do. But I think there's a difference between excitement and unsteady nerves, right? Well, now I get on the track and people ask me all the time, what does it feel like? Are you gripping the wheel super tight? Are you tensed up? And I tell them, no, I'm pretty chilling there. I just get in there and I'm in my happy place and I feel confident in what I'm doing, my ability, my decisions, and I truly believe a lot of that is just the mental performance aspect where I've improved my cognitive function with Tyson. You know, in addition to obviously doing all the physical training necessary, but those go hand in hand and they're equally as important. Yeah, you know, I think in terms of understanding that you can train readiness, that you can train reaction time. Is this pretty common amongst your competitors and they're 39 drivers that are the most elite in the world or are you see other guys doing this or is this still kind of like maybe the next wave? Like I look at sports psychology and where it was even 10 years ago and guys weren't doing it. And now, back then there might have been 20% that were doing it and now maybe it's 50%, which is way more than it's been and it's more socially acceptable and it's more common and teams and organizations have mental performance coaches, but it's still not where it's gonna be, right? It's still behind like strength and conditioning. Where would you feel like, do you see other people that are doing like cognitive testing and readiness agility testing in your sport? Yeah, 100% and I think it's something that's developing, right, as you mentioned, these guys are coming into the sport and they're younger, faster, stronger and I'm in that wave of drivers that are in addition to that more aggressive, making bigger, bolder moves on the track and that comes down to confidence, right? And a lot of that is that decision-making process. So reaction time training has been huge in this new generation of race car drivers and any motorsports discipline. But like you said, I still think the sky is the limit and there's gonna be a big future and emphasis put on that kind of training, but for me to have pison is the ultimate convenience because I feel like I can do all the most important or most useful training routines right on my wrist or at the palm of my hand, essentially, no matter where I'm in. So I'm on the plane, I'm in the hotel, I'm at the track or on the grid, even in the gym, I'm testing to see, you know, what, well, now I could see my heart rate on the device, which is great, because I can try to keep my heart rate at what it is in the car. That's the difference between working out and training, right? I'm specifically preparing for something. So to try to keep my heart rate at the same it is in the car for X amount of time, and then see my reaction time potentially decline throughout a workout because of fatigue. Now I've found I'm training myself to perform better or maybe even get faster throughout routine just from adrenaline and stuff. So there's a lot of neat discoveries I've made and to have this as a legitimate training tool that's just more convenient than any of the other resources out there currently is really special. And I think that's why Pison's this the new wave and a revolutionary device. Yeah, totally agree. And I think the last question is just on the confidence, right? And I think when we look at the highest level of performance, majorly based on UFC, which I know some of the fighters that I'm working with that are working with Pison, they're like, man, my ability to react and slippage ad and counter strike has been better than it's ever been. I'm like, well, how much of that is reaction and readiness and agility? And they're like all of it, right? So those guys starting to train and in that sport, like one punch makes a difference, one slip and you land and you get a guy in the eye or whatever it is, like that makes a huge difference in terms of the outcome of the fight. So when you're fighting at the highest level for those margins of error, where the margin of error is so costly because the margin of error is so thin, any advantage that you can get is massive. And I think when you look at confidence, confidence coming from knowing you're ready, knowing you're recovered and knowing that you're switched on and ready to go, how does Pison impact your confidence, Anthony? As I mentioned, honestly, just the way I feel in the car has made me more confident. I feel that I'm in a more advanced mental state than my competition, which makes me feel like I have a huge advantage just knowing that I'm gonna make better decisions. I think I'm timing runs and setting up passes and avoiding crashes and doing all those things better than other people, which is what it takes to be competitive and ultimately get good results. So I've enjoyed seeing that kind of come to fruition through my mental training. But like you said, making decisions that could greatly affect your race, you can get into a crash and get hurt or hurt somebody else. And it's important for all the competitors to be doing their part, right? To be in a good state of mind when they're behind the wheel. For us, we're going so fast, what people don't realize is you can spin another car out or cause a crash without even touching someone. That's how sensitive the air is at that speed and the cars are on the ragged edge of control as we've talked about before. So you really can't afford to make a mistake and feeling confident in the car or feeling like everything's slowing down has been huge. And you're still gonna make mistakes, but I think the important thing is learning from them. And while I'm studying film and looking at data, kind of correlating that to my decision-making testing has really been something I've seen an improvement in on the racetrack. That's awesome. We're the Anthony Alfredo NASCAR driver. If you wanna engage with him, check him out on Instagram, Anthony Alfredo at Anthony Alfredo, I should say on Instagram. Anthony, any parting thoughts, anything that wanna leave our listeners with just about reaction time, readiness, pysyn or anything else that you think would be a good seed to maybe plant in their brain that would germinate they take with them. I think the big thing is, is you don't have to be a professional athlete for this to have an impact on your life. I mean, I've been, I drive a simulator during the week, not just for my competition, but actually work for another team doing that. And I feel like I'm doing a better job in the workplace behind the wheel and seeing results for them, not just myself. At home, I'm more productive on the business side of racing. I'm sharper and even doing stuff like this, I'm just more present. So I think there's a, the sky is the limit for mental performance. And when you can start kind of taking advantage of where you're at, learning your circadian rhythm, which we didn't really touch on that, but that's revolutionary new tech with pysyn. You can really just take advantage of, you know, the human body and ultimately perform at your peak all the time. Well, if we can unpack that for us, talk to us about the circadian rhythm cause you just caught my attention with that. What do you got on that? What have you learned from that? So it takes a little while, you have to do basically multiple readiness tests every two hour window throughout the day from the time you wake up to the time you go to bed. And the more you do it, the more accurate it gets. And for a lot of people, you see this, right? Maybe they get up there slow or maybe they start fast and then they slow down at lunch. They pick up after they eat caffeine, whatever. And that's why tagging all your tests is critical. So you can see how things affect you. But for me, once I saw that, I started testing more frequently. And this is prior to me focusing more on the agility test now. I've got my circadian rhythm pretty level and not just level at a slower speed, pretty level at a fast speed. I'm operating at significantly above the average person's reaction time throughout the day. And I might have an advantage because of racing. I've trained for that for a long time, right? But the cool thing is anybody can do this with a device snap and it might take some time, but you can see your circadian rhythm and then you can improve it. And what that means is you could basically see your cognitive state throughout the day from weeks or months at a time. And that data is invaluable. I mean, and how I've used that for me is I've always been a guy that wakes up and works out like sweats before screens. I like to work out early in the morning because I feel like it gets me woken up for the day and I go into the day with energy and I don't have this workout looming over me for the rest of the day. But with the circadian rhythm, what I found is that my workouts in the morning, I'm like, they're just not good. Like, so it's a difference between exercise and training. Like if I'm just exercising and moving for moving sake to feel good and like it and to get woken up, it doesn't really matter. But I've, you know, 20 weeks out of a back surgery, I'm starting to train to be a little bit, I wanna be more competitive on the golf course. I wanna be more competitive with this marathon training that I'm doing. And I've noticed that like, if I wait till later in the day, even like 9 a.m., right? Instead of 4.30 or 5 a.m. If I just wait till 9 a.m. and I train there, I'm so much more locked in and the quality of my training is so much better. Now it could be the caffeine kicking in and I have not played with that. So I gotta start checking that. But I do feel like understanding that circadian rhythm and then at night, like same sort of deal. If I start coaching past like 6, 7 o'clock p.m., I feel like I'm gonna fog, you know? And then that's me coming down and then getting ready to come back up. So having some quantifiable data that you can use with that is gonna be massive, I think, for people understanding them. Well, if I have to, if I was a major baseball player and had to perform at 7 o'clock, well, I better figure out how to shift that circadian rhythm and use that data. Otherwise, I'm not gonna be a professional baseball player for very long. Exactly, exactly. Like you said, just whether it's in the gym or for me, racing, most of our races are about four o'clock in the afternoon and during the week, I kinda slow down at that time. So how do I figure out how to be more alert so it comes Saturday on race day? That's my best time of the day, right? So there's a lot of interesting things in there that you can discover and start to maximize. And you can, it's not just, okay, I have this data, now what do I do? It's really nice to have something that just a reachable goal, right? Being able to set standards and train to it and achieve kinda what you're looking for and see those results is a huge advantage for no matter what you're doing. That's awesome. Anthony, man, I appreciate you coming back on the Mentor Performance Mastery Podcast and always fired up to watch you get behind the wheel and go do your thing on weekends, brother. So keep putting the skinny pedal to the floor, getting after it and doing what you do, man, fired up to watch it. So thanks again for being with us. Thank you so much for having me, I appreciate it. I hope you enjoyed this episode of the Mentor Performance Mastery Podcast. Please be sure to check out our sister and companion podcast, Mental Performance Daily, linked below in the show notes. And if you've got any questions or comments that you think can help us to improve Mental Performance Mastery or Mental Performance Daily, please don't hesitate to share those, whether it's leaving a comment here in a review or heading over to Instagram and dropping me a direct message at Brian Kane Peak. I value your suggestions, I value your time, and I wanna make sure that we're constantly delivering you the value to help you close the gap from where you are to where you wanna be. Thanks for being with us and let's dominate the day.

=== FILE: MPM Reflect & Refocus 028 - The Process [dVeOX9daHwo].txt ===

 this is Brian Cain with the Reflect & Refocus podcast, proudly brought to you by Cala, Cala, the world's leader in red light therapy. Check out the link below in the show notes to learn more about Cala. So I wanna open up this Reflect & Refocus and make a commitment to coming back here to the Mental Performance Mastery podcast, and what the goal of these Reflect & Refocus podcast are for less than 15 minutes, or 1% of your day, Remember, one percent of your day is only 14 minutes and 24 seconds. For less than one percent of your day, I want to reflect on the past week that was here and mental performance in my life and refocus for the next week. So as you may know, we have two podcasts here at Brian Cain Peak performance. We have mental performance daily, which I'll link to in the show notes below, and mental performance mastery. Mental performance daily, two to three minutes a day, where I share strategies, stories, tips, techniques that you can use. And then here with mental performance mastery, it's our long form podcast. And with the long form, sometimes it's these reflective refocuses. Sometimes it's a interview with an athlete like Brody Brecht, first round pick last year with the Colorado Rockies that we had. If you haven't listened to that, it's a great one. We might interview a coach, Jim Schloss, Naigle, SCC coach of the year with your number one in the country, Texas Longhorns baseball program. We might interview an author, as I did recently with Brad Stolberg, author of the book to practice a groundedness, one of the most impactful books that I've ever read. So this gives me a little bit more flexibility, a little bit more freedom and excited to be with you here today. So first I want to welcome all of our newly joined mental performance mastery coaches in our certification course every May and November. We open up our coaches certification course where we try to empower coaches with the 10 pillars of mental performance mastery going through and teaching them how do I assess and what are the drills that I can use to help coach the 10 pillars also known as the 10 skills, which is elite mindset, motivation and commitment, focus and awareness, self control and discipline, keeping the process over the outcome, meditation and mental imagery, routines and habits, time management and organization, leadership in the right culture. And the nice part about our coaches certification is it is the practicality. It's what you do with your clients and as a mental performance coach, since I graduated from Cal State Fullerton, underneath the guidance in the mentorship of Dr. Ken Revisza in 2003, I've been obsessed with the field of mental performance. I've spent before the pandemic 250 to 280 days a year on the road, one on one coaching athletes, coaching coaches and for a large part doing team consulting where I was working with an entire team. And right now as we look at the NCAA baseball postseason, which is coming privileged honor to say that we were part of the University of Oregon and their Big Ten championship. Congrats, Coach Mark Wazikowski, the first year there go ducks. Coach Jim Schloss, Nagel, his first year, Oregon's first year in the Big Ten. Coach Schloss, Nagel, his first year at the University of Texas and their first year in the SEC winning that championship. Coach Waz, Big Ten coach of the year. Coach Schloss, Nagel, SEC coach of the year. Remember, results are not random. Your process is working perfectly for the results that you're getting. So if you want better results, you need a better process. So let's talk about what is process? Process is literally the steps that you take to give yourself the best chance for success. So when we talk about trusting the process or as Nick Saban has made famous, we got to trust the process. I always come back to the clients and athletes I work with to say, well, show me the process that you trust. So as I coach some players who three or three players locks in the first round up coming here in the Major League Baseball draft, a couple others that are fringe guys, maybe a bargaining agreement pick or early, second, late, first, we'll see what happens here the rest of the season. But as I'm working with these players, I'm talking about what is your process? What are you doing consistently to allow you to be the best version of you and give you the best chance for success? That's the process. Think about a staircase and as I outline it as a staircase, the steps that you take to give you the best chance for success. As you walk those steps, that's your process. So in order to coach process, one of our mental performance mastery coaches suggested that I use an app called Habit Share. I was using an app called Way of Life. I've shifted over to Habit Share a few years ago and Habit Share is a success checklist. So at the end of the day, the drill that you do to reinforce your process is the success checklist. And one of my first podcasts I did, man, I was living back in Vermont still, so I had to be before 2013. So when I moved out of there was with Marshall Goldsmith, Marshall Goldsmith, great executive coach. And he wrote the book, What Got You Here Won't Get You There. And a fabulous book. Highly recommended for any leader, any executive, any head coach, What Got You Here Won't Get You There. And then there he talks about 20 workplace habits that if you do, they'll get you to a certain position of leadership, but then your growth will stunt and you won't be able to get to that next level. And with those 20 habits, as I read the book, after being a high school athletic director in Vermont for seven years, I was like, man, I do 18 of these 20 on a routine basis. So it was really good eye-opener for me to help me be a better executive, a better leader, a better administrator. And I still reflect on those 20 workplace habits that will help you get to a certain level, but then stunt your growth. And what we often refer to that as the Peter principle. And the Peter principle is that you get promoted to a level of your incompetence. So when I look back at being a high school coach and a high school teacher, I had energy, I connected with kids, I had a good work ethic, I wanted to compete. I had the time and energy to be able to detail practice plans. So that skill set, then an opportunity arose to be an AD. I decided to be a high school athletic director. And then you get out of working with kids. And I kind of got out of even working with coaches and you get into scheduling buses. And what they put on your plate as an athletic administrator at the time, I'm evaluating English teachers and drivers Ed and doing bus discipline and freshman discipline and just things that were not within my motivation and things that were not within my skill set. So the Peter principle is you get promoted to a level of incompetence. It's like the college baseball coach. There might be a great hitting coach loves to live in the cage, loves to throw batting practice, love to help guys with their swing. Then they become a head coach and you exact, you have to become an executive, a CEO of the program. You got to raise money for NIL. You got to be really good at creating a culture. And identifying that culture like coach was and coach loss, Nagel are you got to be able to develop relationships with alumni. You got to be ultra organized because you're going to get pulled in a lot of different directions. If that's not your skill set, you're not going to succeed as a head coach. Right. Your best head coaches are not quote unquote baseball guys. They're more of the executive role where they can empower their staff to do the player development and coach the skills. And now in college, they're the ones getting the money for NIL. They're the ones putting people in seats. They're the ones promoting the program. They're the ones that are closing up with working with recruits. So I think understanding the Peter principle and when you get promoted to a level of incompetence, recognize that, but also as somebody who's hiring, right, as an athletic director, when you're hiring a head coach, what's the skill set that you need? Is it just a baseball guy, somebody that's been in the program or are you looking to find somebody who actually has the skill set that you need? And do you take time as a leader to slow down enough to go? Hey, this is the actual skill set that we need. So with the Peter principle, rising that level of incompetence, I go back to Marshall Goldsmith and his book, What Got You Here Won't Get You There. And when I interviewed Marshall for a podcast and part of what I love about the long form podcast, and I encourage you as a mental performance coach to start a long form and a short form daily so that your audiences can connect with you and hear you in different areas and talk about ideas. Stay connected with you. And what I love about the long form podcast is interviewing authors like my interview with Brad Stolberg that came out recently, phenomenal. And when I interviewed Marshall, one of the questions I asked him, the million dollar question, what is it you know now you wish you knew then? So what is it you know now as one of the top executive coaches in the planet you wish you knew just got started? And he said, Oh, the success checklist. He was the way I coach my clients is we give a certain list of behaviors that they're trying to increase or trying to make and a list of behaviors that they're trying to stop. And then we get on a five minute call every day at the end of the day and they have to report to me how they did it doing more good less bad. And he said, we have a checklist and we look at that checklist and that's our scorecard for the month and we have to, you know, see improvement. And it resonated with me at the time, but I'm a slow learner. It probably took me 15 years or so, 10 years to start using a success checklist. I don't know why, but I'm glad I did because in 20 years of mental performance coaching using a success checklist to sharpen up your process to put your process from your head on paper, just like you need to do with your culture out of your head on paper. So that you can share it with others so it's clear so you can literally get on the same page. If you don't have a culture on paper with the five steps of this is our mission, why we're here, big picture. This is our vision, what we're trying to accomplish outcome wise, our core principles are above the line below line behaviors and have a way to assess it. Right. If you're looking to create a culture, here's your five steps. Step one, identify your mission vision principles. Step two, define the principles. Step three, describe the behaviors that are above the line and winning and below the line and losing that keep us from being the best version of us. Assess how the people in your program are living your culture is step four and step five is create a growth plan. Let me go through that again. Step one, identify MVP. Step two, define your principles. Step three, describe the above and below the line behaviors, the winning and losing behaviors. Step four, assess how we're currently living our culture organizationally, individually. And then step five, create a growth plan to become more. You then install the growth plan, you work to become a better version of you and then you go back and you assess and you create another growth plan. That's how cultures get developed. It's a five step repeatable process that I've used college athletics, high school athletics, in corporate America and education. Whether it be an athletic department or an entire school district, it all works the same. It follows that five step culture. And then culture, what is that by definition? It's a set of beliefs that drive behaviors. That's it. Your culture is a set of beliefs that drive behaviors. Why is that important? Because it's your behavior that produces results and results matter. So whether it's improving test scores at a high school, improving your body composition, improving outcomes on a field or on a court, results matter. But we don't get results by focusing on results. We get results by focusing on the process. It's your process that determines results. Remember, your process is working perfectly for the results that you're getting. So if there's any places you want to make an improvement in your life, start by going to look at your process. Because your process is working perfectly for the results that you get. One of the top middle performance coaches in the country. A guy by the name of Andy McKay. Andy spoke at the National Baseball Coaches Convention. And one of the things he said that resonated with me, I've taken to this day, was when he talked about the book Good Degrade by Jim Collins. He said, to be consistent over time, you have to describe what you do as a process. That hit me. And since then, I've worked really hard and gotten better with trying to describe how we do what we do here at Brian K. Peake Performance as a process. What is a process? A series of steps that you take to give you the best chance for success. To be able to repeat things repeatedly over time. If you look at franchises, whether it's McDonald's, whether it's Dunkin Donuts, wherever you go in the world and you get something from those franchises, it should essentially look the same and taste the same and be the same because they're following a checklist. How do we make the sandwich a subway in Italy or in Arizona? The same process. So identifying what you want for yourself, creating a process to help you get there. Sharing that process with others so that they can be sharpened through their experience and then you follow your process. So different than the Major League Baseball Pitchers I work with, you get the ball every five days, we have a 120 hour process. A 120 hour checklist. That allows them to be the most prepared version of them when they get out there on that mound again. And if you think about this, a pitcher who throws every five days, that's 120 hours, they compete in a game for two hours. That's 59 to one, maybe 60 to one. Depending on how you look at it. 60 to one preparation to performance. So we got to dominate that preparation. How do we dominate it? Structure, organization, intention and measurement. Whether it be force play jumps, whether it be or a sleep scores, whether it be a success checklist where we see with the behaviors we're trying to do on a consistent basis. It's that process that's going to determine the product. We've got four sighing award winners that we've worked with here at Brian Cain Peak Performance to prove that the process delivers results. So for you, if you're looking to get better, let's sharpen up our process. Let's not count the days, make the days count. And let's make sure that we get it out of our head and on paper so that we can dominate the day. Thanks for being here with this Reflect and Refocus podcast. Thank you to Kala Red Light for being the sponsor of this podcast. Let's dominate the day and let's recover with red. See ya.

=== FILE: Making Your Best Your New Baseline ｜ Brody Brecht & Brian Cain [Rih6snjdk8Q].txt ===

 brodybrax, fired up to have you on the Men's Performance Mastery Podcast, brother. Let's get it, baby. Thanks for having me. Yeah, absolutely. Fired up. Couldn't be more excited to have you here. Take us back, man. Talk to us about your journey into the mental game. Where did it all begin for you? Yeah, I would say it began for me, like really began for me halfway through my draft year, this past year, when I reached out to you and first started working with you. Like, I'd been, I'd been met with, meeting with our like team psychologist, and like just some basic visualization and stuff like that, but it was more so like, I don't know, like mental health, I would say, like just, you know, how's your, how's the year going? How's your week going? How's the day going? Whatever. But like with you, like it's mental performance, right? So it's, it's so much more detailed and about like excelling on the field, like not, you know, just off the field. Like, you know, how's the week going? How's school going? That type of stuff. Like it was really just dialing in how we can be our best self and then perform to the best of our ability. And I mean, you know, it changed, you know, of course in my year last year, so it was awesome. So 2024, right? You, the Colorado Rockies take you in the collective bargaining agreement over 38th pick overall, essentially first round pick of the Colorado Rockies, right? And you're at the University of Iowa and you go into the season, you had played for Team USA, you're going into the season as a projected top 10 pick, a lot of pressure, a lot of expectation going in. And then I think it was, I don't know, maybe with seven weeks or so left in the season. So let's say about halfway through the big 10 conference season at the University of Iowa, we get connected. How did that all happen? If you go back, like how did it, how did we get connected and what made you say, OK, I want to do this now? Yeah. So, I mean, going into that first, or going into that season, like December, January, like I was, I mean, I was dialed in, like I was throwing the best pens I've thrown, you know, going into the season. I felt like I was ready to go and like, all right, here we go. This is the year we're going. We're going crazy, like you said, top 10 pick, whatever. But I think I got, I got carried up in, you know, the expectations of others outside noise. And so I felt a lot of pressure, you know, I was trying to control things that I can't control. You know, we talk about, you know, the fans expectations of others, like I can't control that. The only thing I can control is, you know, the execution of a pitch and I didn't realize it at that point. So for me, it was, it was, you know, I started, you know, the year I started pretty good. But then, you know, I kind of, I really got into like a, you know, slump for, you know, about five weeks where I was just mentally all over the place. I was like, did I'm not like, my mind was on draft stock. My mind was on, you know, what's everybody saying about me on social media? Like my mind was just on all the wrong things. And like you said, I think it was, you know, halfway through May, you know, we started to work or halfway through April, we started working together. And my mind was pretty much just like, all right, the seasons obviously hasn't gone the way we've wanted it to. Like how can we take things in our own hands? How can we, you know, put ourselves in the best position just to finish out the season, just have fun. Like I was not having fun at that point. So how can we just have fun the rest of the year? And so I'd been listening to your podcast for probably about a year now. One of the teammates got me on it. And I was like, and literally like that the first week, the week before I started texting you at the end of the podcast, it was like, if you want to start working together, like, you know, like, here's my email, here's all this stuff. And I was like, you know what, like, let's do it. Man, let's send it, let's just see what happens. Worst thing that happens, I don't like it. We stop, right? But at least we, at least we try it. I mean, it was just crazy. Like I think that first week we met for, you know, four days in a row and we got everything dialed in that first week. Like I'd gone seven innings twice. My first three years, you know, I was at Iowa and ever since we met together, I think I went seven innings four times in a row. Like it was just, I was just so much more dialed in on my process, things I can control. Like, like deleted, you know, Twitter. So I wasn't, you know, going on it and looking at what people were saying about me. Like I was totally focused on my process, the execution of a pitch and it just changed my whole season. I mean, let's go further into some of the things that you feel like you do that are your mental game, right? So that's April. We're now recording this as you're heading into your first spring training. It's February. It's what we call it on here, Waste Management Sunday, Aka Super Bowl Sunday, you know, being a guy that played football and baseball at Iowa, which we'll get into. But you're going to go into your first season of spring training. So it's only been, it's been 10 months since you've been in a mental game. Yeah. And your understanding and your application of the mental game in anyone I've ever worked with. And this includes a George St. Pierre and a Bobby Wood Jr. and a Corbin Burns is as on point as anyone I've ever worked with. And what are the things that you feel like you do that are the mental game? Like what is the mental game now, Therbrodi Brecht? Yeah, I mean, for me, for me, the biggest thing that's helped me is just my success checklist, you know, Habit Share. We talk about that, right? And it really, it does three things for me. Really want to keep me accountable, right? I have all my habits shared with you so you can go in and see, you know, as buddy staying up late, is he not doing his mental imagery, is he not doing his concentration grids, all this stuff. So it keeps me accountable to it. It's all things I can control. Like it gives me motivation. So like I go in after my end routine and I see all this green and it carries me throughout the day. It's like, dude, I want to keep going. I want to keep stacking, you know, the day is keeping, you know, I just want to keep checking the, you know, the green box. Right? That's all I want to do. So it gives me accountability, motivation. And then another big thing is, you know, especially once again, the season confidence when I go through, when I'm going through my mental performance routine, my shadow pens, all that stuff. I see like, dude, I did all this throughout the week. I've, you know, I've done shadow pens for, you know, four straight innings of this team that we're going against. Right? Like I'm, like I'm dialed in. Like I feel like I've already handled, you know, all the adversity I can handle, right? Just, you know, on a shadow pen, like it's just so it gives me confidence going into the game. Like, hey, I'm, I've done, like I've already faced you five times in my head, right? Like, like there's no way you're winning. Like I'm going out there and I'm dominating. And so I think the success checklist has been really big. And then, you know, just a mental imagery, like just, you know, that ball of meditation, you know, breathe affirmations, looking back and looking forward, like that's just, it's just been something really big for me. Like, you know, we go through and you talk about, you know, just your affirmations that you repeat yourself. You know, I, you know, I tell myself my, you know, three keys to keep it simple out there has been, has been really big for me. Looking back at your, you know, past success and just bringing that to where you're going. You know, the next time you're throwing and, you know, I just, that my movie has been very good too. Like just seeing yourself, you know, just like, like every single time I watch my my movie, like I'm faking throwing that pitch too. So it's like a, you know, slider outside corner. Like I'm like, when I see it out of my hand, I'm like, like I do it physically with my hand, just, you know, correlate in mind and body. And so, I mean, there's just been so much that has helped me. I mean, those are the few that I think are, you know, the really big ones, but. Yeah. And we didn't even mention aura, Dexa, Macros, Chef Whitney calendar. Right. There's so many, so much stuff that we can get into, but I want to, you talked about shadow bullpens a lot there for the people that don't know. Brody, give us like, like, what is a shadow bullpen? How does it help you? How often are you doing it? Are you doing just like immaculate innings or you actually seen yourself handle adversity? Like really give us a, give us a masterclass on shadow bullpen. So I really started to get like, I'd always done like a little bit of like visualization, like just, all right. You know, I'm going to get on the mountain. I'm going to, you know, I'm going to throw, you know, three pitches here, like the first guy that needs striking out, whatever. But then I listened to, you know, execution podcasts or just that chapter, that book, and he talks about it. And then you podcast with Corbin Burns. You did. And just like the detail he goes into it. So that's when I really started to apply shadow bullpens. And like you said, you don't always want to just do the good out there. So you don't, you don't go up there. You face three badders. You throw nine pitches and you're out of there. Right. Like that's, that's almost never going to happen. So for me, it's like, all right, I'm going to practice my pre-pitch routine first and foremost. Like I'm going to do everything. Harvey Dorfman talks about it and, you know, heads up baseball or Kendra Vizs, who talks about it, heads up baseball. He always says, you know, make a practice just like a game. So in a game, you can make it just like practice. And so like when I'm doing my shadow pens, you know, I'm doing everything. I'm getting catching the ball back from third base, doing my pre-pitch routine, pre-battery routine, getting on it. And then, you know, yeah, for the first one, you know, I might do a four pitch strikeout, get the confidence rolling. All right. But then, all right, I'm, I'm behind two. I want a guy, I got to reset, got to wipe the rubber off, do a deep breath. Like you got to practice adversity because if you don't practice the adversity, you know, if you're only practicing the good stuff in a game, what happens when adversity? It's what happens when you walk a guy, you give up a home run. Are you going to tumble or are you going to be able to lock it back in? So I think you got to practice the good and the bad. So with the shadow bullpen, you're actually, are you doing this a sit down visualization or are you actually doing it on a mound, going through the routine? No, I'm doing it on a mound. Like I'm practicing everything that I would do. Like I'm picking out my focal points. I'm wiping away the rubber when I need to reset and I get behind, you know, I'm going through my pitching motion and it's just really good because your body can only, your arm can only physically throw so many baseballs, right? Like you can't, you can't throw 100 baseballs every day. Your arms going to give out, right? So like you can, your mind, it doesn't differentiate between, you know, what's real and what's in your mind. So you can throw as many fake pitches as you, as you want to on a shadow pen. So, you know, I, every day I'm not throwing an actual pen or any game. Like I'm, you know, I'm trying to do 20, 25 pitches, just, you know, go through an ending, go through two endings, you know, just see what's, what's happening, what's working, how I'm attack this guy. And so yeah, it's, it's, it's really good. You know, for the mental performance coaches that are listening to this, if they're thinking, okay, well, how do I structure shadow bullpens into a pitcher's routine? So let's say you're a major league pitcher, you're on a five day routine, right? Day one is the day after you throw. So day one, you would do a shadow of the day, the game from the day before, and you'd reinforce what you did well and re-correct. Like if you hung a slider and got hit for a double, you'd throw the hung slider and then go back and bang the slider to get the swing and miss that you're looking for. Exactly. Day two, you're throwing a bullpen and you may not shadow that day. Day three would probably be a shadow related to the team that you're going to be facing on day five. So day three, you've kind of done your scouting report. Let's say you're pitching against the Yankees and you're going to go, all right, today I'm going to go shadow either one through nine. If I see them all, a couple pitches, what they look like, or I'm going to go one through five and the next day I'm going to do six through nine. But there's a specific purpose to what we're doing with the shadows and you're working on the different pitching routines, the pre-batter, the pre-pitch, the red yellow light release. Walk us through those three things. So if we're watching you pitch this year, what's your pre-batter routine? Yeah. So my pre-batter routine, you know, so I'm getting the ball, or so I get the ball from, like this is my, like my pre-inning, like first, first batter, the inning, like I'm getting the ball from the third baseman. I do my sign, you know, to God, and I make a cross on the back of the rubber. Take a deep breath to focus myself and I'm ready to go. A batter walks in, I take a deep breath on the line, like the wire above home plate. And, you know, I mean, that's kind of like my, you know, pre-batter routine. And then my pre-pitch routine. Well, before you go there, what does that breath do for you on the wire? Why do you think that breath? It just gets me focused, right? Like on a focal point, right? So like intent and action. So like what I'm getting to next is like my, my three keys are CSA, breathe and let it rip. So you want to have, you know, a breath, you know, on a focal point in words with association, like in a physical action, right? So, you know, for me, that just, that breath, it just keeps me centered and focused. Like it's like, all right, let me be present. I'm here. My mind's not on the fans. My mind's not on, you know, I, you know, the last warm up pitch I threw was a ball. Like my mind's not focused on that. Like my mind is right here right now. We're attacking this guy and we're going to execute this pitch. So it just keeps me focused. So you hit that breath on the wire, pre-batter routine. Now you step on the rubber, take us through the pre-pitch routine. So my three keys are CSA, breathe and let it rip. So, you know, when I, when I'm on the mound, like I'm not getting on the mound until I'm ready. Like I have the pitch that I know I'm throwing. I get on the mound. I'm staring at the catcher's glove. Like I'm seeing myself hit that pitch, visualizing, like sometimes like I'll even envision like it in reverse order. So like the gloves there and then it comes up, comes back up into my arm. So I just visualize that, you know, I, you know, I say it. So I'm like, all right, all right, fastball in one spot, slider down. Like, like, I'll just like, like just say it in my mind and then let it rip. It's just my like sign to just like, just trust it, like fully, fully commit to it. Have total conviction. I can't revisit. He always says the wrong pitch, the total conviction is better than the right pitch thrown without. And so just, just dialing in, like, you know, whether I'm, you know, I'm throwing just, you know, a fastball slide or whatever it is, even if it's like the wrong pitch per se, like I'm totally, I'm committing to it. Right. And I have total belief I'm going to execute the pitch and the rest is going to happen. I'm going to control what I can control. So that's my, my pre-pitch and then, you know, my reset routine. Yep. I kind of have two. So one is like, you know, if I get behind one, oh, two, oh, whatever. Yeah, I'll like, yeah, just, I'll just wipe the rubber, get back on the, get back. I'll wipe the rubber, get back on. So you'd say, breathe, let it rip. If I need a big one, I just walk a guy, I gave up a home run, might get off the mound a little bit, take that deep breath on the focal point again, say my keys. And I'm right back on it. So I kind of got two, one, because one, I mean, we only got so much time, right? With the, with the pitch clock and stuff. So, you know, one is if I need a bigger reset, like I said, like I'm, you know, I'm stepping off and gathering myself a little bit more. But if I'm, you know, just fell behind a pitch or two, you know, just wipe the rubber, get back on and attack. So if you break that down, right? For our, our, our pitchers, our baseball coaches, our mental performance coaches that are listening to this, the yellow light release is I catch the ball, I swipe the rubber and I'm back on and that swipe the rubber is a physical action that I make with an association that I'm letting go of that last pitch. And my red light release would basically be doing my pre-batter routine again, within the middle of the app. At right. So I go, I go to, I give up a hit to, whatever it is. I'm going to red light step off behind the rubber. Maybe I swipe, I rub up the ball, I look at the wire, take a breath, I get back on. It's too well and I'm treating it like it's. Exactly. Exactly. Man. So we talked about shadow bullpens practice in the pre-batter, pre-pitch in the, in the radio light release. You talked about the ball meditation of mental imagery, breathe, affirm, look back, look forward. Now we've created audios for you to be able to rip through that, right? So do you always do it with the audio? Do you ever do it on your own? Without the audio? I mean, yeah, like, I mean, just before, like a game, like just before games, like, you know, when I'm stretching, like, and I just listen to music, like, I don't know, like for me, like whatever, like if I'm rolling out on a specific, like I'm like envisioning, like, all right, this muscles activating during this, like where I'm at in my pitch, like, I don't know, like just throughout the day, like I'll just envision, like, all right, like, you know, I'm just do a batter today, like I'm going to just go through it in my mind, like how I'm attack. But I mean, most of the time I do do it with the, you know, with the audio, but there's, there's times throughout the day, for sure, where I'll just, you know, like, all right, let's, let's feel this fastball. It's, you know, I want to think about getting on top of the slider real quick. So where does that audio fit in the routine? Now, is it like when you were back at Iowa, did it fit in something you do? Like in the morning, would you do it at the field before you'd start getting ready to go? Would you do it like last thing before you go out to start throwing before a game? How did that fit into your like routine over the course of a week? Let's say. Yeah. So I was, so in, in season, I would do it, you know, at the field. So if it was, it was part of like my activation routine, like it was the, it was the first thing like that was kind of my, you know, Clark Kent, a Superman. Yeah. Mental activation. Yeah. It's kind of like when I turned into a ball player, right? So like that was like the first thing I did, getting me present and locked in. And then like before the game, I would do it closer to when I would, you know, throw, like if I was pitching that day, I'd do closer to like, I would, you know, warm up a little bit, you know, get the heart rate up. And then that would kind of be like my center, like let's get focused again, calm the breath down. So I would do it kind of right before I went outside and started playing catch. And then out of season, you know, I would switch to MVP process and I would do that as my PM routine, kind of just, you know, looking back on how did I do this throughout the day? You know, did I live my, you know, core principles throughout the day? You know, or if not, you know, visualizing doing it tomorrow. So, but yeah, I'd definitely say, you know, I mean, I'm ripping it every day. Like it's, it's just super important to me. So you mentioned MVP process unpacked out for people. What is the MVP process? So your MVP process is, you know, mission, vision and core principles, right? So your mission, you know, for me is I live my life and I'm, you know, I live my life in the line with Christ. And my mission is to show love through faith, hard work, how I live my life and what I do, right? And so that's my mission. My vision is, you know, pretty much like what you want, like, what does this look like? Like how do you want to accomplish, like all these things you want to accomplish, right? Like your vision board almost. And then your principles, you know, for me as Christ, you know, confidence, honesty, resilient, intentional, selfless and trust. And then you have meanings for each of those that, you know, for me, confidence is belief myself, my process, honesty is doing what I say we'll do. Resiliency is not dead, can't quit. Intentional, intentional is closing the gap of where I am going to be selfless, the best version of me. So I can be my best version for others and trust is doing my part of the process and trusting God's play in the outcome. So for me, it's just, am I living my life in alignment with those? Like that's my definition of success. Am I living my, if I live in my life in alignment with those core principles. And so when I do my process before I go to bed, like when I'm listening to that, it's just like, all right, today did I do these? I live by these core principles and it's, you know, an accountability check, but it's also, it's like, all right, yeah, I did. So I mean, we won today, right? Yeah, man. So I mean, bro, so much in there, man. This is phenomenal. I'm talking about winning the day that I win the day in alignment with my definition of success. You have your core principles, you have your definition of your core principles, you know your mission. I mean, you're just saying these things like it's no big deal, right? How are you so top of mind aware of what these are, like your mission, your vision, your principles, your definitions, your definition of success, right? You talk about your three keys to keep it simple. How are you so aware of those things like you would be your birthday? Yeah, I mean, I think the biggest thing is, you know, you always say, like do a little lot, not a lot of little, right? Like it's just repeated repetition or space repetition, right? And so like for me, like we're doing, you know, the 30 day we're doing the 10 pillars or we're doing, you know, mental ABC is a pitching, right? Like I'm hitting just simple things every single day. And I'm just saying, like, like you said, like we got 86,400 seconds in the day, right? So time is the only thing we're all the same. The difference is how we use it. And so I mean, just like we all got free time, like I'm spending like it. So my sleep block is usually, you know, 10 hours, right? And then I'm working out for, you know, four hours treatment for probably, you know, hour, two hours, you know, so how else am I spending the other eight hours, right? And it's like, you know, I'm diving into my mental game, right? Like I'm, I'm doing, you know, all my visualization, I'm reading, you know, heroic book of the week, like I'm doing this stuff, like just hitting on it to just keep it, you know, just, just fresh in my mind. Like so, you know, on your 30 day, right? Like, you know, some people will just, you know, go through it once, but then they forget everything, right? But then it's 30 days, right? There's, you know, 30 days in about every month. So just one day, hit day one again, day two, hit day two, like just keep continue to go through it and do a little lot of the compound effect. And now it's like just engraved into my memory almost. So, so good. I mean, that's the system, right? You're trying to my 30 day program. You go through it once, you watch the videos, you read that, you read the training manual, you take your notes, you put them on your calendar. So today, I didn't know what today, today's February 9th. So at the time we're recording this, so you look today at day nine of the 30 day program and go, do I know what this is? Am I doing that? Exactly. We also do the same thing with the 10 pillars program and put your 10 pillars notes on your calendar that repeats every 10 days. So you look today at pillar nine leadership. Am I doing this? Do I know what this is? And then the ABCs of pitching by Harvey Dorfman, there's 80 chapters. So you have put on 80 day rotation. So you're just looking at the cliff notes every day on your calendar. Right? And you also mentioned the 86,400 seconds in a day, your sleep block, your AMPM routine, and you just rip through your day like again, it's so intentional. Talk to me about when you started using Google Calendar and time blocking and the difference that's made for you. Yeah. So when we first started using Google Calendar was, I mean, right when we started working together, like it was, it was just planning on my day, like being, you know, where I needed to be when I needed to be there. And it wasn't as detailed as it was now. Like it was just like, all right, I'm, you know, I'm going to bed at this time. I got practice at the time class at this time. Right? Like that was pretty much it, which still made night and day difference of where I was at. Like I was just kind of winging it through the day, like was not intentional with my time at all. But like now you go through my Google Calendar, like the whole day has a block on it. And even if it's just a chill block, right? Like it's like, all right, this is my time to be chill. This is what I'm supposed to be present, right? And I think that's the biggest thing is like, all right, this time, this block, whether it's my workout routine, all right, so I'm going to be present during this workout. And I can be thinking about, you know, the game tonight, or I'm not going to be thinking about, you know, watching a movie tonight or, you know, playing video games late, like I'm totally focused during this workout. And then when I get home, all right, my treatment block, all right, so I need to go to, you know, go do my red light, go do my cryo therapy, whatever it is, like I'm present doing this recovery. And then if it's just a chill, all right, let's, let's just chill, you know, we don't watch a movie, play video games, whatever it is, like at least my, I'm intentional with my time. And I know like this is my designated time to rest. And then as soon as the PM routine hits, all right, let's start winding down and getting ready to sleep. Then am routine in the morning, and you're ready to go. Like it's just stacking days. It's just stacking days, exactly. Compound effect. Like you just dominate the day. You talk about stacking days. What does that mean to you? Right? Like we've talked a lot about how do I put together a great offseason, right? And having a great offseason is literally just a compound effect of stacking days on top of days. What does it mean to you stack days? For me, it's just, you know, it's breaking the rock, you know, some I will tell that we always have the rock in our, in the weight room whenever we would lift, right? And it's like the rock hammers pledge. So it's like, you know, when I'm pounding away at the rock, and I break it on the hundred and first try, I don't think that was the time that did it. It was the hundred that came before it, right? And so we think when we think about growth, we think about success. It's very rarely it's overnight, right? Everything's a compound effect. It's it's exponential growth, right? Like so it's very little, very little. And then it's and then you hit it, right? And everybody thinks it's overnight success, but it's like they didn't see the continued bricks being stacked before it. And so I think stacking days is just like, like, you're not like every like, one of the books in the heroic talks about like having good bad days, right? Like you're going to have, you know, a bad day where you know, you weren't on it, you know, you, you know, you slacked off, you stayed up late, like we're all human, right? But then like being able to recognize that and dominate the next day, like don't make one turn into two, turn into four, right? So just continue to like just just win that day, be present in that time block, win that time block, move to the next one and just, you know, like you said, like it's like we're not I'm trying to think of the book. It talks about like the next light pole, right? Like when you if you're running a marathon, yes, Spartan up. Yes, yes, yes. Like if you're running a marathon, like it's very hard, like you're very hard for your mind to comprehend running, you know, 24 miles or whatever, right? But it's like your mind can handle a lot when you break it up into short pieces over time. So it's like, you know, when you're running like, All right, let me get to the next light pole, let me get to the next stop sign. And then you just continue to keep stacking it and stacking it. And so it's like, All right, let me, let me, let me, let me dominate this workout. All right, let me go dominate the recovery. Let me, you know, get through this day, we'll get like just take it, you know, one block at a time. And so, yeah, that's what I say for that. Yeah, man, shout out, Brian Johnson, the team at Heroic Joe DeSenne, the team at Spartan, you know, Brody, you're talking about some of those heroic books, not something that we've gotten into, you know, where, where there's a book of the week, you're reading it, you're listening to it. And then when we get on our weekly coaching call, that's part of what we break down. And you mentioned before we went on the air that you've read more in the last 10 months that you had since you were probably in fifth grade. Yeah. Talk first, talk about why have you started to read more? Yeah, I mean, it's just like, it's just continuing to take more and more information in and like learning from all these elite people. Right. And so like, like you said, like, I don't think I checked out a book once after fifth grade, like unless I had to for a book class that I just look up on Spark Nuts, right? So like, I mean, it's just for me, like, I just love taking information from elite people that have done elite things. Like right now I'm taking wisdom over bullfrog by Admiral McRaven, who's, you know, a four star admiral, you know, former Navy SEAL. So like, I'm just learning like, you know, just his views. And I'm taking all these things like, you know, right, like, I'm not going to memorize everything he says, but when I'm going through it, I'm underlining, you know, just things that hit me, things that resonate with me. And so when I read through it again sometime, I don't have to read the whole book, right? I just read the underlying sections I got. And so I think reading like it's something I never thought I would ever like get into almost as like a hobby, but it's just like, it's just something that like just eases me like at night, like I read it and it just, it calms me, gets my heart rate low, like I'm not looking at, you know, screens screens like screens before bed. So just it's just cool to like just hear, you know, what people have to say, like all these experiences that have been through and just, you know, hearing elite minds and just, you know, what are they doing that I can apply to my life? Yeah, I mean, I think that's the key with all this, right? If you're an athlete that's going to say, well, that might work for Brody. I'm not a guy that likes to read. Well, neither did he and neither did I until I came across heads up baseball and the book changed my life. And I have the author's face tattooed on my chest and you've mentioned him a bunch in Ken Revisah. So I think with reading, it's like when you're in academics and you're in high school and you're in college and you're reading books because you have to for class. There's a, there's a big difference between I'm reading because I have to and I'm reading because I want to, right? And I'm reading, I want to and I'm reading necessarily full books. I'm reading often six page book summaries that heroic and Brian Johnson does such an amazing job of synthesizing the big takeaways and the big ideas so that you as a professional athlete can take them and apply them. Exactly. Talk to me about just heroic and how you use that and the difference that that's made for you. Yeah, heroic has been awesome. Like you said, shout out, you know, Brian Johnson, like he's been, I mean, awesome. Like it's just, like just the fact that he's taken, I mean, how many, it's 1000. I mean, just, I mean, amazing books from the most elite human beings have ever walked on this earth, right? And he's just breaking that, you know, 200, 300 page book into six pages with the most important stuff. And so just being able to like pretty much read an elite book like that and, you know, 10 minutes, you know, and just underlining what's your key takeaways from that and just hitting one of those every day. Like I've probably read, you know, all the books and heroic, you know, probably, you know, five times by now by how many times I've gone through it, you know, and, you know, for me, if like a specific books or book hits me like a certain way, like I'm like, dude, I actually want to read that one like front to back. And that's what I do. Like I got a list of my phone right now of books and heroic that I actually want to read, you know, front to back. And so, you know, it's just, it's just super cool. Like it, I don't know. Like, like I said, like it gives me like motivation, like, all right, let me live this out because that's part of my aim routine. So it's like, all right, let me, let me live this out today, you know, sparring up, right? Like, you know, all right, let me make it to the next, you know, make it the next life. Exactly. And then, you know, and Dr. Rob Gilbert says, you know, I may not be able to do, you know, 10 or 10 reps, but I can do one rep 10 times, right? So like just, you know, taking it one thing at a time. Talked about Dr. Rob Gilbert. The man, baby. Just like you said, I mean, it's, it's just so easy. Like it's, you know, three, four minutes, like you get like on my way to the workout. Like I just like, I'll just listen to it, see what he's got to say. Like, I mean, he's been doing this for, I think today was 12,484. I don't know. Something like, I mean, he's been doing this for January 22nd, 1992. What year were you born? 10 years after that. Three minute messages for 10 years before you were born. Like, and it's just, it's just really good. Like, it's, like, it's just three and a half minutes of just pure wisdom, like just being dropped on you from a legend. And so, I mean, it's just really cool. Like just to hear that and just hear his experience, like he's done a lot. He's a fantastic, you know, professor and just, I mean, just his creativity. I mean, he's, the fact that he's come up with different, these many different messages for over 30 years is just, it's just crazy. And so, no, it's awesome. And if you look behind Brody here, you can see, like, there's some blue images up on the wall, you know, and what that is, is that's my wall of mentors. And on that wall of mentors is my mother, Declan Connolly, my professor at the University of Vermont, Harvey Dorfman, Ken Raviza, Rob Gilbert, my wife, Aaron is up there, other people up there as well. And when I look at those, it provides me that inspiration, you know, and when Brody's talking about Ken Raviza and Dr. Rob Gilbert, like this, this, it fires me up, man. So I, that, that's really, really exciting for me that you're just referencing those guys. And what success hotline is, is I first heard Dr. Gilbert in March 2006. And he's on stage in Vermont and I'm sitting there and my hand is cramping because I'm taking so, you know, so fast and just absolutely blown away at this rock star on stage. And at the end, he says, you know, hey, if you took notes today and you were inspired, raise your hand. If you thought today was, was impactful, maybe life changing, raise a hand. He says, well, I got news for you. Most people won't do anything without they learned in the day. But if you do a little, a lot, which you said earlier, you can change and you can grow. And he goes, so I put the other hotline called success hotline where if you call and listen for three minutes a day and I've done that since March of 2006, it's now 2025. So for almost 20 years, I've listened to success hotline most days of my life. And the majority of what I teach in mental performance has come from a Ken Raviza or Rob Gilbert. You know, I'm like a, like a historian on those guys and a researcher that's putting all that stuff together. So when you, you talk about, you know, success hotline, mental performance daily, you mentioned earlier in the podcast that you listened to my three minute podcast, which is a direct, you know, attempt at me to try a success hotline and try to continue to carry the torch, you know, like Dr. Gilbert does in mental performance, trying to synthesize and simplify. And when I asked him about doing that, he said, one of the things it does is it helps you speak succinctly and in, in like chunks so you can get a lot of information across quickly. Yeah. What, um, talk about mental performance daily for the person that's maybe listening to this podcast that doesn't listen to that. How do you use that podcast and one that I do every day? Yeah. I mean, it's part of my aim routine too. You know, and it's, I think it's cool because like when you do it, like it's, it's pretty much like what you're talking about with guys, right? It's like their experiences and, you know, just kind of what you're coaching. You always say, always be coaching, right? Like that. So for me, just like hitting that in the morning, just like, you know, just like that's, it's almost like that's my key for the day. Like, all right, let me do this, right? And so I think it's, it's, I mean, I've been listening to almost every day for less 550 days now. Like it's, and I got, take notes on it every day. Like, I'm like, all right, let me listen to it. You know, what's the title of it? And then the big takeaways, like it's just, I don't know, like you said, like just, you know, hearing you talk about here, Dr. Rob Gilbert reading her out, like it's just all these elite minds in the mental game coming to work. And it's just like me applying it to my life because, you know, you know, become the average of the five people you hang out with the most or the, you know, the five people you, you know, listen to the most, right? So, you know, I think when you're just taking in all this information from elite guys, like just, you know, writing down just the most, like not just, you know, listening to it, right? But like writing down what's the most important things that you're taking away from this and just trying to apply it for that day. So I think a lot of coaches too, right? And you played high school football, obviously played at the University of Iowa, which want to come back and talk about that. And a lot of coaches will hang up quotes and it's like, well, quotes are great, but action is what changes, changes results, right?  so how do I put it into action? I think that's what you get with, you talk about the average of the five people you associate with most, well, you can associate with those people who you don't necessarily spend face-to-face time with, or maybe never meet, or they may not even be alive, but if you're listening to Success Hotline, Mental Performance Daily, and doing a heroic book of the week, you're getting Brian Johnson, Brian Cain, Dr. Rob Gilbert, like those are three pretty good mental game voices, really good to be able to put with you, right? And then another one, if you're into faith, which I know you are, you're spending time with the Lord, like there's four or five, you know? And it's pretty, it's pretty hard to beat with that. Let's go back and talk about Iowa football, right? So you mentioned Break the Rock, and I remember I used to work with Jack Dom, shout out in the University of Iowa baseball program, and I would go in the football weight room, and you'd see this huge rock that would say Break the Rock for the Hawkeyes logo on there. So being a guy that was a receiver at University of Iowa, talk about just like the mentality and the structure and how being a college football player helped you with what you're doing now as a professional athlete in terms of like that structure and the discipline that it takes. Yeah, I mean, I think the biggest, I mean, like the discipline is the biggest thing, like Iowa football isn't for everybody. Like, we're not really getting a whole lot of five-star and four-star guys. Like we're getting a lot of homegrown kids from Iowa, and it's a developmental program, and how you get development is, we're cracking pads every day, the workouts suck, right? Like you're learning what hard work takes and what it takes to be great. So just, when you're doing that, much of a physically demanding sport, every day, you're just learning what it takes to be great and hard work, and just, when you're applying that to baseball, where it's physically demanding, but it's so much more mental, like just the mental strength that you get from all those workouts, from like memorizing the playbook, like scouting film, like you can apply that to baseball. Like the biggest thing for me is like, I love watching film and football, but baseball, it was kind of hard, like I never really thought about watching film and breaking down guys' swings, but like, when I've been training at this offseason, like is doing a lot of like scouting reports, right? So like, what I know about football, like we're scouting coverage is, how do DBS play certain coverage, they disguise it, what's their press man technique, what's their bail technique, all this stuff, so I can apply that to baseball, it's like, all right, when this guy's front foot is, is he over the top, and what does that mean for what pitch, to pitch him and stuff like that? So, I mean, it's very translatable, and high school is even more, because I played center field, so catching the balls and everything was really cool, but I mean, yeah, just discipline, hard work, like I said, Iowa football isn't for everybody, like it's a lot of grinding, like we practice very hard, like it's no walkthroughs, like it's hitting every day, and so just, you know, taking that hard work over to the, over to the diamond was really cool, so. When did the point come for you where you said, okay, I'm gonna go all in on baseball? Like when did that decision come? Yeah, you know, so I started thinking about it, my sophomore year, right after the, right after we played Nebraska over Thanksgiving, that was, that's probably when I first started like, like really thinking about it, because it was tough for me, because football's always been my first love, like it's, probably always will be my favorite sport, but that's when I was like, I'd been dealing with, you know, a couple of injuries, like soft tissue stuff that wasn't really going away, and so I started thinking about it, I was like, man, like, do I, like, I know baseball's probably my future, but like, my heart's in football so much, so I was like, you know, I'm just gonna keep riding it out, like we'll get to bull prep and that's the type of stuff, but I mean, it was just tough, like it's like, I'm stuck, I put my body on the line every day, and you know, it's like. And you're a first round pickin' baseball. Exactly, so it's like, you know, something could happen where, you know, that all goes away, so it was just, it was just tough to think about, and then, you know, as that spring came along, those first, you know, few weeks, I was pitching pretty good, and you know, I was just like, you know, I think this is what I need to do, like, you know, if I can just get a healthy fall, you know, if I can just, because at that point, like I'd only been starting to play catch, like, end of December, right? So like, my arm was, you know, kind of falling off towards the end of baseball season because I didn't really have like a buildup or ramp, and so I was just like, you know, let's just fully dive into this baseball thing, let's see what can happen, like, yes, I love football, but, you know, I can watch not TV, right? I can live through my brothers that are, you know, playing, right, so it's just, it was tough, but you know, I think it was a retro, like I'd make it, you know, 10 times over, like I know baseball is, you know, what God, you know, God has best, you know, playing for me, and so, you know, I'm excited with one of them, like it was tough, but, you know, I'd make it 10 times over, so. Yeah, that's awesome. I think when you were looking at, too, like playing football, obviously the way that you lift can be different than what you do in baseball, that your body and your size, the weight that you carry, even though you're a receiver, right? I mean, you still have to be big because you're playing physical in the big 10, right? And when you look at like this offseason that you had, which essentially, you get done, your sophomore year of college in Iowa, you're playing football, you're the leading receiver, I believe, right? Or what, no? Thirdly, thirdly receiver. So one of the leading receivers there, and then you go, and you go, all right, I'm gonna play my sophomore year of baseball, and then you have summer, Team USA, and then you have fall at Iowa, and then you have your spring season, your junior year, and the draft. I haven't had an offseason, haven't had an offseason. You haven't had an offseason, ever. So like, this is your first real full offseason into baseball, you get married. I got married, yeah. In Iowa. In Iowa. But you choose to live in Arizona. Yeah, yeah. I mean, you get married, and you choose to live in Arizona, and your wife is back in Iowa. Like, that's a massive commitment to your development. That's a very mature decision, like in putting your professional career. Talk about making that decision. Yeah, I mean, it's tough, right? Like, we were engaged throughout this whole offseason. Like we got married in January, but like I said, I've been down here since, after the draft, I was here July, August, September, was back in October for three weeks, and then I've been down here first week of November since. And so, like you said, I guess tough. You know, you're, you know, you're, you know, my wife now, she was planning everything, like just all the wedding stuff. Like I'm missing out on, you know, meeting with the, you know, cater and all this stuff. And it's just, it's tough because you want to be there, you want to experience those things. But, you know, I think, you know, I wanted to, you know, put myself in the best position for success this upcoming season. And, you know, I couldn't have done that without, you know, my wife, because she knew that was best for me to be down here and, you know, be training on site and, you know, be down here with you working. And so, you know, I couldn't have done it without her. Like, you know, just having her support, you know, really helped. But like you said, like it's, you got to have, like to be elite, you got to, you got to make tough decisions. And, you know, it's, it's, I mean, I would do it again. Like it, like I've had the best, I mean, even though this is my only offseason, like I feel like I've had an amazing offseason, like physically, I've, you know, I'm up, you know, eight pounds of muscle down, six pounds of fat. Like I've had a really good, you know, offseason. So yeah, it's tough, you know, being away, you know, especially now, like, I mean, we were on a honeymoon and then the day we get back from a honeymoon food down here for, you know, camp and been down here since. So it's, it's been tough, but, you know, if you want to be great, you got to make, you got to, you know, it's, I think Nick Saban says it's not sacrifices. It's a decision when you want to be great, right? So, yeah, yeah, decision is not sacrifices. And then also it's the delayed gratification, right? It's like, put off what you want in the moment for what you want most. And what you want most is to be a major league baseball player and have a 10 plus year career, you know, but what you want in the moment is maybe to be home, you know? And I think a lot of athletes will actually get that backwards and they'll put off what they want most for what they want in the moment, you know? And then, and then they wonder why they're not getting the results that they want when the margin for error is so small and the competition is so fierce. So you casually drop that you put on eight pounds of lean tissue and drop six pounds of fat as measured by adex scan. Talk about what adex scan does for you because I think a lot of people listen to this, maybe don't know the importance of where that fits into their training plan. Yeah, so I think, I mean, dex, I mean, really what it is you're laying on a machine and it measures all your stuff, but for me what it is, it's really like, is what we're doing working, right? So it's like- It's accountability. Exactly, it's accountability check. Like you're training, you know, for these, you know, five months in the offseason, like, all right, let's see if you really have, you know, put in the work. Like, let's see if this program is really working for you. So like you said, it's just an accountability check like, all right, let's see where we're at. So I mean, I think I was, you know, I think the first time I did it, I was, you know, 231 with, you know, 178 pounds of muscle, whatever it was. And then the next time I did it, I was, you know, 232 with 185 pounds of muscle. Like it's like, so it's like, all right, what we're doing is working. So let's just continue to work it. Like on your podcast a few days ago, it was like when to double down. When to double down, when what you're doing is working. When what you're doing is working. Don't go, I got it. Exactly, exactly. Yeah, go all in. And that, and the DEXA is the accountability not only to your nutrition, but also to the conditioning program that you're doing. So if you're an athlete and you're not getting a DEXA scan, a DEXA scan tells you your, your body weight, your lean tissue and your body fat and body fat percent. Exactly. So if part of your training program, which it probably is and should be, is to increase lean tissue and decrease body fat. It's not the only thing we're trying to do. We're trying to increase power with force plate jumps. And we're trying to do all those, you know, those things, but body composition, adding lean tissue, decreasing body fat. Well, how are we accountable to that? Right? And you can do an in body and you can do a bod pod and you can do all these different tests, my Garmin scale, you know, but gold standard being a DEXA and having what that looks like. And then every three months you go and get it again to see, okay, have I sustained or continue to improve what I want, you know? So that's huge. Talk about the importance of like a decision that you made this offseason to go all in on your nutrition and with the chef service and with macro nutrition. What difference has that made for you? I mean, it's been, shout out, chef Whitney Jacobs. Shout out, chef Whitney, man. She is awesome. I mean, it's just been, like for me, like I've always tried to eat healthy, right? But it's like, you know, I mean, I don't consider it lazy, but like, you know, going to the store, like picking out what you got to eat, like It's work. Trying to, exactly, it's work. Like, you know, tracking your own macros is a lot. But like when you just put it into your sheet that we got from, I think, Anuman, right? Tom Anuman, yeah. Yeah. You know, we put it in, I'm like, all right, I'm 230 and I want to recomb. I put these in. I give them to chef Whitney. I get five star meals, three meals a week, or three meals a day for seven days a week. And just, you know, it's good food. Like she puts what's in it, how many grams of fat, protein, carbs, like all this stuff. And it's just, I mean, I've been eating fantastic meals for the last six months now. And it's just been, I mean, like, like, weight room, like it's great. Like, but like nutrition is such a big part of that. Like, you know, You have to blend them. Exactly. You have to. Like, you can't, like if you're lit, you can be the hardest working lifter. But if you're eating, you know, fried foods and all this stuff, like you're not going to be, you're not going to gain as much as you want. But when you put it together, man, it's, I mean, it's crazy. It's interesting. It's about body composition, right? And the importance of, of, in your, in your offseason, your professional athlete, you have really big goals. When your nutrition is on point and your, and your training is on point, you're going to see gains, massive gains. Quick too. Right? Like my situation, I got a current dealing with the, with the back issue. So I can't really do the training that I want to do, close to for the last six months. I've been just maintenance. But my nutrition has been on point. So my body composition hasn't changed. I haven't gained lean tissue, but I haven't lost and haven't really gone backwards. Exactly. Right? And when you go on a vacation, you go on a cruise, you go over Italy for a couple of weeks and your training slacks, cause you're on vacation and your nutrition slacks, you go backwards. Just like you work so hard to go forward with training and nutrition being alignment. When both of those fall off, you go backwards. So the thing that we've learned is like, look, if you're going to go on vacation, if you're dealing with an injury, like you cannot let your training and your nutrition slip at the same time. Like that's the death sentence. And I think like just like, yes, there's going to be things you can't control, right? But it's like, can you still make an elite decision? Like when I got down here, when I flew back down here in October, like I got in late. The only thing that was open was McDonald's. And I'm like, dude, I haven't had fast food in forever. Like I was like, I was like, but I, like I need something. So it's like, all right, I Googled, what's the healthiest thing on McDonald's menu? It was just a cheeseburger. So I just got the regular, like it's like, obviously it's not very healthy, but it's like, it's the healthiest option. Like it's like, and for me, it was like, my bad meal or that bad day was better than, like my bad days now are better than my best days six months ago, right? And so I think that's really good too. Like you're going to have, you know, a bad day, right? But it's like my bad days now are 10 times better than my best days six months ago. And what Brian Johnson calls that, right? And make your best, your new baseline. Exactly. The way that you train right now, when you were your absolute best version of Brody Brecht 10 months ago, like your absolute best 10 months ago is like your bare minimum right now. Raise the best. And probably way higher than that, right? Exactly. And it's like, if you just continue to stack days and move forward, I mean, people always ask like, hey, you worked with George St. Pierre for like a decade. What made that guy so great? And I would say he just continued to make his best as new baseline. Guys would go through an eight week fight camp and then they would go disappear and they would go and they'd vacation and they put on 25 pounds and have to cut to get back into the weight class. And he was just like winning fights and then taking two days and he's back in the gym. And it's like, his level of fitness on his worst day of a year was probably better than more than half of the UFC roster's level of fitness on their best day. And a guy I like that now is Sean Brady. Raise the best. And I think that's why you're gonna see Sean Brady win a UFC title in 2025. Absolutely. Year first, right? So I think like the idea of make your best, your new baseline and just continuing to move forward, is huge. Man, so much to unpack here. So good. Let me just take a quick look here and see what else, order ring, talk about the importance of sleep, right? So sleep and tracking sleep with an order ring and what that does or a whoop and what that does for you. I think just, sleep is like, it's the best recovery, right? I mean, that's how your body, that's how your muscles heal and all that stuff. So just being able to track your sleep and just, it's not like, all right, I'm getting, like I think for me has been consistent sleep has been the best thing, right? Like I'm not, yes, I'm not perfect. Like yes, on Friday I might go to bed a little bit later than I did on Tuesday throughout the week. But it's like, for the most part, like I'm within an hour bedtime, for pretty much the last six months. Like it's been going to bed at the same time, waking up at the same time, getting that circadian rhythm in line. So just your body can maximize the healing aspect and just, like for me, like I said earlier, the 10 hours of sleep, that's like my block. So like my, like when that 10 hours hit, so usually like right now I'm 10 to eight, like 10 p.m. to 8 a.m. And so once 10 p.m. hits, like that's, when I'm in bed, like I'm done with my p.m. routine, I'm trying to fall asleep right now and then 8 a.m. I wake up and that's like my ideal, like my body is fully recovered, I'm ready to go and just being able to track that on the whoop, like it tracks or whatever you got, like at least just tracking it, it's accountability. I have my login shared with you, like I'm tracking it. And so just being able to see where you're at, all right? Did I get a good restorative sleep last night? Was I, is my HRV down? And working with Tom Newman, like if it's my HRVs down three days in a row, it's like, all right, maybe I need to go float, maybe I need to go do something to like get my rhythm back on. Break the cycle and get back up. Exactly, exactly. So I think it's just really good, just accountability. Like all these things is really just like accountability, like just tracking it because, you know, it's so, like I talked about writing things down, like writing things down is way better than just keeping it in your head. Your head, you're gonna forget, but you go on the notes, it's there. You track all your stuff, like in my, you know, Google doc and my success checklist, like I got everything. I'm like, all right, what was my sleep percentage? It was over my 90% goal that I get four hours of restorative sleep, like all this stuff, just tracking everything. Yeah, man, so good. And what's absolutely is mind blowing to me is that you've only been in this for 10 months. You know, like you came over here and we're gonna wash the Super Bowl and as you're over here, I'm sitting there, I'm going brody, like I feel like this is your fourth season of pro baseball and you haven't even thrown a pitch in like affiliated ball yet. You know what I'm saying? I mean, you're just getting ready to go here into spring training, which is mind blowing to me. And I think for the people listening to this, for the mental performance coaches listening to this, like this is what's possible. This is what's possible when you have an athlete who's Uber motivated and hasn't had mental performance training, wants it, and then you have a system that allows him to step into growth, you know? In terms of the system, like we've pretty much talked weekly since like April. April, yeah. You know, and I think sometimes coaches say, well, man, when you talk to somebody weekly, like what do you talk to him about? You know, it's like you're talking to him every week. So I know how to answer that. Like I know my game plan going in, but like how has the weekly rhythm been for you working with a mental performance coach? I mean, like, you know, I wanna back up first. It's like, you know, like you said, it's only been 10 months since I've been in this, but what's crazy about it is it's all things I can control, right? Like all this stuff, like it's not like I'm doing super human things, like right? Like I'm, this is all controllable stuff. Like I can go get a Dexascan. I can listen to my mental, like imagery stuff. Like it's all stuff you can control. So like you said, like you just do little things a lot, then it adds up and it's exponential growth. So yeah, and then, sorry. Talking about just the 30 minutes every week calls. Oh yeah. And like how does that frequency feel overwhelming? Or is that, what is that like for you? Yeah, like it may seem like it's like, people may have seen like, oh, you're like, what are you supposed to talk about every week for, you know, 30 minutes, 40 minutes, whatever it is, but it's like, like I think you said it was Corburn's like, and I grew up with it now, like you almost know my process better than I know it now. Like, cause I have everything shared with you, like we always talk about it. Like we're always, you know, diving into a heroic book of the week, how can I apply this, all this stuff? And it's just like, you know my pro, like when something's not going good, like you know my process, right? Better than almost I do. So you can get me back on track. You're my accountability partner. And like, you just be surprised, like every week, like we got something new to talk about. Like you just be surprised by how much comes up within a week. And so it's just, it's just good to talk to somebody that understands your process, understands how to get you back on track and that type of stuff. So it's been, I mean, it's been awesome. Ever since we've been working together, it's been just like, not even on the field, but just off the field as well. Like just, you know, being present with my wife, with my family, like, you know, all that stuff has just been 100% better than what it was. That's awesome, man. And I think you're looking at, right, for coaches when we talked about this, but the performance and the development. You're looking at performance, which is on the field, pre-patter routine, pre-pitch routine, mental imagery, we're having a release routine, the five day pitching program, which we're gonna dive into it was the seven day when you were the Friday guy at Iowa. And then you have development, MVP process, heroic books, dexascans, macro nutrition, aura rings, MVP process, meditation. And just, you know, the idea is around like, you become the average of the five people you associate with most. What are we doing there? Success hotline. I mean, there's so much that you reviewed here, Brody, and three keys to keep it simple can happen on the field and off, so it can be performance and development. So, so much unpack here, man. And what you, like you said, it all comes back to controlling what you can control. Exactly, 100%. Anything that we're doing here, right? So like, if you were going back, and you could go back to Brody Brecht of, let's say, the moment you made that decision, let's say your sophomore year, you decided to go, okay, I'm going all in on baseball, you play that sophomore summer, you go do team USA, and you come back. It's now, let's say, start of the semester in September. If you could go back and talk to Brody Brecht in September of your junior year, so that would be, so like 15 months ago, basically. Right, a year ago was January, starting your senior, your junior season. So a couple months before that, just getting done with team USA. If you could go back and talk to that guy, like preparing for your draft year, what would you say to him? I mean, I think the biggest thing for me in the mental game is controlling what you can control, right? So it's like, for me, it would be like, you go like, hey, Brody, just control what you can control this year, execute the pitch. That's the only thing you can control. You can't control what people are saying about you. You know what they're gonna say, you're pitching good, always the best, you're pitching bad, this dude sucks, right? Like, you already know that. Don't like, the expectations of other people, don't put that on you. You can't control that. You can't control, you know, if the dude hits a home run on a great pitch, right? Like, you executed the pitch, that's your only goal. So just control what you can control and execute the pitch. I think that is the biggest thing, and that's the biggest thing for me. I think, as a baseball pitcher, like, you know, kind of, keep us stupid simple, right? And we're simple stupid. And just execute the pitch. It's the only thing you can control, man. It's the only thing you should be worrying about. You shouldn't be worrying about, you know, the fans, the coaches, the batter almost. Like, the only thing you can do is just execute the pitch. And if you execute the pitch at the micro level on the field, but if you back it up, hopefully what people took out of this is that you're executing a massive plan on a day-to-day basis. In your plan, if you look at your calendar, is there's 168 hours in a week, and as you quoted 86,000 four and seconds in a day. And you know where those are going. Exactly. That's the plan, right? That's execute to the day. So almost execute the process. Yes. That's what it is, right? And so like, that was my offseason, right? It was planted, those are my keys in the offseason. Like, you know, we talked about my three keys to keep us simple on the mound, but my three keys in the offseason were plan attack, execute. So plan, my Google calendar, my success checklist. That's my plan, right? Attack that, be present where you're at, execute it, man. That's all you gotta do. And if you keep it that simple, it is simple. And then you do it for 10 months, for 10 years. 10 years. And you like where you end up. Exactly. You know, and I think that we look at the 10 years, and we go, oh my God, that's so far. It's like running the marathon, right? Which marathon is 26.2 miles, bro, you're not 24. Just so you know. Because when you've ran one, those last 2.2 miles are legit, man, those are real. You know, so that's when the race starts. If you think about taking your approach to the last 10 months, you stretch that out over the next 10 years, but you're not trying to do it for the next 10 years, you're trying to do it one day at a time. Exactly. It's like you're not trying to have a good outing, you're trying to execute a good pitch. And a good pitch leads to a good outing, leads to a good week, leads to a good month, a good season, see what happens and we keep rolling. Next 200 feet. That's it, stacking days. Brody, thanks for being here, man. Thanks for having me, I loved it, enjoyed it. Yeah, it's awesome. For people to follow you, if they want to engage with you on Instagram or social media anywhere and follow your career and see where you're up to, it's the best way for people to follow what you got going. Follow what I got going. Are you active on any social? Yeah, I'd say Instagram probably. I deleted Twitter, I got talked about. I'm not trying to listen to all the fancy what they're saying, so Instagram is, yeah, that's probably the best way. Good, we'll put that in the show notes, Brody. It's been great, man, thank you. Appreciate you, man. My pleasure.

=== FILE: Mental Imagery For Basketball - Scoring [kgFMC-QuTBw].txt ===

 This is a basketball scoring scenario mental imagery training track. And to begin, I want you to find a good, quiet, comfortable place, whether that's laying down, sitting down, whatever's most convenient and comfortable for you today. You can do this as a standalone training or doubled up with another form of recovery. And as you gently close your eyes, I want you to bring your focus and awareness to the triangle between the tip of your nose and the corners of your mouth. As you inhale, be the nice and deep through your nose for kind of six, hold for two, and then exhale for eight. In for six, hold for two, exhale for eight, one breath at a time. We talk about approaching your season one day at a time, competing one possession at a time. Right now, there's nothing else for you to do to be in this moment right here, right now, one breath at a time. Inhale, breathing nice and deep through your nose for kind of six. Hold for two, and exhale for eight. We'll now do a short body scan to help create an even deeper state of relaxation. So when you hear me say the number five, put your awareness into your toes, the balls of your feet, your arches, your ankles, your Achilles, your calves, your shins. With the number four, bring that awareness into your knees, your quads, your hamstrings, your hips, your whole lower body. Just release, relax, and let go. With the number three, bring that awareness into your lower back, your mid back, your upper back, your abs, your obliques, your ribs, your chest, your whole torso. Just release, relax, and let go. With the number two, bring that awareness into your traps, shoulders, biceps, triceps, elbows, forearms, hands, and fingers. And with the number one, bring that awareness up the back of your neck, the back of your head, your forehead, your eyes, your cheeks, your jaw. Your lips gently part in the tongue just hangs in your mouth as a complete and total body relaxation and centering takes over. And what you'll realize is that the more relaxed you become, the better you might feel, and the better you might feel, the more relaxed you might want to become. We're now going to transition into some scoring mental imagery. I want you to bring yourself to that next basketball performance, whether it's a game, whether it's a workout or training. Just experience yourself and whatever comes to you today, competing and experiencing what it's like for you to be at your best, as rich, clear, and vivid as you can. It's a late clock. Defense is up respecting your jumper. Attack the feet, see the help rotating, pull up mid-range. Dribble handoff from the corner and dunk on the big. Dribble handoff. Turn the corner for one dribble pull up. Dribble handoff. One dribble to create space for three. Pin down, curl screen to one dribble, hesitate to freeze the big extra dribble to rim finish. Pin down, curl one dribble mid-range. Pin down to catch and shoot three. Corner spacing, ISO up top. Relocate to get in the vision of the ball, clutch and shoot in his face. Corner space, swing pass to wing. One more to you in the corner, shoot in his face. In transition, running wide and putting up pressure on the defense by sprinting. In transition, beat the defense for a layup. Transition, beat the defense for a layup. Transition, run wide into a kick out corner three. Transition, trail the play for a wing three. Off the dribble, attack your defender's feet and beat him for a rim finish. Off the dribble, defender is too far back, pull up for a three in transition. Half court, kick out three. Half court, kick out, defense closes out too hard, blow by, drive to rim finish. Half court, kick out, defense closes out too hard, blow by, drive to rim finish. Late shot clock, ball in your hands, create space for a side step three. And now I want you just to take a minute, see, feel, hear and experience what it would be like for you to be at your best in this upcoming scenario. Just scoring, making plays and being an elite offensive player. And now I want you to take a minute to see what it would be like for you to be at your best in this upcoming scenario. And now I want you to take a minute to see what it would be like for you to be at your best in this upcoming scenario. And now I want you to take a minute to see what it would be like for you to be at your best in this upcoming scenario. And now I want you to take a minute to see what it would be like for you to be at your best in this upcoming scenario. And now bring that focus and awareness back to the triangle between the tip of your nose and the corners of your mouth. As you inhale, breathing nice and deep through your nose for a count of six, hold for two and then exhale for eight. And as you bring that focus and awareness back to that triangle between the tip of your nose and the corners of your mouth, I want you just to repeat, what is your one word focus? What are your three keys to keep it simple? What are your three affirmations? Again, your one word focus. Your three keys to keep it simple. Your three affirmations. And as you take another good six to eight breath, open up your eyes as this concludes your scoring mental imagery training track.

=== FILE: Mental Imagery For Healing [Wvv_H1f8GMM].txt ===

 This is a healing and recovery mental imagery training track. And to begin, find a good, quiet, comfortable place where you won't be disturbed. You can do this laying down, sitting down, or doubled up with another form of recovery such as sauna, Norma-tech, or anything that's most relaxing and comfortable for you today. Please don't do this if you're driving. To begin, find a good, quiet, comfortable place. And as you pick out a spot in the field of vision in front of you, focus on that spot, focus on that spot, and now let your eyes gently shut. As you inhale, breathing nice and deep through your nose for kind of six, hold for two, and exhale for eight. As we go on this journey of healing and recovery and returning to play, one of the greatest skills that we can develop is the skill of relaxation. The ability to turn off our competitive mind and turn on our relaxation, our present moment focus, and our recovery. So as you're in this relaxed state, inhaling for kind of six, as slow and deep into your belly with that diaphragmatic breath as you can, holding for two, and exhaling for eight. Allow yourself to release, relax, and let go. Allow yourself to release, relax, and let go. As you slip into a deep state of relaxation. Relaxation. We'll now do a body scan to create an even deeper state of relaxation. So when you hear me say the number five, put that awareness and that relaxation as you allow your toes, the balls of your feet, your arches, your ankles, your Achilles, your calves, your shins. To just release, relax, and let go. And with the number four, bringing that awareness and relaxation into your knees, your quads, your hamstrings, is your whole lower body. Release, relax, and let go. With the number three, bringing that awareness into your lower back, your mid back, your upper back, your abs, your obliques, your ribs, your chest, your whole torso. Release, relax, and let go. And what you'll realize is that the more relaxed you become, the better you might feel, and the better you might feel, the more relaxed you might want to become. With the number two, bring that awareness into your traps, shoulders, biceps, triceps, elbows, forearms, hands, and fingers. And with the number one, up the back of your neck, the back of your head, your forehead, your eyes, your cheeks, your jaw. As a total body relaxation takes over, you let your lips gently part in the tongue just hanging in your mouth as you slip into a deep state of relaxation. And to a deep state of relaxation and recovery. We're now going to shift into affirmation training. Please repeat the following affirmations to yourself with that internal voice, allowing these affirmations to become your mindset and allow you to move forward. Because of this, something good will happen. Everything always works out for me. Every day and every way, I'm getting better and better. It's never the end of the road, just a bend in the road. Don't quit, can't fail. I'm not judged by the number of times I fail. I am judged by the number of times I succeed. And the number of times I succeed is directly related to the number of times I fail and keep on going. I will not place a period where there should be a comma. Because of this, something good will happen. Everything always works out for me. Every day and every way, I'm getting better and better. It's never the end of the road, just a bend in the road. Don't quit, can't fail. I'm not judged by the number of times I fail. I am judged by the number of times I succeed. And the number of times I succeed is directly related to the number of times I fail and keep on going. I will not place a period where there should be a comma. Because of this, something good will happen. Everything always works out for me. Every day and every way, I'm getting better and better. It's never the end of the road, just a bend in the road. Don't quit, can't fail. I'm not judged by the number of times I fail. I am judged by the number of times I succeed. And the number of times I succeed is directly related to the number of times I fail and keep on going. I will not place a period where there should be a comma. And now I want you to move into a healing mental imagery. As you're in this relaxed state, and you inhale, breathing nice and deep through your nose, I want you to imagine an image. That image may be a white healing light. It might be a little Pac-Man-like character. Whatever it is for you that resonates today, as you inhale, I want you to pull that healing energy, that healing light in, and it travels through your body to your area that needs recovery. Into that area, bathing that area, working that area, massaging that area. And as you exhale, it reverses its path and it takes out any of the scar, any of the injury, any of the inflammation. And maybe as you exhale, it's a red light taking out that red light in the area, you're bringing recovery. And through this healing light or image process, as you inhale, bathing that area with recovery, with love, with energy, with warmth. And as you exhale, letting go of any of the scarring, any of the tissue work, any of the inflammation or the adversity that's in that area. Bathing that area with love and attention. Bathing that area with light, healing and acceptance. Bathing that area with positivity and not negativity. It's your body, it's you. Let's heal it, let's bathe it. And for the next couple minutes, just lock into that healing light or that healing image breath. As you inhale, bathe that area with recovery and exhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale with every breath, bringing energy, strength and healing. Exhale, bringing anything that doesn't serve you anymore. Inhale, bringing in healing energy and light, energy and recovery. Exhale, removing toxins, waste and adversity. Inhale with every breath, bringing energy, strength and healing. Exhale, bringing anything that doesn't serve you anymore. Inhale, bringing in healing energy and light, energy and recovery. Exhale, removing toxins, waste and adversity. Inhale with every breath, bringing energy, strength and healing. Exhale, bringing anything that doesn't serve you anymore. And now as you take another good 6 to 8 breath, just open up your eyes and bring yourself back to this moment as this 1% healing mental imagery audio comes to a close. Nice job doing the work. Do what you can, give yourself grace and focus on what you can do, not what you can't do. As this concludes your healing mental imagery. Thank you for watching.

=== FILE: Mental Imagery For Hockey - Goal Scoring [7Kmwceiu6Cs].txt ===

 this is a mental imagery audio for your hockey goal-scoring performance. And the first thing I want you to do is get yourself in a good, quiet, comfortable place where you won't be disturbed. Whether you do that laying down, sitting down, doubled up with another form of recovery, such as a sauna or Norma Tech boots, whatever is most convenient and comfortable for you today. As you're in this quiet, comfortable place, I want you to bring your focus and awareness to the triangle between the tip of your nose and the corners of your mouth. As you inhale, breathing nice and deep through your nose for kind of six, hold for two, and exhale for eight. We talk about competing one shift at a time. Right now there's nothing else for you to do than just be right here, right now, one breath at a time. Keeping that focus and awareness on the triangle between the tip of your nose and the corners of your mouth. As you inhale, breathe nice and deep through your nose for kind of six, hold for two, and exhale for eight, one breath at a time. We're now going to transition into affirmation training. Please repeat the following statements to yourself. There's no need to say them out loud, but same with that strong, confident, internal voice. I'm relentless and attack the goal. I move my feet, play physical and shoot the puck. I got what I got and that's good enough to win. When I prepare my best, I am my best. I trust myself, my training and my process. I'm an elite goal scorer. I'm an elite goal scorer and world class offensive player. I trust my shot selection in preparation to produce every night. I can score any shift from anywhere. I'm relentless and attack the goal. I move my feet, play physical and shoot the puck. I'm relentless and attack the goal. I'm relentless and attack the goal. I'm relentless and attack the goal. I trust my shot selection in preparation to produce every night. I can score any shift from anywhere I'm relentless and attack the goal I Move my feet play physical and shoot the puck I Got what I got and that's good enough to win When I prepare my best I am my best I Trust myself my training in my process. I'm an elite goal scorer I Am an elite goal scorer and world-class offensive player I trust my shot selection in preparation to produce every night. I can score any shift from anywhere I Now as you take another good six to eight breath I Want you to bring yourself to your next hockey performance? and I want you to just Experience yourself in that rink in that uniform that you'll be wearing the opponent you'll be playing against and going through And executing the following scoring chances one timer in the slot Two on one one timer You Breakaway You Two on one catch and release Rebound in the slot You Shooting through a screen You Power play bumper pop Two on one hold it and shoot You Three on two get in the middle and shoe is the driver You pick a puck off the wall take it to the net and score Tip in in front of the net from a D shot You Cut back off the wall take it to the net and score You Get the puck high in the offensive zone shoot through a screen and score Three on two rush hit the trailer catch and release You Off the face off come off the wall and score And Now as you bring that focus and awareness back to the triangle between the tip of your nose and the corners of your mouth I want you to take another good six to eight breath And when you finish Just open up your eyes and bring yourself back to this moment right here right now is this concludes Your goal scoring mental imagery audio You You

=== FILE: Mental Imagery for Punting [j2Z0NDbPZxY].txt ===

 this is a mental imagery training track for your punting performance. And to begin, find yourself a good, quiet, comfortable place where you won't be disturbed, whether that's laying down, sitting down, or doubled up with some type of recovery. And pick out a spot in the field of vision in front of you and focus on that spot, focus on that spot, and now let your eyes gently shut. As you inhale, breathe in nice and deep through your nose for count of six, hold for two, and then exhale for eight. In for six, hold for two, exhale for eight. One breath at a time. Keeping your focus and awareness on that triangle between the tip of your nose and the corners of your mouth, as we lock into this moment, one breath at a time, just like we compete one punt at a time, one kick at a time, one hold at a time. As you continue to stay with your breathing and allow yourself to relax, we'll create a deeper state of relaxation by doing a quick body scan. So as you hear me say the number five, put your awareness into your toes, the balls of your feet, your arches, your ankles, your Achilles, your calves, your shins. With the number four, move that awareness into your knees, your quads, your hamstrings, your hips, your whole lower body. Just release, relax, and let go. With the number three, bring that awareness into your lower back, your mid back, your upper back, your abs, your obliques, your ribs, your chest, your whole torso. Release, relax, and let go. With the number two, bring that awareness into your traps, shoulders, biceps, triceps, elbows, forearms, hands, and fingers. With the number one, bring that awareness up the back of your neck, the back of your head, your forehead, your eyes, your cheeks, your jaw. Your lips gently part in the tongue just hangs in your mouth as a complete and total body relaxation and centering takes over. What you'll realize is that the more relaxed you become, the better you might feel, and the better you might feel, the more relaxed you might want to become. We're now going to walk through some sample punting scenarios. I want you to try to see, feel, hear, and experience these punts, these kicks, as rich, clear, and vivid as you can. If you know the stadium you're going to be playing in, maybe you've looked at video or aerial photographs of a field that you've never been to, do that first to make it as real as you possibly can. Standing behind the center, catching the long snap, and going through and hearing, feeling, and experiencing as real as you can the following kicks. Backed up in your own end zone, two step against hold up rush. Two step quick spiral punt back up in end zone against all out rush with return back. Long range spiral punt trying to flip the field. Typical spiral punt left against a hold up rush three step normal tempo. Typical spiral punt right against a hold up rush three step normal tempo. Typical spiral punt left against a rush three step get off quick. Typical spiral punt right against a rush three step get off quick. Roll out left spiral against no wind four step roll out. Roll out spiral left against wind four step roll out. Roll out left end over end with wind four step roll out. Sky punt end over end left landing inside the ten three step. Sky punt end over end right landing inside the ten three step. Quick kick against eleven man rush no returner one step and balls kicked. Punting after a safety right punt right holding PAT. Kick off. Kicking PAT. And now just put yourself in that stadium that you're going to be playing in in your next football performance. And for the next ten seconds just see feel hear what it will be like for you making all the possible kicks that will be a part of your performance. Ten nine eight seven six five four three two one zero. And now bring that focus and awareness back to the triangle between the tip of your nose and the corners of your mouth. As you inhale be the nice and deep through your nose for kind of six. Hold for two. And then exhale for eight. As you then open up your eyes. Bring yourself back to this moment right here right now is this concludes your punting mental imagery. Make sure that you get your shadow work in practicing your breath practicing the body language the focus in the self talk that you'll use in this upcoming game to give you the best chance for success. And now we're going to do a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little

=== FILE: Quantifying The Mental Game with Pison [dDZk3xaMkPA].txt ===

 Hey, how you doing, Brian Cain, host of the Mental Performance Mastery podcast here, and couldn't be more excited to be joined by teammates and friends, Donovan Santis, Charlie Jodka, and Zach Sorensen with Pysen. Today, we're going to talk about a tool that can quantify the mental game. Zach, I know that's something that you've been grinding on and working on for a long time since your days as a Major League Baseball player, and now a guy that's the head of mental performance with the Cincinnati Reds. You've had time as a mental performance coach, also with the Atlanta Braves, with the Texas Rangers. And one of the things that you and I, as colleagues have always talked about is, how do we quantify the mental game? It's not like we can put up a radar gun. It's not like we can put a speed monitor or force monitor on a bar and see if we're making progress. And you've been trying to solve that for years, and it sounds like you have. Talk to us about quantifying the mental games, Zach Sorensen. Thanks for being here. Man, we're so excited to be here today. We can't wait for this podcast that's called because, yeah, you heard it right. Like, we figured out how we feel like we figured out how we can quantify the mental game. And it has been, it's been a challenge. One of our coaches' biggest challenge, a mental performance coach's biggest challenge, is how do we quantify the mental game? How do we put a number to the mindset? How do we put a number to your mental game and how do you do it? Well, Pison, we feel like we've done that. It's how can we put a number to our mental readiness? You know, we always talk about Cain or you and I, everybody who works in the mental game, that measurement is motivation. OK, so we feel like we have done that. We feel like Pison has done that. And now we're excited to bring it to you to say, hey, here it is for you as coaches to take to your athletes. Here it is for you as athletes to be able to put a number to where are you at right now? Where is your mindset right now before a game starts? Let's put a number to it so you can say, here is my mindset. Here is my mental state. Here is my mental readiness. And now where do I take it from where it is right now to where it needs to be by game time? Yeah, and measurements motivation, right? And data doesn't lie. So when you have that data, you get a baseline and then you can make progress. So talk to us about kind of how you do that. Yeah, I think this is pretty cool. So as I started to think about my career as a player, you know, and we always do that, OK? How did this get started? Where does it come from? You know, mom and dad used to take me to the ball game when I was seven, eight, nine years old, even when I was a high school player. I even remember when I got called into the major leagues. They always asked me the same question. Are you ready to go? Are you ready to play? Like, think about that. Like everybody on this call right here is thinking back to when they were playing. I mean, Caner, you know, when you got dropped off in the field, when you were playing, are you ready to go? That is a question that was asked and is asked to every single athlete at whatever age they are. Well, the mindset is when you're always ready, you never have to get ready. But we know that you've got to be able to actually have a way to measure readiness, right? Exactly. And I love that you said that. OK, but what is that based on? Right, right. Like we tell ourselves that. Yeah, it's based on self-talk, not data and fact, which is you can quantify it. You should. Exactly. OK, it's based on self-talk. It's based on a strategy that Brian Kane has taught you. You sure? OK, help talk. Yeah, that's what it is. But here's what's pretty cool about what Pison has done. Like we have three tests, which are first of a kind. OK, and test number one is a readiness test is going to tell you if you are ready. OK, and where your score is compared to your baseline. It's a readiness test to let you know where you are at. OK, and like you said, measurement is motivation. Let's measure it. We measure everything else we do in sport. Every single thing we do in sport, we measure except for our readiness and our mindset. And now we have a way where we can actually measure our readiness. It's the very first time we can measure our cognitive state. And that's why we're so pumped and so excited about this. In fact, we've been so excited about this, Caner. You've been saying on your podcast, Mental Performance Daily for the past year. OK, first of its kind here it comes and everyone's been calling you saying, what is this thing all about? Well, now we're excited to bring it to you right now and say, hey, here it is. It's ready to go. Let's do it. Well, and I will tell you, Zach, that the exciting piece here is that there has, you know, there has for a long time been a gap in mental performance. And as a mental performance coach and somebody that's written a certification on mental performance and has mentored a lot of mental performance coaches and is dedicated his life to mental performance, you're always trying to move the field forward. And one of the ways that we've wanted to move the field forward is how do we make it more objective instead of subjective? And how do we create a measurement that can determine readiness, mental performance, cognitive state? And here we are. So this is this is the forefront of mental performance and cognitive training. And then I'm excited to bring Charlie on to show us in video. So if you're listening to this on the Apple or Spotify podcast feed, we're going to link to the YouTube video below so that you can actually jump over and listen to this and, you know, see what Charlie is about to show us here with the app. So Charlie, man, if you want to share your screen and walk us through the PICE and app to give us kind of a tutorial as to how do we test this readiness, right? How do we how do we use the app as a way to help us with performance? That's that will be awesome. All I was going to say is what I'm going to have Charlie do first to foremost is we're going to do this right in front of you. We're going to have you have Charlie actually take a reaction time test right in front of us right here right now. OK, because a readiness test is based on a reaction time score. And when when, you know, Mark DeShane, who's our, you know, VP of the region for us, he came to me and he said, hey, reaction time, think about that. Does that relate to sports? Yes or no. And I'm like, it is everything when it comes to sports. He's like, well, we have a way to test your reaction time. Our second test is like it's a go, no go test. It's how quickly can you make the correct decision? I'm like, well, that's everything in sports. Like think about baseball. How quickly can we recognize spin on a pitch? That's everything for our hitters. That is everything. And then our third test is a focus test. Of course, we can't focus. We can't play. So we're going to have Charlie right now in front of everybody here who's watching this take a reaction time test, which is going to determine your readiness and how quick how ready you are to play in a game. So Charlie, if you don't mind, if you go ahead and take a readiness reaction time test for us here on screen, I'd love to show everybody what we do at Pison. Absolutely. So I'm just going to share my screen here. And the important thing is this is what we're talking about right here, this Pison device. And so this device has a unique neural sensor in it that's going to be able to detect the nerves running through my wrist, coming down from my brain, telling my hand to open. So essentially what happens here is you can see we're on our main mind tab of the Pison app here. I'm just going to queue up a readiness test. It's going to take 30 seconds. So it's going to give me nine lights right here. And so I can sort of talk about what's happening right here as I react to this white light. Yeah. So this is pretty cool right here. As you look at Charlie's wrist right here on the wrist, you're seeing a white light that is flashing on the wrist. And immediately that light's going to go into Charlie's eyes and into his brain. And his brain is saying fire, fire. So every time he sees that white stimuli, all right, his brain is saying fire. And we're measuring how long it takes for his that stimuli to get into his eyes, into his brain and how long it takes for him to fire at his wrist. And that is a reaction time test. OK, now when somebody gets this device, they're going to take three of these tests, which gets them a baseline. All right. And then Charlie right here, this is his test score in this, in this real time example that he gave right here, 132 milliseconds. Seconds. And if you look just below this, and I'll let Charlie take over and explain this that says it's six percent faster than his baseline score. So that's what happens when you listen to mental performance mastery podcast, Zach. Faster and get you ready to go. Charlie is fired up and ready to go right now because he's talking to B.C. Brian Kane. Let's go. Go ahead, Charlie. You're on. So what's going to happen after I take a rain this test, right? I can tell them eight percent below. So that's good, right? But what if I'm a little two percent above, right? Then I have to do something about it. So we sort of go through this process here after the rain this test. It's going to ask me what my mood is. So I'm in a great mood right now. Yes, he is. I'm maximum motivation right now, of course. Right. But it's also going to ask me sort of what's happening right now. So what's going on in my life? What are the lifestyle factors? What are the habits and routines I'm undergoing? What am I doing as a pregame? Is it late night? I'm indoors. You know, you can create your own tags here. We, of course, have our predefined ones too. But let's say I'm, you know, drink some caffeine. I'm working. It's indoors light. I don't have a podcast option. I wish I did, but and we'll continue here. And basically, so what that'll do and allow Donovan and talk a little bit about this, but we have our cognitive insights. And so what's going to happen here is it's going to basically correlate those lifestyle factors to what's going on with my mental performance. So where my mental performance is right now, once I get a certain number of tests and a certain number of tags on there, it's going to tell me that that impacts my mental performance in this way. So for me, you know, I'm just, I'm still building out these insights here. The top two I have that increase my mental performance is when I'm working, which is kind of what I want to be honest. You know, when I'm home, you can see down there minus 4%, which for me works out when I'm home, I sort of want to be turned off a little bit more relaxing when I'm at work. I'm locked in, right? So, Donovan, you want to sort of talk about the impact that this has? Yeah, I think this is the biggest question we get from anyone that we're interacting about what the product is. Okay, I take a test, I get my baseline, I see where I am in the moment, now what? What do I do with it? And I think that's our secret weapon that sets us apart from a lot of the other wearables out there where you sleep, you get your sleep, you recover your strain, all that stuff, and you get a recovery score in the morning. And it's like, if it sucks, now I have to self talk myself all day into, well, I still have to play tonight. And then after you get enough of that negative feedback from your wearable every single day, you're like, you know what? I don't want this anymore. This is not productive for me. Real. With this. Very real. With this on the other hand, now you can take control of your day. You can take control of your plan. You can have a plan. You can be like, you can wake up. I got not enough sleep last night, my recovery score is low, my reaction time is low, I can take action. I can go about my day and I can take action and I can tag things throughout the day as I go. I can cold plunge, I can sauna, I can do a mobility, I can do meditation, I can do a warm up. All the things that as a strength coach that I've done for 25 years, getting guys ready to play every single day. Now we can quantify that throughout the day. How is each one of those interventions affecting you? And is it positive or negative? And a personal revelation that I've had just from using this device is I've done a bit of a caffeine junkie for most of my life. And it's become something that I've kind of relied on throughout the day, most every single day. And as I've taken these tests and I tag it every time I have caffeine, my test scores are pretty negative. And I'm like, what the heck? And so there's only been a couple of times where I've self-limited caffeine and I've really felt a lot better. So it is proof like it does show you in the moment, you know, where you're at and cognitively, not just physically. Yeah, you know, and that's very counterintuitive to what most people would think. Right? Most people would think that me included as a guy who's at the time of this recording, 500 milligrams deep, that's five cups of coffee already today. Good. It's before noon. My caffeine cutoff is noon. There's no limit to how much I get before then. But being a caffeine junkie myself, which I've actually cut back extremely. But yeah, you think the caffeine and you take that and it would improve your reaction time would improve you and get you ready to go. And I think everyone's going to have probably a baseline, you know, change to what's happening. But the thing that I like is you said, I want to go back to something that you said that I think is a mic drop of athletes. And we all work with professional athletes. And it's for people that are here. Donovan has been a strength coach in major league baseball. Zach is a mental performance coach in major league baseball. So the athletes I've worked with, and this goes NFL, NHL, you know, UFC, major league baseball, it's across the board is when they wear an aura or they wear a whoop and they get a readiness score and they don't like the readiness score. It messes with them mentally. And if I had, if I could, if I worked with a hundred athletes, 80 plus of them have said to me, why don't wear it? I don't wear my wearable anymore because when I get that data, it messes with me and puts me into a red light. And I don't think I can perform that day because I'm in a fatigue state and I still got to go do it. So I don't even want to know. And that's the difference with Pison that you get a readiness score and then you can go do something about it, measure it, track it. And that, my friends, delivers what we call goose bumps because now you're changing mental performance. Donovan unpacked that a little bit more in terms of maybe the protocol that you've seen athletes do that helps improve readiness like Charlie was talking about. Yeah, I think you nailed it spot on. You know, it's less of a negative feedback. My day is screwed and more of a now what, now what? And so the things that we've done and we've tested and we've tried internally with athletes and everywhere else are all of the things that you would typically expect. You know, it's going to be a good warm up. It's going to be elevating heart rate. In some circumstances, some people respond really well to cold therapy. Usually everyone responds really well to natural sunlight. There's a typical list of things across the board that most people respond positively and kind of like in everything else, the more of those bricks you can lay throughout the day, the more you're going to steadily improve as you go. But the one thing, you know, there is one thing that we have noticed that had a really significant effect on the most athletes that we worked with. And that is if you can connect a mind body event together and have some side of a heart rate component to it as well. So like we noticed with jump rope where there's a rhythmic coordination skill movement where there's a mind body connection and even agility ladder where again, there's a rhythmic mind body coordination connection connecting the mind to the body, you know, in a rhythmic and coordinated manner seems to really, really positively affect reaction time. The ladder drills jump rope, right? These are things that any athlete, any level can do. I mean, my three year old daughter does ladder drills with that in the garage. You know, so you're doing, you're doing, say that again, how'd you say that? Rhythmic? Yeah. So a coordinated rhythmic mind body connection where there's a heart rate component typically there doesn't have to be, but this is where as coaches, and I think there are a lot of coaches that listen to this, that is where your mind can kind of explore the avenues of this, you know, and I think when we talked about this to you earlier, you brought up juggling. I think that's a fantastic, you know, there's a coordinated rhythmic mind body connection there. But as a coach, this is where you can kind of explore and really and go to the ends here and find what is best for your athletes or your group and really see how it impacts them. Yeah, I think that. Rhythmic, sorry, that good. No, I just, you know, go, I think this is pretty special. Let me kind of tie all this and bring this back together for everybody who's listening. Caner, you hit the nail on the head with this, you know, a lot of our players who are with the Cincinnati Reds or other, other, you know, major league baseball players that we're working with, they get provided, you know, these other devices that they get to wear. They put them on because they want to know how their sleep was last night. You can't go back and change your sleep. You can't go back and re-sleep. You can't do it. So they get their scores and if they're, they're great, they look at them, they're like, sweet, nicely done when they go. But if they don't get the score that they want, like, what do you do about that? What does that mean? Okay. With Pison, you test and see what your readiness is in the current state. The present moment, which to me, that's the mental game. It's how we are in the present moment. Okay. Well, guess what? Guess what Brian Cain does for you? Guess what all you mental performance coaches do? You provide strategies to get our athletes into the present moment and get them to be their very best in the present moment. If my readiness score that you just took, that Charlie just took, your reaction time score is slower than your baseline. Instead of saying, I'm not going to play well tonight. Guess what you do? You intervene. You have an inner, you have an intervention. Okay. What does cold plunge do to you? Go take a cold plunge, take a reaction time test before your cold plunge, take another one after it and take one 15 minutes later and now see where you're at. You can re-test again throughout the course of a day and that is the difference. You will get yourself to a space to where you are in a state of readiness for your game and that is the difference. So first awareness, Cainer, you say this all the time. You said it yesterday on your podcast, awareness strategy action. You have to have awareness. Number one. So where am I at right now? Okay. Then what is my strategy to get myself back to my baseline or to my perfect mental state? That is what we coach all day long in the mental game. That is what we do. What is the strategy? And then I need to go take action to get myself back and ready to go. You know, Zach, I love the idea of what's the strategy, right? And I've always said like, swept before screens. The reason why I swept before screens is not because I like working out at 430 in the morning, it's because of what it does for me cognitively the rest of the day so I can perform. Right. But I'm not doing jump rope ringer ladder drills, but I'm going to add that into my routine probably at the end of my workout because I want to get that coordinated rhythmic mind and body with a heart rate spike going so that I'm at my best and performing my best. So the fact that we can prove that with data is a game changer. Charlie, if we can, I want to come back to you and have you share your screen again, because I think, you know, for people to see it, right? It's like a picture is worth a thousand words. Charlie sharing his screen is now worth a thousand, a thousand, you know, whatever, a thousand something. So Charlie, walk us through more of this app. You talked about the mind. Let's take a look at the body and fatigue if you could. Absolutely. So we do the same thing that other wearables do, right? We provide all those body and sleep stats that are just so important, right? We just elevate it with the mental performance. So this new tab that we're building right here focuses on HRV, right? It's going to be my body readiness and Donovan can talk about this way more at length than I ever could. But, you know, so I didn't get great HRV last night, right? I got to be better, right? So, but at the same time we have our stream and recovery. So standard stats that everybody is used to. I can sort of see my past week. I can see where I am according to my goals, how that correlates to my sleep. And I can come over here. I can see my sleep efficiency, you know, how much of the time that I was in bed last night was I actually asleep, right? All this valuable stuff that a lot of people are familiar with, but I think that we're doing this sort of in a new and interesting way. And in our app, we also build in a lot of info, help people sort of that mental coaching aspect where sort of, you know, you understand what you're looking at. We don't want people to sort of see all these stats. There's a lot of stats and numbers, million ways to measure these things. We want to sort of explain how we do it and why that makes sense, right? So I can go down here. I got my sleep phases, circadian compliance, how well I'm complying with my ordinary sleep time and wake time and all that. So then that all comes back and ties into, of course, our mental performance here. Yeah. And I think just from a simplicity standpoint, right? I mean, if you click back on the body tab, you know, being able to see, you know, what was my strain? What's my recovery? And if you scroll down there, Charlie, where it shows strain and recovery, you know, you can see what the strain is. You can see where the recovery is. And if you click on the sleep piece again, you know, we can see, OK, what was my efficiency? What was my total sleep? What was my total sleep need? Click on the total sleep details. I want to take a look and kind of behind the curtain here a little bit more of this and see, boom. So, you know, so there's, you know, you shows you like that sleep debt and it shows you how much restorative sleep you're getting, the combined rem in deep. So there's a lot of data that's in here that you're getting from other wearables. You're just not getting the readiness and the how do I improve that with the other wearables? So, Donovan, let's come to you, you know, as a guy that's been responsible for readiness as a strength and conditioning coach on the physical side. This is fascinating. We got you on the physical side, Zach on the mental side, both at the major league level. You know, how do you see this app helping players with their performance and readiness and also monitoring recovery, which is so important as you, you know, know from being in the league? You know, I think just getting instant feedback on we know that there's so much information out about sleep now. I think a long time ago, it was it was a much, much bigger onion to peel. I think now the athlete is much more educated and knows many more of the specific things that they can do to improve their sleep. So being able to see these metrics in real time, you know, what is your sleep efficiency when you get in bed and you fall asleep to when you wake up? How much of the time are you asleep? That is really valuable information. How much are you tossing and turning? And then on top of it, we know that if you are going to be in bed, if you can spend the majority of it in restorative sleep, deep or REM, that is that is the biggest recovery tool that you can find. So even if you're only going to get five hours, if four of those are in deep recovery sleep, that is huge. And so that will that will directly impact your recovery score. And it's huge and it's huge for HRV. The other thing that that's really cool is on the front page there is the cognitive pattern. You can take five tests in each two hour window across the entire day. Readiness test that is. And based off of that, you will get a better understanding of your readiness throughout the day based off of your circadian rhythm. So what times during the day are you at your peak readiness and what days do you tend to be a little bit? A little bit slower? And you'll understand that a little better and be like, man, why is it every time I show up the field? I just feel like I'm dragging or why is it that every morning I feel like this? And you'll start to understand your circadian, your circadian rhythm and your your readiness pattern throughout the day. It doesn't mean you're going to immediately change it, but it does mean that you can, you can deliberately put some interventions into those windows. Or, you know, if you're an athlete in the offseason, you can specifically train in certain timeframes that that you are at your peak. And you can be, you know, like, I'm going to go to the cage. I'm going to go to the do my workout at four o'clock in the afternoon today, because that is when, you know, I'm typically at my my peak readiness as opposed to, you know, 10 a.m. in the morning when it's convenient or something like that. Donovan, you mentioned something about cognitive insights that I want to come back to. And like, how how in what you do throughout the day? How does that affect your reaction time? And is the Pison app like tracking that? We're passively tracking everything that you would expect. So heart rate, steps, calories and things like that. The only way you're going to know what the cognitive insights is if you deliberately tag what you're doing. You know, so if I just had lunch and I, you know, and then I take a test, I would want to tag that because, you know, typically, you know, digestion is going to slow us down and make us a little bit slower and things like that caffeine. For some, it's going to speed us up. For some, it's going to, you know, have a different type of effect. You know, again, warm up, you know, and, you know, and, you know, anything that can impact you, you know, throughout the day, or anything that you've currently done, you know, that might impact your physiology specifically. You know, and I know one of the ways that we test that too, right, is with a go, no, go test. And I know Charlie, that was something that I was going to have you kind of role play and show for us. So if you can share your screen again and take us through that go, no, go test and show us exactly how that works. And maybe Zach, you can talk about, you know, how, how, how that is, or why that is important as Charlie's doing that. Yeah, this is awesome. You know, this is our second number test. It's the mental agility test. And it's interesting. A lot of our players are doing this before they get like in a batting cage. Okay. So what Charlie's doing here, it's exactly the same setup. It's a little bit longer test, about 60 seconds. He's getting a white light, which is a go and a orange light, which is a do nothing. Okay. So he's firing on white and doing nothing on orange. Now this is how quickly can you make a correct decision? And so for our hitters, especially in baseball, okay, they're treating this like fastball slider. So I'm swinging the fastball. I'm not swinging at a slider. And it's really interesting as our hitters do this, like they are absolutely loving this. When I sit around the table, like in a major league clubhouse, you guys are like, what is going on here? What do you mean? And before you know it, everyone wants to take this test. They're competing against each other. And initially it's very frustrating for them because they're check swinging a lot. All right. But what is awesome about this is you can get better at this test. This is a test that you can get better every single time you take it. The more you practice it, you get better at this mental agility. And you want to get better at it. Okay. How quickly can you make the correct decision? So at the end of this test, what you're going to see here is you're getting a, this is a dual test. It's testing how quickly you are getting the test done and how accurate you're getting. Charlie, that's an awesome score, man. Look at that. Look at you go right now. This is awesome right here. It's typical. Charlie, you just need to be on the podcast daily and take your performance of life to another level, brother. Look, look, look. It's typical score range. It's 55 to 71. He just scored an 80, which is awesome right here. But it's how accurate are you and how your speed and how quickly you do this? Okay. So, and if I'm understanding this right, the main takeaway here is let's say Charlie's a baseball player and it's an hour before game time. He does that test and goes, man, I'm below baseline. Well, what can I do? Can I go ladder, jump rope, something with that rhythmic and, and, and tied in cardio that Donovan was talking about? Can I go get a cryo if we have one at the stadium? Can I go get a cold plunge? Can I get a cold shower? Can I do something that I already know is going to help me because I have pre-determined the intervention, the go to to get me where I need to be. I go, let's say do some ladder, some jump rope, cold shower, back in, boom, suit back up, hit my readiness again. Now I'm above baseline. Let's go wear somebody out. Yeah, absolutely. Now think about this, Caner. So let's say that, you know, Vladimir Gerro Jr. actually has one of these, you know, he's excited to test it out and try it out. Let's say that he has the day off out there playing for the Toronto Blue Jays. And he's not going to play today, but the game's tight. The game's close and they're like, hey, Vlad, you go grab a bat, go get ready. You're going to pinch it next to him. So he goes into the tunnel. Now a lot of guys that are getting ready to go pinch it, what do they do? They go get on a exercise bike. Okay, and they do this, which is great. I mean, they're getting their body ready to go, but we have never before done anything to get our minds ready to go. Like what are we doing to get our brains ready to go hit? Are we doing anything to like test to see, to make sure that our eyes and our mind is ready to go? What if you were to go do a go, no, go test first thing? Or while you're riding the exercise bike, do a go, no, go test to get your mind firing. Like, are you going to be in a better mental state after you get doing, you do a go, no, go test? Absolutely. Think about that. Like we've never done anything before to get our mind ready to go. Take a readiness test, do a go, no, go test. Are you going to be a better mindset to go swing about 100% and that's what is so exciting to me about what Pison is doing for us. Well, what's connecting a lot of dots, right? And this is these aha moments is I'm on a call with a guy with a player yesterday in the major leagues, right? And this guy is having the best career of his year. Granted, it's the middle of April, so we're a month in, there's a lot of go, but he's having the best start to his career ever. That's significant. And yeah, he's like, man, I'm not playing every day. What do you do to get ready to hit? What's your routine? My thought is, well, the first three innings of the game, you go down to the tunnel underneath and you're taking an app out off of the trajectory machine or whatever it is you have. It's you're getting your three out bats so that by the fourth to the ninth inning, like if you pinch it, it's not, you haven't, you haven't gone three hours since you touched your bat. This guy's a catcher, right? So he's warming up pitchers and doing our stuff. He's not, he's not hitting and he's for hitting when he first gets to the stadium at four o'clock. He's not touching a bat again until he pinches, he pinch hits in the seventh inning. So I never thought about like, yeah, go down underneath and do some jump rope. And if you don't have a rope, just phantom jump rope, you know, like you don't need a actual rope, just do the rhythmic movement or an agility ladder, something like that. Because if they're on the road, they may not have access to a cage. That's one of the things he talked about. He's like, hey, when we're in Minnesota, I got to walk three minutes to get to the cage. I might not have that much time, right? So, but can you go down and can you do something agility ladder, whatever it is to get yourself ready to go? So, I mean, groundbreaking man on the forefront of mental performance measurement, quantifying the mental game and cognitive performance really good. I mean, Charlie, you know, Zach mentioned Vladimir Guerrero Jr. one of the major league baseball stars that is, you know, working with Pison and using the device. Is there anybody else that you can talk about that maybe has used the device? I know I've had, you know, one of your athletes, Anthony Alfredo on here, the NASCAR driver who's doing fantastic. Is there anything anybody else that is using Pison that our audience might be able to, you know, follow as well? 100%. Yeah. So we're bringing on some really, you know, talented guys, both in baseball, but all sports. And baseball, we've got a few really great young talents. We've got Conagra.  N-pyridine is the number two prospect with the Pittsburgh Pirates first round pick last year. He's using it, loving it, and I mean, you'll see in our social media, he talks about the benefit it has for his sleep patterns, how he notices how he performs the next day mentally. We also have Max Clark, top prospect with the Tigers, right? We actually got a got-off call with him the other day, and he's telling us stories about how before he gets in the cage, it's in the Jolly Test, right? He's using that as a primer to go hit before he gets on the field. We also have JJ Weatherholt, top prospect with the Cardinals, he's in AA now. He's one of those guys, I love telling his story because, you know, not the most physically imposed guy coming up through the draft, but at West Virginia, I mean, I think it was his sophomore year, he led the country in hitting, and he's just one of those guys just always gets the barrel on the ball. Really low whiff rate, really high barrel rate, and it sort of makes sense because when you look at his pison scores, his reaction time, it's elite, right? It's 99%ile. You know, we've got guys across sports, we've got Anthony Alfredo, NASCAR driver, right? Quick reactions, pretty important there, obviously. Dorel Rivas in football, you know, we're sort of adding these names, these guys that are really getting excited about this, and, you know, really helping getting the word out so people understand, you know, the value of this and really what we're doing. Yeah, I mean, I'm just going to share my screen real quick and, you know, let people see, like, Anthony Alfredo, right? NASCAR driver talking about how a pison has allowed him to make discoveries about himself and his person and athlete that he didn't know to help him operate at an elite level. You know, to Mark Budzinski, who we've had here on Mental Performance Podcast, he's a first base coach with the Toronto Blue Jays, right? Talking about how it's a separator, and as a coach, there's nothing better than an advice that can actually give me immediate feedback. That's the difference, immediate feedback on players so I can help them perform at their best. And then the mayor can't have a podcast without mentioning the mayor, Sean Casey, talking about how pison's measurements can weaponize, right? And could be a game changer for interventions that create the results we all desire. Sean Casey, being a Lifetime 300 hitter, knows something about reaction time, and being a hitting coach with the New York Yankees, knows something about reaction time. So I think, you know, the pison is on the forefront of cognitive performance. It's on the forefront of bringing measurements to mental performance and quantifying the mental game. And, you know, I'm excited to be aligned with you guys and partner with you guys on using the app to help bring mental game into another stratosphere. You know, it's no longer just, hey, I'm going to talk with my players. It's like, we're going to assess, just like a strength coach, we're going to assess. We're going to provide measurements and we're going to provide drills and we're going to provide strategies, exercises to do. And then we're going to retest. And if we do the test and the protocol and we retest and there's no performance, we need to adjust the protocol. And if we do the protocol, the test, the protocol and there's improvement, we're going to keep going forward because data don't lie. And I couldn't be more excited about what pison is bringing to the field of mental performance with being able to quantify the mental game. Harding thoughts, anything else that you guys want to share before we wrap it up here? We'll go Charlie, we'll go Donovan, we'll finish up with Zach Sorensen, Charlie, anything, any parting thoughts here? Yeah, I think, you know, you've been talking about pison for a while and sort of talking about how, you know, we've been building this great thing, sort of slowly telling people about it. And we really feel like this is now the time that, you know, this is the time for people to start looking at this as this is how you optimize your mental performance and be ready for the game. And when I think about, you know, especially like the brand ambassadors that we work with, anybody who's a top athlete, you know, I don't know why you wouldn't want to test where you are. Right. Are you going to go through your game and through your season without knowing that? You know, without that knowledge. And so we talk about all the time, we think it's a separator, both in baseball, but all sports and really for anybody, this is the catchphrase we use, anybody who uses their mind, right? So it goes beyond sports and goes beyond everything. So we're super excited. Open the floodgates, watch out, pison's coming. Donovan, we're going to you. Question, can athletes wear this in a game? Yeah, they can. It is, it is in game proof for certain sports. And so, you know, obviously you're going to take all the precautions that you can and should, depending on what sport you're playing. But yeah, certainly. Awesome. Donovan, any parting thoughts here? Yeah, no, it's always been a mission of mine as a strength coach, performance director to empower the people that I worked with. And I feel like that's exactly what this tool does. It gives you, it gives you the ability to see where you're at in a moment, but then also the power and the ability to see, you know, what you can do to change that for the positive. You know, you don't have to be stuck in a bad place. You have the, you have the power and the ability to move out of there and then, you know, get objective data to prove it. Awesome. And Zach, mental performance coach with the Cincinnati Reds, been with the Braves, been with the Rangers, played in the major leagues. Statue of you outside of Wichita State Stadium dominating the day. Let's go. Any parting thoughts for you, Zach? I love that you got murdered out and all black today. Thank you for doing that. All black, all black because of Caner. That's right. Less decisions to make in the morning. Hey, I'm so fired up, man. I'm really excited about this. Why measurements motivation and feelings aren't facts, but the biggest thing is this is what are we going to do about it? We're going to figure out where we're at and then we're going to figure out what we're going to do about it. So last year I'm flying home. I was just got done with the Cincinnati Reds. My flight lands at midnight. I get to bed at 1245 in the morning. My alarm goes off at 445. Why? Because that's our process. We're not going to change the process because we're tired. I get up, I take a reaction time test and it says that I'm 14% below baseline as you might expect. I got a workout to go to. Is it going to be a good workout? Well, I don't know because I don't listen to my feelings. Immediately I take a pre-workout with 200 milligrams of caffeine. Yeah, of course I do. I drive to the gym, which is a seven minute drive. I get a good warm up. I'm sweating just a little bit before I start my workout. I retest and I'm 1% faster than my baseline. What does that do to you mentally? Confidence. Confidence. Immediately it's confidence. Measurement is motivation. Where's my motivation right now? I'm going to crush this workout. Think about what that does to you as a player. Think about what that does to your players if you're a coach. We have a way not only to measure where you're at mentally, but also a way to give your athletes confidence because we can now have awareness of where we are at. As mental performance coaches, this is what we've been waiting for because now our strategies are going to get our players back to green light. We're going to get our players into that state where they want to be at all times. Man, I'm super excited. I want everybody to get on the train, get on the wagon. We're excited about this. I can't wait for you to get this in your hands. I mean, just the reaction time test. If I can improve reaction time sold. If I can do a go no go test to make sure that I'm ready to see and react to what I see as a baseball player sold. But you're also giving me HRV data and you're giving me sleep score. There's a lot of wearables out there. There's only one Pison. Appreciate you guys being here dominating the day. If anybody's interested in learning more, I'm going to give you a call to action. I'm going to put it in the show notes. It's real easy. Go.pyson.com slash Brian Kane. That's G O dot P I S O N dot com slash Brian Kane. And you're going to get 10% off when you use the coupon code BKane 2025. Dominate the day. Charlie, Zach, Donovan. Thank you guys for being here. Let's unlock your mind, unlock your potential and let's dominate the day. Thanks for being here.

=== FILE: Riding The Raged Edge of Control with NASCAR Driver Anthony Alfredo [KefOuuA2km8].txt ===

 and alfredo. Hey, how you doing? Brian Cain, host of the Mental Performance Mastery Podcast, brought to you by Fun Raising University. And today, I am fired up to be joined by NASCAR driver Anthony Alfredo to discuss the mental aspects of driving, how Anthony trains his mental game, and also how he uses Pison, the world's first cognitive performance tracker, to improve his performance. Anthony, man, fired up for you to be joining us here on the podcast. Thanks for being here. Yeah, this is awesome. I'm a big fan of the show, and I appreciate the opportunity to come on. Yeah, man. I mean, I know there's so much I want to dive into, like, at NASCAR, and I think for a lot of our listeners, you know, maybe a lot of them coming from stick and ball sport community, you know, and kind of getting an opportunity to hear you talk about the mental performance aspects of NASCAR. If I were to ask you, like, what is mental performance to you, what would you say? For me, honestly, mental performance is just a lot of preparation, because when you get in the car, especially racing at speeds of upwards and over 200 miles per hour, you're not, you don't have time to think about what you're going to do. It's all just subconscious competence, right? So you need to just make these decisions. Sometimes they're right, sometimes they're wrong, but being able to train yourself to make those split second decisions and ultimately train to make the right one, which come down to studying and film and looking at data and understanding just how to position yourself better in the various circumstances you find yourself in is the biggest thing. So there's just a huge part of racing that is just mental, honestly. It's so competitive, especially in the national series. You know, unlike most sports where there's just two teams and one of the two is going to win, there's 40 of us out there racing for the same thing and seconds the first loser. So at this level of competition, you could execute a near flawless day behind the wheel on Pit Road with your team strategy and still not win. So anything you can do as a driver to be better prepared mentally and beat somebody before you even get into the car is a big advantage. What are some of those things that you do, Anthony, like to train mentally to give you that edge? So for me, a large part of it, honestly, is starts with simulation. You know, we don't get a lot of track time anymore, which makes it really hard to know the handling of your car or make the balance kind of what you want out of it while at the track. So we just take 20 minutes of practice and then qualifying one lap and then we race. So that's new since the pandemic. Used to get hours of practice and tons of track time, but we actually had none during the pandemic and that's when I came into the national series. So I was a rookie in the NASCAR Xfinity series and the NASCAR Cup series with zero practice, zero qualifying. I'd never driven either of those cars and my first lap on most of the race tracks was the start of the race, the green flag. So I'm the first person in motorsports history to ever do that. And that's when I really realized how important the mental side of things were. You know, I just how important that is, cognitive training, because that was something that really was tough to have confidence going into, right? You had a huge disadvantage. I was racing Ryan Newman, who was a rookie in the Cup series when I was one years old. So 20 years later, I'm a rookie racing against him. And how do you beat that? So just being able to be up with the times on the technology available, like Pison now, to be able to train, better prepare yourself and then execute on race days is really important. So turning laps in the simulator, even though it's virtual, it just gives you the right visual cues, gives you confidence in what you need to do behind the wheel at the track. And then in the gym training and using, you know, my device to just improve reaction time, learn how to get dialed in and focus, you know, before I get into the car, just how do you get into the mode, right? On race day, we don't have any on track time other than the race. So you might practice and qualify the day before, but on race day, you're just getting in that thing called turkey and starting the race. So being able to get dialed in before that green flag and not waste any laps, just getting your bearing straight is critical. Are you hitting the simulator on race day, like before you get in there to kind of get warmed up, or is it more like a physical warm up or both? What's that look like if we were following you? So the simulator, unfortunately, just isn't that accessible. So at least with Chevrolet, you know, they have a GM tech center in the Charlotte, North Carolina area. And so do the other manufacturers in NASCAR. They have large engineering staffs that are at these facilities with multiple simulators for those teams and drivers to utilize, and they all pretty much get an allotment of time there. I'm very spoiled because I drive the simulator actually full time for Hendrick Motorsports, which is pretty much the most successful or decorated cup series team in history. And doing that for them is a lot of R&D stuff, but also set up tuning for their cup series program. And that's in addition to my own racing team that I drive for on the weekend. So I'm in the simulator every day for hours on end doing a lot of different things. So I'm certainly spoiled with that compared to other guys. I only get a shift, like a couple hours or something a week or not even. Some people it's less than that a couple of times a month. So I do a lot of that during the week, but on race weekend, there is no simulation. It's just going to come down to looking at data and driver telemetries and studying film. What about like mental imagery and visualization? Is that something that you do in NASCAR to prepare where like maybe the day of or the night before, you know, you've been to the track, you know what it's going to be like. Obviously, you know what the inside of the car is like, you know what it's like when you're out there. So you're kind of closing your eyes and like, whether it's visualizing the start of the race, like a UFC fighter is often going to visualize the start of the fight. And then it just kind of happens and they're out there because they're in it. Like, is that something that you have done at all in terms of preparation? A ton. I do it. Honestly, probably every day, but a lot on race weekend, you know, laying in the, we travel, you know, February through November, it's one of the longest seasons in sports or at least the points, you know, competitive championship season. Right. So the offseason is short. It's a month and a half. And you really spend it kind of wrapping up that following season and preparing for the next one. So during the season, you're doing a lot of those mental reps on race weekend. You're in your hotel bed, lights are off, you know, in the dark. I usually just close my eyes and imagine all my shift points, just the sound of the motor and the pitch it's going to be at in the corners where I'm going to position myself. And then I like to imagine different situations I might find myself in. I mean, it's practically impossible to, well, it is impossible to plan exactly how a race is going to go, but you can plan for things you would do in certain situations. So even when I'm watching film, you know, I don't just watch myself back from a previous race. I'm watching the whole race. The strategy, what other guys were doing. Maybe there was someone faster running a different line. And I just try to put myself in the car and imagine what it would feel like if I were doing that and what kind of adjustments I would need for my crew chief and the team in order to give me the balance in my race car to accomplish that because handling is everything. You know, you can only go as fast as the car will let you. So you're going to have to make mechanical or aerodynamic adjustments for that. So that's a big thing. Just pretending like you're in the seat and just imagining the sensations you're having and what you would do on a late race restart, you know, make it a move for the win or maybe you are the leader. How do you defend that and keep everyone behind you? Just so much goes into it. Man, it's awesome because, you know, for the people in our community listening to this here that are into mental performance like NASCAR, I've been two races in my life. I went to Loudoun, New Hampshire. I've been to one out here in Arizona. And one time I've been in a car. I wasn't even an NASCAR. It was on a dirt track and I made it two laps and I was like, I got to get out of this thing as a passenger because that's like my stomach. I feel like I'm on a roller coaster right now. I got to get out. So like the amount of respect that I have, you know, for what you guys are doing, going 200 miles an hour, like how close are you to other cars when you're out there? I mean, you're rubbing or your inches out, right? It's not like it's feet. It's inches. Yeah, it's inches and we touch a lot of the time. You know, that's we're fortunate because we raise full body cars on like an Indy car, an open wheel car in F1 where, you know, they can't really touch because just tire on tire contacts bad where with the fenders, we can lean on each other a lot more. We say rubbing is racing. Yeah, the faster tracks, you don't want to touch a whole lot because just the slightest bit of damage can drastically impact aerodynamic performance. But we race at such a variety of tracks where the way you execute, the way you drive the car and the things you need out of your car, what you need to do as a driver is always different and super speedway racing. For one example, that's where we're over 200 miles per hour the whole time. It's Talladega, Daytona. We're pushing really hard. We're in big groups. They call it the big one, which is usually a wreck where a lot of cars are involved because we're all so close together. It you just don't have time to slow down or avoid it and everyone just piles in. And that's where that reaction time and all that certainly comes into play. But at those speeds, you're you're you're on the edge of control so much so that the best way I could describe it is especially for someone who's ever been to a race like TV doesn't do it justice when you go there, the sound, the smell, the sensation of speed is totally different. But what you still struggle to comprehend is that we're so far on the edge of control and on the limit of the car and the tire, the grip, right, of the track surface that we don't even have to touch each other to cause an accident. So we're so such on that so much so on the ragged edge of control that just getting too close to another car can literally cause them to spin out and cause an accident or a crash. So there's a lot of give and take there because it's not just like, oh, you ran into somebody and spun them out. Well, you don't have to touch someone. We're just that sensitive to aerodynamics from other cars around you. So that's just a whole nother level of racing that I love that I find fascinating. Like, is it talk to me about the element of fear, right? Like if you've gotten an accident or you're there and you see that, right? And maybe it's just something that you become numb to over the course of your lifetime of driving at that speed. It's just normal, right? It's like when I had George St. Pierre UFC fighter come out to the University of Southern California and he jumps into the batting cage after three pitches, he's like, man, I'm getting out of here. I'm like, dude, the thing's coming at you at 60 miles an hour. He goes, I'm getting out of here, right? Cause he's not used to that, but he can take a punch to the face and all that. It's normal for him, right? So I think you can become a little bit desensitized to that fear, but like those, the UFC fighters that work with, they still have fear getting in there, even though they've been doing it for a long time. Like how does fear work for you in the car? Does it exist? Do you use it to sharpen senses? Like what's the fear like when you're out there? So for me, it doesn't exist once I put the helmet on. It's just kind of that supernatural, like alter ego. You put the helmet on and you just shut out a lot of things. You know, there's certain things in your life that you can't be thinking of behind the wheel because you're not going to perform at your peak. You're not going to push the limit and drive on that ragged edge of control. I mentioned because being right on that limit is, you know, the closest, the closest you are to crashing without stepping over that limit is like peak speed, right? You're at the absolute limit of the car going as fast as you can go. So any little bit under that, you're losing. And in this sport, we fight for tenths of a second, which is literally what it takes you to blink your eyes. So for example, we're at Sonoma Raceway this past weekend, which is a road course. So you would think with 12 turns, you know, you might be fighting for a second or something to gain advantage of. So really, I was one tenth of a second from qualifying eighth place, and I was sixteenth place in qualifying. And then when you go to the ovals, it's hundreds of a second or thousands of a second. That's how tight it is. So it's really important that you are operating at, you know, your peak mental capability, you know, and your physical, obviously, ability. But I would say, you know, fear is detrimental to that. So I think if you're scared before you get in the car, you probably just shouldn't be racing. I don't think those people make it very far. And honestly, we see drivers who race for a long time, but then they reach a point in their life where, you know, they have families, they have kids or they're just kind of they've taken enough hits in their career and they don't want to put themselves through that anymore. So that's when we see them retire. And, you know, for a younger guy like me, it just kind of comes with the territory. I know you have the risk of having a mechanical failure or blowing a tire. And at those speeds, you're most likely going to hit something and it's not going to feel good. But you have to be able to brush it aside and get back in the car the next week. So in fact, my one of my worst crashes, I followed up the next week with my career best finish, you know, on the podium. So that was cool to prove to myself, honestly, because I had that wreck and it all happened. It was kind of like, OK, that whatever, I didn't feel good. And then I saw the replay and I was like, wow, it could have been really bad. You know, my family is freaking out and all that. They weren't there because of the pandemic. No one was allowed to be there. So it was like worst case scenario. And that, you know, their fear for me is probably what made me feel a little bit nervous. Like, OK, this is pretty serious. You know, I don't I'm doing this because I love it, but I would hate to, you know, have an effect on anyone else. Right. And then the next week, I went out there and had an excellent race. Great finish. And I proved to myself that, number one, it didn't affect me, but two, it's just it's just not in the cards. Yeah, yeah, it's just something you have to accept that, like, I'm not going to allow that to creep in. I love what you said about when you put the helmet on, you become void of normal human emotion, normal human feelings and things that are going on. And that helmet is almost like you flipping the switch into the alter ego. And for, you know, our listeners, there's a great book that I recommend a lot to athletes called The Alter Ego Effect by a guy named Todd Herman. And he goes in to talk about that exact thing of like, how do you separate who and do, how do you have a physical trigger that when you put a logo on when you're doing a podcast or you put a helmet on or you get your hands wrapped as a fighter, like you become a different person, you know, and thinking about what the identity of that person is and allowing you to step into that on a more consistent basis so that you can show up who you need to be to be the best driver you can be. But then also what's your identity as a husband, what's your identity as, as, you know, a future father of how you want to show up there too. You know, I think that that identity creation is something that becomes critical. 100 percent. And I think a big part of it too is just our sport. Like there's been a ton of safety advances and new technology that protects the driver. And honestly, you know, when you're a younger driver and Tony Stewart said it best, he said, you know, a lot of these young drivers coming up the ranks think they could take a hit and they really haven't hit hard enough yet. And he said, it's not until you hit hard enough that you'll see a driver's true potential because if they can get back in that car and back it up with a good performance, they're the real deal. And ironically, that was like two weeks before my experience of that. But it was also just knowing you get in a wreck. And like I said, it wasn't until I got out and saw the replay that I was like, holy cow, that was a lot crazier than I thought I thought it was, or at least from my perspective. And then it makes you appreciate, OK, it's it's pretty safe. You know, all my safety equipment did its job. The NASCAR safety officials are on the scene super quick. And it makes you feel more comfortable getting back in the car. Now, maybe like other sports or industries, it's a little different. But for us, I get into the race car and, you know, I feel I feel safe in it. You know, I know things can happen. But, you know, I'm confident in the equipment my team builds me and the advancements made by NASCAR and their engineers. And things can happen in everyday life, right? I mean, it's like, you can add a UFC fighter I was working with. He was getting ready to make his debut and he's on a mat in the locker room. And he's doing a tuck jump, just standing, bringing his knees up to his chest, like getting ready to go. And he catches his ankle on the side of a mat, breaks his ankle, can't fight. Like he's getting ready to make his debut and he breaks his ankle doing a move that he does a hundred times a day for his entire life. You know, it's so freak things happen. And I think sometimes we got to like know that and respect that. And part of how we work through that is the preparation, you know, and we say a lot like separation is in preparation. I want to kind of dive in, Anthony, to some of the mental preparation that you're doing. And you mentioned using Pison and kind of the cognitive readiness and the agility and the focus that you get when you're working with Pison. I noticed that you were wearing it too. Like talk to us about what Pison is for you, how you use it, the difference it's made, et cetera. Like how has that impacted you? So it's been huge for me. I've always been really intrigued by, you know, any sort of physical data I could gather about myself on a race weekend, just vitals and whatnot before the race, during the race and after. And then through training to just better prepare myself for the next event. And I'm just a little bit of a help nut on that side of things. So even if I wasn't a professional athlete, I'd still be into going to the gym and living a healthy lifestyle. But certainly it's really important as a professional athlete. So to have something that gives me, you know, actual data on my cognitive function and ability is really awesome. And not just that, but be able to train and make it better, become faster, get myself dialed in on race day, like we were talking about, and just focusing on that mental agility. So it provides a lot of data for me, not just reaction time, but that agility, that focus. And I could even kind of use the device in some unique ways that I've been talking to the Pison team about, you know, rather than just some other straightforward testing, you know, they use a light to indicate when you need to react to it. And it's measuring basically your pre-motor time and you're using your neurophysiology. So it's really advanced technology. But sometimes instead of just looking directly at the light, I'll hold my arm to the side a little bit or pick a point, maybe on my desk to look at. And I try to pick it up with my peripheral vision. Because in the race car, our visuals are super limited. You can't see a lot with the heads around. You can't really turn your head at all. And we have spotters that tell us a lot of what's going on. But when you're racing side by side, you're almost picking up the sound of the other car or just seeing it in the corner of your eye without actually looking at it. Because obviously you need to look at, you always look where you want to go, not where you don't want to go. That's one of the first things I learned when I started racing. So to just use it as a way to kind of enhance those senses has been pretty valuable. You know, is there things that you do, like you'll use it on a daily basis to kind of get a baseline before you get in the car and then based off of what you get on that baseline score, you may do certain things, whether it's a cold plunge, whether it's cryo, whether it's a meditation or exercises. Like what would it look like if we were following you at a race or in preparation for a race and seeing how you use that device to help you get locked in and how you train? Love it. Great question. So I wake up and I test my reaction time. I have a baseline, so I'm always referencing that. My baseline is pretty quick. So some days, you know, I might not fire off there, but maybe I have a cup of coffee. It's interesting to see how caffeine affects my reaction time. Or like you said, you take a cold plunge or even a workout, you know, maybe your adrenaline's a little bit up. That increases the time. And on a race day, it's, you know, when I wake up, before I get into the car and I like to test after I get into the car, because if I get out and immediately test it, it actually can sometimes be faster than when I got in, just because that adrenaline gets going. Sometimes, you know, after maybe an hour, you start to kind of crash. Everything wears down and you're back to normal or maybe a little slower because you left it all on the table and you're wore out, right? But during the week, same thing throughout the day, the evening, which has really helped me see when I am actually my fastest. And just by coincidence, I started using the device now for a few months. I'm actually fastest at about three in the afternoon, which surprised me. I thought I'd have been faster, like a couple hours into the day in the morning. But it works out because that's almost when the majority of our races are. It's about three in the afternoon. We have a couple of night races, a couple earlier starts, but that tells me I'm fastest at race time, which I'm very happy about. But a cool part that I've done is in my training, like I'll be just say, I'm cycling 50 miles or 30, just call it 30 miles at mile 10. I might test and at mile 20, I might test and then a mile 30 when I'm done. I'll test so I could actually see if it varies and maybe maybe it kind of deteriorates because I'm getting tired or maybe it picks back up because that's what ultimately happens in the car is you're in a really kind of miserable environment. Honestly, it's it's a little uncomfortable. It's hot. You're in the car for a long time. You can't move a whole lot and you're making these split second decisions. So if you start to deteriorate physically, you're certainly going to deteriorate mentally. But even if you're in great physical shape, if you're not mentally, you know, you're going to you're going to make mistakes. So being able to incorporate into my routine to try to emulate being in the race car has been actually super cool. You know, I wanted to dive into that, right? Because I think like the more you unpack what it's like to be in there, how much weight have you lost just from dehydration of sweat during races? Like when you're racing at Talladega or other places where it can be hot, right? And you're in the car and it's hot. Like what's that like for you just from a dehydration standpoint? I love answering this question because it certainly varies track to track. Just some are more some are more mentally demanding than others. Some are more physically demanding. And then you have ones that are both. And we were racing at Road America in Wisconsin during a heat wave. It was like the hottest summer they had in 100 years or something crazy. It was over 100 outside. And I weighed myself before and after the race. I lost 12 pounds just in sweat loss. So that tells you how important nutrition and hydration is, you know, not just the week leading up to an event, but throughout the race, right? And rehydrating after, but lost 12 pounds. It was upwards of 140 degrees inside the car. And I was in there for three and a half hours. So it's really hot in the summer. That's that's when we see those temperatures. You know, if it's an 80 degree day, you'll still see maybe 110 inside the car. And you're wearing this three layer fire suit. There's no AC in NASCAR. And then obviously we're we are in a closed cockpit. So you don't have like IndyCar formula one where they just have air flow directly on them. You know, we're one of the only closed cockpit series that doesn't have air conditioning. So you have driver cooling, which is basically just a hose coming off a knack and duck in the rear window, and it'll only cool the outside air temp, like 20 degrees. So if it's 100 degrees, you have 80 degree air blowing on your head. If you get in your car on a summer day and go crank the air on 80, it doesn't feel too good. It just makes it a little bit less miserable and having no air flow at all. And just helps you breathe a little bit. Wow. So you're you're in there, you lose 12 pounds. You're in a car. It's 140 degrees. Like think about going to sit in a sauna at 140 for four hours. And now imagine doing that, driving 200 miles an hour, rubbing and being an inch away from a car. Like, holy overwhelming. Yes. You know, and like the preparation has to go into that physically and mentally. Like what does your training routine look like, whether it be weight room? Like I know you mentioned cycling. Or is it mostly cardio based? Like is it is an endurance based because you're kind of in an endurance sport. It's a four hour. It's about the length of a triathlon, you know, a half ironman like a marathon. What does that training look like for you? It's honestly a lot of cross training. So, you know, I explain the environment, right? So everyone thinks just because we sit for a living, how demanding could it be? Or they think it's like driving their car to the grocery store just really fast. But you have G forces on your body. It's really hot. You have just all these factors, right? And that's the ambient temperature I was referencing in the car. You know, the actual parts of the car get really hot. Like we get blisters on our feet sometimes just from the pedals getting that hot because they're so close to the motor behind the firewall. It could be like 300 degrees on the floor of the car. So it's not always the most comfortable environment. And the biggest thing is in training is to cross train. So you need really good cardio because your heart rate is elevated that whole time from the intensity of it. For me, my average heart rate in the car is usually 130, 140 beats per minute. And that's for four hours on end, which I practically can't replicate any other way because most activities are too high impact, right? Like I could get, I could go on a run and maintain 130 beats per minute, but I'm not running four hours. I could ride my bike for four hours, maybe if I had to. But that's why I got into cycling was because it's lower impact than running or anything like that. I know some guys are big into swimming, same thing. It's lower impact, but you could keep your heart rate elevated for a longer period of time because it's not as high impact. So I could really replicate on my bike just with my cadence and when I'm riding, oh, I'm only 120 beats per minute. I'm going to pedal a little faster because in the car it's a little more than that. Or if it's a little too high, get it back down because that's what you're doing in the car. You're trying to pace yourself and manage that heart rate. And my max is usually my mathematical max heart rate. I might see 180, 190 beats per minute in the car and it's not rare. I mean, that's pretty much a weekly occurrence. You usually have a moment in the race where you're at your mathematical max, as I call it. Obviously, some people train and they're able to go over that, but that's normal to see as a peak. And like I said, the average is the 140 range. So plenty of cardio, strength training. The steering wheel is not necessarily easy to turn, especially when you go into a corner and the G-Force is loaded up against heavier. The force is on your body. Even just pushing the brake pedal is harder than people realize. The brakes we run, and depending on what master cylinders and the kind of science you have behind it, the pedal is really firm. And when we go to a road course in a heavy stock car, a 3400 pound car, you might be going 150 miles an hour into a corner and it doesn't stop very well. So you're standing on this brake pedal as hard as you physically can. And one track, it's a great example, is Martinsville Speedway in Virginia. It's a short track, very, very sharp corners with long straightaways. They call it the paper clip. You're standing on the brake pedal, threshold braking, as hard as you could push it. Every single lap, we run 500 laps there in the Cup Series. So that's a thousand times. I like to tell people you're basically doing 1,000 leg presses with your left leg. And our brake pressure there is close to 1,000 pounds. So obviously with master cylinder ratio, it's not literally leg pressing 1,000 pounds, but it's as hard as you physically can. So it wears you out a lot. And then just with the horsepower we have, it's a lot of throttle control. And the way I explain that to people is imagine there's an egg between your foot and the gas pedal, and you don't want to brake it. That's how gentle you have to be to not spin the tires because of all the horsepower. So those factors are just what make you really tense in the car. And then you put all these other cars around you, and it is tough, man. So the training, strength training, and cardio training, and mental training is as critical as any other sport. Yeah. I mean, it's unbelievable, man. This has been really fun for me. I haven't worked in a lot of sports before we got on. I've talked about being in the corner of a UFC fight and at a figure skating world championship in the same week. And it's like there's similarities and a lot of differences in those sports. But dude, what you're describing is like nothing I've ever heard, man. This is wild. The impact sleep plays. I know Pison is working on a technology to be able to give you a lot of sleep data, like an aura or a whoop with heart rate variability and what time you went to sleep. And did you get restorative sleep? I know you're big into data, Anthony. How important is sleep and sleep tracking for you? It's huge. And honestly, as I'm sure a lot of other people deal with, even if you just travel a lot for work, you think about how much it affects you during the day, right? Like maybe you're traveling for work and you have a presentation and you're on a red-eye flight somewhere or you get there late and you've got to get up early. I mean, we deal with that a lot, you know, flying out the day before a race or the morning of practice. And you're up. Maybe you didn't sleep as much as you want to or you just didn't have the quality of sleep you had hoped. It definitely plays a factor getting in the car. So just doing all you can to get into a routine and try to be well rested is very important. I think that's why we see so many drivers with motor homes is it's your home away from home, right? If you could have the same mattress you have at home, you're at pillow and all that, you're that much more comfortable and you could just kind of replicate that environment because you're used to it where I sleep in a hotel every weekend, you know, is an idea.  eil, or doesn't help you get the optimal sleep. You know, it's funny you mentioned that about the motorhome. And JJ Watt, when he was playing for the Houston Texans, had the same bed he had at his house in their equipment room at the complex, so he wouldn't have to fight Houston traffic going home. He could just go in and take a nap in the same bed that he had at his house, same sheets, everything, to maximize his time and save all that drive time, which can be unpredictable in a city like that. So I thought that's fascinating, right? And some of the similarities, I think, when it comes to like elite preparation and performance is elite preparation and performance. And even though the sport, whether it's UFC, baseball, NASCAR, there's different similarities in terms of the training that you do, I feel like if you're elite, you're elite, and you understand routine and structure and the dedication and the discipline and the decision making that all of that takes. How important is just like your just daily routine and what you do even between races when you're back home in Charlotte? Like how important is that daily routine for you to stay elite and keep that edge? It's super important. And for me, my weeks are pretty consistent. I'm usually home Monday through Thursday. If it's a West Coast race, we fly out Thursday, but usually we fly out. Now that we've gone to that less practice, less track time, you're usually flying out Friday morning, like this week and we will for Iowa Speedway. Fly out Friday morning, you practice, qualify in the next day you race, and then you come back immediately post-race. So usually Saturday night or if you're racing Sunday in the Cup Series, Sunday night, but then it's straight back to it Monday. Like you don't get a day off Monday, you're debriefing with the team, going over the previous race, and then prepping for the following week. And it's hard on the crew members too, the guys building and preparing these cars, and then you as an athlete doing your part to execute for them behind the wheel. So have it Monday through Thursday to be as consistent as possible and just get everything done that I need to get done. Whether it's just daily life things or training things prior to a race is definitely critical, but you have a lot of obligations as a professional athlete. You know, in our sport, we have a lot of sponsors and I wouldn't be able to race without any of my partners. So go into appearances and media opportunities and take an advantage of all that is valuable, but it certainly adds, it shakes up your schedule, right? I'm a big planner. I like to do, I would do the same thing every day if I could, but sometimes you have things come up and you've got to work your way around them. So just being organized and managing your time is definitely just crucial. Yeah, I was looking at your Instagram earlier. I loved some of the posts that you made about Dude Wipes and making sure that there's no skid marks on the track. You know, I thought that was really good. Ha ha ha. Yeah, Dude Wipes has been with me for five years now. They're pretty much my flagship sponsor and we've brought on a lot more over the years and are developing some new relationships, which is awesome. NASCAR, in football and basketball, these other sports, they don't need a sponsor. Like if the team show up, there's going to be a game if they have a place to play, but in racing and pretty much all motor sports, we can't go compete without the sponsors, right? So we do everything to give them their return on investment and value and just make it a mutually beneficial partnership. And I've had a lot of fun growing over the years with Dude Wipes. I mean, they're a huge company now and actually like really well known since, you know, they first came on the scene in the wipe industry. That's awesome. You're actually the second athlete I've had on the podcast that has a relationship with Dude Wipes, which is pretty cool. Ha ha ha. The first one. Hike Hernandez. So he would have a lot of his own, he's a big Dude Wipes guy. Yeah, it's hilarious, man. I love it. So what happens if you crap your pants during a baseball game, you get it hit up by Dude Wipes. Yep. Beautiful. Last question for you, Anthony. You know, watching again, some of the stuff on Instagram, which I think if anybody who's looking at this to go check you out on Instagram, we'll put a link to it in our show notes. One of some of the videos of like, you listening to your team talk to you while you're driving, right? How important is that crew chief athlete, coach athlete, team athlete relationship when it comes to NASCAR? Because I think for people that don't follow the sport or know it that well, they would think it's just about the driver making left turns for four and a half hours. But it's so much more than that. Like how important is that culture and the relationship that you all have as a team and an athlete? It's everything. You know, chemistry is number one. If you and your guys aren't clicking, you're not going to be very successful. It's just like other sports. There's no I in team. And in our sport, there might be one guy behind the wheel, but I'm not getting to the track without my team. You know, they're building me fast cars. When we get to the track, you know, they're executing with adjustments throughout the race. The crew chief is making the decisions on what adjustments they need to make. My job as a driver isn't just to go fast, but to relay what I need to go fast. So if the car is not handling to my liking or I want an adjustment, I need to tell them what I'm fighting. And my crew chief ultimately makes a decision, you know, with our engineer on what adjustment will best suit that. And then the pit crews change in four tires and fuel in 12 seconds with that adjustment, you know, making these swings at the car throughout the race to just try to get faster. Because if you're not getting better, someone else is, right? So it's just keeping up with those guys and trying to stay ahead is so important. And then my spotter is my eyes in the sky. I mentioned how limited visibility is. You can't see a lot inside the car. So they basically tell us when cars are around us like in our blind spots, essentially, and just give you an idea of not just what's around you, but maybe what other guys are doing. You know, the crew chiefs on the pit box looking at data in live time with the race broadcast. And he could see, you know, say you're running eighth place and you can't necessarily see the leader, but he sees on telemetry or in the race broadcast that the leader is running a different line than you. You know, him and my spotter can collect that data and, you know, relay that information to me. And then it's my job to try to implement that. So there's just so many factors on the communication side, but it certainly wouldn't be possible just without everybody's execution. You know, we win and lose as a team. There's no one person, you know, everybody's got a role and we all have our own hats to wear. So I enjoy that part of it because I've got a great group of people I'm working with, especially this year, and have worked with great people in the past that I've learned from. Yeah, Anthony, last question for you. If you could go back and like remove the skull cap of yourself when you first became a professional athlete, and you could go back and say, here's what I know now, I wish I knew then. And you'd give your younger version of yourself some advice. What would you say? That's a loaded question, because there'd be a lot, but I would say the first thing is probably patience. You know, I had a different path into this sport, just growing up a race fan, not having blood in the sport or knowing someone who race. It's been a lot of networking, a lot of sacrifice from myself, my family and friends. And the biggest thing is just patience. You know, nothing's supposed to come easy. It wouldn't be fun if it was easy. You know, you got to work hard for it, and just don't get impatient. Just grind it out for better or worse. You know, even when things are going well, it's not always. And when it gets tough, you have to get right, you know, you have a bad race. You got to go right back out at the next week with the same happy, excited, ambitious attitude that you had before you had once. You can't get down, you just got to be on your game at all times and not take it for granted. That's the biggest thing. You know, I'm blessed to be doing what I'm doing. I only could have dreamed this when I was that age younger. So I would just say that when you get the opportunity, kid, run every lap like it's your last. Love that. Love that. Anthony, best place for people to engage with you is it on X, is it on Instagram for all the fans that you're picking up and doing this, man? And where's the best place for them to engage with you and find out what you're up to? I'm on pretty much every social media platform, just my name, Anthony Alfredo. I probably post on Instagram the most, but try to be active on everything else, Twitter, Facebook, TikTok, YouTube, Twitch. I mean, you name it, I'm there. So looking forward to connecting with some of you. And if you should be a message, I'd love to answer any questions you might have too. That's awesome. Anthony Alfredo, thanks for joining us here on the Mentor Performance Mastery podcast. Looking forward to catching you at the track, brother. Thanks for being here. Thank you.

=== FILE: The One Book You MUST Read If You Want To Make The Big Leagues... [QU0kQB7tE0s].txt ===

 This is Ryan Cain with the Mental Performance Mastery Podcast. We're continuing a tribute to Harvey Dorfman, an icon in the mental game. And today I'm excited to welcome my friend Sean Casey, who played Major League Baseball from 1997 to 2008, a three-time All-Star, a Cincinnati Reds Hall of Famer, a career 302 hitter, who has said that he would have never made it to the major leagues if it wasn't for reading one of Harvey's books and working with him during his career case. I appreciate you coming on to honor Harvey, brother. Cain, that intro gives me chills, because usually I'm not getting intros and they're talking about Harvey Dorfman, but you are right, dude. Like, I can't tell you, my dad bought that book for me, The Mental Game of Baseball, I was 16 years old. It was probably the only book I ever took the time to read when I was that age. And no doubt about it, 100%. I don't play 12 years in the big leagues, go to three All-Star games, do the things that career 300 hitter without Harvey Dorfman in that book. And then, fortunately for me, I was able to connect with Harvey when I was in the big leagues and have him be my coach for a few years. You know, when your dad gave you that book, you said you were 16, so you were probably sophomore in high school. Right. Like, at the time, at that age, right, because for me, I read The Mental Game of Baseball in the summer of my freshman year of college, and I wasn't really into reading or ready for that. But I just kind of, my roommate was a baseball player from Dartmouth, and he had it on the table when I grabbed it. What was it that your dad saw on you, or what was it that he heard about Harvey somewhere that made him get that book and give it to you, do you know? Well, you know what's funny, Caner? Like, I didn't play my freshman year in high school, and my dad was like, hey, you need to start working harder. He's like, you're not glaringly better than the next guy. So like, you might be better than the guy that you're not playing in front of, but the coach doesn't think you're glaringly better, so you're not playing, like, at the end of the day. And so I think my dad was kind of on a mission, like, any great father would be. I'm so grateful for him. Was on a mission to try to help me. Hey, if you start working on the mental game, there's a book I just bought called The Mental Game of Baseball here at Barnes & Noble. Why don't you check that out? Hey, here's a book for Ted Williams, The Art of Hitting 3, The Art of Hitting 3, Science of Hitting. Why don't you check that out? Here's Charlie Lowes' book. So he was like, always trying to help me that way. And my dad was an entrepreneur, started his own company when I was in high school, selling surfactant chemicals, and I think he was like always looking for an edge. So I think he passed that on to me, Caner. So I think when he gave me that book, he was like, you're not glaringly better physically right now, and also mentally. What if you started hitting every day in the cages? What if you started reading this book every day? What if you took these practices from this book and the things that Harvey says, and you put them into practice in the batting cages? You put them into practice in the batter's box. What if you learn how, what process over results really means? What if you learn to focus on the task at hand, right? And go one pitch at a time. What if you learned that being mentally disciplined is the greatest compliment you could give somebody? These are all things for obviously, you know, the mental game and baseball that I took heart to. So I think my dad gave it to me thinking, hey son, I've lived life a lot longer than you have. If you want to be glaringly better, you actually have to do something about it and hear some tools. So you start reading that book, your sophomore year of high school, you go on to have a great career at the University of Richmond, right? And then you end up getting drafted and into professional baseball. At what point was it that you saw out working with Harvey one-on-one, or how did that all come about? Yeah, it's crazy, Ken. I didn't meet Harvey Dwarfman until, I want to say I was in the big leagues five years. Five years in the big leagues, because he had started working with Scott Boris. Scott Boris had hired him. And kind of a funny story to tell you the truth. I've never told this story. I just thought of it. I ran into Scott Boris after a game in Atlanta one time, and the mental keys to hitting had just come out. And Scott and I got talking and I said, listen, I know Harvey's working for you now, Dwarfman. I don't know Harvey, but I feel like I know Harvey. Like I've known Harvey since I was 16. Probably at the time, I would say I was almost 30 years old, you know, 29 years old. And Scott Boris sent me a book, The Mental Keys to Hitting. I was like, wow, this is incredible. It's like Harvey's new book. I'm so excited about it. And that night, he was like, why don't you give Harvey a call? Or, you know, and I was like, really? Is that okay? So sure enough, that offseason, I called Harvey and I was like, hey, Harvey, how you doing? My name's Sean Casey. You don't know who I am. He goes, I know who you are. You're a hell of a hitter, son. I'm like, oh my god. Like it was for me, it was like the, you know, it was like the creme de la creme that my idol was like, I know who you are. You're a hell of a hitter. I was like, oh my god, Harvey, Dwarfman just told me I'm a hell of a hitter. And then I said to him on the phone, Harvey, you don't know this, but I feel like you've been next to me my whole career. I feel like your words that you've said in that book are a reason that I'm in the big leagues. And I just wanted to reach out to you and wanted to see if there was any chance we could talk or I could ever get shit. Bro, he was like, call me whenever you want. Call me whenever, and dude, and they're our relationship kind of took off. And I had one of the biggest, I think it was after the 03 season, the 04 season, I won the biggest years of my career. And, you know, I look back, I look back and just having the opportunity to talk to Harvey and connect to them, I think was a big reason why. What were some of the things that you guys talked about or worked on, those conversations that you felt like made such a big impact? Well, Harvey was a no bullshit kind of guy. You know what I mean? He wasn't going to let, he wasn't going to, I mean, I'm allowed to say that, right, Kane, on this podcast. Yeah. Like, basically, he wasn't going to co-sign your BS. Yeah. You know, so yeah, come on, I'm just struggling. I'm all over the place and Harvey's like, how's your process look? Oh, my process is great. You know, let me tell you a quick story. I got two quick stories with Harvey. One night I called him and I was literally, if you go back and look at the numbers, in like June of 2004, I'm not kidding you, I'm leading the world and hitting, I'm hitting like 393 in the middle of June, 200 plus of bats. I got 10 pumps. I'm raking, right? And I go 0 for 12 in this span, but with like 11 bullets, right? So I can see my average down to like 379. I did, dude, I remember calling Harvey and I just wanted to talk to him because I was frustrated. So I called him and he answers like, Hey, what's up, case? I'm like, you know, Hey, what's up, Harvey? He's like, I'm like really scuffling right now. So I gotta tell me about your bats. Oh, you know, so good through my bats, 12 of bats, lying out the second bullet to center, bullet in the gap, that makes a run in play. And he's like, sounds like you've got a pretty good process going on. I was like, yeah, my process locked in. He's like, well, not why the hell you calling me then? I said, well, because I don't have any results aren't there. He goes, I don't want to hear that. He goes, some years you're gonna, some years you're gonna hit them right out, people some years, they're all gonna fall in. It's gonna be, it is what it gonna be what it is. He goes, there's no need to call me if your process is tight. He goes, give me a call when you really got a problem. And he, you know, basically hung up on me. But I remember that, you don't remember that, Kater, because it was no BS. He wasn't gonna sit there and be like, you're gonna be okay. You're gonna be that's a no, you stink. Keep doing what you're doing. Focus on the task at hand, one pitch at a time. Keep doing that. And he's like, whether you hit a rocket at somebody or get a hit, that's not my concern. My concern is, are you are you taking a deep breath? Are you slowing down and you're hunting the heater? Are you looking middle way? Are you are you are you're flushing? You know, if you have a bad a battle, you, you know, are you get ready for the next one? So stuff like that, man, Harvey for me was just was gold. Was there any specific tools case that you guys worked on? Like, did he ever make you mental imagery? Audio is in those is kind of before cell phones and work shit like that was really easy to do. But like, what did he make you like mental imagery? Audio, he talked to you about watching highlight videos, which I know is a big part of your career. Was there anything else that like he did for you that you thought really helped? Well, you know what, he was big on he was big on watching like good film of myself, you know, I mean, watching on, you know, watch the positive swings, you know, keep putting those into your mind. And then one thing he was, you know, he was huge about was the three keys to keep it simple. And he was like, Listen, our brains can't take on too much at one time. He's like, What are your directives? What, you know, wherever your, where your intention goes, your energy flows, right? I mean, that's kind of, you know, a thing where he was like, we got to be able to focus on the ball, you know, Harvey was big on see the ball be easy, right? And so I threw another key in there. I said, see the ball be easy hammer it. And Harvey was like, All right, good. He's like, Now put that on a note card and put that in your back pocket. So when you get on deck, you can look at that really quick, see the ball be easy hammer it. And you have intention and focus when you go to go to the plate. And I came here, it helped me so much because I remember there was times where I would be in the box and I'd get ready and set myself up and I would just be like ball, you know, what to set up to be easy. I would think about smoking something. But then I would think to myself, ball, ball, ball, ball, and that was all Harvey's like, dumb it down, keep it simple. This game is hard enough. You can't be worried about what this guy's throwing all that stuff, look for his own pick spot and make sure you're seeing that ball as late as you can and get ready to hammer it. So that was probably one of the biggest things he told me was that like too many thoughts and he was no mechanics. He said, if you have one mechanical thing that you're working on on deck, you could work on that. And that was big on like try to get my, you know, get my hands back. So I would be on deck and I was okay, make sure you get your hands back, see the ball be easy hammer. But I get in the box, it was all about seeing the ball. So I just love that part of it. Can I talk about the mind movies of the highlight videos that used to watch? And I did a lot of work with Bill Harrison to be able to see yourself performing well. How important was that for you in your career? Well, what was great was if you go look at the mental game of baseball, Bill Harrison is really in that book because I think Harvey Cross passed with Bill Harrison at one point. And he was, you know, when he talks about getting your best look, what's your one through five, what's your best look? Did you see it out of four? Did you see it out of three? Did you see it out of five? Are you seeing it out of one and think you're seeing it? You know, really see the ball. And that was Bill Harrison's influence on Harvey Dorfman. I was lucky enough to work with Bill Harrison who Ryan Harrison now still is passing on that legacy with slowthegamedown.com. But Bill was big on man. Like, you know, back in the day, I got a DVD player and a DVD, you know, that now the guys got the iPad and they got the video guys and they got all this video. But back then I used to put a DVD on on the flights, you know, we'd be done with the games and I'd be flying, we'd be flying to San Diego or something. I would watch, you know, my 10 best swings, I put it to music and I would just watch myself rocket left center, rocket right center, bullet up the middle, you know, just to make sure that I would, you know, that meant that mental imagery of that the positive, positive, positive, you know, I instead of I wasn't a big guy that went back and looked, Hey, what am I doing wrong here? I was like, I would look what was when I was going well, what was I doing right? What was they doing right? And I always find I was one swing away one pitch away from getting it right. But that mental imagery stuff was crucial for me. You know, I know in case, you know, we're both big, big fans and believers of a technology that's new to the market called Pison talking about, you know, evaluating and assessing kind of cognitive performance, whether it's reaction time, whether it's focus, whether it's readiness, you know, obviously this technology didn't exist when you were playing. I think some of the things that you're talking about, right, whether it's having your three keys to lock you in with your focus, watching a mind movie, I would say that these probably impacted your cognitive performance and allowed you to play well on a more consistent basis. No doubt, man. I think this this the stuff that Pison has come out with this company is incredible. You know, where you wear the wristwatch, you can do some cognitive performance stuff right on it was far as like, you know, your reaction time and all that stuff. I think what's coming up the pipe for for Pison. No, I think, you know, you talk about the hydration meter. I think that's going to be incredible. It's going to be incredible with sleep. But I think the one thing came that's going to make it elite is the HRV monitor with like performance. I always say like when I was hitting, if I could tell what the breath, you know, what how many seconds in and how many seconds out would get my HRV to a place where I'm like, okay, that's right where I that's right where I need to be with my calmness or heart rate variability that I perform at my best. If every guy could figure that out, Caner, I'm telling you what, you go to another level, if you're on the bump and you're okay, let me get that nail nice breath four seconds in six seconds out. Bam, step, go, rip it knowing that four seconds in six seconds out gets my heart rate down to a certain spot where now I really let it rip. Now the flow in my body is differently. Now I'm turning my vision on my eyes are part of my brain, right? So I think Pison's on to something here with the things that they're going to start to be able to evaluate. I think if you know, learning for athletes, especially baseball players, and I think that's who they're really going after right now, you know, is that when you learn how to use this tool, it could take you to another level. Well, how important is measurement? Right? I mean, I know you I know that we've we've traded sleep scores and HRV scores and things like that. Like how important case you look at now where you're at in life with the technology that exists that didn't exist when you were playing. There was no sleep tracker when you were playing, right? And now all this technology that is there, knowing what you know now about the wearables in this in this cognitive performance in industry, what would you have done differently maybe back when you were playing based off of the technology that's available now, if it was available back then with the experience that you have and kind of your perspective now? Well, I think one of the biggest things, Ken, is that you just said they're like, what you measure improves. I really believe that what you measure improves. I mean, that's the bottom line. So like, if I could, if I could use the aura swing or ring or the Pison, you know, sleep monitor or whatever, you know, something like that to help me with my sleep, I think that would have been huge. And also too, I just think like the HRV stuff for me would have been it would have been incredible, even in my training. And I'm in the cages. Hey, man, give me a second. Let me let me really see where I'm at here. Let me see. Oh, let me see. Oh, that feels good. That's that's that's a different feel. And then bam, you could tell you could tell when you get to a certain demeanor. I always said it as soon as a company could figure out what what every individual's demeanor should be at their elite performance. The company's going to take off. Like I think Pison is going to be able to do that. But I know for me as a player, when I was in the cages, just training, if I had a if I had something to measure that demeanor, where I'll, oh, that's that's slow, that that's perfect. Oh, that's too slow. Oh, that's too geared up. Oh, no, got to get it back to here. I got to get the breath, you know, into this certain area where my HRV gets here. I just think that I would have used that night in and night out. Yeah, it's been able to bring some analytic to that performance state, right? And some guys are going to perform with a higher intensity. Other guys, they perform as if they're sleeping, right? And you see exactly as from a mental performance coaching standpoint, you know, there isn't one level of intensity that is going to play for everybody, right? And you look at like Mariana Rivera versus Trevor Hoffman, you know, or versus Troy Percival or Kevin Brown and Greg Maddox. Like they all look at a different way, a different level of intensity when they're performing. But I think bringing some sort of measurement to that makes a massive impact. Yeah, dude, really quick on that, on that note, I mean, talk about one of the greatest conversations I've ever had in my life, 2016 World Series, I'm up in the box with MLB Network and Harold Reynolds is talking to Hank Aaron. And he's like, Hey, case, come on over meet Hank. And I'm just like, dude, I'm like a little, I'm a little nervous. I mean, not many people I've met presidents, I've met actors, I've met musicians. I've never really been intimidated by many people, you know, Kane, I love people. Hank Aaron, I was nervous. So I walked over and he was so gracious, so kind, but nice to people I've met a great, great talking on what Harold walks off. So I'm like, I'm not walking off. I'm in a conversation with Hank Aaron, I'm going to throw some bullets at him. So I said, Hank, what were you thinking at the plate? Were you thinking about being nice and easy? Were you thinking about being nice and slow, relaxed? And he goes, and this is what I mean, this is about everyone things to be relaxed. I wasn't relaxed. He goes, I got my hands on that bat and I was ready to go. I was ready to hammer something. And I was like, wow, like, he might not have understood maybe where, maybe what we kind of do now. But back then Hank Aaron was like, no, I'm ready to go. Relax wasn't the word he used. You know, it was ready to hammer something. So I thought that was interesting because everybody, you're right, everybody has a performance state. You know, that's a little different. I remember Gary Shefford one time, I was like, case, you got to be more like me. I was scuffing at seven, he's like, case, you got to be more like me, you know, he, and he, he, chef's like, he's like, you got to be more relaxed like me. I'm like, relaxed, you look like you're about to have a panic attack, chef. I mean, you look like the opposite of relaxed, but like for chef, that was relaxed. That was like, you know, there was a rhythm there. There was something there. So if for everyone, everyone has a performance state that works for them, every individual that you coach, Kane or any player out there has to find out what that is. Like I challenge you guys, if you're in the cages, or you're in the, in the field, or you're on the bump, figure out what is the performance state that you work best at. Yeah. And it's funny how you may, we're talking about performance states, and I just did this this weekend with a client that was at the house and we use a speedometer as a visual because I think most people are visual learners, right? To put it to a visual. So if you imagine a speedometer, zero to a hundred, like where, where's the zone of your optimal performance or your ideal performance state, states being made up of like spotting language, focus, energy level, intensity. And this quarterback that was at the house, he said, well, I probably at my best at 80. I said, all right, so let's give you like a 70 to a 90 window. 70 to 90, he goes, no, 90 is too much. I'm not, he goes, 80 would be the top. So we said, but we landed on 65 to 80 was his green light, 65 to 50, yellow light, 50 below red light. He ain't ready to go. And he's like, that's a lot of times in practices or in games, it takes me a little bit to get going. I got to be able to move that needle up and get more intense. I have a tendency to slip down. But then if you look at 85 to like 90 was yellow, 90 to 100 was red light for him. So we have this little speedometer of red, yellow, green, where we want to be yellow, red, because you can get into yellow lights and red lights out of control, losing control, because you're too intense or not intense enough. And I remember, you know, it's interesting going back to Harvey 2010, I got to go down and visit him and his house in Brevard County, North Carolina, driving around to some doctors appointments with him and a friend of mine, Tim Brown from Vermont, who said it all up, Tim, thanks, shout out. And I asked Harvey, I said, what's the biggest thing, Harvey, you know, now you wishing you and you were just getting started with mental performance coaching. And he's like, you want to help guys grow three things you got to know. That's it. Awareness, strategy, action, awareness, they don't know what they don't know. They don't know where they're at. They don't know what they need to do to get there because they don't know where they're going. They lack awareness. He goes strategy, how they're going to get there. And then action, they got to do the work. He's like awareness, strategy, action, help them build awareness by asking questions, find out where they're at, where they want to go, give them strategy to close that gap. And then they got to put it into action. And he's like, and when you get on a call with them and you're coaching them, you're inspecting what you're expecting, you're asking them what actions they took. Because if they take the right actions with the right strategies, they're going to get the results that they want. And I was like, just so clear awareness, where am I? Where do I want to go? Strategy, what am I going to do? Action, go do it. And as I can sum up them, they'll never do it. Right, right. Why is that, Ken? Literally, I want to ask you, why is that you work with some of the greatest athletes in every profession? Why don't guys take action that they should? Great question. Yeah, and I think it's an individual. I think some guys some guys are desperate enough. Some guys are too comfortable. Some guys, they're not disturbed enough. Maybe gals. Yeah, or gals not disturbed enough. They see staying comfortable with what they're not what they're doing already easier than trying to change something to grow. And others just don't have the organizational capacity to be able to do it. And that's where I feel like a lot of the work I do with with some some athletes is just on organizing and processing their entire life so that they can do some simple things. I mean, something as easy as asking an athlete to listen to a three minute podcast, like mental performance daily, if I followed you around your entire day, there's not a three minute window where you could do that. Or if I wanted them to read for 10 minutes, the mental keys to hitting, if I follow you around all day, there's not 10 minutes where you can read the mental keys to hitting. So I forgot to bring the book. You're on your phone though, right? So we're going to put the digital copy on your phone. So here's what I've done with guys because in the mental keys to hitting, you know, there's little baseballs in there that break it up. Yeah, get the digital copy. I said, when you're on the toilet, do you bring your phone with you? Oh, yeah. Read the mental keys to hitting when you're on the toilet. That's literally the trigger. So what I found with these guys, a lot of reasons why they don't do it or don't do things you're asking them to do, it's no different than any other human being, is that they don't have the specific trigger as to when to do it. So it can be a trigger of like, what's something that a baseball player is going to do every day? Well, most days, they're going to go to a locker and change their clothes, read it when you get to the locker. Most days, they're going to get out of the toilet. Most days, they're going to get in a car and drive or on a bus to go to the field. Listen to this then, right? They can't read it when they're driving, but they can listen to it when they're driving. So what I found is that trying to create the intentional trigger really helps with the implementation of the strategy. I like that. Anchor in the behavior. I think I love that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They say like ABC, right? Anchor behavior, celebrate. Yeah. Celebrate. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you already have good habits. Anchor another habit to that habit. Habit stacking. Yeah. Very good. Yeah. Love that. Okay. So let me ask you this mental game, right? Like you've always been into the mental game and now you're running Breakthrough Pro and I'm a training for people who want to take their mental game to the next level. Talk to us about Breakthrough Pro and talk to us about how people can get more involved with you as a mental performance coach because I see it, but I don't what a lot of our listeners, I think maybe don't know is that like you're a highly active and high mental performance coach who's making a massive impact in the lives of people that you're working with. So if people wanted to work with Sean Casey, get to be a part of your Breakthrough Pro program, how do they get more about that? Yeah. Well, thanks, Kenner. I appreciate it, man. Yeah. So Breakthrough, if you can go, you can go to breakthrough-pro.com is where you could sign up for our next season of Breakthrough Pro, which starts July 14th. Bro, for me, you know me. I mean, like I said, we're here talking about Harvey. I know the impact he had on me. I know the impact that's had on my life. I know the impact of mental performance coaching. I know the impact of all these concepts, habits, these things that I live every single day that I lived when I played and I live now as, you know, almost A-50-year-old grown adult. I want to pass it on, dude. Like I want to pass on that legacy. I want to pass on Harvey's legacy. I want to pass on the stuff that you do, our friendship. I know the impact you have on people. Like that's what I want to do. So, you know, in Breakthrough Pro, you know, tell you the truth. I called it Breakthrough Pro and this is the reason why. I think one of the things was like, Breakthrough your limitations, Breakthrough your BS, Breakthrough your limiting beliefs, Breakthrough the things that you think are holding you back, Breakthrough your comfort zone. Right? I think that's why I named it Breakthrough Pro. And I said, bring your mind and your life to the pro level. You know what I mean? Like bridge the gap. You know, they say what one can be, one must be, you know, bridging that gap between, you know what, there's more out here. I just don't know the concepts. I don't have the knowledge, you know, to go to that next level. And I think at Breakthrough Pro, you know, we have seen so many, you know, kids, whether you're a college athlete, whether you're, you know, we've seen a lot of call, we have a college golfer, we have college baseball players, we have high school baseball players, we have a college, we have a high school rower, we have a woman that is an artist, you know, all these great things. So, for me, Breakthrough Pro is taking your game of life to another level. It's an eight week program, bro. Sunday nights from seven to eight, you get me and a buddy of mine, John Dennis, who's at the same level as I for one hour for eight weeks, dude. And for me, I think it's, it's, it's transformational. And anyone out there that hears this podcast, come join us Breakthroughdashpro.com. Eight weeks, one hour a week, a guarantee. If it doesn't change your life, I'll send you all your money back every single dollar. Yeah, you can, you can call that the double money back guarantee because if you join a Sean Casey program and you ask for your money back because you didn't think it was good enough and you actually went through the program and you actually watched all the videos that come with the program, I will also give you your money back. So it's a double money back guarantee because I could tell you that just getting around Sean Casey, like I woke up this morning, I had some food poisoning. I wasn't sure I was going to be able to make today's podcast. And right now my food poisoning is gone. Casey, you have completely cured me of any ailments from spending this time together with you on the call. So I appreciate you making time to come on here to talk about Harvey, you know, is this a little tribute series? We're talking about the conversations, the content and the careers impacted by Harvey Dorfman. Anything else that you would want to share, maybe you say specifically, whether it's about Harvey or about the impact that mental performance makes to speak specifically to like a professional baseball player that might be listening to this about the difference that maybe a mental performance coach or Harvey or the mental game would make for them if maybe they're still not yet doing that or working on that aspect of the game. Well, here's the deal, bro. And you know what I know, if you get to the level of the big leagues, it's one thing to get there. It's one thing to stay there. It's another thing to excel there, right? At the end of the day or wherever you are, division one baseball, high school baseball, this relates to everybody or any sport, UFC, golf, whatever. I think at the end of the day, if you asked these guys that are starting to perform at a high level, hey, man, you're really doing great. You've got great abilities. Look how much potential you have. How much of this game do you think is mental? Oh, man, this game is 90% mental, man. 90% mental. Every day I got to figure this out and figure out my emotions and not to get too high and not get too low. Hey, how much do you work on the mental game, man? If it's 90% mental, zero. You know what, zero? You got no program. You got no game plan. You got no coach. You got no book you read daily. You got no habits you're doing. You got to be absolutely kidding me. Like that. I think that's how big of a joke I think it is. When people tell me that, I'm like, you got one shot. You got one shot to be a big league ball player. How long you going to spend? Because it's all good. It's all fun and games when you get up there. You want to spend 10 years there or two? Because your town will get you there. Your mind will keep you there. The strategies will keep you there. How do I go one pitch at a time? How do I turn the page quickly? How am I able to show up day in and day out? How do I play when I don't really want to play? How do I play when I'm exhausted? When I'm struggling? How do I find the fortitude to keep going? Right? How do I get out of my comfort zone? All that kind of stuff. How do I play when I'm a little injured? There's so many different things about the mind. The mind is so powerful. But yet we don't take the time to work on it, right? We'll take the time to get in the cages and have the tea. We'll take the time to get in the cages, do a million soft-toss stuff. We'll take the time to throw out bullpen sessions. But I tell you what, guys, at the end of the day, the mental part of the game is game time. There's a ton of five o'clock hitters. I've seen a million of them. There's a ton of, you know, players that are great before the game. But come seven o'clock when game time hits, the guys that work on the mental side of the game, I believe go to another level. And at the end of the day, if you don't have some sort of coach, you don't have some sort of person or a book or a theory or something that you're reading every day that you're doing every day. You know, if you want to have a great relationship with your wife, Kain, or you talk to the bear once every week, do you think you'd have a good relationship? She probably would enjoy that more, but I would love to try to do it a little a lot. Right. But think about that. Think about that. If you talk to her once a week, oh, no, once every three days you talk to her. Oh, no, maybe once a day. Dude, this is something that's an everyday thing that you need to engulf yourself in to be, to go to another level. So you obviously can see I'm passionate about it. You know me. I just know what it did for me, dude. And I know working with guys like Harvey Dorfin and Bill Harrison and a guy named West Seim and some of these guys that just helped me, you know, go to that next level, man. Like, like, if you don't have a mental performance coach, hey, good luck, man. You're going to only get to go as so far as your talent takes you. Joe Madden, I think, said it best a couple of years ago, and he was a manager with the Cubs and he said, if you used to work with a mental performance coach, it was because something was wrong. And now if you're not working with a mental performance coach, you don't want to be great. Oh, that's good. I feel like for baseball players, you have a hitting coach, you have a pitching coach. Hopefully you have a strength coach. You're not writing your own strength program. You don't need to be doing that as a pro athlete. Right. But you do your own mental game. Like, yeah, mental performance coaching, physical conditioning, arm, you know, pitching coach, strength coach, nutritionist, mental performance coach. Like if you don't have those four people as a part of your team, and maybe you can use your organization for those, maybe you can't. Right. But what is it that you are leaving uncovered? And I always do, I call it the missing link in athletic performance because at the highest level, people get there because they have ability. But to stay there, it's because they figure out the mental game. And if you take a look at guys that play for a long time, you know, did I don't think Sean Casey played 10 years, 12 years in the big leagues and hit 300 because he was the most talented guy that was up there. You know, I don't think Derek Jeter was the most talented shortstop in the Yankees organization every year. Tom Brady was probably not the most physically tooled out quarterback in the Patriots or the Tampa Bay organization, but nobody was going to beat those guys mentally. No doubt about it. And it's funny, you lined up all those coaches and all these players say 90% of the game is mental. That's a pretty big percentage. You don't have a, you don't have a guy that counts.  mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere How many O for fours do we get? Because our self confidence, self-esteem is so low that we can't bounce back from it. So guess what? You do that 20, 30 times a year over 162 caner? That's O for 120, bro. O for 80. Just because you can't get your mind right, the anxiety is too gripping. It's paralyzing at times. The stress is overwhelming. You don't know how to deal with it. Because you don't have somebody that you're bouncing stuff off of, hey, how do I deal with this? I always say you're one pitch away. That one pitch away is pretty far off when you're engulfed with just a cesspool of anxiety. Well, it's the first chapter in the book, The Mental Game of Baseball, by Harvey Dorfman, where we got this started to come full circle, where he talks about Gary Carter's goal is to get two hits a game. And if he started the game and he was two for two, he would check out his last two app apps because he had accomplished his goal. And if he started the game O for two, he'd need to be pressing and he'd give away his last two app apps because he was pressing. So he was never looking at it as app app, app app, or pitch to pitch. It was just game to game and I got to go two for four. And if he started off one for two, he'd usually end up two for four. So the whole thing about starting off with the approach of winning pitches, stacking days, every series, every day, every pitch has a life and history of its own. Can I just compartmentalize and be in the present moment? And I was looking at, somebody sent me a clip of Michael Jordan, and when they were talking about the last dance. And I said, what was Michael Jordan's greatest gift? And as I asked people, they say, oh, it was his ability to jump, it was that athleticism, it was his brand, it was his star power. And then they say it was his ability to stay present. Michael Jordan lived in the present. He never focused on a shot in the future that he hadn't made yet. And what if and what could happen? He never lived in the past cause it was dead to him. All that mattered was the present moment. Right, one pitch at a time, one shot at a time, all that stuff. I got one more quick story for you, Kena, cause it's an incredible story. And obviously I'm not going to say the guy's name, but I had a guy on my podcast. It's on the cusps of Cooperstown. He's not going to get in, but he's got, a lot of home runs. He's only a few away from like probably getting into Cooperstown. And I was talking about that to him in the conversation. And he wouldn't let me put this on the podcast because it was after the podcast was over. And I said, what do you think your odds are getting to Cooperstown? And he must, he admitted to me, he has some regret. And I said, why do you have regret? And he's like, matter of fact, he started working with Harvey, his last three years in the big leagues. So his career started going downhill, started working with Harvey, and he started this incredible uptick again. Then he ended up retiring, but he started working with Harvey and he was like, wow, I started going to another level. My game started going to a level. And he goes, for my whole career, I thought having like a mental coach was like a crutch. I thought those were just for the wimps. Like I was the guy that bashed mental coaches. I was the guy that bashed mental coaches and ran into Harvey at some point and we started to work together. And he's like, what he did for me was incredible. And he says to me, he said to me, he said, had I had him my whole career, or had I bought in years earlier, he would be a slam dunk Cooperstown guy, but he's just gonna miss it. He's just gonna miss the holy grail. And he says, the reason why, I wasn't consistent mentally enough. I didn't have the tools to be consistent mentally. I just went on talent the whole time. So when sometimes I scuffle, I scuffle bad, right? And I think a mental coach really helps you to keep your process where you're not just falling off a cliff and then coming back. You're kind of riding that wave. It doesn't mean you're not gonna have your downs, but your downs are, you come back a lot quicker. And I just, I always will find that conversation fascinating. One day I hope, I'll ask, I asked if I could share it. He said, no, but I'm sharing it with you to say, the guy that was that close, the one regret he has is that he didn't work with the mental performance coach, especially Harvey Dorfinn years earlier, because somebody asking him whether he would be in Cooperstown, wouldn't even be a conversation. He would 100% have been in. One crazy thing is cases, you look at that example, here's a guy knocking on the door to get into Cooperstown, but how many guys knocking on the door to get in the big leagues? How many guys knocking on the door to even get drafted and play professional? Or how many guys knocking on the door if we keep coming down from high school to get into college, middle school to get into play high school? And I think that, you know, in the higher levels, we talk about those guys getting into Cooperstown, but I think for parents listening to this and coaches listening to this, if you start the mental game with your kids, the younger they are, if they get an opportunity to play high school baseball instead of not, or play college instead of not, the longer they can stay involved in organizational activity and athletics, I think the better opportunities they're gonna have in life. And you look at the suicide rates, you look at the depression rates, you look at the mental health issues, as we're recording this in May, and it's Mental Health Awareness Month, which I've been kinda studying, you know, and it's just the statistics of being involved in organizational sport are alarming at how positive those are for kids' mental health, you know? And for the kids who are not able to do that, maybe it's because they start mental training too earlier, they never get it even at the younger ages. So I think it's relevant, knocking on the door in Cooperstown, and it's relevant as a father who has two young kids to hopefully get my kids to be able to handle the anxieties and the pressures of anything you sport to stay in it. Dude, my kids have all, three of my kids, my youngest daughter has me up, but she's gonna have all taken Breakthrough Pro, you know, with their dad leading the course, and obviously my friend John Dennis, but dude, it's had an impact on them, no doubt about it. And think about this, you know, as a human being, your brain's not fully, you know, fully developed until you're 25 years old. You start getting these kind of concepts when you're 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 years old, you know, just something that says, hey, what's gratitude look like for your body? You know, what's accountability? Accountability, I've never heard of that, yeah, you're 14, start getting used to it, you're gonna have to be accountable to somebody, especially yourself, you know, in your life, you know, what's a proper perspective looks like? What are my limiting beliefs holding me back from, right? Like, how do you play with grit? What does that mean? What does that look like? How do I take action? I know I have these strategies and stuff, you talked about that before, like action strategy, you know, and then awareness action strategy action, like Harvey was saying, like, you know, what are these concepts? What does a process, a protocol look like? What, you know, those kind of things. So like, for me, I'm like, hey, for your kids, whether you do Breakthrough Pro, or you do Caner's, or whoever you do, find somebody that can get your kids some concepts and some actionable tools to take, whether they're on the field, or they're in school, or whether they're with their friends, whether their brains are developing not till they're 25 years old. Like, that's, for me, if I'm an adult and I'm a parent, that's what I'm doing. I'm looking for my kids to get around these kinds of concepts, life coaches or mental performance coaches. So that's my last part of it, Caner, like, hey, you got kids, start looking into this stuff. Yeah, Sean Casey, I appreciate you coming on to talk about the life and legacy of Harvey Dorfman, sharing some conversations, content, and the impact that it made on your career. Anybody who wants to check out Casey's Breakthrough Pro course that kicks up in July, I'm gonna put a link in the show notes below, make sure that you check it out there. And Sean Casey, I appreciate you making time to join us here on the Mental Performance Mastery Podcast. Caner, brother, I love you tons, man, and I'm so grateful for Harvey Dorfman. Harvey, rest in peace, I'm grateful for you, and dude, I'm grateful for you, man. You've had a big impact on my life and what you're doing for the players and all the people you work with and the athletes, man, you're this generation's Harvey Dorfman, so appreciate our friendship, dude. Love you tons, man. Love you, man. Talk to you soon, brother.

=== FILE: The One Formula That Will Make Or Break Your Career [_iSb1CNIYyw].txt ===

 the number one mistake that I see coaches allow their athletes to make that sabotages their performance. Hi, I'm Brian Kain. Here's a simple equation that you can use with your clients and athletes to help them move on from adversity, move on from success and get back to where the magic happens, which is in the present moment. Look, yesterday's history, tomorrow that's a mystery, today's a gift, that's why we call it the present. The biggest mistake that I see athletes make is they get stuck on events. Look, win a game, that's an event, lose a game, that's an event, break up with your significant other, that's an event, get injured, that's an event. How are you going to respond to that adversity? That's where we have to get. We have to move past the events that have happened into what our response is because it's that response that we intentionally choose, that we coach our clients through that's going to impact the outcome. E plus R equals O. Event plus response equals outcome. Look at the events that are happening to your clients. How much time do you hear them complain? They're complaining or getting defensive or getting stuck on things that have happened in the past instead of looking at what's my next best decision. The great Harvey Dorfman, a mental performance coach, a mentor of mine said, Caner, there's only three steps that clients should be using to reflect. What was I trying to do? What happened? What's my next best decision? So, ask yourself, what was I trying to do? What happened? What's my next best decision? That's going to allow you to move from the event that's happened that's already over, whether it's a minute ago or a month ago, it's over. Get on to the next play. Get on to the next task. What's your response going to be? Is your response going to be, what was me? Get bitter? Or is it going to be, now we go, get better? Is it here we go again? Now we go. Get frustrated, get fascinated. Get bitter, get better. That response is within your control. Once the event happens and it's done, it's out of your control. And here's the thing. Every event that happens is truly neutral until you label it otherwise. So you have to stay in control of yourself so you can control your performance and you've got to realize every event is neutral until you give it a label. Every event is neutral until you determine otherwise. And as soon as that event happens, success, adversity, anything along that spectrum, get on to the response. And there's only two types of responses. There's responses that we would call above the line responses. They're intentional. They're disciplined. They're winning responses. And then there's below the line responses. They're unintentional. They're undisciplined and they're losing responses. So for example, in the moment you take a pitch, you think it's a ball, umpire calls it a strike. Above the line response, you step out and release. You remind yourself you're not that bad that you need every pitch to win. You get back in the box, fully present, locked in on winning the next pitch. Below the line response, you take the pitch, don't like the umpire's call. You look back, you go palms up, you tell the world what was me, feel sorry for myself. And I'm that bad that I need every call to go my way in order for me to have a chance to win. You're not that bad. So your response has to be intentional. Now, as we choose that above the line response, we also have to practice it. I remember working with the TCU baseball program and at the time they're great coach Jim Schloss Nangle. We were down in San Diego, getting ready to play San Diego State and they had a pitcher named Steven Strasberg, maybe the greatest college pitcher ever. We knew he was going to average about 15 strikeouts plus. So the day before we played, what did we do? We actually practiced striking out and walking back to the dugout with our hand on the barrel, big body language and our head up, sending a positive message about competitiveness to the guy who was walking to home plate after us. We might even have made eye contact looking out the mount at the mound at that pitcher to remind him, Hey, you might have got me this time, but I'm going to be back because what happens otherwise? If you don't practice adversity and you don't know how to handle it, you're going to handle it based off of emotion. And emotion is typically a below the line response. So we have to practice adversity. Like with football players, we practice when I miss a tackle. What do I do to get to the next play? If I drop a pass, what do I do to get to the next play? So you can call that practicing your adversity response or your release routine to allow you to get onto the next event. You see every response that you take though, that's also an event for everybody else. So if I'm a coach and there's adversity, an event, and my response is to throw my hands to get pissed, to get frustrated, to go below the line and cause a distraction. My response is an event for everybody else. Now when the event happens, my response as a leader, my response as a coach becomes that event for everybody else. So can I make it better? Classic example, Braden Montgomery, Texas A&M baseball this year. One of the best players in college baseball gets injured and he's out for the rest of the postseason. What's he do? The next day he shows up, he's in a cast with his ankle. He's got a half that says good. And he helps lead his team from that moment forward knowing that if he's in the dugout, is one of the top pro prospects in the country, one of the top college baseball players in the country, and he's wearing a good hat, that sends a loud message to his team. So it's all at that moment about what's the response going to be. That event is over. A minute ago, a month ago, it's done. What's my response going to be? So event plus response equals outcome. Focus more time on the response, less time on the event that's already over, and you give yourself a better chance to get the outcome that you're looking for.

=== FILE: The Power of Routines with Carson Kelly [aHvBlhZPoww].txt ===

 alcholicarcin-kelly-man, couldn't be more fired up to have you on the Mental Performance Mastery Podcast. Thanks for joining us. Yeah, thanks for having me. You know, as a Major League Baseball player and a catcher, talk about the importance of the mental game for you and what you do. I mean, I think it's pretty much everything we do. The physical side of the game is really important, but I think the mental side is what actually gets you to that next level. And having routines, following the routines, and understanding those routines, I think, is something that a lot of players don't really do. They have them, but they don't really know why they do them. Why do you do routines? It keeps me grounded. It's something, it's like my foundation. I come in every day, I know exactly what I need to do, basically down to the time of when to do it as well. And that goes with a lot of experience, a lot of trial and error and knowing what works for me, but then also being a little vulnerable and trying something new. So I think those things have really, you know, evolved over my career. And I think it's something that is, you know, that I'll continue to do until my career's over. You know, we talk about the games, the routines as a baseball player. You have a pregame routine, you have your in-game routines, and you have kind of some post-game routines. Let's dive into sort of the pregame routine from a mental performance standpoint. Obviously there's the hitting drills and stuff you're doing, but what does it look like for you if we were to follow you on a pregame routine with the Cubs on a game day? What's it look like for you from a mental performance standpoint? Yeah, I think, you know, it actually starts before you even get to the field. You know, I have a family of kids and when I walk out the door, you know, you kind of have to switch roles in a sense. You go from being at home, being present with your family and your kids and all right, now it's time to go to work. So getting in the car, you know, listening to podcasts, listening to different music, different things to kind of get you to transform into that, carcin the player. So when I get to the field, I go down into my locker, I get dressed, have my journal, I take my journal actually to where I eat, and when you go to the kitchen, get some food, and I'll run through my journal of things, you know, affirmations, three keys to keep it simple, most important tasks of the day. Hit those, do a crossword, I love the crossword, get your mind right, and then you kind of start your physical routine. You go to the gym, prep that way, go to the cage, come back, and then usually by that time I have pitchers notes and notes on the team that we're playing, so I'll run through those. We'll have a team meeting, you know, hitters meeting, go over the pitch, go over their starting pitcher, come back, have some more food, and then go in to hit a mental imagery, you know, meditation of grounding myself, understanding who I am as a player and as a person, and then hit that, the video, the hype video, which is actually probably one of my favorite parts is just to kind of, again, transform you into that zone, get you ready to go compete, and, you know, say a couple of affirmations as I'm walking out, and then it's go time. So like the alignment between the journal and what you're writing down with your one word, your three keys, your affirmations, the mental imagery audio, where you're repeating those affirmations, you're looking back at your best performance, looking forward to how you want to play that day, and then the mind movie where you're seeing yourself in your highlights from your season or from your career, and then the words that come on the screen that reinforce the affirmations and the three keys and the one word and other mindsets that you want to have, as well as the music that might be your walk up song to home plate at times, right? How does all the alignment of those things help you from just a confidence standpoint in a game of failure? I mean, you've prepared, you know, we do a lot of this too in the offseason. I mean, obviously we, we've talked about it throughout the season, but a lot of the work, I mean, we've been talking for, you know, a couple years now, but it, like this takes time and it takes hours and hours and hours of really diving into what works for me as a player and then also, you know, some adjustments I can make. And I think having that alignment, it gives you a strong foundation to go, no matter what today, I've done all the things I can control. And at the end of the day, if there's, if it's, you know, a successful day in a sense, out, great outcome wise, then great. And if it wasn't, I still did everything I could possibly do in my control to be the best player in person I can be. And that you can, you can hang your hat on every single night. Talk about evaluating from a process lens versus just an outcome lens, right? It's the middle of the Olympic hockey is coming up next week and the week that we're recording this year before spring training. And a lot of the hockey guys I work with, they evaluate their performance solely on production. It'd be like you saying solely on base hits, right? As your career has evolved and your understanding of the mental game and what's controllable has evolved, how has the way you evaluate your performance shifted from like a two for four into winning pitches and quality at bats? What's that look like for you? It's taken a long time, but it is probably the biggest mental shift I think a player has to go through to really reach the potential that they want to get to. When you, when you base your days and your attitudes and your everything on the production, on the field, where it's so volatile that it goes up and down because you can, you could do everything right and still fail. You could literally do everything right and still fail. So why am I going to dictate my day, my attitude, the way I go about my business on that? If I have something I can control and really focusing on the things that I can control, that's all that matters, right? We're putting all the effort and energy into things that you can control. Then you can be like, I did everything I can. There's nothing else I can do. I can hit an absolute rocket and some guy goes flying in the air and makes a great catch. And there's a lot of players, you see players get pissed and they're mad and they're throwing stuff and you're like, what else could you have done? Is there literally, what are you going to go out there, run out there before the ball gets to him and try and trip him? Like, like you can't do that. Yeah. So why, I mean, there, there was one moment I had that really switched my thinking. I hit a ball, I think it was in Milwaukee. And if it was, and it got caught at the track, if the, if the ball was five feet to the left, it's a home run, but it was five feet to the right. And he caught it and I go, am I really going to dictate my day on five feet? Like once I left my bat, I couldn't control it. So I, I'm not going to get upset about that. I did everything. I did everything right. So why am I going to beat myself up on something that I did and I had no control about. Yeah. And you're a millimeter or maybe less away from that ball being five feet left or five feet right off a pitch that's a hundred miles an hour. Right. Right. Like the game's hard. Yeah. Every, every game is hard. Right. And I think to get to that level of consistency that we talk about, everybody was like, Oh, how do I get better? I want to be consistent. Yeah. I want to be consistent. And the way to do that is to not have your mind wrap so much on the results. Yes. The results matter, but the things that you can control every day are going to put you in a better position to have those results that you want. You know, we were talking about how do we continue to get better, you know, as you, as you grow in your career, getting better sometimes isn't about going wider and doing more. It's about identifying what you don't need so you can do less at a deeper level. And I think the journaling, you talked about the pregame routines. One of the other things I know you're real consistent with is the in game routine of the pre-pitch routine and the radio light release. Talk to us about your pre-pitch routine at the plate. And we might show some video of this over while he's talking about it in the podcast. Yeah. Uh, it starts, you know, before you even get on the on deck circle, you know, standing like I'll stand at the tops are not the top step, one step down. And I'm going through closing my eyes. What is this? Like after every pitch that goes by on the guys that go before it'll go by and I'll close my eyes and I'll think about, I'll position myself. I'm in there like in the box. You're doing this on the on deck circle. Meant to let that I'm doing this in the, I'm in the hole in the hole. Okay. Yeah. And I'm like feeling the bat like taking deep breaths. And then when I go into the on deck circle, you know, you do, I have a routine of the way I swing, you know, take the weight, take a couple of lefty swings. Then as I, after I hit the, the, the bat weight off, then I'm locking in, I'm watching the game and I'm seeing myself, uh, every pitch that goes by out, that goes before I envision what it looks like from my perspective in the box. Then it's your time to hit you, you know, the way you walk to home plate, the way that you're holding the bat, your, your, your posture, you know, the, what you're saying to yourself. I mean, it's all, it goes, all of this makes a huge impact. You're, you're, you're all intentional. It's all scripted. It's all predetermined and practiced. I remember we were in the garage over here doing it. Like when, when the, the pitch clock came in, like, and how much time you have, and we were scripting it out and walking through it just to feel, I mean, you do, you know, you think about it, a player that plays every day, you're going to do it 6, 700 times. You still practice it. Yeah. So I'm going to practice it now. So when, when the game comes, it's just, it's just second nature. So you're practicing the way that you actually get in the box, not just hitting your practicing the way you walked to home plate with your hand on the barrel and big body language to prime and position yourself with confidence. You know, and if anybody watching this, if you check out the book, Presence by Amy Cuddy, who's a social psychologist at Harvard, she's got a TED Talk scene by probably over a hundred million people about the science and power of body language. One of the biggest things is like posturing the way you carry yourself. So why would we, I, when I've worked with the UFC fighters, we've always practiced walking to the octagon and walking big because you can lose the fight before it starts. Well, baseball players are the same way. You can lose a nap bat before it starts. If you're walking up there like Linus Dragon is, you know, towel behind him or blanket behind him because he's over his last three. Instead of you pulling the shoulders back, walking like your 10 feet home bulletproof hand on the barrel, looking at the pitcher on the mound, getting to home plate. When you get to home plate and you clean out the box, are you intentional about feeling the dirt under your feet and hearing that as you take possession of the box? Absolutely. I mean, the way you get in the way I put my bat down, the way I use my cleat to clean out and make a hole and how does it look? And, and then you put, I do a little line as well to know where my stride length is, like all of this matters. The way you step out and you take your swings, you take your breath, you know, your focal point on your bat. We talk a lot about that. It's right before you get in, you find that focal point on the bat. You take your deep breath and maybe it's one, you say one little affirmation or one little cue to like kind of lock you in for that pitch, do it, and then you come out and reset every single pitch. You win that, and your goal is to win every single pitch. And when you think about winning a pitch, that's a lot more tangible and easier of a task to do than I got to win an entire day or I got to have this average at the end of the year. It's like Kurt Sagnetti, the football coach at Indiana that just had the greatest season in the history of college football, win 16 games, talking about just stacking days, every play has a life and history of its own. It's the same thing we're bringing into baseball. 100%. You win, you, I mean, you think, if you think about the whole course of the season, it's like, I want to have a good season. Okay. How do you do that? You have a good month. And then how about that? You have a good week. And then you have a good day. And then you have it a good, good at bat. And then you have a good pitch. Like you, you break it down to such, if we can be so focused and locked in for every single pitch of a course of a year, you will be where you want to be. So good. Radio light release. You, you swing through a pitch and you miss, you start losing control. How do you flush that and get back in control for the next pitch? Yeah. There's a physical release and then a mental release. Um, for me, it's usually calling time. Cause I mean, and we only get one time, right? So I try not to use my times right away, but if I call time, it's a full step out batting glove, you know, un, unlatch it, unlatch it, put it back deep breath. And it's, and it's basically move on to the next pitch, move on. Don't get hung up on, you know, a bad call or, you know, your timing was off. And you did a bad swing or, or, you know, a bird flew in front of you, like whatever, whatever it is that pitch is over, you're moving in the next one. And I'm going to win that one. Wonderful. And you have something to go to when you get in better yellow lights because you're going to, because you're playing at the highest level. Absolutely. Right. And I think one of the things, rich, Franklin, a UFC fighter I worked with said, I asked him, so what's the biggest difference our work made? He goes, man, when we first started working together, I thought the goal was I was never going to get out of green lights. I never have self doubt. I'd never have negative thoughts. I'd never get pissed to myself. I'd never go into red yellow lights to use our language. You know, what I realized was that's impossible, but the goal is to actually recognize when you get into yellow to try to prevent red and recognize when the yellow soon, so you can try to get back to green. And I think that's the same in every sport. Um, as a catcher, right? We talked about the app at the plate routine, the radio light release, anything that you're doing from a routine standpoint behind the dish, maybe after calling a pitch, taking a breath before you get set, or if you wear one or get crossed up or something does not go on your way, do you lift the mask up as a way to like, let that go almost like your batting gloves and the mask goes back on to kind of like signify them into the next pitch. What's that look like behind the plate? Yeah, it's, it's a really good question because there's a lot of, I mean, you're catching 150 pitches a night, maybe more. And a lot of it is, is you start to think pitches ahead. Like if we're going to set a guy up this way or that. Um, but then you have to take in the information that you're given. So if the, if, if we're able to locate a heater down in a way, okay, where do we go from there? And you're kind of thinking along those lines, but a lot of the times some, we mound visits, you take a mound visit and you walk to the mound, says a lot. Instead of, you know, if you're walking quickly. Like usually, usually you go take a mound visit because something's going on. Pictures need a break. Picture is, is, uh, you know, things are moving too fast. You can see when the body language and, and you're kind of playing psychologists, trying to figure everything out, but taking that and, and understanding and, and walking with your, with, you know, shoulders back, good presence. But that kind of resets me a lot of the time. And you're taking, there's so much going on. It's like trying to calm everything down and staying within the moment and trusting your ability. You know, we put all this work in and the mental game where you, you have those routines when I get being intentional, when I'm hitting versus putting the gear on, running out to the field, right? You don't take your bats back to, back to home plate. You don't take catching your bats. So having that intentional feeling and like having that going, when you're running out to the field and going to catch, like I'm catching, I'm going to be back there, take my deep breath, every single pitch and be ready to go to help, help our team win. Last question for you. Appreciate you coming on, man. It's been, it's been awesome. You talked earlier about, about, you know, being a dad and kind of flipping the switch on the front side from dad into major league baseball player, catcher, commander, out there, leading and competing. Talk about the flip side game gets over. Regardless of the outcome of the game, how do you transition kind of out of major league baseball player, high, high performer, competitor into being a loving and serving husband and father at the end of the day who's got to go home and, and love your toddlers. Yeah. It's a lot of fun. Um, when the game's over, you know, you take your shower, you put your clothes on. Once I close that journal after I've done the recap of the day, like I'm dad, I'm dad. And I think it's been one of the biggest things that's happened in my life that has able, has enabled me to be present at the field and then come home and be dad. Like I don't want to, I don't want to be that dad that's staying up and talking about baseball constantly and doing and not being present and missing things with my kids. So when I close that journal and I go home, like, what do we have for dinner? You know, what did the kids do while I was playing? You know, I love, you know, being, and being in Chicago, we play a lot of daygames, so I'm home and I get to have dinner with them and put them to bed and read stories. And, you know, I think it's, it's a very, it's a very good thing for me to just be able to flip that switch and be there and also be there for breakfast too. Like professional sports, there's a lot of traveling and a lot of, a lot of things going on when you can be present for your family. It's one of the most special things for me. Like it gives me goosebumps. Like I love being home for my kids and, and also sharing, you know, what I do, but also having that flip, flipping that switch is, you know, it's fun. I know I said last question, but I got to, I got to dig in on a couple more. You know, Matt Carpenter said something to him. He was on one of the first college baseball teams I ever worked with at TCU in 06. So I can't remember what year it was, maybe 23. He's playing with San Diego and I go to see him and we're, and we're pregnant. We're getting ready to have a kid. And I said, man, what difference did having a kid make for you? Like, how did that change things for you? And he said, the biggest thing a kid did for me was, you know, it gave me something else in my life that was, was as important to me as baseball had been my whole life. He goes, so it was easier for me to turn the baseball switch off at the end of the day, because I was turning the dad switch on. And he goes, and when you can turn it off, you have more to give when you turn it on, when you come back in the next day. And he's like, I always thought my edge was being a grinder and first guy there, last guy to leave. And he goes, and there was an element in a time of my career where that was true. But when I had a kid, I was able to give more when I had to turn it on. Have you found that same thing for you? Yeah, for sure. Yeah. It just, it makes you really enjoy those moments because you know, it's essential. Yeah. And at the end of the day, too, like baseball is going to come and go, but your family's going to stay there. Yeah. Your family will be with you. And I think that's really, that helps me give, give my all when I'm at the field. Cause I know the game, the game will end one day. Um, and I want to give everything I can to the game, but also to my family as well. And I think having that balance, I'm able to give more like, like Matt was saying, like give more when I'm at home because I know like baseball is baseball. I'm going to go home and be, be the dad. And then when I come back, I can lock back in. He was a mental performance coach. I was working with a guy named Charlie Smith and we were talking about turning the switch off at the end of the day. He goes, don't look at it like turning the switch off. He goes, look at it like turning the switch on for being a dad. He's like, your switch is on for coaching or playing all day. Then when you go be a dad, you turn that switch on. And he's like, if you're thinking about, I can't turn my coach switch off or I can't turn my player switch off. Think about it like this. I can't turn my dad switch on. Who wants to say that? Nobody. Yeah. Right. Like you got to be able to turn the dad switch on and, and the player or the coach switch on, you got to be able to turn them on when they need to be on in order to turn one on the other one can get turned off or dimmed. But like you got to be able to turn that dad switch on too. I thought that was like, I'm so, so trying to turn this one off when it's like, no man, turn that one on and that one goes off automatically. It's just a different perspective. It's like clap on, clap off. Yeah. Yeah. Speaking of the clapper, man, I saw you clap with that order ring on there. Talk to us. How do you use the order ring? What's that do for you? Yeah, I use it. I mean, a lot during the offseason, just to understand my recovery and my sleep. And I would say use it mostly for sleep during the season, knowing, you know, how much we were working and the travel and knowing when I get a good night's sleep. And it might, it might help me adjust my workouts the next day or how do I approach that day when we were talking earlier, like the routine. It's like knowing, you know, if we get home late, if we get a three a.m. four a.m. when we're getting home, you're probably not going to work out hard the next day. So knowing, knowing how you recover, knowing those, those numbers and, and, you know, sleep scores, all that stuff. But then you can make adjustments in court during the course of the year. Like, oh, I'm not getting enough sleep. So I like, how do I mix in a nap here to help me get enough recovery so my body doesn't break down? There's a lot of technology out there that can, that can really help you, you know, be, be at your most efficient cell. Well, I think it also increases your awareness, right? It increases your awareness of if I eat late, if I drank, if I'm on my phone in bed, what happens to my recovery scores the next day? If I engineer a good night's sleep and I eat, you know, three hours before bed and I'm not on my phone and blue light glasses on or hold plunge sauna, whatever. How does that increase what I'm doing? And then also knowing, like if you're grinding and you're sick and you're a couple of days in a row of like lower scores and there and you have people coming into town or you're on the road and you're in a city, which in every city, there'd be somebody who would want to take you to dinner or whatever it is. It makes it a thing a little bit easier for you to say no to those things because you're like, no, I got to prioritize sleep tonight because the last three days I've been grinding and I'm validating what I feel by being able to look at the data, you know. And then I think just by being aware, you're going to make better decisions to try to win that game because you're a competitor. 100%. I love it. Awesome. Carson Kelly, thanks for being on the Metal Performance Mastery podcast, brother. You've been great. Absolutely. Thanks for having me.

=== FILE: The Shift From Being Talented To Being A Pro [Tpd-hcvk11I].txt ===

 welcome everyone to the PJ Players podcast. Today we are here with none other than the Brian Kane mental performance coach. Welcome. Yeah, Goldie, thanks for having me, man. I apologize if I sound like I smoked a carton of Malboro's. I swear I didn't, but woke up this morning with a, you know, no voice, and I thought about for a second canceling podcast, and I said, you know what, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter how I sound, it matters what comes out of my mouth in terms of how it can impact other people. So I apologize for the raspiness of the voice. This is not how I like to roll. I like to roll with a raspy voice a lot more than I like to cancel a podcast on somebody. So the content that we bring today, it doesn't matter how I sound, it's about how it's gonna impact the people that are listening. So thanks for having me. Love it. As you've trained me, my answer to you when you asked. Good. Good, let's go. Let's go to work. So the reason we're here today is having conversations around how the best athletes in the world, and specifically how the best PJ Tour players in the world create and convert their talent into value. And when players are on the PJ Tour, they're all super talented. Like there's no question there. But what they're doing on the periphery to eke out a little bit more out of all their talent, that's what we're really trying to dive into and understand, hey, what are the best practices? How do they actually operate where they can get better? And it doesn't show up, it's not taking a scratch handicap golfer to a pro golfer. This is taking the best of the best and making them even better. Maybe moving from 50th in the world to top 10 in the world. Maybe being 20th in the world and moving to number one in the world, that type of thing. So what I wanted to have the conversation around today is how these guys set up a personal operating system for their day. That day may be an off week, that day might be tournament week, tournament day. It's gonna vary AM PMT time, pro AM day, practice day. But we'd love to have that conversation with you now. Yeah, I think essentially what we're getting at is everybody that's on the PJ Tour is talented, but how do you become a pro? And there's a difference, right? And I see this in my work across every sport. I mean, I've got Major League Baseball, NHL, NFL, NBA, PGA, LPGA, UFC, Olympic. I mean, I've had a chance, a privilege to be able to do all those in the eight UFC world champions that I've had a chance to work with. Most notably probably George St. Pierre, who I worked with for a decade. What is it that they do when they get to the top? Cause it's often easier to get to the tour than stay on the tour, right? And I have one golfer who I've worked with who made the tour after one year back to Cornfairy and then back up and now he just, you know, is in the top 70 right now in FedEx and playing the best golf of his life. And that's not by accident, right? Success doesn't happen by accident. It happens based off of your process. And I think for the golfers, listening to this, the biggest takeaway I'd want them to have is your process is working perfectly for the results you're getting. So if you're a top 200 golfer, you probably have a top 200 process. If you're a top 20 golfer, you probably have a top 20 process. Now there's unicorns out there, like in baseball with Shohei Otani, who, you know, could do nothing. Not, I'm saying that he doesn't do anything, but a guy who, I don't know what his process is, but a guy that can go out there and hit three home runs and strike out 10 guys in a game four of a championship series, like that's not the norm. So we're not talking about those unicorns. We're talking about the guys specifically that I've worked with that are the gals that have had the ability to get to the top of the mountain and stay there. And I've had just as many get to the top and fall back down and some get back up on top like George St. Pierre and some disappear. So we're gonna talk about what their processes are, how they go about it and what it really means to go from being talented to being a pro. Exactly. I think we all know how hard golf is and we're gonna get beat up. We're gonna have some highs and lows. So how do we recover from those lows? How do we, one thing you said to me when we were getting ready for this is, how do we make your best days your baseline? And that's what we wanna dive into. So we were talking about making your best, your baseline. I think that's a great concept to build off of, you know, and how you take when you're at your best, what are you doing? And I think we've all had those snapshots, you know, into our lives, whether it's as a PGA golfer or even off the course. And when I'm at my best, what am I doing? What's that structure like? What's that routine like? What are some of the key things I'm doing? And then being able to take that best and make it your new baseline. And I like a great example I would use would be, you know, personally, you know, being 240 pounds with a 44 inch waist as a high school athletic director in Vermont in the mid 2000s and now being able to be, you know, now running 100 mile races and doing things like I work out now and stay in a better body composition and a better physical shape at 47 than I probably ever got to when I was in my 30s. And the large part of that is because of that new mentality and mindset that I had, and it's all mental, right? The mindset of I'm gonna make my best and my new baseline. So I think when we look at, you know, what does that look like for a PGA tour golfer? We can dive into the kind of the system and the structure of that for sure. Yeah, great. I think it's important before we go into the how, it's the why. And really understanding like what makes you the athlete, you the golfer, tick and what's important to you. So walk me through your MVP process and what that means. Yeah, so one of the first things that I do with guys out of season, right? I think it depends on when I'm getting access to a golfer. If I'm working with a golfer in season, it's gonna be a lot of your preparation, your confidence, the body language, the visualization, the breath, the self-talk on the course, all those kind of like on course skills. Cause then I'm working with an athlete, we're looking at two things, development and performance. So performance is happening in the season on the tour when I'm playing. Development happens a little bit more like Monday, Tuesday or in that short time where they're not playing in certain tournaments or whatever it is cause the golf season doesn't really end. So one of the things we like to look at is called your MVP process. And MVP stands for mission, vision and principles. And the reason why having a personal MVP process is so important is what that allows you to do is one key thing. It allows you to bring your identity to golf instead of take your identity from golf. And I think when you look at the full swing documentary one of the things I like most about Scotty Schaefer is where he said like golf is what I do, not who I am. You know, and I think that's an elite level mindset and there's different ways to get there. The fastest and easiest way I've found to get there with athletes is to create that MVP. So identifying your mission. Your mission is what would you want in your gravestone? Bigger than winning tournaments, bigger than getting into a golf hall of fame or making X-men or dollars. The mission is what do I want on my gravestone? The second piece, the vision is what I want my resume. That's where money earned, tournaments won, years on the tour, that's where like the tangible yes or no that I do it comes into play. But we find though is that most people don't find fulfillment in outcomes, in winning a tournament, in making X number of dollars. Fulfillment comes in how you use those things that you accomplish to create something bigger. Impacting people through creating a scholarship in your name that sends underprivileged kids to school that play golf or something like an Evan Scholar's Foundation with Kat, these things like that. Like that's much bigger fulfillment. So you want them both. You want the mission, what do I want my gravestone? You want the vision, what do I want my resume? And then you gotta have your core principles. And the principles are what ground your behavior. Right, a set of principles such as discipline, toughness, selfless, whatever it is. Those are gonna process present positive. Those core principles are what then become like your core values and they drive your behavior. And a lot of athletes live off of preference instead of principle. And if I can share a story, I'm working with a guy named Vitor Belfort, UFC world champion. I'm in the sauna at his hotel room in Mandalay Bay in Vegas. He's getting ready to fight Chris Wideman for UFC title fight the next day. Vitor is about my age at the time. He's probably in his 40, 42 years old. And he had won a UFC title when he was like 18, 19 years old. So here's 20 years later fighting for a title again. And I remember sitting in the sauna and he's got blankets on him and he just, he's dropping all this weight and I'm like, I'm sitting here with a guy who could literally kill me. And I said, champ, what is it you know now? You wish you knew if you could go back and tell your younger self. And he looked up, sweat porn off of his face, you know, face sucked in because he's lost so much weight in the sauna. And he said, Caner, if I could go back and talk to a younger Vitor, I would tell them the difference between a boy and a man. And a man makes decisions out of principle and a boy makes decisions out of preference. And I wish I was a man earlier. I wish I was principle driven earlier because I would have been more grounded. I would have been more consistent. I would have been more successful. And then he looked at me and said, what are your principles? And I felt like, I felt like about an inch tall. Felt like a boy. And I'm thinking, man, I just walked through a casino, placed a couple of hands of blackjack and had a couple shots in the way up here. No, I didn't, but I'm like principle, I don't know. And he goes, tomorrow when I see you before the fight, you guys, I want to know what your principles are. So I go back to my hotel room that night and I literally Google search, how do you set a, how do you create a set of core principles? And I think for the athlete, you know, golf or listening to this, it would be right down the first 10 to 20 core values that come to your mind. How do you want to be known? And then look at them and then trim it down in half and trim it in half until you get to like, you know, three or five and identify what those are. And when I've done that with athletes, the difference that I see when they know what their core principles are and how they want to show up from a core principle or core value standpoint, they're far more confident in themselves. They're far more grounded and they're far more consistent. It's so powerful. I mean, in this day and age, whether it's the media, whether it's fans, whether it's social media, every player is being told who they are. And it's so easy to take your identity out of your results to be able to fall back or take a step back, not fall back, take a step back and define yourself and define what your mission is, what your vision is, what your principles are. That sets your base, your foundation for your life and for golf, of course. But it helps you go back when, whether it's highs or lows, sometimes you need it the most with the highs to really make sure that you're grounded and understand who you are as a person. So I think it really sets the stage for then, how do I operate my best day? Yeah, I agree. Anything successful change you and failure will challenge you and the answer to both of those equations on both sides is who do you want to be? Yeah. Right, and when you identify who you want to be, and this is an aggressive, I'm trying to be excellent, be the best version of me and I'm getting out of comparison to everybody else who's an animal on the tour and I'm getting into competing with myself. And for me to compete with myself, my core principles make the acronym apples. I need to be accountable, I need to be present, I need to run a process, I need to be loving, I need to bring energy and I need to serve, I need to give back. And if I live a day in alignment with apples, regardless of the results, usually really good if I'm living in alignment with my values, then I'm gonna be fulfilled. And if I'm fulfilled on that day and I keep stacking days one on top of each other, it makes a great year, it makes a great career, it's no different in golf. You don't try to win the tournament, you try to win the shot. And when you go literally one shop at a time and shop by shot, that gives you the best chance to score a well to win a tournament that extends your career. But you don't extend your career by focusing on the outcome, you extend it by focusing on the process of all the little decisions that it takes to get there. And Nick Saban coaching Alabama is maybe the greatest example of that in team sport where he talks about we're not trying to win a national championship or an SEC title or defend anything, we're attacking everything that has to do with today. And if we do that every day, that transitions into one play or one shot at a time and that's the best chance for success. And a lot of people talk about it, but there's very specific system and detail and drill work that we do to allow athletes to get there. Let's talk about the development side of it for a little bit. So let's say this is an off week, off month, hopefully you got two months off after the playoffs, getting ready for next year. Talk to me about AM and PM routines, how they relate to each other and how this is gonna set up their day as it relates to both performance and on the course work, but also their personal life and being able to leave it at the course. And I know I'm throwing a lot at you in this question, but I think one of the hardest things for golfers because it's not a sport where you're just exhausted after a two hour practice, it's hard to turn it off and be like, you know what, I'm done for the day, I've accomplished what I want to accomplish, I need to move on to the next day, I need to go home, shut it down and be present with whether it's your kids, your wife, your girlfriend, even if it's just by yourself, you need to be able to be present there too. So how does that, the question being, how does an AM and PM routine help set that up for success and how do they interplay together? Great question, I want to actually take it a little bit deeper than that, if I can, think about the concept of an hourglass. So an hourglass is I funnel in, I do a specific task, I come out, so every shot in golf has an hourglass, pre-shot routine, execute the shot, post-shot routine. And to use the language from vision 54, it would be think box, commitment line, play box, and then the post-shot routine. So I think golfers can understand the analogy of an hourglass, if I come in, I hit the shot, I come out. Well, the same thing happens for your day, right? You get ready to go to bed, and you ready to go to bed, you do your PM routine, you go to bed, you wake up, you have an AM routine in your day. And that same thing happens for parts of your day. So if you think about just working a good hourglass, and what a language we use with our golfers is like, hey, how is your hourglass on the course? How is your hourglass at the course? How is your hourglass for the day? How is your hourglass for the tournament, for the waste management, right? And so understanding how you come in and you come out, while your AM and PM routine are a big part of that, to make sure that you're starting the day on the right foot, but in order to do that with the AM routine, the PM routine has to be in place. And I wanna make it really obvious for the people listening to this that the AM routine will take care of itself and will fall into place if you do the PM routine. And a lot of times we put so much emphasis on the AM routine and waking up early, well, you don't compare yourself to other people. Like early is only relevant to the individual. You know, like, but the PM routine has to be in place so that you are actually able to get to bed at the said time that you want to, so you can wake up at the time that you want to to execute. If I go to bed time right now with a four year old and a two year old, if I'm trying to go to bed at 830 and wake up at 430, and I choose to stay up and watch a game or something until 1030, the odds of me getting up at 430 drastically go down because I wanna sleep. So I think where it starts, Goldie, is identifying what is your ideal day look like and what does your ideal week look like? When the golfers I work with, they have an ideal week for when they're at a tournament and they have an ideal week or so when they're not at a tournament. And those routines will adjust a little bit, but the one thing that's consistent, if you look at any of the sleep research, like Dr. Chris Winter in Charlottesville or James Moss who is at Cornell that wrote Power Sleep, anything you read or research on sleep, they're going to reference the importance of going to bed and waking up at a consistent time. And for some golfers, it might be 10 to six, it might be midnight to seven, but depending on tee times and things like that, there might be an abnormality in there, but the thing I love about golf is for a large part, you can control what time you go to bed or what time you wake up and you can be consistent with it seven days a week, maybe other than a Sunday travel night or something like that. Unlike baseball, where there's game times and there's a ton of travel and things like that that happen and you have to show and go the next day. So it starts with identifying, what does my ideal day look like? And then what does my ideal go to bed wake up time look like? And then what do I need to do from a PM routine to make sure I'm able to actually get in bed and go to bed at this specific time? And a PM routine might look like a digital detox, when do I put my phone down? And with the athletes I work with, we have a no phone in bed rule, the bed is for two things and phone isn't one of them. So when I'm not on my phone in my bedroom, literally plug it in in the hotel bathroom or put it somewhere else, but don't allow yourself to bring your phone into the bed because it's gonna be too tempting to be on it. So that's one of the things that's key. Another one would be like any type of red light, blue light glasses that you can put on, I use raw optics, they're the best ones I've found of all of them. So I'll put those on like an hour and a half or so before bed, any type of PM supplementation routine that they might do. Ash will gone to magnesium, thorn, PM supplements, whatever it is, whatever guys are taking. And then some type of like activate my parasympathetic, like I'm gonna do a shift wave chair or I'm gonna do maybe a hot tub or I'm gonna take a hot shower or I'm gonna do some type of ideally as a golfer, some type of visualization, especially when they're in a tournament, going through my yard book and how I wanna play. Maybe there's some type of reading, there's a shower, but there's a definite like series of steps that they take in that PM routine to go from kind of like fight or flight, I'm on, into rest, digest and fall asleep. There's a process there. Reverse engineer that even further back when they finish going to the golf course, okay? Big part of that hourglass for golf is when does your round start? And guys will go, why don't I get to the first tee box? When I, after I eat in the dining hall and I go over to the range, whatever it is. And I would say, well, the routine, the golf day starts when you enter your hourglass and your hourglass should start with a shower. So first tee time, last tee time, wherever in there, wherever you're staying, once you get in that shower and you get out and you start putting your clothes on, you're putting on your golf uniform. And at the end of the day, when you're done playing and you take the uniform off and you shower well, you have to wash away that day. So the coming out of the hourglass from a golf round, which allows them to turn their brain off a little bit, has to be structured and intentional. And I'd recommend something like a journal where I get out of my head and on paper, well, better how, what did I do today? Maybe they're going through their Tiger Five stats, whatever, there's a little analysis that happens. Then it's gonna be jumping in the shower. And as I jump in the shower, I'm washing off that day's round. And then I put on clothes that are not my golf clothes. I put on something else to separate between who and do. And separate those two things. And then laying your clothes out the night before. So when you wake up in the morning, you already know what you're gonna do and you know going to bed, I'm prepared for tomorrow. Here's what I need, I got everything. That helps you separate and come out of the golf mindset into going back to be a dad or whatever it is you have to do. But if you don't have a good routine coming out of the round, that's when it's hard to turn that off. And I think any athlete I've worked with myself, even as a coach, that's one of the hardest things to do is how to turn it off. Matt Carpenter, major league baseball player, three time all-star, I go back. Was on one of the first teams I've worked with at TCU in 2006. And I remember talking to him after he got done playing his career and I said, what's something you know now you wish you knew back then? And he goes, man, I wish I knew how to turn it off earlier. He goes, I didn't really learn that till I had kids. He goes, but when you can turn it off, you have more to give when you need to turn it back on. And I think that translates into golf beautifully. Exactly, it's so hard to turn it off in golf. And if you try to be on 24 seven, you can't give it your all, the five hours you're on the golf course, or however long you're on the golf course. But if you can zoom out and say, hey, as soon as I'm done at the golf course, I shower, I put on street clothes, I'm not done for the day. Obviously you gotta take care of your recovery and all that type of stuff, but you're turning it off. It allows you to dial it up when you're on. Correct, and then even when you're on the course, right? You're in and out of the hourglass the whole time. It's like, okay, we show up to this T-Box and the other group is getting ready to tee off or they're still right early in the fairway. So I'm gonna have 10 minutes before I tee off or 15 minutes before I tee off. Like you get those slow rounds, right? I mean, I've cat-eated the waste management and sometimes you're waiting like 25, 30 minutes at the T-Box, you're out of the hourglass. Well, what does that look like? What am I doing? And for some guys, it depends on where they stand. Other guys might be like, they grab a water bottle, whatever it is, but when the fair turn to get ready to go, it's like there's a change in body language, there's a change in posture, we enter an hourglass, yardage book, we're already trying to do, okay, good, glove comes out. And that glove becomes the trigger for the shot. So like the clothes become the trigger for, I'm the golfer, I'm not the golfer, the glove becomes the trigger for, I'm in the shot, I'm out of the shot. And the trigger becomes important because that allows you to mentally distinguish between the last shot and the next shot or when I'm out of the hourglass walking down the fairway and when I enter my hourglass with a bag down, talking through the yardage with my cat-eating, getting my glove on and being ready to commit to that shot. It's a very distinct process that most guys do, they just don't do it very intentional and they don't create meaning to what they're doing. The meaning is what becomes important. Like when I, Kevin Roy on the PJ tutorial was brilliant, one of the things that we've talked about was, you know, after a shot that he doesn't like and he's got some frustration, whatever it is, walk with the glove either on or in your hand. And you might even smack himself in his leg with the glove. And when it's time to let that shot go, the glove goes in the pocket and when you get to the ball, you're back in your hourglass. But that glove becomes a physical representation of the last shot that I hit with it. And when I take it off, that shot's gone. And when I put it back on, the next shot starts. That's great. Yeah. You have to be able to let it go, but it's natural to, we need to analyze it too. And being able to have that trigger, hit yourself, whatever it is, use that glove as that physical trigger, it's massive. I know I struggled with that when I played it. There are a lot of people around, there's a lot going on. It actually helped me because I knew I needed to lock in when it was my turn to hit. When nobody was out there, and that was usually the case for when I was playing, nobody was out watching me. I really struggled because there's nothing to distract in. So I was just kind of trying to be locked in for the entire round and you just can't do that. Yeah, you gotta come out. You gotta come in and you gotta come out. And the physical trigger, the physical association with something, putting a tee in the ground, throwing my ball in my caddy, getting the ball back, a glove, a putter in one hand, putter in the other hand, whatever it is, all those little triggers we identify for each person. They have their own unique aspects to it. Gives them the opportunity to know, when I do this, I'm in the present moment. And one of the things you said I wanted to go back to was the reflection piece. And I think in golf, people talk a lot about the pre-shot and then like your time from when you cross the commitment line or take a breath until you strike the ball. That time should be the same. We've all seen the video of Tiger Woods where it's two a millisecond, whatever. But I think the piece that gets under taught, largely under taught, and where I really got this was like in football and baseball, if coming out of a player pitch and getting ready to play the next one, because the next one is coming and golf, the next one is coming, it's just coming and you have a longer window. That longer window can be to your advantage to let go of the shot and process it, or it can be your detriment where you hold on to it longer. And the longer you hold on to a weight, the heavier it gets. So the process of coming out of a shot that I like to use is three questions. One, what was I trying to do? Two, what happened? Three, what's my next best decision? And if you can ask yourself that, what happened? What was I trying to do? What's my next best decision? That allows you to process that shot. And most of the time it's gonna be, I was trying to do this and I did that, and let's get to the next shot. But you have to do it on the good ones to make the process the same as the ones that you don't hit the way you want to. And Kobe Bryant was interviewed by Lewis Howes in the School of Greatness. And the one that hit me there, like a ton of bricks, is when Lewis asked him, Kobe, what does losing feel like? And he said, it's exciting. He goes, it's exciting because there's answers there. And then Lewis goes, well, you probably learn more from losing than you do from winning, right? And he goes, well, no, it's gotta be the same. Kobe Bryant, I don't know if you ever worked to the sports psychologist, but he says, you have to have the same process. Whether you win or you lose, the process should be the same. So you ask yourself, what did I do well? What do I wanna do better? And how am I gonna do the things I wanna do well again? And how do I wanna do the things I wanna do better, better? He goes, but regardless of the outcome, the process should be the same because that's how you extract the learning. And there's learning there, whether you win or you lose. So good, so good, nice. All right, walk me through, you mentioned a perfect day, a perfect week that you have your players set up and kind of outline. Let's start with a perfect day. How do you have a player walk through or outline his perfect day? And I'm talking to even like logistically, are they writing it down on a piece of paper? Do you have them put it in a Google calendar? What's, what typically are you doing? And it may be unique to every player. Yeah, I would first say ideal day, not perfect day. Because I think perfect means there's not gonna be any mistakes. Ideal is I know there's gonna be mistakes and I have contingencies already built in my schedule to be able to handle those mistakes. Right, so I think it starts with understanding that scripting out your day and time blocks and being intentional with it is the key. Then the next step is actually being able to honor those time blocks. And I still haven't mastered that piece, I'm getting better with it. But I think you have to ask yourself, what's my ideal day? What's my ideal PM routine start time? My ideal go to bedtime? My ideal amount of time I wanna have in bed? This is where like sports psychology cannot be stand alone as a field, it has to be integration. This is to me the mental performance. I have to integrate all of the skills, the skill of time management, the skill of organization, nutrition, when do I need to eat, sleep? What time do I need to get in bed? The consistency of all that, the supplementation that comes from blood work, right? The nutrition that's based off of what my body composition goals are based off of a DEXA scan. So all these things get worked in together. That's why I consider myself mental performance and high performance coaching going together because I help guys coordinate all of this. So it starts with what time do I start my PM routine? Because of what time I wanna go to bed? There's a domino there. Okay, what time do I wake up? What's my morning routine look like? Well, it looks a lot different if you've got kids under the age of four who might wake up in the morning more than it does if you're on the road by yourself. And then what time do I wanna wake up? And then what does my day look like? Largely impacted by what time do I need to get into the shower and get dressed to get to the course for a workout or for a tea time? So all these factors come into play. But the one thing that the golfer listening to this wants to do is plan tomorrow tonight. If you go to bed without a calendar plan, whether it's written down in an agenda form like time blocks in a notebook, whether it's done in the Apple calendar or I use Google calendar, if it's in your head, it becomes heavy and you're kind of winging it. You wanna get it out of your head and on paper so you don't have to think about it. You don't wanna have to think about it. You wanna be able to look at that calendar and that routine. And the beautiful part about say using something like Google Calendar is you can share that with your catty. You can share that with your spouse. You can share that with your agent. You can share that with other people. So they're all helping, no, I can't, I'm not gonna call this guy right now. He's on the course doing what he needs to do but I can simply pull up his calendar and look at it. So all the athletes that I coach, I help them to coordinate that calendar so they know exactly what it looks like in advance and now they feel like they're playing offense, not defense. Knowing that they's not gonna be perfect. It's gonna get disrupted by weather or other things that I have to do that come up unexpectedly but we're able to adapt and adjust. So the key is be structured is what your ideal day looks like in time blocks and then be able to adapt and adjust. And those time blocks are gonna look like AM routine, PM routine, sleep, nutrition, at the course, recovery, family time, maybe some mental performance block in there which probably usually gets doubled down in with recovery and then your free time. Right, if you want free time and you want three hours to watch a Monday night football game, schedule it. Yeah, no, it's great. I think I didn't work with you on this when I was playing but post playing and now what I'm doing now professionally. My biggest objection when I first heard this is this is gonna be too structured. This is gonna be too regimented. Things happen and you made a great clarification. It's not the perfect day. It's the ideal day because you have to adapt. You have to be able to adjust. What I found once I finally bought into it was it actually allowed me more freedom because I knew exactly what I needed to get done that day. I had a time to do it. It was the right time to do it and it provided more free time that I could then allocate to other things, to my family, to my kids, to my wife, to working out, whatever it may be. And it actually allowed me to adjust a lot quicker because I knew, hey, I have a gap here or this is a lower priority. I can move this off to the next day or this time period later on. So I think everyone probably thinks that they're time blocking in their head whether they're doing it on paper or not. I really encourage guys to do it either on paper or in an Apple or Google calendar. It makes such a big difference. Get out of your head and on paper, right? And an easy analogy is like, you're a PGA golfer. You're making, let's say, $2 million. You're making $2 million a year. You're making millions of dollars a year. Find me a company that makes a million dollars a year that doesn't have a group calendar that's shared with the people on that team. It doesn't exist. So you are your own business. You are the CEO of your business. You're also the janitor. So you have to do it all. So having that calendar allows you to be more organized and allows other people around you to be more organized. But I think at the end of the day, the biggest thing it does is it allows you to be in the present moment. And when we perform our best on the course and in life, we are in the present moment. And I know that for the time block that we have here together today, there's nothing else that I need to do in this time block. There's a lot of things I have to do after. There's a lot of things I've had to do before as you've seen being here and things that pop up last minute. We have to adapt and adjust what you've seen. But even without adapting and adjusting when you get into the time block, you can completely be where your feet are and be in that present moment, which gives you the best chance for success, whether it's doing a podcast or it's trying to win an Augusta. Love it. Once you have these ideal days built out and PM routine, what have you seen as the best way to track it and then have some self-accountability? So one of the key principles or call it frameworks I teach and it's probably the number one. If I could teach one framework, it all would be what I call the four step player development formula. Step one, set your intention. What do you want? That's your MVP process. Identify what you want for your vision, vision and principles and then your goals for that quarter, personally and professionally. Second step, schedule it. That's where the Google Calendar comes in. Do the blocks on my calendar, align with what I want in my life. What's on my MVP? And I think where fulfillment comes from, and I got this from a mentor of mine named Charlie Smith, he said, where fulfillment comes from in your life is when what you do in your life is in alignment with what you want for your life. I'll say that again, where fulfillment comes from is when what you do in your life is in alignment with what you want for your life. And most people, me included for the longest time, move so fast getting to the next thing that we never press pause long enough to go. What is it I really want? What is I really, really want? And what I'm doing in my life, aligning with that. And when you set your core principles and you get clear on what you really want, it becomes a filter for decision-making to say, does this get me one step closer or further from what I'm trying to do? If it's taking me further from what I want to do and who I want to be, why am I doing this? Right, so step one, set your intention. What do you want? Step two, schedule it. Does your calendar align with what you want? Step three, measure it. And that's where I use a concept called the success checklist. I interviewed a guy named Marshall Goldsmith, one of the top executives. And I was like, what's going on? I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure.  mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere for the day, what are the habits they're trying to create, what are the things they're trying to eliminate, right? So one might be that I not have alcohol today, another one might be that I not lose self control and blow up on somebody today, another one might be from a golfer standpoint, did I do exit drills with my putting today to work on putting pressure on myself to get better, did I do some sort of recovery, whether it be shift wave, float tank, massage, norm attack, whatever it is. So he would call the client and they would talk through it. So for me, I use a success checklist with an app called Habit Share and that Habit Share is the behaviors that the athlete would want to do that day. So for example, like that I make my bed, that I have my body weight and grams of protein, that I lift weights, if I was supposed to do that today, right, that I do these certain drills, whatever it is. And whatever the behaviors are that they want, they put them on that checklist. And then when we get on our weekly calls, two of the things that I do at the start of the call is look at your weekly checklist and look at your calendar and do your behaviors on your checklist that you either check yesterday or know you did and your calendar align with what you're saying you want to be. Because if you want to be a top 10 player in the world, that's going to look a lot different than the top 200 player in the world. Right. If you want to be the best in the world, it's going to look a lot different than I'm happy to be on the PGA tour, which a lot of guys are, right? Because they like that lifestyle, but that lifestyle and being on the tour isn't what's going to get you to stay on the tour. So the fourth step then is the reflect and refocus. And that's where I feel like what I do as a coach is bring that level of accountability to the player to help them have to reflect every week because sometimes they won't if they're just moving so fast. So when we get on the call, we're looking at calendar, habit share, how do we perform, what are the stats, going through a well better how, and then we're using that well better how and that assessment to go, okay, we recap that week. What's the game plan for this week? What do we got to do better this week? Where are we losing time? Where are we losing strokes? Where are we going to get better? One of my favorite concepts is from Kevin Roy is strokes gained attitude. We'd say where are we getting those strokes gained attitude? Everybody talks about T degree or putting, but really the biggest strokes in the PGA tour because everyone's so good is going to come from the six inches between your ears. And where those strokes gained attitude coming from? Is it from better visualization the night before going through the Arge book? Is it from better body language on the course? Is it from better self talk? What are we dialing in on this week to get those strokes gained attitude? Love it. Stroke seeing an oddity is a new one for me, but I think they need to figure out a way of mental. That's the hard part of the mental game, that's your point. Exactly. The hard part of the mental game why not everybody's really into it is how do you measure it? How do you measure it? Largely it is, right? I mean there's some people who say you might be able to measure it, but I don't know how you do that. I've been doing this for 25 years. It's not like Track Man where I can measure everything. And the hard part I think for golfers or any athlete, baseball, whatever sport is if they can't physically measure it, they don't believe that it's real. Correct, but that's why I think the success checklist is so huge and as an athlete you can relate to it so quickly. What's really important about what you said is it's behaviors and habits, it's not results. Like it's not a, hey did I win a putting contest? Did I win the round today? Did I shoot 65? It's no, did I do these behaviors that the habits and behaviors that lead to improvement and hopefully success, the results. But we can't create the results if we don't do the behaviors. It's behavioral analytics is essentially what it is, right? It's looking at the behaviors and at the end of the day to the behaviors that I have, aligned with what the goals I have are. And it doesn't guarantee you an outcome, but it gives you the best chance for success. And if I'm going to go all in on anything, it's going to be what gives me the best chance for success. And if you're measuring that and then you're not getting the results you want, you have a better baseline to be able to change. Hey, these are the habits or the behaviors that I maybe need to adapt and change in order to improve and not get different results than what I'm getting right now. Correct. Love it. The results are not random. No, well you said it in the beginning of the podcast. If you, you're, I'm going to butcher it, so I'm going to have you say it. Your process is working perfectly for the results that you get. Exactly. If you're getting the results of a top 200 player, that's the process that you've created. If the process is working perfectly for the results you're getting as a top 20 player, that's what you're getting. Yeah, and here's some simple questions to ask yourself. When's the last time I had a DEXA scan and know my body composition is when's the last time I had a macro nutrition or meal plan based off my body composition? When's the last time I had blood work and from that blood work I had specific supplementation programs that I was going to take. What am I doing to track sleep? Am I wearing aura, whoop, garment? What is my ideal sleep environment? Do I have an eight-sleeper, a chili pad? Am I wearing earplugs in an eye mask? Am I taping my mouth? You know, what's, what is, when is the last time I was doing journaling process? How often am I visualizing? Am I watching a mind movie, which on the PGA tour is great because I can go on and I can pull all the great shots that they have in video and put a mind movie together for the athletes that I have. When's the last time that I was looking at my calendar? All those things, like those are 10, 10 questions right there that we just ripped off without thinking at all, that if you can't answer yes to all those, that's low hanging fruit. Yeah, yeah, I mean it's, it's turning this into optimization. Correct. Talent can get players to the PGA tour and there's the freaks that are going to be just uber talented, like you said, of the show Hayes of the World, that probably can get to top 10 or top 20 in the world just based on talent alone. But that's not who we're talking to here. Yeah, and golf is the hardest one to do that in. Exactly. Because there's no contract. All of us have seen those players and sometimes they rise up, but then they maybe don't stay. How do we stay? How do we keep rising? How do we keep getting better? Yeah, and then when you're on top of the game, how do you not get bored? I think if you watched the Tiger Woods documentary, I think there was either HBO or Netflix, one of the things that I looked at and watched, I said, man, this guy got bored with all the success. He went to go challenge himself to do Navy SEAL training and other things that, you know, were probably fun, but that's not necessarily in the best interest of the health of his golf career. But you know, it's so and I see it with guys that, you know, whether it's I own winners or batting champions that have coached in baseball or UFC fighters that win the title or get to the top, it's like they get bored with success. And in order to not get bored with success, you have to keep redefining what success means to you. What success means to you personally, but also how does it tie back into your MVP process and not to, you know, well, one of the one of the aspects of the MVP process, right, is your definition of success. Yeah, another aspect of MVP are your three keys to keep it simple when you're playing your best golf, what are the three things you're doing, right? The other part of the MVP process are your affirmations. When you're talking to yourself, what are you saying, right? In the MVP process, there's also your one word focus, what's in that's probably the easiest strategy for everybody to listen to this is that for you to become the best version, you and step into growth for the next month or three months, what's that one word focus that if you live in alignment with, you're going to be the best version of you. Yeah. I mean, I'd love we're gonna have to do another episode at some point to dive deeper because this is great stuff. And I think the players would love this. Yeah, I'll save the Malbros. Yeah, maybe. Yeah, we can go smoke a cigar afterwards, something like that, you know, celebrate. We'll see who wins the World Series, but either way, we win. We got guys in both teams. There you go. There we go. So no, this has been super informative. I think guys are going to love to hear this. Everyone from PJ to her players, the college players. Tell me or tell everyone that's listening. You have two podcasts. We'll put in the show notes. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, best thing they can do is go to Brian Kane.com slash golf, b-r-i-a-n-c-a-i-n dot com slash golf have about a 45 minute golf masterclass on there where I take my system of the 10 pillars of mental performance mastery and how it's applied specific to golf from there. You know, I talk about the three steps to maximum growth, total immersion, learning, spaced repetition, accountability, partner, and a plan. So golf will listen to this that goes, man, that was good. I want more. Go watch the masterclass. That's total immersion. You're getting 45 minutes of more mental game than maybe you've ever gotten from there. Go spaced repetition. Spaced repetition will be my podcast, mental performance daily, two to three minutes a day, often to guys do with breakfast or coffee or drive into the course. I have another podcast mental performance mastery, which is more long form interviews like this. The third step is total immersion learning, spaced repetition, accountability, partner, and a plan that accountability partner plan would be hire a one on one mental performance coach, whether it be me or a member of our team, Kevin Guza, who heads up our golf division is fabulous. So if it's that right fit for me and the athlete, then we would get Kevin involved. But I think that's the plan is total immersion golf masterclass, brand team dot com slash golf, spaced repetition, daily podcast, accountability, partner plan, let's set up a call to see if it's the right fit to work together. It's great. The mental performance daily is part of my routine. One of the two or three podcasts I live and listen to you on the way into work just sets the tone for the day brings the energy, as you say, brings the juice, brings the juice. And if you're useful, you're useful. If you're useless, you're useless, and energy is your edge and energy and golf looks a lot different than energy in the NFL or college football, but the guys that played the best, they got energy and I always go back to Novak Djokovic, the greatest tennis player, maybe in our generation. Then he said in a 60 minutes interview, he said, you know, the guy asked him, he said, well, you know, I think your greatest gift is that you have this mental toughness and you go, I have to correct you, or there's not a gift. It is something that I have trained and worked on. He goes on the inside. I he goes on the outside, it may look calm, cool and collected, but on the inside, I'm going 100 miles an hour on the inside, I'm very, very competitive and very tense and sometimes they're self doubt, but you have to have tools that you work on to address that. And, you know, for the guys listening to this, they're into podcast. Novak Djokovic was on a podcast with Jay Shetty, which I'll send the link to you that maybe you can throw in the show notes too or however, but it was phenomenal hearing a guy who's the best, maybe ever to do what he does, number one in the world and what it took to get there. And then more importantly, what it took to stay there. Yeah, love it. Can't wait to listen to it. Awesome. Brian, thanks for being on. Looking forward to more conversations. Yeah. Thanks, Goldie. Appreciate it.

=== FILE: The Shift From Being Talented To Being A Pro [vKN_ebW5W5Q].txt ===

 welcome everyone to the PJ Players podcast. Today we are here with none other than the Brian Kane mental performance coach. Welcome. Yeah, Goldie, thanks for having me, man. I apologize if I sound like I smoked a carton of Malboro's. I swear I didn't, but woke up this morning with a, you know, no voice, and I thought about for a second canceling podcast, and I said, you know what, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter how I sound, it matters what comes out of my mouth in terms of how it can impact other people. So I apologize for the raspiness of the voice. This is not how I like to roll, I like to roll with a raspy voice a lot more than I like to cancel a podcast on somebody. So the content that we bring today, it doesn't matter how I sound, it's about how it's gonna impact the people that are listening. So thanks for having me. Love it. As you've trained me, my answer to you when you asked. Good. Good, let's go. Let's go to work. So the reason we're here today is having conversations around how the best athletes in the world, and specifically how the best PJ Tour players in the world create and convert their talent into value. And when players are on the PJ Tour, they're all super talented, like there's no question there. But what they're doing on the periphery to eke out a little bit more out of all their talent, that's what we're really trying to dive into and understand, hey, what are the best practices? How do they actually operate where they can get better? And it doesn't show up, it's not taking a scratch handicap golfer to a pro golfer. This is taking the best of the best and making them even better, maybe moving from 50th in the world to the top 10 in the world, maybe being 20th in the world and moving to number one in the world, that type of thing. So what I wanted to have the conversation around today is how these guys set up a personal operating system for their day. That day may be an off week, that day might be tournament week, tournament day, it's gonna vary AM PMT time, pro AM day, practice day, but we'd love to have that conversation with you now. Yeah, I think essentially what we're getting at is everybody that's on the PJ Tour is talented, how do you become a pro? And there's a difference, right? And I see this in my work across every sport. I mean, I've got Major League Baseball, NHL, NFL, NBA, PGA, LPGA, UFC, Olympic, I mean, I've had a chance, a privilege to be able to do all those in the eight UFC World Champions that I've had a chance to work with, most notably probably George St. Pierre, who I worked with for a decade. What is it that they do when they get to the top? Cause it's often easier to get to the tour than stay on the tour, right? And I have one golfer who I've worked with who made the tour after one year back to corn fairy and then back up and now he just, you know, is in the top 70 right now in FedEx and playing the best golf of his life. And that's not by accident, right? Success doesn't happen by accident, it happens based off of your process. And I think for the golfers listening to this the biggest takeaway I'd want them to have is your process is working perfectly for the results you're getting. So if you're a top 200 golfer, you probably have a top 200 process. If you're a top 20 golfer, you probably have a top 20 process. Now there's unicorns out there like in baseball with Shohei Otani who, you know, could do nothing, not I'm saying that he doesn't do anything, but a guy who I don't know what his process is, but a guy that can go out there and hit three home runs and strike out 10 guys in a game four of a championship series, like that's not the norm. So we're not talking about those unicorns. We're talking about the guys specifically that I've worked with that are the gals that have had the ability to get to the top of the mountain and stay there. And I've had just as many get to the top and fall back down and some get back up on top like George St. Pierre and some disappear. So we're gonna talk about what their processes are, how they go about it and what it really means to go from being talented to being a pro. Exactly. I think we all know how hard golf is and we're gonna get beat up. We're gonna have some highs and lows. So how do we recover from those lows? How do we, one thing you said to me when we were getting ready for this is how do we make your best days your baseline? And that's what we wanna dive into. So we were talking about making your best your baseline. I think that's a great concept to build off of, you know, and how you take when you're at your best, what are you doing? And I think we've all had those snapshots, you know, into our lives, or it's as a PGA golfer or even off the course. And when I'm at my best, what am I doing? What's that structure like? What's that routine like? What are some of the key things I'm doing? And then being able to take that best and make it your new baseline. And I like a great example I would use would be, you know, personally, you know, being 240 pounds with a 44 inch waist as a high school athletic director in Vermont in the mid 2000s and now being able to be, you know, now running 100 mile races and doing things like, I work out now and stay in a better body composition in a better physical shape at 47 than I probably ever got to when I was in my 30s. And the large part of that is because of that new mentality and mindset that I had, and it's all mental, right? The mindset of I'm gonna make my best, my new baseline. So I think when we looking at, you know, what does that look like for a PGA tour golfer, we can dive into the kind of the system and the structure of that for sure. Yeah, great. I think it's important before we go into the how, it's the why. And really understanding like what makes you the athlete, you the golfer, tick and what's important to you. So walk me through your MVP process and what that means. Yeah, so one of the first things that I do with guys out of season, right? I think it depends on when I'm getting access to a golfer. If I'm working with a golfer in season, it's gonna be a lot of your preparation, your confidence, the body language, the visualization, the breath, the self-talk on the course, all those kind of like on course skills. Cause then I'm working with an athlete, we're looking at two things, development and performance. So performance is happening in, you know, in the season on the tour when I'm playing, development happens a little bit more like Monday, Tuesday, or, you know, in that short time when they're not playing in certain tournaments or whatever it is, cause the golf season doesn't really end. So one of the things we like to look at is called your MVP process. And MVP stands for mission, vision and principles. And the reason why having a personal MVP process is so important is what that allows you to do is one key thing. It allows you to bring your identity to golf instead of take your identity from golf. And I think when you look at the full swing documentary one of the things I like most about Scotty Sheffler is where he said like golf is what I do, not who I am. You know, and I think that's an elite level mindset and there's different ways to get there. The fastest and easiest way I've found to get there with athletes is to create that MVP. So identifying your mission. Your mission is what would you want in your gravestone? Bigger than winning tournaments, bigger than, you know, getting into a golf hall fame or making X amount of dollars. The mission is how, what do I want on my gravestone? The second piece, the vision is what I want in my resume. That's where money earned, tournaments won, years on the tour. That's where like the tangible yes or no that I do it comes into play. But we find though is that most people don't find fulfillment in outcomes, in winning a tournament, in making X number of dollars. Fulfillment comes in how you use those things that you accomplish to create something bigger. Impacting people through creating a scholarship in your name that sends underprivileged kids to school to play golf or something like an Evan Scholars foundation with Katty, things like that. Like that's much bigger fulfillment. So you want them both. You want the mission, what do I want my gravestone? You want the vision, what do I want my resume? And then you've got to have your core principles and the principles are what ground your behavior. Right, a set of principles such as, you know, discipline, toughness, selfless, whatever it is. Those are gonna process present positive. Those core principles are what then become like your core values and they drive your behavior. And a lot of athletes live off of preference instead of principle. And if I can share a story, I'm working with a guy named Vitor Belfort, UFC world champion. I'm in the sauna at his hotel room in Mandalay Bay in Vegas. He's getting ready to fight Chris Wideman for UFC title fight the next day. Vitor is about my age at the time. He's probably in his 40, 42 years old and he had won a UFC title when he was like 18, 19 years old. So he was 20 years later fighting for a title again. And I remember sitting in the sauna and he's got blankets on him and he just, you know, he just keeps dropping all this weight. And they're like, I'm sitting here with a guy who could literally kill me. And I said, champ, what is it you know now? You wish you knew if you could go back and tell your younger self. And he looked up, sweat porn off of his face, you know, face sucked in because he's lost so much water weight in the sauna. And he said, Caner, if I could go back and talk to a younger Vitor, I would tell them the difference between a boy and a man. And a man makes decisions out of principle and a boy makes decisions out of preference. And I wish I was a man earlier. I wish I was principle driven earlier because I would have been more grounded. I would have been more consistent. I would have been more successful. And then he looked at me and said, what are your principles? And I felt like, I felt like about an inch tall. I felt like a boy. And I'm thinking, man, I just walked through a casino, placed a couple of hands of blackjack and had a couple shots in the way up here. No, I didn't, but I'm like, Prince, I don't know. And he goes, tomorrow when I see you before the fight, you guys, I want to know what your principles are. So I go back to my hotel room that night and I literally Google search, how do you set a, how do you create a set of core principles? And I think for the athlete, you know, all for listening to this, it would be right down the first 10 to 20 core values that come to your mind. How do you want to be known? And then look at them and then trim it down in half and trim it in half until you get to like, you know, three or five and identify what those are. And when I've done that with athletes, the difference that I see when they know what their core principles are and how they want to show up from a core principle or core value standpoint, they're far more confident in themselves. They're far more grounded and they're far more consistent. It's so powerful. I mean, in this day and age, whether it's the media, whether it's fans, whether it's social media, every player is being told who they are. And it's so easy to take your identity out of your results to be able to fall back or take a step back, not fall back, take a step back and define yourself and define what your mission is, what your vision is, what your principles are. That sets your base, your foundation for your life and for golf, of course. But it helps you go back when, whether it's highs or lows, sometimes you need it the most at the highs to really make sure that you're grounded and understand who you are as a person. So I think it really sets the stage for then, how do I operate my best day? Yeah, I agree. Anything successful change you and failure will challenge you and the answer to both of those equations on both sides is who do you want to be? And when you identify who you want to be, and this is an aggressive, I'm trying to be excellent, be the best version of me and I'm getting out of comparison to everybody else who's an animal on the tour and I'm getting into competing with myself. And for me to compete with myself, my core principles make the acronym apples. I need to be accountable, I need to be present, I need to run a process, I need to be loving, I need to bring energy and I need to serve, I need to give back. And if I live a day in alignment with apples, regardless of the results, usually really good if I'm living in alignment with my values, then I'm gonna be fulfilled. And if I'm fulfilled on that day and I keep stacking days one on top of each other, it makes a great year, it makes a great career, it's no different in golf. You don't try to win the tournament, you try to win the shot. And when you go literally one shop at a time and shop by shot, that gives you the best chance to score well to win a tournament that extends your career. But you don't extend your career by focusing on the outcome, you extend it by focusing on the process of all the little decisions that it takes to get there. And Nick Saban coaching Alabama is maybe the greatest example of that in team sport where he talks about we're not trying to win a national championship or an SEC title or defend anything, we're attacking everything that has to do with today. And if we do that every day, that transitions into one play or one shot at a time and that's the best chance for success. And a lot of people talk about it, but there's a very specific system and detail and drill work that we do to allow athletes to get there. Let's talk about the development side of it for a little bit. So let's say this is an off week, off month, hopefully you got two months off after the playoffs, getting ready for next year. Talk to me about AM and PM routines, how they relate to each other and how this is gonna set up their day as it relates to both performance and on the course work, but also their personal life and being able to leave it at the course. And I know I'm throwing a lot at you in this question, but I think one of the hardest things for golfers because it's not a sport where you're just exhausted after a two hour practice, it's hard to turn it off and be like, you know what, I'm done for the day, I've accomplished what I want to accomplish, I need to move on to the next day, I need to go home, shut it down and be present with whether it's your kids, your wife, your girlfriend, even if it's just by yourself, you need to be able to be present there too. So how does that, the question being, how does an AM and PM routine help set that up for success and how do they interplay together? Great question, I wanna actually take it a little bit deeper than that if I can and think about the concept of an hourglass, right? So an hourglass is I funnel in, I do a specific task, I come out, so every shot in golf has an hourglass, pre-shot routine, execute the shot, post-shot routine. And to use the language from Vision 54, it would be think box, commitment line, play box, and then the post-shot routine. So I think golfers can understand the analogy of an hourglass, if I come in, I hit the shot, I come out. Well, the same thing happens for your day, right? You get ready to go to bed and you get ready to go to bed, you do your PM routine, you go to bed, you wake up, you have an AM routine in your day. And that same thing happens for parts of your day. So if you think about just working a good hourglass and what language we use with our golfers is like, hey, how is your hourglass on the course? How is your hourglass at the course? How is your hourglass for the day? How is your hourglass for the tournament, for the waste management, right? And so understanding how you come in and you come out, while your AM and PM routine are a big part of that, to make sure that you're starting the day on the right foot, but in order to do that with the AM routine, the PM routine has to be in place. And I wanna make it really obvious for the people listening to this, that the AM routine will take care of itself and will fall into place if you do the PM routine. And a lot of times we put so much emphasis on the AM routine and waking up early, well, you don't compare yourself to other people. Like early is only relevant to the individual. But the PM routine has to be in place so that you are actually able to get to bed at the said time that you want to, so you can wake up at the time that you want to to execute. If I go to bed time right now with a four year old and a two year old, if I'm trying to go to bed at 830 and wake up at 430, and I choose to stay up and watch a game or something until 1030, the odds of me getting up at 430 drastically go down because I wanna sleep. So I think where it starts, Goldie, is identifying what is your ideal day look like and what does your ideal week look like. When the golfers I work with, they have an ideal week for when they're at a tournament and they have an ideal week or so when they're not at a tournament. And those routines will adjust a little bit, but the one thing that's consistent, if you look at any of the sleep research, like Dr. Chris Winter in Charlottesville or James Moss who is at Cornell that wrote Power Sleep, anything you read or research on sleep, they're going to reference the importance of going to bed and waking up at a consistent time. And for some golfers, it might be 10 to six, it might be midnight to seven, but depending on tee times and things like that, there might be an abnormality in there, but the thing I love about golf is for a large part, you can control what time you go to bed or what time you wake up and you can be consistent with it seven days a week, maybe other than a Sunday travel night or something like that. Unlike baseball, where there's game times and there's a ton of travel and things like that that happen and you have to show and go the next day. So it starts with identifying, what does my ideal day look like? And then what does my ideal go to bed wake up time look like? And then what do I need to do from a PM routine to make sure I'm able to actually get in bed and go to bed at this specific time? And a PM routine might look like a digital detox, when do I put my phone down? And with the athletes I work with, we have a no phone in bed rule, the bed is for two things and phone isn't one of them. So when I'm not on my phone in my bedroom, literally plug it in in the hotel bathroom or put it somewhere else, but don't allow yourself to bring your phone into the bed because it's gonna be too tempting to be on it. So that's one of the things that's key. Another one would be like any type of red light, blue light glasses that you can put on, I use raw optics, they're the best ones I've found out of all of them. So I'll put those on like an hour and a half or so before bed, any type of PM supplementation routine that they might do. Ashwagandha, magnesium, thorn, PM supplements, whatever it is, whatever guys are taking. And then some type of like activate my parasympathetic, like I'm gonna do a shift wave chair, or I'm gonna do maybe a hot tub, or I'm gonna take a hot shower, or I'm gonna do some type of ideally as a golfer, some type of visualization, especially when they're in a tournament, going through my yardage book and how I wanna play. Maybe there's some type of reading, there's a shower, but there's a definite like series of steps that they take in that PM routine to go from kind of like fight or flight, I'm on, into rest, digest and fall asleep. There's a process there. Reverse engineer that even further back when they finish going to the golf course, okay? Big part of that hourglass for golf is when does your round start? And guys will go, why don't I get to the first tee box? When after I eat in the dining hall and I go over to the range, whatever it is. And I would say, well, the routine, the golf day starts when you enter your hourglass and your hourglass should start with a shower. So first tee time, last tee time, wherever in there, wherever you're staying, once you get in that shower and you get out and you start putting your clothes on, you're putting on your golf uniform. And at the end of the day, when you're done playing and you take the uniform off and you shower well, you have to wash away that day. So the coming out of the hourglass from a golf round, which allows them to turn their brain off a little bit, has to be structured and intentional. And I'd recommend something like a journal where I get out of my head and on paper, well, better how, what did I do today? Maybe they're going through their Tiger Five stats, whatever, there's a little analysis that happens. Then it's gonna be jumping in the shower. And as I jump in the shower, I'm washing off that day's round. And then I put on clothes that are not my golf clothes. I put on something else to separate between who and do. Separate those two things. And then laying your clothes out the night before. So when you wake up in the morning, you already know what you're gonna do and you know going to bed, I'm prepared for tomorrow. Here's what I need. I got everything that helps you separate and come out of the golf mindset into going back to be a dad or whatever it is you have to do. But if you don't have a good routine coming out of the round, that's when it's hard to turn that off. And I think any athlete I've worked with myself, even as a coach, that's one of the hardest things to do is how to turn it off. Matt Carpenter, major league baseball player, three time all-star, I go back. I was on one of the first teams I've worked with at TCU in 2006. And I remember talking to him after he got done playing his career and I said, what's something you know now you wish you knew back then? And he goes, man, I wish I knew how to turn it off earlier. He goes, I didn't really learn that till I had kids. He goes, but when you can turn it off, you have more to give when you need to turn it back on. And I think that translates into golf beautifully. Exactly, it's so hard to turn it off in golf. And if you try to be on 24 seven, you can't give it your all. So the five hours you're on the golf course or however long you're on the golf course. But if you can zoom out and say, hey, as soon as I'm done at the golf course, I shower, I put on the street clothes, I'm not done for the day. Obviously you gotta take care of your recovery and all that type of stuff, but you're turning it off. It allows you to dial it up when you're on. Correct, and then even when you're on the course, right? You're in and out of the hourglass the whole time. It's like, okay, we show up to this T-Box and the other group is getting ready to tee off or they're still right early in the fairway. So I'm gonna have 10 minutes before I tee off or 15 minutes before I tee off. Like you get those slow rounds, right? I mean, I've cat-eated the waste management and sometimes you're waiting like 25, 30 minutes at the T-Box, you're out of the hourglass. Well, what does that look like? What am I doing? And for some guys, it depends on where they stand. Other guys might be like they grab a water bottle, whatever it is, but when the fair turn to get ready to go, it's like there's a change in body language, there's a change in posture. We enter an hourglass, the artist book, we're really trying to do, okay, good, glove comes out. That glove becomes the trigger for the shot. So like the clothes become the trigger for, I'm the golfer, I'm not the golfer. The glove becomes the trigger for, I'm in the shot, I'm out of the shot. And the trigger becomes important because that allows you to mentally distinguish between the last shot and the next shot or when I'm out of the hourglass walking down the fairway and when I enter my hourglass with a bag down, talking through the yard with my cat-eating, getting my glove on and being ready to commit to that shot. It's a very distinct process that most guys do, they just don't do it very intentional and they don't create meaning to what they're doing. The meaning is what becomes important. Like when I take Kevin Roy on the PGA Tour, it was brilliant, one of the things that we've talked about was after a shot that he doesn't like and he's got some frustration, whatever it is, walk with the glove either on or in your hand. And you might even smack himself in his leg with the glove. And when it's time to let that shot go, the glove goes in the pocket and when you get to the ball, you're back in your hourglass. But that glove becomes a physical representation of the last shot that I hit with it. And when I take it off, that shot's gone. When I put it back on, the next shot starts. That's great, yeah. You have to be able to let it go, but it's natural. We need to analyze it too. And being able to have that trigger, hit yourself, whatever it is, use that glove as that physical trigger, it's massive. I know I struggled with that when I played it. There are a lot of people around, there's a lot going on. It actually helped me because I knew I needed to lock in when it was my turn to hit. When nobody was out there and that was usually the case for when I was playing. Nobody was out watching me. I really struggled because there's nothing to distract in. So I was just kind of trying to be locked in for the entire round and you just can't do that. Yeah, you gotta come out. You gotta come in and you gotta come out. And the physical trigger, the physical association with something, putting a tee in the ground, throwing my ball in my caddy, getting the ball back, a glove, a putter in one hand, putter in the other hand, whatever it is, all those little triggers that we identify for each person, have their own unique aspects to it, gives them the opportunity to know, when I do this, I'm in the present moment. And one of the things you said I wanted to go back to was the reflection piece. And I think in golf, people talk a lot about the pre-shot and then like your time from when you cross the commitment line or take a breath until you strike the ball, that time should be the same. We've all seen the video of Tiger Woods where it's two and a half second, whatever. But I think the piece that gets under taught, largely under taught, and where I really got this was like in football and baseball, coming out of a player pitch and getting ready to play the next one, because the next one is coming in golf, the next one is coming, it's just coming, and you have a longer window. That longer window can be to your advantage to let go of the shot and process it, or it can be your detriment where you hold onto it longer. And the longer you hold onto it, the heavier it gets. So the process of coming out of a shot that I like to use is three questions. One, what was I trying to do? Two, what happened? Three, what's my next best decision? And if you can ask yourself that, what happened? What was I trying to do? What's my next best decision? That allows you to process that shot, and most of the time it's gonna be, I was trying to do this and I did that, and let's get to the next shot. Right, but you have to do it on the good ones to make the process the same as the ones that you don't hit the way you want to. And Kobe Bryant was interviewed by Lewis Howes in the School of Greatness, and the one that hit me there like a ton of bricks was when Lewis asked him, Kobe, what does losing feel like? And he said, it's exciting. He goes, it's exciting, cause there's answers there. And then Lewis goes, well, you probably learn more from losing than you do from winning, right? And he goes, well, no, it's gotta be the same. Kobe Bryant, I don't know if you ever worked to the sports psychologist, but he says you have to have the same process. Whether you win or you lose, the process should be the same. So you ask yourself, what did I do well? What do I wanna do better? And how am I gonna do the things I wanna do well again? And how do I wanna do the things I wanna do better better? He goes, but regardless of the outcome, the process should be the same because that's how you extract the learning. And there's learning there, whether you win or you lose. So good, so good, nice. All right, walk me through, you mentioned a perfect day, a perfect week that you have your players set up and kind of outline. Let's start with a perfect day. How do you have a player walk through or outline his perfect day? And I'm talking to even like logistically, are they writing it down on a piece of paper? Do you have them put it in a Google calendar? What's, what typically are you doing? And it may be unique to every player. Yeah, I would first say ideal day, not perfect day, because I think perfect means there's not gonna be any mistakes. Ideal is I know there's gonna be mistakes and I have contingencies already built in my schedule to be able to handle those mistakes. Right, so I think it starts with understanding that scripting out your day and time blocks and being intentional with it is the key. Then the next step is actually being able to honor those time blocks. And I still haven't mastered that piece, I'm getting better with it. But I think you have to ask yourself, what's my ideal day? What's my ideal PM routine start time? My ideal go to bedtime? My ideal amount of time I wanna have in bed? This is where like sports psychology cannot be stand alone as a field, it has to be integration. This is to me the mental performance. I have to integrate all of these skills, the skill of time management, the skill of organization, nutrition, when do I need to eat, sleep, what time do I need to get in bed, the consistency of all that, the supplementation that comes from blood work, right? The nutrition that's based off of what my body composition goals are, based off of a dexa scan. So all these things get worked in together, that's why I consider myself mental performance and high performance coaching going together because I help guys coordinate all of this. So it starts with what time do I start my PM routine because of what time I wanna go to bed? There's a domino there, okay, what time do I wake up? What's my morning routine look like? Well, it looks a lot different if you got kids under the age of four who might wake up in the morning more than it does if you're on the road by yourself. And then what time do I wanna wake up? And then what does my day look like, largely impacted by what time do I need to get into the shower and get dressed to get to the course for a workout or for a tea time? So all these factors come into play. But the one thing that the golfer listening to this wants to do is plan tomorrow tonight. If you go to bed without a calendar plan, whether it's written down in an agenda form, like time blocks in a notebook, whether it's done in the Apple calendar or I use Google calendar, if it's in your head, it becomes heavy and you're kind of winging it. You wanna get it out of your head and on paper so you don't have to think about it. You don't wanna have to think about it. You wanna be able to look at that calendar and that routine. And the beautiful part about, say, using something like Google Calendar is you can share that with your catty, you can share that with your spouse, you can share that with your agent, you can share that with other people. So they're all helping, no, I can't, I'm not gonna call this guy right now, he's on the course doing what he needs to do, but I can simply pull up his calendar and look at it. So all the athletes that I coach, I help them to coordinate that calendar so they know exactly what it looks like in advance and now they feel like they're playing offense, not defense. Knowing that they's not gonna be perfect, it's gonna get disrupted by weather or other things that I have to do that come up unexpectedly, but we're able to adapt and adjust. So the key is be structured is what your ideal day looks like in time blocks and then be able to adapt and adjust. And those time blocks are gonna look like AM routine, PM routine, sleep, nutrition, at the course, recovery, family time, maybe some mental performance block in there which probably usually gets doubled down in with recovery and then your free time, right? If you want free time and you want three hours to watch a Monday night football game, schedule it. Yeah, no, it's great. I think I didn't work with you on this when I was playing, but post playing and now what I'm doing now professionally, my biggest objection when I first heard this is, this is gonna be too structured, this is gonna be too regimented, things happen, and you made a great clarification. It's not the perfect day, it's the ideal day because you have to adapt, you have to be able to adjust. What I found once I finally bought into it was it actually allowed me more freedom because I knew exactly what I needed to get done that day. I had a time to do it, it was the right time to do it and it provided more free time that I could then allocate to other things, to my family, to my kids, to my wife, to working out, whatever it may be, and it actually allowed me to adjust a lot quicker because I knew, hey, I have a gap here or this is a lower priority, I can move this off to the next day or this time period later on. So I think everyone probably thinks that they're time blocking in their head, whether they're doing it on paper or not. I really encourage guys to do it either on paper or in an Apple or Google calendar. It makes such a big difference. Get out of your head and on paper, right? And an easy analogy is like, you're a PGA golfer, you're making, let's say, $2 million, you're making $2 million a year, you're making millions of dollars a year. Find me a company that makes a million dollars a year that doesn't have a group calendar that's shared with the people on that team, it doesn't exist. So you are your own business, you are the CEO of your business, you're also the janitor, so you have to do it all. So having that calendar allows you to be more organized and allows other people around you to be more organized. But I think at the end of the day, the biggest thing it does is it allows you to be in the present moment. And when we perform our best on the course and in life, we are in the present moment. And I know that for the time block that we have here together today, there's nothing else that I need to do in this time block. There's a lot of things I have to do after, there's a lot of things I've had to do before as you've seen being here and things that pop up last minute and we have to adapt and adjust, which you've seen. But even without adapting and adjusting, when you get into the time block, you can completely be where your feet are and be in that present moment, which gives you the best chance for success, whether it's doing a podcast or it's trying to win an Augusta. Love it. Once you have these ideal days built out and PM routine, what have you seen as the best way to track it and then have some self-accountability? So one of the key principles or call it frameworks I teach and it's probably the number one, if I could teach one framework, it all would be what I call the four step player development formula. Step one, set your intention, what do you want? That's your MVP process, identify what you want for your vision, vision and principles and then your goals for that quarter, personally and professionally. Second step, schedule it, that's where the Google Calendar comes in. Do the blocks on my calendar, align with what I want in my life, what's on my MVP. And I think where fulfillment comes from, and I got this from a mentor of mine named Charlie Smith, he said, where fulfillment comes from in your life is when what you do in your life is in alignment with what you want for your life. I'll say that again, where fulfillment comes from is when what you do in your life is in alignment with what you want for your life. And most people, me included for the longest time, move so fast getting to the next thing that we never press pause long enough to go. What is it I really want? What is I really, really want? And what I'm doing in my life, aligning with that. And when you set your core principles and you get clear on what you really want, it becomes a filter for decision-making to say, does this get me one step closer or further from what I'm trying to do? If it's taking me further from what I want to do and who I want to be, why am I doing this? Right, so step one, set your intention. What do you want? Step two, schedule it. Does your calendar align with what you want? Step three, measure it. And that's where I use a concept called the success checklist. I interviewed a guy named Marshall Goldsmith, one of the top executives. And I was like, what's going on? I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure. I'm not sure.  mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere for the day, what are the habits they're trying to create, what are the things they're trying to eliminate, right? So one might be, did I not have alcohol today? Another one might be, did I not lose self-control and blow up on somebody today? Another one might be from a golfer standpoint, did I do exit drills with my punting today to work on putting pressure on myself to get better? Did I do some sort of recovery, whether it be shift wave, float tank, massage, norm attack, whatever it is? So he would call the client and they would talk through it. So for me, I use a success checklist with an app called Habit Share and that Habit Share is the behaviors that the athlete would want to do that day. So for example, like, did I make my bed? Did I have my body weight and grams of protein? Did I lift weights if I was supposed to do that today, right? Did I do these certain drills, whatever it is? And whatever the behaviors are that they want, they put them on that checklist and then when we get on our weekly calls, two of the things that I do at the start of the call is look at your weekly checklist and look at your calendar and do your behaviors on your checklist that you either check yes or no you did and your calendar aligned with what you're saying you want to be because if you want to be a top 10 player in the world, that's going to look a lot different than a top 200 player in the world. Right? If you want to be the best in the world, it's going to look a lot different than I'm happy to be on the PGA tour, which a lot of guys are, right? Because they like that lifestyle, but that lifestyle and being on the tour isn't what's going to get you to stay on the tour. So the fourth step then is to reflect and refocus. And that's where I feel like what I do as a coach is bring that level of accountability to the player to help them have to reflect every week because sometimes they won't if they're just moving so fast. So we get on the call we're looking at calendar, habit share, how do we perform, what are the stats, going through a well better how, and then we're using that well better how in that assessment to go okay we recapped that week what's the game plan for this week, what do we got to do better this week, where are we losing time, where are we losing strokes, where are we going to get better? One of my favorite concepts is from Kevin Roy is strokes gained attitude. I would say where are we getting those strokes gained attitude everybody talks about t-degree or putting but really the biggest strokes in the p-j-i-torque is everyone's so good is going to come from the six inches between your ears and where those strokes gained attitude coming from is it from better visualization the night before going through the yardage book is it from better body language on the course is it from better self-talk what are we dialing in on this week to get those strokes gained attitude. Love it. Stroke seeing an attitude is a new one for me but I think they need to figure out a way to manage it. That's the hard part of the mental game to your point. Exactly. The hard part of the mental game why not everybody's really into it is it's it's how do you measure it it's a measure how do you measure it yeah largely it is right I mean there's some people who see might be able to measure it but I don't know how you do that I've been doing this for 25 years it's not like track man or I can measure everything in the hard part I think for golfers or any athlete baseball whatever sport is if they can't physically measure it they don't believe that it's real. Correct but that's why I think the success checklist is so huge and as an athlete you can relate to it so quickly yeah it's what's really important about what you said is its behaviors and habits it's not results yeah like it's not a hey did I win a putting contest did I win the round today did I shoot 65 it's no did I do these behaviors that the habits and behaviors that lead to improvement and hopefully success but the results but we can't create the results if we don't do the behaviors. Behavioral analytics is essentially what it is right it's looking at the behaviors and at the end of the day to the behaviors that I have aligned with what the goals I have are and it doesn't guarantee you an outcome but it gives you the best chance for success and if I'm going to go all in on anything it's going to be what gives me the best chance for success. And if you're measuring that and then you're not getting the results you want you have a better baseline to be able to change hey these are the habits or the behaviors that I maybe need to adapt and change in order to improve and not and get different results than what I'm getting right now. Correct. Love it. And results are not random. No well you said it in the beginning of the podcast if you you're I'm going to butcher it so I'm going to have you say it. Your process is working perfectly for the results that you get. Exactly if you're getting the results of a top 200 player that's the process that you've created. If you're if the process is working perfectly for the results you're getting as a top 20 player that's what you're getting. Yeah and here's some simple questions to ask yourself when's the last time I had a DEXA scan and no my body composition is when's the last time I had a macro nutrition or meal plan based off my body composition when's the last time I had blood work and from that blood work I had specific supplementation program that I was going to take what am I doing to track sleep am I wearing aura, whoop, garment, what is my ideal sleep environment do I have an eight sleeper, a chili pad am I wearing earplugs and an eye mask am I taping my mouth you know what's what it when is the last time I was doing journaling process how often am I visualizing am I watching a mind movie which on the pga tour is great because I can go on and I can pull all the great shots that they have in video and put a mind movie together for the athletes that I have when's the last time that I was looking at my calendar all those things like those are 10 10 questions right there that we just ripped off without thinking at all that if you can't answer yes to all those that's low hanging fruit yeah yeah I mean it's turning this into optimization correct talent can get players of pga tour and there's the freaks that are going to be just uber talented like you said of the show haze of the world that probably can get to top 10 or top 20 in the world just based on talent alone but that's not who we're talking to yeah and golf is the hardest one to do that in because there's no contract all of us have seen those players and sometimes they rise up but then they maybe don't stay how do we stay how do we keep rising how do we keep getting better yeah and then when you're on top of the game how do you not get bored I think if you watch the tiger woods documentary I think there was either hb or netflix one of the things that I looked at and watched this I mean this guy got bored with all the success he went to go challenge himself to do navy seal training and other things that you know we're probably fun but that's not necessarily in the best interest of the health of his golf career but you know it's so and I see it with guys that you know whether it's iown winners or batting champions that have coached in baseball or UFC fighters that win the title or get to the top it's like they get bored with success and in order to not get bored with success you have to keep redefining what success means to you what success means to you personally but also how does it tie back into your MVP process and not to you know well one of the one of the aspects of the MVP process right is your definition of success yeah another aspect of MVP are your three keys to keep it simple when you're playing your best golf what are the three things you're doing right the other part of the MVP process are your affirmations when you're talking to yourself what are you saying right in the MVP process there's also your one word focus what's and that's probably the easiest strategy for everybody to listen to this is that for you to become the best version you and step into growth for the next month or three months what's that one word focus that if you live in alignment with you're going to be the best version of you yeah i mean i'd love we're gonna have to do another episode at some point to dive deeper because this is great stuff and i think the i'll save the maubros yeah i'll save the maubros yeah maybe yeah we're gonna go smoke a cigar afterwards something like that you know celebrate uh we'll see who wins the world series but um either way we win we got guys on both teams there you go either way there we go so no this has been super informative i think guys are gonna love to hear this everyone from pj2er players the college players um tell me or tell everyone that's listening you have two podcasts we'll put in the show notes yeah yeah i mean the best thing they can do is go to briancain.com slash golf b-r-i-a-n-c-a-i-n dot com slash golf have about a 45 minute golf master class on there where i take my system of the 10 pillars of mental performance mastery and how it's applied specific to golf from there um you know i i talk about the three steps to maximum growth total immersion learning spaced repetition and counting ability partner to plan so a golfer listen this that goes man that was good i want more go watch the master class that's total immersion you're getting 45 minutes of more mental game than maybe you've ever gotten from there go spaced repetition spaced repetition will be my podcast mental performance daily two or three minutes a day often the guys do with breakfast or coffee or drive into the course i have another podcast mental performance mastery which is more long form interviews like this the third step is an is um total immersion learning spaced repetition accountability partner in a plan that accountability partner plan would be higher a one on one mental performance coach whether it be me or a member of our team kevin guzzo who heads up our golf division is fabulous uh so if if it's that right fit for me and the athlete then we would get kevin involved but i think that's the plan is total immersion golf master class briancain.com slash golf spaced repetition daily podcast accountability partner plan will set up a call to see if it's the right fit to work together it's great the mental performance daily is part of my a m routine part one of the two or three podcasts i live and listen to you on the way into work just sets the tone for the day brings the energy as you say brings the juice brings the juice and if you're useful you're useful if you're useless you're useless and energy is your edge and energy in golf looks a lot different than energy in the nfl or college football but the guys that played the best they got energy and i always go back to know back jochabitch the greatest tennis player maybe in you know our generation then he said in a 60 minutes interview he said you know the guy asked him he said well you know i think your greatest gift is that you have this mental toughness and he goes i have to correct you or there's not a gift it is something that i have trained and worked on he goes on the inside i he goes on the outside it may look calm cool and collected but on the inside i'm going 100 miles an hour on the inside i'm very very competitive and very tense and sometimes they're self-doubt but you have to have tools that you work on to address that and you know for the guys listen to this that are in the podcast um know that jochabitch was on a podcast with j shetty which i'll send the link to you that maybe you can throw in the show notes too or however but it was phenomenal hearing a guy who's the best maybe ever to do what he does number one in the world in what it took to get there and then more importantly what it took to stay there yeah love it can't wait to listen to it awesome brine thanks for being on looking forward to more conversations yeah thanks golden appreciate it

=== FILE: Wake Up And Execute ｜ Matthew Liberatore & Brian Cain [7uCEX_1La0g].txt ===

 I'd say in terms of like specific things that you do in the mental game, what would you say are some of those most specific things that you do in the mental game that help you? I think so far the biggest help for me has been the routines and the processes. And I always knew that a routine was important. I always felt like I had a pretty decent routine, but it was never really structured or detail oriented in the way that it is now. Using things like Habit Share and the Google Calendar to organize my days and give myself that concrete structure. I didn't realize how many things I was missing that I just kind of went in and out of my mind without thinking about it twice. And having those things put down on paper and being organized in that way, I feel like there's a lot more boxes that I'm checking every day. And it also takes that mental weight off of me and feeling like, what do I have to do next? Am I forgetting something? You know, basically my day has turned into wake up and execute. And that has simplified so many things for me and also given me the mental freedom to be able to build on top of what I'm already doing instead of feeling like I'm always fighting that uphill battle. My life has turned into wake up and execute. Love that. Speaking of execution in game, talk about as a pitcher, some of the tools you use like on the mound, whether it be a breath, whether it be three keys to keep it simple, visualizing a pitch. What are you doing specifically when you're out there in competition? Yeah, I think you mentioned the biggest one being breath. You know, that's the greatest controllable that we have on the mound second to probably execution. You know, the breath, re-centered you, realigned you, it resets you. So, you know, that's a great way for me to be able to control myself on the mound when the uncontrollables around me are kind of going astray. And then that focusing on execution. You know, you give up a home run. Okay, well, was it an execute a pitch? If yes, okay, chuck it in the bucket bucket and move on. You know, if not, okay, let's take a look at the process that went into that execution. Was the breath there? Was your timing there? Were the mechanics on? Was it the right pitch to call? And I found myself before I got into this questioning a lot of those things without thinking about if I executed the pitch or not. I threw the pitch that was called and it got hit. Okay, why did that happen? Probably the wrong pitch or probably the wrong timing. And never did I think about like, was it where I wanted it? Yeah, it was over the plate, but was it a quality pitch? Was it a good pitch? And I think that made it a lot easier for me to go in and like fly through a game analysis and a post game report and be like, okay, well, I didn't execute a lot of pitches. No wonder I got hit around a little bit. No wonder I gave up all these cheap hits and two strike counts because I didn't get the breaking ball in the dirt in any of them. And that gave me a lot more clarity on like, what can I work on in my bullpens? Coming out of an outing, things didn't go well, gave up five or six runs, give up a bunch of hits, whatever it may be. You can kind of narrow that down into, okay, I need to focus more on my two strike execution. Talk just about that word of execution, which you used a bunch one executing through the day. I think people understand having a daily routine. What do I need to do? I wake up and execute and knock out what I need to do and then I can be guilt free because I got my shit done. But from a pitching standpoint, execution of just where you can throw the baseball at the end of the day, the only thing that's controllable is where you throw the ball. How important has it been for you to just get fucking clarity of what I can and cannot control? Yeah. You know, there's so many things in this game, especially at the highest level that are not in your control. And it is a mixture of skill, talent, work ethic and a little bit of luck too. Like being in the right place at the right time. You know, sometimes you throw the wrong pitch and it doesn't get hit. Sometimes you throw the right pitch and it does get hit. So having a clear cut, black and white, did I execute or did I not execute? Like I mentioned before, it makes the analyzation part of things so much easier and also the ability to flush it and move on. Instead of hanging onto a pitch and getting into a prayer primal, perfect situation where you feel like you have to do something extra or be somebody that you're not, it makes it a lot easier to say, well, I didn't execute. Okay, next one I'm going to execute. Let's move on. Or I did execute and it still got hit, flush it, move on, keep executing. Love it. Last question for you, Libby. If you could remove the skull cap of every baseball player out there in the world and plant the seed of the mental game in their brain and it would germinate and they'd go do it. What would that one seed be? I think it would be a love for the game and a why. And I think that I choose those two things out of all the things that I could choose because you can't build a house on a poor foundation. And for me, you know, there's been a lot of trials and tribulations that I've gone through playing this game and, you know, it's a lot harder to stay in the big leagues than it is to get there. So I think what I've gone through over the last three years of playing in the big leagues has forced me to really double down on why I do what I do and how much I love the game. And I think if it weren't for those two things, nothing else would have mattered because I probably wouldn't be doing it anymore. And so I think that having that foundation gave me the ability to bounce back the resiliency to keep going when things weren't going my way. It gave me the light at the end of the tunnel when I felt like there was no end of the tunnel. And I think that, you know, those two things are probably the most invaluable things in my baseball career.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.045413Z ===
