 This is a basketball scoring scenario mental imagery training track. And to begin, I want you to find a good, quiet, comfortable place, whether that's laying down, sitting down, whatever's most convenient and comfortable for you today. You can do this as a standalone training or doubled up with another form of recovery. And as you gently close your eyes, I want you to bring your focus and awareness to the triangle between the tip of your nose and the corners of your mouth. As you inhale, be the nice and deep through your nose for kind of six, hold for two, and then exhale for eight. In for six, hold for two, exhale for eight, one breath at a time. We talk about approaching your season one day at a time, competing one possession at a time. Right now, there's nothing else for you to do to be in this moment right here, right now, one breath at a time. Inhale, breathing nice and deep through your nose for kind of six. Hold for two, and exhale for eight. We'll now do a short body scan to help create an even deeper state of relaxation. So when you hear me say the number five, put your awareness into your toes, the balls of your feet, your arches, your ankles, your Achilles, your calves, your shins. With the number four, bring that awareness into your knees, your quads, your hamstrings, your hips, your whole lower body. Just release, relax, and let go. With the number three, bring that awareness into your lower back, your mid back, your upper back, your abs, your obliques, your ribs, your chest, your whole torso. Just release, relax, and let go. With the number two, bring that awareness into your traps, shoulders, biceps, triceps, elbows, forearms, hands, and fingers. And with the number one, bring that awareness up the back of your neck, the back of your head, your forehead, your eyes, your cheeks, your jaw. Your lips gently part in the tongue just hangs in your mouth as a complete and total body relaxation and centering takes over. And what you'll realize is that the more relaxed you become, the better you might feel, and the better you might feel, the more relaxed you might want to become. We're now going to transition into some scoring mental imagery. I want you to bring yourself to that next basketball performance, whether it's a game, whether it's a workout or training. Just experience yourself and whatever comes to you today, competing and experiencing what it's like for you to be at your best, as rich, clear, and vivid as you can. It's a late clock. Defense is up respecting your jumper. Attack the feet, see the help rotating, pull up mid-range. Dribble handoff from the corner and dunk on the big. Dribble handoff. Turn the corner for one dribble pull up. Dribble handoff. One dribble to create space for three. Pin down, curl screen to one dribble, hesitate to freeze the big extra dribble to rim finish. Pin down, curl one dribble mid-range. Pin down to catch and shoot three. Corner spacing, ISO up top. Relocate to get in the vision of the ball, clutch and shoot in his face. Corner space, swing pass to wing. One more to you in the corner, shoot in his face. In transition, running wide and putting up pressure on the defense by sprinting. In transition, beat the defense for a layup. Transition, beat the defense for a layup. Transition, run wide into a kick out corner three. Transition, trail the play for a wing three. Off the dribble, attack your defender's feet and beat him for a rim finish. Off the dribble, defender is too far back, pull up for a three in transition. Half court, kick out three. Half court, kick out, defense closes out too hard, blow by, drive to rim finish. Half court, kick out, defense closes out too hard, blow by, drive to rim finish. Late shot clock, ball in your hands, create space for a side step three. And now I want you just to take a minute, see, feel, hear and experience what it would be like for you to be at your best in this upcoming scenario. Just scoring, making plays and being an elite offensive player. And now I want you to take a minute to see what it would be like for you to be at your best in this upcoming scenario. And now I want you to take a minute to see what it would be like for you to be at your best in this upcoming scenario. And now I want you to take a minute to see what it would be like for you to be at your best in this upcoming scenario. And now I want you to take a minute to see what it would be like for you to be at your best in this upcoming scenario. And now bring that focus and awareness back to the triangle between the tip of your nose and the corners of your mouth. As you inhale, breathing nice and deep through your nose for a count of six, hold for two and then exhale for eight. And as you bring that focus and awareness back to that triangle between the tip of your nose and the corners of your mouth, I want you just to repeat, what is your one word focus? What are your three keys to keep it simple? What are your three affirmations? Again, your one word focus. Your three keys to keep it simple. Your three affirmations. And as you take another good six to eight breath, open up your eyes as this concludes your scoring mental imagery training track.