 This is a healing and recovery mental imagery training track. And to begin, find a good, quiet, comfortable place where you won't be disturbed. You can do this laying down, sitting down, or doubled up with another form of recovery such as sauna, Norma-tech, or anything that's most relaxing and comfortable for you today. Please don't do this if you're driving. To begin, find a good, quiet, comfortable place. And as you pick out a spot in the field of vision in front of you, focus on that spot, focus on that spot, and now let your eyes gently shut. As you inhale, breathing nice and deep through your nose for kind of six, hold for two, and exhale for eight. As we go on this journey of healing and recovery and returning to play, one of the greatest skills that we can develop is the skill of relaxation. The ability to turn off our competitive mind and turn on our relaxation, our present moment focus, and our recovery. So as you're in this relaxed state, inhaling for kind of six, as slow and deep into your belly with that diaphragmatic breath as you can, holding for two, and exhaling for eight. Allow yourself to release, relax, and let go. Allow yourself to release, relax, and let go. As you slip into a deep state of relaxation. Relaxation. We'll now do a body scan to create an even deeper state of relaxation. So when you hear me say the number five, put that awareness and that relaxation as you allow your toes, the balls of your feet, your arches, your ankles, your Achilles, your calves, your shins. To just release, relax, and let go. And with the number four, bringing that awareness and relaxation into your knees, your quads, your hamstrings, is your whole lower body. Release, relax, and let go. With the number three, bringing that awareness into your lower back, your mid back, your upper back, your abs, your obliques, your ribs, your chest, your whole torso. Release, relax, and let go. And what you'll realize is that the more relaxed you become, the better you might feel, and the better you might feel, the more relaxed you might want to become. With the number two, bring that awareness into your traps, shoulders, biceps, triceps, elbows, forearms, hands, and fingers. And with the number one, up the back of your neck, the back of your head, your forehead, your eyes, your cheeks, your jaw. As a total body relaxation takes over, you let your lips gently part in the tongue just hanging in your mouth as you slip into a deep state of relaxation. And to a deep state of relaxation and recovery. We're now going to shift into affirmation training. Please repeat the following affirmations to yourself with that internal voice, allowing these affirmations to become your mindset and allow you to move forward. Because of this, something good will happen. Everything always works out for me. Every day and every way, I'm getting better and better. It's never the end of the road, just a bend in the road. Don't quit, can't fail. I'm not judged by the number of times I fail. I am judged by the number of times I succeed. And the number of times I succeed is directly related to the number of times I fail and keep on going. I will not place a period where there should be a comma. Because of this, something good will happen. Everything always works out for me. Every day and every way, I'm getting better and better. It's never the end of the road, just a bend in the road. Don't quit, can't fail. I'm not judged by the number of times I fail. I am judged by the number of times I succeed. And the number of times I succeed is directly related to the number of times I fail and keep on going. I will not place a period where there should be a comma. Because of this, something good will happen. Everything always works out for me. Every day and every way, I'm getting better and better. It's never the end of the road, just a bend in the road. Don't quit, can't fail. I'm not judged by the number of times I fail. I am judged by the number of times I succeed. And the number of times I succeed is directly related to the number of times I fail and keep on going. I will not place a period where there should be a comma. And now I want you to move into a healing mental imagery. As you're in this relaxed state, and you inhale, breathing nice and deep through your nose, I want you to imagine an image. That image may be a white healing light. It might be a little Pac-Man-like character. Whatever it is for you that resonates today, as you inhale, I want you to pull that healing energy, that healing light in, and it travels through your body to your area that needs recovery. Into that area, bathing that area, working that area, massaging that area. And as you exhale, it reverses its path and it takes out any of the scar, any of the injury, any of the inflammation. And maybe as you exhale, it's a red light taking out that red light in the area, you're bringing recovery. And through this healing light or image process, as you inhale, bathing that area with recovery, with love, with energy, with warmth. And as you exhale, letting go of any of the scarring, any of the tissue work, any of the inflammation or the adversity that's in that area. Bathing that area with love and attention. Bathing that area with light, healing and acceptance. Bathing that area with positivity and not negativity. It's your body, it's you. Let's heal it, let's bathe it. And for the next couple minutes, just lock into that healing light or that healing image breath. As you inhale, bathe that area with recovery and exhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale. Inhale with every breath, bringing energy, strength and healing. Exhale, bringing anything that doesn't serve you anymore. Inhale, bringing in healing energy and light, energy and recovery. Exhale, removing toxins, waste and adversity. Inhale with every breath, bringing energy, strength and healing. Exhale, bringing anything that doesn't serve you anymore. Inhale, bringing in healing energy and light, energy and recovery. Exhale, removing toxins, waste and adversity. Inhale with every breath, bringing energy, strength and healing. Exhale, bringing anything that doesn't serve you anymore. And now as you take another good 6 to 8 breath, just open up your eyes and bring yourself back to this moment as this 1% healing mental imagery audio comes to a close. Nice job doing the work. Do what you can, give yourself grace and focus on what you can do, not what you can't do. As this concludes your healing mental imagery. Thank you for watching.