 this is a mental imagery training track for your punting performance. And to begin, find yourself a good, quiet, comfortable place where you won't be disturbed, whether that's laying down, sitting down, or doubled up with some type of recovery. And pick out a spot in the field of vision in front of you and focus on that spot, focus on that spot, and now let your eyes gently shut. As you inhale, breathe in nice and deep through your nose for count of six, hold for two, and then exhale for eight. In for six, hold for two, exhale for eight. One breath at a time. Keeping your focus and awareness on that triangle between the tip of your nose and the corners of your mouth, as we lock into this moment, one breath at a time, just like we compete one punt at a time, one kick at a time, one hold at a time. As you continue to stay with your breathing and allow yourself to relax, we'll create a deeper state of relaxation by doing a quick body scan. So as you hear me say the number five, put your awareness into your toes, the balls of your feet, your arches, your ankles, your Achilles, your calves, your shins. With the number four, move that awareness into your knees, your quads, your hamstrings, your hips, your whole lower body. Just release, relax, and let go. With the number three, bring that awareness into your lower back, your mid back, your upper back, your abs, your obliques, your ribs, your chest, your whole torso. Release, relax, and let go. With the number two, bring that awareness into your traps, shoulders, biceps, triceps, elbows, forearms, hands, and fingers. With the number one, bring that awareness up the back of your neck, the back of your head, your forehead, your eyes, your cheeks, your jaw. Your lips gently part in the tongue just hangs in your mouth as a complete and total body relaxation and centering takes over. What you'll realize is that the more relaxed you become, the better you might feel, and the better you might feel, the more relaxed you might want to become. We're now going to walk through some sample punting scenarios. I want you to try to see, feel, hear, and experience these punts, these kicks, as rich, clear, and vivid as you can. If you know the stadium you're going to be playing in, maybe you've looked at video or aerial photographs of a field that you've never been to, do that first to make it as real as you possibly can. Standing behind the center, catching the long snap, and going through and hearing, feeling, and experiencing as real as you can the following kicks. Backed up in your own end zone, two step against hold up rush. Two step quick spiral punt back up in end zone against all out rush with return back. Long range spiral punt trying to flip the field. Typical spiral punt left against a hold up rush three step normal tempo. Typical spiral punt right against a hold up rush three step normal tempo. Typical spiral punt left against a rush three step get off quick. Typical spiral punt right against a rush three step get off quick. Roll out left spiral against no wind four step roll out. Roll out spiral left against wind four step roll out. Roll out left end over end with wind four step roll out. Sky punt end over end left landing inside the ten three step. Sky punt end over end right landing inside the ten three step. Quick kick against eleven man rush no returner one step and balls kicked. Punting after a safety right punt right holding PAT. Kick off. Kicking PAT. And now just put yourself in that stadium that you're going to be playing in in your next football performance. And for the next ten seconds just see feel hear what it will be like for you making all the possible kicks that will be a part of your performance. Ten nine eight seven six five four three two one zero. And now bring that focus and awareness back to the triangle between the tip of your nose and the corners of your mouth. As you inhale be the nice and deep through your nose for kind of six. Hold for two. And then exhale for eight. As you then open up your eyes. Bring yourself back to this moment right here right now is this concludes your punting mental imagery. Make sure that you get your shadow work in practicing your breath practicing the body language the focus in the self talk that you'll use in this upcoming game to give you the best chance for success. And now we're going to do a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little