 this is a mental imagery audio for your hockey goal-scoring performance. And the first thing I want you to do is get yourself in a good, quiet, comfortable place where you won't be disturbed. Whether you do that laying down, sitting down, doubled up with another form of recovery, such as a sauna or Norma Tech boots, whatever is most convenient and comfortable for you today. As you're in this quiet, comfortable place, I want you to bring your focus and awareness to the triangle between the tip of your nose and the corners of your mouth. As you inhale, breathing nice and deep through your nose for kind of six, hold for two, and exhale for eight. We talk about competing one shift at a time. Right now there's nothing else for you to do than just be right here, right now, one breath at a time. Keeping that focus and awareness on the triangle between the tip of your nose and the corners of your mouth. As you inhale, breathe nice and deep through your nose for kind of six, hold for two, and exhale for eight, one breath at a time. We're now going to transition into affirmation training. Please repeat the following statements to yourself. There's no need to say them out loud, but same with that strong, confident, internal voice. I'm relentless and attack the goal. I move my feet, play physical and shoot the puck. I got what I got and that's good enough to win. When I prepare my best, I am my best. I trust myself, my training and my process. I'm an elite goal scorer. I'm an elite goal scorer and world class offensive player. I trust my shot selection in preparation to produce every night. I can score any shift from anywhere. I'm relentless and attack the goal. I move my feet, play physical and shoot the puck. I'm relentless and attack the goal. I'm relentless and attack the goal. I'm relentless and attack the goal. I trust my shot selection in preparation to produce every night. I can score any shift from anywhere I'm relentless and attack the goal I Move my feet play physical and shoot the puck I Got what I got and that's good enough to win When I prepare my best I am my best I Trust myself my training in my process. I'm an elite goal scorer I Am an elite goal scorer and world-class offensive player I trust my shot selection in preparation to produce every night. I can score any shift from anywhere I Now as you take another good six to eight breath I Want you to bring yourself to your next hockey performance? and I want you to just Experience yourself in that rink in that uniform that you'll be wearing the opponent you'll be playing against and going through And executing the following scoring chances one timer in the slot Two on one one timer You Breakaway You Two on one catch and release Rebound in the slot You Shooting through a screen You Power play bumper pop Two on one hold it and shoot You Three on two get in the middle and shoe is the driver You pick a puck off the wall take it to the net and score Tip in in front of the net from a D shot You Cut back off the wall take it to the net and score You Get the puck high in the offensive zone shoot through a screen and score Three on two rush hit the trailer catch and release You Off the face off come off the wall and score And Now as you bring that focus and awareness back to the triangle between the tip of your nose and the corners of your mouth I want you to take another good six to eight breath And when you finish Just open up your eyes and bring yourself back to this moment right here right now is this concludes Your goal scoring mental imagery audio You You