 this is Brian Cain with the Reflect & Refocus podcast, proudly brought to you by Cala, Cala, the world's leader in red light therapy. Check out the link below in the show notes to learn more about Cala. So I wanna open up this Reflect & Refocus and make a commitment to coming back here to the Mental Performance Mastery podcast, and what the goal of these Reflect & Refocus podcast are for less than 15 minutes, or 1% of your day, Remember, one percent of your day is only 14 minutes and 24 seconds. For less than one percent of your day, I want to reflect on the past week that was here and mental performance in my life and refocus for the next week. So as you may know, we have two podcasts here at Brian Cain Peak performance. We have mental performance daily, which I'll link to in the show notes below, and mental performance mastery. Mental performance daily, two to three minutes a day, where I share strategies, stories, tips, techniques that you can use. And then here with mental performance mastery, it's our long form podcast. And with the long form, sometimes it's these reflective refocuses. Sometimes it's a interview with an athlete like Brody Brecht, first round pick last year with the Colorado Rockies that we had. If you haven't listened to that, it's a great one. We might interview a coach, Jim Schloss, Naigle, SCC coach of the year with your number one in the country, Texas Longhorns baseball program. We might interview an author, as I did recently with Brad Stolberg, author of the book to practice a groundedness, one of the most impactful books that I've ever read. So this gives me a little bit more flexibility, a little bit more freedom and excited to be with you here today. So first I want to welcome all of our newly joined mental performance mastery coaches in our certification course every May and November. We open up our coaches certification course where we try to empower coaches with the 10 pillars of mental performance mastery going through and teaching them how do I assess and what are the drills that I can use to help coach the 10 pillars also known as the 10 skills, which is elite mindset, motivation and commitment, focus and awareness, self control and discipline, keeping the process over the outcome, meditation and mental imagery, routines and habits, time management and organization, leadership in the right culture. And the nice part about our coaches certification is it is the practicality. It's what you do with your clients and as a mental performance coach, since I graduated from Cal State Fullerton, underneath the guidance in the mentorship of Dr. Ken Revisza in 2003, I've been obsessed with the field of mental performance. I've spent before the pandemic 250 to 280 days a year on the road, one on one coaching athletes, coaching coaches and for a large part doing team consulting where I was working with an entire team. And right now as we look at the NCAA baseball postseason, which is coming privileged honor to say that we were part of the University of Oregon and their Big Ten championship. Congrats, Coach Mark Wazikowski, the first year there go ducks. Coach Jim Schloss, Nagel, his first year, Oregon's first year in the Big Ten. Coach Schloss, Nagel, his first year at the University of Texas and their first year in the SEC winning that championship. Coach Waz, Big Ten coach of the year. Coach Schloss, Nagel, SEC coach of the year. Remember, results are not random. Your process is working perfectly for the results that you're getting. So if you want better results, you need a better process. So let's talk about what is process? Process is literally the steps that you take to give yourself the best chance for success. So when we talk about trusting the process or as Nick Saban has made famous, we got to trust the process. I always come back to the clients and athletes I work with to say, well, show me the process that you trust. So as I coach some players who three or three players locks in the first round up coming here in the Major League Baseball draft, a couple others that are fringe guys, maybe a bargaining agreement pick or early, second, late, first, we'll see what happens here the rest of the season. But as I'm working with these players, I'm talking about what is your process? What are you doing consistently to allow you to be the best version of you and give you the best chance for success? That's the process. Think about a staircase and as I outline it as a staircase, the steps that you take to give you the best chance for success. As you walk those steps, that's your process. So in order to coach process, one of our mental performance mastery coaches suggested that I use an app called Habit Share. I was using an app called Way of Life. I've shifted over to Habit Share a few years ago and Habit Share is a success checklist. So at the end of the day, the drill that you do to reinforce your process is the success checklist. And one of my first podcasts I did, man, I was living back in Vermont still, so I had to be before 2013. So when I moved out of there was with Marshall Goldsmith, Marshall Goldsmith, great executive coach. And he wrote the book, What Got You Here Won't Get You There. And a fabulous book. Highly recommended for any leader, any executive, any head coach, What Got You Here Won't Get You There. And then there he talks about 20 workplace habits that if you do, they'll get you to a certain position of leadership, but then your growth will stunt and you won't be able to get to that next level. And with those 20 habits, as I read the book, after being a high school athletic director in Vermont for seven years, I was like, man, I do 18 of these 20 on a routine basis. So it was really good eye-opener for me to help me be a better executive, a better leader, a better administrator. And I still reflect on those 20 workplace habits that will help you get to a certain level, but then stunt your growth. And what we often refer to that as the Peter principle. And the Peter principle is that you get promoted to a level of your incompetence. So when I look back at being a high school coach and a high school teacher, I had energy, I connected with kids, I had a good work ethic, I wanted to compete. I had the time and energy to be able to detail practice plans. So that skill set, then an opportunity arose to be an AD. I decided to be a high school athletic director. And then you get out of working with kids. And I kind of got out of even working with coaches and you get into scheduling buses. And what they put on your plate as an athletic administrator at the time, I'm evaluating English teachers and drivers Ed and doing bus discipline and freshman discipline and just things that were not within my motivation and things that were not within my skill set. So the Peter principle is you get promoted to a level of incompetence. It's like the college baseball coach. There might be a great hitting coach loves to live in the cage, loves to throw batting practice, love to help guys with their swing. Then they become a head coach and you exact, you have to become an executive, a CEO of the program. You got to raise money for NIL. You got to be really good at creating a culture. And identifying that culture like coach was and coach loss, Nagel are you got to be able to develop relationships with alumni. You got to be ultra organized because you're going to get pulled in a lot of different directions. If that's not your skill set, you're not going to succeed as a head coach. Right. Your best head coaches are not quote unquote baseball guys. They're more of the executive role where they can empower their staff to do the player development and coach the skills. And now in college, they're the ones getting the money for NIL. They're the ones putting people in seats. They're the ones promoting the program. They're the ones that are closing up with working with recruits. So I think understanding the Peter principle and when you get promoted to a level of incompetence, recognize that, but also as somebody who's hiring, right, as an athletic director, when you're hiring a head coach, what's the skill set that you need? Is it just a baseball guy, somebody that's been in the program or are you looking to find somebody who actually has the skill set that you need? And do you take time as a leader to slow down enough to go? Hey, this is the actual skill set that we need. So with the Peter principle, rising that level of incompetence, I go back to Marshall Goldsmith and his book, What Got You Here Won't Get You There. And when I interviewed Marshall for a podcast and part of what I love about the long form podcast, and I encourage you as a mental performance coach to start a long form and a short form daily so that your audiences can connect with you and hear you in different areas and talk about ideas. Stay connected with you. And what I love about the long form podcast is interviewing authors like my interview with Brad Stolberg that came out recently, phenomenal. And when I interviewed Marshall, one of the questions I asked him, the million dollar question, what is it you know now you wish you knew then? So what is it you know now as one of the top executive coaches in the planet you wish you knew just got started? And he said, Oh, the success checklist. He was the way I coach my clients is we give a certain list of behaviors that they're trying to increase or trying to make and a list of behaviors that they're trying to stop. And then we get on a five minute call every day at the end of the day and they have to report to me how they did it doing more good less bad. And he said, we have a checklist and we look at that checklist and that's our scorecard for the month and we have to, you know, see improvement. And it resonated with me at the time, but I'm a slow learner. It probably took me 15 years or so, 10 years to start using a success checklist. I don't know why, but I'm glad I did because in 20 years of mental performance coaching using a success checklist to sharpen up your process to put your process from your head on paper, just like you need to do with your culture out of your head on paper. So that you can share it with others so it's clear so you can literally get on the same page. If you don't have a culture on paper with the five steps of this is our mission, why we're here, big picture. This is our vision, what we're trying to accomplish outcome wise, our core principles are above the line below line behaviors and have a way to assess it. Right. If you're looking to create a culture, here's your five steps. Step one, identify your mission vision principles. Step two, define the principles. Step three, describe the behaviors that are above the line and winning and below the line and losing that keep us from being the best version of us. Assess how the people in your program are living your culture is step four and step five is create a growth plan. Let me go through that again. Step one, identify MVP. Step two, define your principles. Step three, describe the above and below the line behaviors, the winning and losing behaviors. Step four, assess how we're currently living our culture organizationally, individually. And then step five, create a growth plan to become more. You then install the growth plan, you work to become a better version of you and then you go back and you assess and you create another growth plan. That's how cultures get developed. It's a five step repeatable process that I've used college athletics, high school athletics, in corporate America and education. Whether it be an athletic department or an entire school district, it all works the same. It follows that five step culture. And then culture, what is that by definition? It's a set of beliefs that drive behaviors. That's it. Your culture is a set of beliefs that drive behaviors. Why is that important? Because it's your behavior that produces results and results matter. So whether it's improving test scores at a high school, improving your body composition, improving outcomes on a field or on a court, results matter. But we don't get results by focusing on results. We get results by focusing on the process. It's your process that determines results. Remember, your process is working perfectly for the results that you're getting. So if there's any places you want to make an improvement in your life, start by going to look at your process. Because your process is working perfectly for the results that you get. One of the top middle performance coaches in the country. A guy by the name of Andy McKay. Andy spoke at the National Baseball Coaches Convention. And one of the things he said that resonated with me, I've taken to this day, was when he talked about the book Good Degrade by Jim Collins. He said, to be consistent over time, you have to describe what you do as a process. That hit me. And since then, I've worked really hard and gotten better with trying to describe how we do what we do here at Brian K. Peake Performance as a process. What is a process? A series of steps that you take to give you the best chance for success. To be able to repeat things repeatedly over time. If you look at franchises, whether it's McDonald's, whether it's Dunkin Donuts, wherever you go in the world and you get something from those franchises, it should essentially look the same and taste the same and be the same because they're following a checklist. How do we make the sandwich a subway in Italy or in Arizona? The same process. So identifying what you want for yourself, creating a process to help you get there. Sharing that process with others so that they can be sharpened through their experience and then you follow your process. So different than the Major League Baseball Pitchers I work with, you get the ball every five days, we have a 120 hour process. A 120 hour checklist. That allows them to be the most prepared version of them when they get out there on that mound again. And if you think about this, a pitcher who throws every five days, that's 120 hours, they compete in a game for two hours. That's 59 to one, maybe 60 to one. Depending on how you look at it. 60 to one preparation to performance. So we got to dominate that preparation. How do we dominate it? Structure, organization, intention and measurement. Whether it be force play jumps, whether it be or a sleep scores, whether it be a success checklist where we see with the behaviors we're trying to do on a consistent basis. It's that process that's going to determine the product. We've got four sighing award winners that we've worked with here at Brian Cain Peak Performance to prove that the process delivers results. So for you, if you're looking to get better, let's sharpen up our process. Let's not count the days, make the days count. And let's make sure that we get it out of our head and on paper so that we can dominate the day. Thanks for being here with this Reflect and Refocus podcast. Thank you to Kala Red Light for being the sponsor of this podcast. Let's dominate the day and let's recover with red. See ya.