 z runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners runners I was a terrible student my whole life. I had a really sort of tumultuous home life, ugly abuse, a lot of that stuff, and cops at the house every week and that kind of thing. So I didn't ever do well in school. Ds and Fs from third grade on. After four years of high school, I was a sophomore. None of my friends knew that. I was just hanging out. I was really going to school for the social aspect and to play football. And I also boxed, and my boxing coach was the Marine recruiter for my hometown. All the men in my family kind of do military services, kind of like one of those ethos of the family. So I always thought I would do something. And then literally the December of my fourth year of high school, this documentary came out on Navy SEAL training. It was 48 Hours, one of those news documentary shows, like 60 Minutes, and they covered Hell Week. And they kept saying, this is the toughest training in the world, toughest training in the world. So I went down to the Navy recruiter's office and said, hey, man, I want to be a Navy SEAL. And they're like, okay, well, you can do this. And so I signed up to be a Navy SEAL based off of that video. I had no idea what a SEAL was. I just wanted to do the toughest training in the world. I got in, obviously made it through training, probably just because I was too dumb and naive to even think about quitting or know what I was getting into. And I was just like, all right, I'll just do what they tell me to do until it's done. And that worked out. And then I stayed on the West Coast, worked as a SEAL, did three deployments. And we had the first Gulf War, was my first platoon. We didn't end up going over there because it kind of by the time my platoon was worked up and ready to go, they were just collecting white flags and there's nothing going on. And so we deployed to the Philippines and just kind of did typical West Coast things, a lot of training other military units and things like that. And I really thought, you know, there's never going to be any more wars. You're like, America's too dominant. We're just like, you know, air bomb them and go in there and like, you know, collect their surrender flags and that's it. And, you know, I was interested, I was in a relationship with a girl, fell in love, you know, figured being a SEAL is not really a family man job. It's too much. So I said, I'll get out and be like an athletic trainer or something, maybe a stretch goal. It's going to be a physical therapist or something. My girlfriend at the time was, who had become my wife, was in grad school for physical therapy. You need 2,000 hours of volunteer work just to apply to physical therapy school. So I started to get my volunteer hours at San Diego Sports Medicine Center. And they hired me within three days of me volunteering. And so then I worked there all during college. Pretty quickly decided I didn't want to be a physical therapist. It was a little too limited for me. Didn't want to be an ATC. Worked with a bunch of doctors because of my time in the SEAL teams. And I've been there a couple of years. The doctors were pretty much my age. They're, you know, within two or three years of my age. And became friends with those guys. Started hanging out with them. And they're like, you should be a doctor. And I was like, yeah, pump the brakes. They're sparky. Like I didn't even graduate high school. And then Dr. Rice, who owned San Diego Sports Medicine Center, hears this conversation in the hallway. And he comes out and he says, Kirk, the question isn't could you get into medical school? The question is would you want to be a doctor if you could get into medical school? And I said, of course. And he goes, well, then you've really got to try then, don't you? And I was like, wow, okay. So I just got guilted into trying for medical. So I did that. So by that time I was married, had a kid a few years into college. And by the time I was applying for medical school, my wife was pregnant with our second. And I didn't even know the military had their own medical school. The military was kind of a done chapter in my life. I wasn't really interested in going back in. But I found out when I was looking through the review books to see what schools I was competitive for. They tell you to apply for 20 medical schools. And so I'm just looking at it. And I go, oh, the military has their own school. And I look into that. They'll pay me to go to medical school. Won't cost me a dime. No debt. I'll be able to support my wife and my kids while I'm in medical school. So, yeah, let's do it. Figure it out to get back to the SEAL teams. You'll be able to give back to the communities. It really shaped me as a man. And so I did that. Went to the military's medical school there in Bethesda. The way the Navy works is they let you do one year of residency. And then you have to go out and be a GP for two to three years. And then you come back and finish your residency. And that's how they keep GPs. And so I did my one-year residency. Went out. Went back to the SEAL teams. And when I got there, they just received their funding to build the very first sports medicine rehab facility they had ever had. Obviously a perfect fit for me. That's what I'd done the whole time. All I was interested in was ortho and sports medicine. And I'd done that for six years. It took me six years to get through college because I had to go to two years of junior college just to be qualified to go to college. And so perfect fit. I built that out. We hired amazing people. We hired people from the Olympic Training Center, professional sports teams, Division I teams. Had ortho rounds coming through, pain rounds coming through, chiropractors, acupuncture, physical therapists, athletic trainers. We had exercise physiologists, strength and conditioning coaches. We hired all these amazing people. Then I was the dumbest guy around because I had the least training. And in the military, you're the dumbest guy around. They put you in charge, right? They say, well, now you supervise all these people. So I really had no job, to be honest. But my office was in that rehab facility. And the guys get in rehab. They'd come in my office. And SEALs are like professional athletes. The last person they'll tell the truth to is the doctor because the doctor is going to be the guy to disqualify you, put you on the bench. Worst thing in the world to a SEAL is being put on the bench. They'd literally rather die. So they don't tell their doctor anything. And if they have problems, they usually go out into town and find a doctor who will handle their problems and pay them cash. Yeah, so the same as professional athletes, right? But I'd been a SEAL recently enough to where there were a lot of SEALs there that I had trained with and deployed with. And guys trusted me and liked me. And they'd come in and shut the door behind them and go, hey, man, let me tell you what's really going on with me. And they would lay out this litany of symptoms, which has now been put in medical literature, and it's called the operator syndrome. I was calling it the SEAL syndrome at the time. But it was basically a bunch of mainly cognition and emotional, right? So their motivation sucked. Their short-term memory sucked. Their concentration sucked. They were moody, snappy with their families. You know, they're SEALs, so they're still working hard. They're still getting up early and working out and grinding, but they just don't feel like it. They feel miserable. Like, they're not really enjoying what they know they enjoy. They don't feel like they're performing as they should. They feel like, you know, they're getting fatter. They're getting slower. They're getting weaker. But they're following their nutrition advice. They're working with their strength and conditioning coach. And they're just getting worse. And not a single one of them complained to me about sleep because we go a week without sleep in training. And we know that sleep is just a luxury, you know? It's just like that's something for weak people. You get it when you need it. And if you don't, you know, if you get work to do, you just don't do it. But what I figured out, just patterned over time when they all came in and told me the stories. So first of all, none of them had any diseases. And I was a Western-trained physician. I knew how to recognize and treat diseases. So I didn't have a clue how to help these guys who didn't have any disease. Like, they just weren't performing as well as they wanted to perform. So I said, well, I'm going to have to learn a whole new body of work to be able to help these guys. But I said, you know, I'll help you. We'll keep it secret. I'll keep shadow files. I'll give them to you when I'm done. You can put it in your record. Do whatever the hell you want to with it. But we'll get it fixed. And so the first kind of pattern that I figured out was every single guy who came in my office was taking Ambien. And that's when Ambien was still kind of thought to be this completely benign drug. You just take it, you get a good night's sleep, and you're fine. Well, come to find out, you know, Ambien's not that great. It doesn't really make you sleep. It makes you unconscious. You get almost no REM sleep. You get reduced deep sleep. And then if you use alcohol, which almost all of them were using alcohol and Ambien, just the opposite, almost no deep sleep, reduced REM sleep. So I would do sleep studies on them, and they would have no REM sleep, no DEM sleep. It would be all stage 2 sleep. And then I didn't really know what that meant either because I didn't have a single class on sleep in medical school. Nobody does. And so I started learning about sleep, digging into the sleep medical literature, and figuring out what happens when you go to sleep. Well, when you're asleep, that's when all your hormones get re-regulated. And so when I did their labs, they had the labs of a 55-year-old pre-diabetic dude who's 40 pounds overweight. You know, they had low insulin sensitivity, low testosterone, low growth hormone, high inflammation, high oxidations. They look like metabolic syndrome in an older, fat, out-of-shape guy. But, you know, my 28, 30 years old, ripped six-pack abs, muscles on their muscles, like badass-looking dudes, can't perform. So I said, well, let's see what happens if we get off of Ambien, right? And so I get these guys off of Ambien, reduce their alcohol a little bit, put that away. I gave them some daytime supplements to kind of support, like over-the-counter supplements to help them support their testosterone production. Just those changes, testosterone tripled, quadrupled, growth hormone tripled, oxidation went down, inflammation went down. They started feeling faster, stronger. I had guys in their 40s who were getting PRs on the O-course, PRs on their runs, PRs on their lifts. Like I've never felt that – I haven't felt this good since I was 20 years old. And, you know, they're 35, 40 years old. And then – but then, you know, that's only a two- to three-year job. And so then I'm going to rotate out, and they're going to replace me with some other guy who's just waiting to get back into residency who's not a SEAL. And they're in a state of panic. They're like, well, what the hell are we – what are we going to do that you're gone now that you're gone? Now, we did these pre- and post-retreats in the SEAL teams where we would bring in New York Times bestselling authors, guys who are big in nutrition or CrossFit or who had big podcasts like Rob Wolf and, you know, guys like that, and Matt Lalonde and John Wellborn and all these kind of big names and what would be called influencers these days. And they started hearing my lectures. I would be at these lectures, and I'd lecture the SEALs about what sleep – benefits of sleep on their performance and their hormones and all that stuff. And so those guys were fascinated. And they're like, hey, you should come on my podcast or you should come speak at this gig with me. So by the time I was leaving the military, I had a bit of a brand around this sleep guy, right? Although I was, you know, doing sleep, exercise, nutrition, and stress mitigation. So I was working with full lifestyle medicine, essentially, coaching. But what I was unique with was the sleep part. And so that's what I did a bunch of lectures and podcast phone. And so when I left, I told the SEALs, I'm like, well, just keep calling me. I'll keep treating you, but you'll have to pay for your own meds. You'll have to pay for your own whatever. I give you supplements, whatever. I came up with a combination of supplements to help them get off of Ambien, and, like, they kind of harangued me into making a product out of that. And so I kind of formed my own supplement company really just to sell it to the SEALs. Still don't have a contract with the SEALs 12 years later, but I'm still running that company. And so then I just said, you know, you keep calling me. I'll keep treating you. You pay for your meds, and then I'll just take on private clients. And so I did kind of the same thing for private clients that I was doing for the SEALs. And these are guys who just kind of burned it down, traded their health for wealth for a while. They're kind of, they're a little burnt out, broken, a little overweight, and they kind of want to recapture their health. Usually, you know, they had a liquidity event. They sold their company for $100 million. They don't care about money now. They just want to be in great shape, or their younger brother had a heart attack, or, you know, something like that kind of drove them to work with me. And then I just kind of kept raising the price on them, seeing fewer and fewer of those guys and more and more SEALs. And then a lot of nonprofits started coming online to help SEALs. And they would bring me onto their medical advisory board or their, you know, their advisory boards. And then they started paying for all of the treatments. And part I skipped over is my last year there, I figured out that the SEALs had a lot of traumatic brain injuries because the whole definition of that changed a lot. And that affects your hormones, and that affects obviously your mood and your memory and all this other stuff too. And so I started helping treating guys for that too. And then, so over the past 13 years, 14 years, I've just been treating SEALs for a free, sort of my philanthropic work. The foundations now pay for all their treatments. And then I see private clients and, you know, run the supplement company on the side. Yeah. Yeah, that's my story. That's the story. That's the story. Here we are. That's how we got connected. I was dealing with some back pain, and we got connected through, you know, a mutual friend out here. And it's been massive in terms of helping me just get out of back pain and get back to a normal, you know, physical, active lifestyle. Yeah. You know, I want to dive into, if we can, the sleep piece. And, you know, I think for a lot of the athletes, if we think about talking to professional athletes here, similar type of mentality that sleep is for the week and sleep is not needed, but you can't outperform bad sleep. Right. So explain to us just kind of the benefits of sleep and what you look at when you're working with a high performer around helping them maximize and optimize sleep. Yeah. So, you know, I tell people, you know, so the worst sales pitch in the world is, hey, my product fixes everything. But sleep fixes everything. Like sleep is the recovery tool and sleep is the growth tool. Right. So when you take something like baseball, highly skilled job, right? And obviously by the time they're pros, 99.9% of the skills are built, you know, and they're honing them. But you take any type of physical skill, any type of intellectual learning, whatever, you learn that during the day, but you don't actually cement it into your long-term memory. It doesn't go into your muscle memory until you go to sleep. So all of that gets consolidated while you're asleep. You train your muscles. When you work out, when you do sprints, whatever, you exercise intensely. You don't actually get stronger. You don't get more enduring while you do that. You get weaker when you do that. The only time you're getting better is when you're asleep. So when you go to sleep, you know, everybody knows of fight or flight, maximum stress hormones. The exact opposite. And maximum stress hormones is maximum cortisol, maximum epinephrine, norepinephrine, which makes you superhuman. It gets you away from the tiger that wants to eat you or whatever. But the exact opposite of fight or flight is deep sleep. And deep sleep is the most anabolic time. It's when you have the least amount of stress hormones. And it's when you're repairing and growing the most. So if you damage, if you injure yourself, if you damage your tissues, damage your muscles from working out, you exhaust your muscles, those are getting rebuilt while you're asleep. So the whole reason I go to sleep tonight is to repair everything that I damaged today and then to prepare for tomorrow, which means I need to restock nutrients. I need to restock intracellular proteins, electrolytes, like whatever. I need to replenish my glycogen stores. I need to restock neurotransmitters, neuropeptides, all of that type of stuff. And then I need to rehearse everything I've learned. I'm going to go over it 100 times during REM. I'm going to decide if I want to keep it or not. If I want to keep it, I'm going to put it into long-term memory. If I don't, I'm going to prune it off and I'm going to forget it. So I go to sleep tonight because I need to repair everything and then I need to consolidate everything that I've learned, repair my muscles, restock my brain, flush out waste products in my brain, and then restock the shelves. If I don't – and that takes eight hours. Eight hours of sleep? That's a rough approximation, but it's roughly eight hours of sleep or 16 hours of being awake. You can't get away from that. You can't – there's no supplement that will make that not true. There's no practice you can do that makes that not true. That's what the physiology takes. Like that's the time breakup. And if you're really – if you're a high-training athlete, it might be nine or ten hours, but it's at least around eight hours. And so if I don't sleep eight hours, tomorrow still comes at the same time. I didn't repair as much. I didn't prepare as much. But tomorrow still comes. The demand still comes. So how do I compensate? If I didn't prepare 100%, right? If I didn't restock everything, if I didn't repair enough, well, how do I get through tomorrow? I compensate by secreting more stress hormones. And stress hormones are catabolic. And not only are they – now is that making me weaker and breaking me down and making me not as physically good, but stress hormones impair the prefrontal cortex. So then that's my executive function, my decision-making. It's my hand-eye coordination when I'm playing baseball, right? It's all of that type of stuff. So you're – like all of this prefrontal cortex stuff that makes us the smartest animal in the world gets impaired with cortisol. You think about fight or flight. You can't think during fight or flight. You shouldn't be able to think. You don't want to think. Thinking is too slow. You want to react, right? And so the higher your stress hormones, the worse your brain is working, the more catabolic you are. Catabolic. Catabolic is the opposite of anabolic. So anabolic, you're taking small things and building big things. You're taking amino acids and building muscles out of them. You're starving. Your muscles get broken down into amino acids to fuel your cells. That's catabolic. Catabolic. You're basically burning muscle as fuel. Yeah. You're eating yourself as the fuel source instead of using the nutrients that you're taking in. And so I'm catabolic all day. I'm more catabolic all day because there's always a balance. There's always anabolic and catabolic going on. But I'm predominantly catabolic because I didn't get enough rest. My body's going to compensate by secreting stress hormones. And their stress hormones make me feel pretty good, right? And I go, well, I feel great. I only get six hours of sleep, but I feel great. This alarm clock went off and shocked my system and spiked my cortisol and my adrenaline. And then I feel great and I go out and I work. But here's what happens. Now I have more stress hormones during the entire day. So I'm impaired. I'm not as good as I could be. But now when I try to go to sleep, my stress hormones are too high to sleep. So now even if I do get into sleep, instead of my stress hormones dropping down to near zero during deep sleep, they drop down to a mid-range so I don't get as quality of sleep. Now I spend eight hours in bed. I don't even get a good quality sleep. And I wake up and compensate with stress hormones again. And then it gets hard to fall asleep because my stress hormones are too high. And then my stress hormones keep going high because I'm not getting good sleep. And it's self-getting downward spiral and it's really, really hard to break. Yeah. Interesting. Interesting. So a recommended, you know, some of the other sleep experts I've talked to, Dr. Allison Brager, who you may know, who's done some stuff with the steel team. Dr. James Moss, who wrote the book Power Sleep, was a professor at Cornell. And then Dr. Chris Winter, who's in Charlottesville, Virginia, has worked with a lot of baseball teams. And one of the things I look at when I'm interviewing experts in an area is like, what are the consistencies that they say? Right. No different than if I go grab 10 mental game of baseball books, they all are going to say, take a breath and compete one pitch at a time. Right. So what are the consistencies? And a lot of them have said one of the most important things for regulation is like the consistency of when you go to bed and when you wake up. Could you talk about just that importance? Yeah. So everybody's heard at this point of the circadian rhythm. And they think that it's dictated by the sun. That's not true. So the circadian rhythm is just your normal biorhythm. So every cell in your body has a period where it's doing sleep type things and it's doing different things while it's awake. Your liver behaves different while you're asleep than when you're awake. Your brain obviously behaves differently. So that circadian rhythm is built into us and it's around a 24-hour cycle. For men, it's a little bit longer. For women, it's a little bit shorter. If you put somebody in a cave, that drifts by 20 to 30 minutes a day, you know, but it's 24 hours. What the sunlight is for is to align you to be awake while, right? It's just to push that backwards or pull it forward so that you're awake during the day. And so what we find is that if you consistently go to sleep around the same time of day for that season, so it's relative to sundown really. So if you're going to sleep about three to four hours after the sun goes down and you're waking up right around the time the sun goes up, depending on what latitude you're in it. But roughly about that. So you're consistently going to bed at the same time, consistently waking up at the same time. And that tends to have better physiologic benefits than just saying I'm going to get eight hours of sleep no matter what. And so if I go to sleep two hours late, I'm just going to sleep two hours later in the day and I'm going to get up a little later and push my day to the side. Now, getting enough sleep is still paramount. Like you still have to get enough sleep. But if you're going to sacrifice either quality or duration or consistency, you've sacrificed quality or duration, right? Not consistency. Not consistency. So consistency, surprise, like everything else in your life, is the most important thing. It's the discipline of going to bed at the same time, waking up at the same time, even on the weekends. Question on that. So I'm a baseball player and, you know, my games are at 7.05. I get back, it's midnight. So I can sleep midnight to 9 every day, except those days where we play a game and then we jump on a plane and we go somewhere and we get to the hotel at 3 a.m. So in that case, where they're getting in late, would you advise them to say, hey, wear it for one day and wake up at 9 a.m. still, your normal wake-up time, and just kind of grind that day and get back into a cycle that night? Or would you encourage them to sleep a minute? So I would say it depends on what you're going to do the next day. Yeah, right. Now, first of all, what I coach everybody and kind of all the pillars of health, what I coach everybody is Pareto distribution, man, right? If you're doing it right 80% of the time, you're as good as it gets. That's as good as it gets, man. Like if you can do it right 80% of the time, you're a rock star. So just realize that the whole purpose of being resilient is for that 20% of the time, right? So that happens to everybody, and it should happen if you're kind of living life to its fullest. You're going to have times where you aren't sleeping perfectly, and that's the 20%, and the 80% of the time is compensating for it, and that's what we're trying to do. But, yeah, to your point, if I have to do something really physically intense the next day or really performative, if I have to go play another baseball game, get more sleep, right? I actually, when I work with private clients, if they don't get enough sleep, I tell them not to work out the next day because you didn't even recover from yesterday. Yeah, right. So you haven't recovered from yesterday, and now you're going to go put more on your plate and then try to go to sleep tonight and sleep a normal amount of time and recover for two days instead of one day. It's not going to work. But if you're, say, it's just a travel day or something, yeah, I'd say be consistent. Wake up at your normal time, do whatever you have to do that day. But if you have to go perform, more sleep is going to make you perform better. Yeah, so for me right now, I've got a four-year-old. I've got a two-and-a-half-year-old, so they go to bed anywhere around, you know, the routine is typically try to get them dinner at 530, get them in the bath by 630, get them in bed by 730, and then we're in bed by 830. Yeah. And then I'm up anywhere between 430 and 5 and trying to get my day started. So if I look at my Aura data, I'm trying to be consistent within 830 to 430, plus or minus 30 minutes, right? So we're from like 8 to 4, 9 to 5. Is that the right answer? That's awesome. Okay. I mean, you're far more consistent and more disciplined than 90% of people I work with. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I try to make it that way. Yeah. Structure. When you look at like an Aura and you're looking at HRV, latency, efficiency. Yeah. REM deep. Can you kind of unpack what those are and why those are important? Like start with HRV. What's HRV? Yeah. So basically you have a node in your heart that will fire your heart no matter what's going on, right? As long as your heart has blood supply, it will beat at a certain rhythm. Hormones affect your heart rate and your nervous system affects your heart rate. So you have the autonomic nervous system, which is sympathetic nervous system and parasympathetic. We think of the sympathetic as the revving up, fight or flight, and the parasympathetic is the rest and digest. So the parasympathetic slows your heart rate. Sympathetic accelerates your heart rate. If you have a balanced autonomic nervous system, sometimes your parasympathetic nervous system is slowing it down a little bit. And sometimes your sympathetic system is speeding it up a little bit. And when that happens, you get a variability. So if I take my pulse and my pulse is 60, it's not on the second every second. Sometimes it's a little before the second. Sometimes it's a little after the second. And the more that varies, the more balanced my autonomic nervous system is. So it's not really that saying I have an ideal amount of sympathetic and parasympathetic is the key to being healthy and ready to perform. It's that everything is in order. Like all my physiology is working well because I have access to both systems. As soon as your body starts getting stressed a little bit, you predominantly go into you're secreting stress hormones. And that's making you more sympathetic. And that's going to drive your heart rate. So your heart rate will probably go up a little bit. But it's also going to be less variable. Because if my sympathetic is firing it every time, then it's going to be much more on the second. And so that's what heart rate variability is. It's really just measuring like, hey, is my nervous system recovered? When you work out intensely, your muscles recover a lot faster than your nervous system. So when your nervous system is recovered is when you're ready to really work out again. So that's why it's a good tool to say, can I get after it today? Or should I just kind of do some moderate maintenance stuff today? Okay. Now, what I caution everybody with the wearables is that the wearables are approximations based off algorithms and a few points of data that they're extrapolating to be most likely the case across all these data points. Because when these two are relative to that and you're sleeping, then this is the most likely thing that's going on with you. So I say wearables are great for trends. But you, I mean, I've seen your data. Like you're, you know, you're, I wouldn't say, you're fastidious with your data, right? Like you're very disciplined with your data. And so you can see trends. Like what you showed me on your computer, like here's my trend. We did this and we had this dip right here. Well, I don't know what that was about. And then, and then, right. And so that's what wearable data is great for. I wouldn't, I would not let this thing dictate my life and go, ah, this says 72. I'm not going to do this today or whatever. Some people actually feel their absolute best when their sleep score is 80. And when their sleep score is a hundred, they, they don't, they don't feel groggy today or whatever. So you, what it's really good for is knowing yourself. I have, I have older patients who aren't into tech at all. And they do a journal to get the exact same results, right? What time did you go to bed? What time did you wake up? When you wake up in the morning, did, you know, did, did, did you have any experiences you remember last night? Did you have to get up and go to the bathroom a lot? Did you toss and turn? Did you have this, whatever? How did you feel today? How was your energy? How was your cognitive performance? And then, you know, you get a trend of data. You do that for a month and you start seeing, oh, I consistently feel like, uh, I lose focus and concentration and have a hard time working the last two hours of the day when I do this. Right. Right. And you, you can, you can get the same down. You're not getting heart rate variability, but those guys aren't, you know, training to be athletes. So would you say a higher HRV is better than a lower HRV? Yeah. Higher, higher, higher. The higher the numbers, the higher variability, which is, which is what you want. So what you want is like sympathetic fired at this time, parasympathetic fired at this time, went by itself this time. You know, the node fired at this time, this, this time I, my hormones pushed it to go a little slower. This time my hormones pushed it to go a little faster. So that means all like everything's in balance. Right. Okay. I have all three systems working. Yeah. It's interesting. Cause I've seen, I mean, consistency and probably in the last year, I would say between 30 and 40. Right. High. I've seen up to 80 to a hundred. Like I was marathon training back in June, July. And I was like, man, my HRV has gone through the roof. What impacts if you, somebody wanted to increase their HRV, what impacts that? So really the, in my experience, the key to getting HRV optimal is the lower stress hormones. The more you lower your stress hormones, the primary player, the primary player is that you have too much stress hormones and that's driving, that's driving down. Yeah. That's keeping your, your variabilities low because it's your stress hormones are always like speeding, like fire, fire, fire. So the node never has a chance to fire. Would caffeine do that? Yeah. Caffeine does that. Yeah. So, so caffeine in itself, just, you know, you know, the primary mechanism that blocks adenosine, which is what makes you feel tired. But a high enough, high enough caffeine dose actually stimulates the adrenals a little bit to secrete cortisol, epinephrine, norepinephrine. So it's raising your stress hormones a little bit. So if I'm a thousand milligrams a day of caffeine, probably. Over how much time? Eight to 8 a.m. Uh, 5 a.m. To 1 p.m. No, that's, that's all right. Okay. Yeah. Good. I mean, so caffeine's a hormetic curve, right? So you get better, you get better, you get better. And a certain dose is too much. Yeah. So it seems like somewhere around 300 milligrams is, but there's huge variability, right? But in the general population, somewhere around 300 milligrams is highest effective dose for one time, right? So a one-time dose. Now the half-life of caffeine, how quickly I break it down and get it out of my bloodstream. Half-life of caffeine is anywhere from about four hours to 36 hours, depending on your genetics. So some people drink one cup of coffee and they're wired, they can't sleep that night, they jittery the next day. You know, my wife's one of those people. Any caffeine, man, she's a mess for, I'm exactly the opposite. I drink, you know, I drink a couple hundred milligrams of caffeine. I feel great for about two, three hours. I start, I start crashing back down, right? And, but there is, but there, no matter what your dose is, there's a hormetic, there's a hormetic curve. It's going to make you better and better and better. You take more than that, like, you know, the dose is on the x-axis, performance is on the y-axis. You're getting better and better and better, and then it comes right back down. Like, you take 600 milligrams, you're going to perform like crap, right? But, but that's, but that's, like I said, that's, it's an average of 300, but I'd say it's probably anywhere from 200 to 400. So if you're a 400 guy and you do 400 in the morning and you're a fast metabolizer and four hours later you do another 400, that's 800 for the day. But that just might be a little, right? Yeah, I'm probably 600 deep by 8 a.m. Yeah. Because I would take two, I took two 100 milligram caffeine pills. I had a scoop of pre-workout that was 300. Meh, call it 450 probably because it was a scoop and a half. So that's 650. A cup of espresso. I'm probably looking 700, 800. But I feel normal. That's a lot, right. But, but here's the other thing about consistent caffeine use, and this has been documented for decades. If you, if you, if you're caffeine naive and you start drinking coffee in the morning, you'll be like, I'm on crack. But do that for a month, and then caffeine just brings you to your baseline. Yeah, right. Because what your, your body compensates and you start, and your, your, your stress hormones actually drop lower. So you're waking up with lower stress hormones and you need the coffee to get up to a normal, normal spot. And I've seen that with myself. Like I've, I've gotten, I go through phases where I like coffee. I go through phases where I don't like coffee and I'll do energy drinks in the morning instead. And I've found that, you know, well, I start with this energy drink and it's 150 milligrams. A little bit later, I want this energy drink that's 200 milligrams and this is 300 milligrams. And he, and it kind of creeps up because you do, you do build a tachyphylaxis, right? So your, your, your, your receptor densities start decreasing for it and you won't, you won't respond to it as much. Interesting. Because I, I feel like, I mean, it's, it's a, it seems like an astronomical number, right? Compared to what normal would be. But I've been doing this for a long time where like when I, when I, if I get like 800 milligrams, 500, 800 milligrams, I feel like normal. Yeah. And if I try to do less than that, or if I am in a, if I'm doing way more than that, I feel bad. Yeah. So if you took a month off. Yeah. You'd be caffeine naive again. And probably 200 milligrams would make you feel all cracky. I've tried to take a month off and made it about two hours. Yeah. So I need, I need a little detox here at some point after the season. But I mean, it would, it, would it be, would it be better for my long-term health to get off of caffeine completely? No. I mean, you're trying, I've seen your data. I mean, I don't, I don't see any signs in there that you're, that you're overstressing yourself. Okay. Like I said, I mean, if you, if you were caffeine naive and you took, you got in 800 milligrams of caffeine in the first two hours of the morning, you'd be a basket case. You'd be sweating in the corner with an anxiety disorder going on. And that has happened. Yeah. So, so you, you know, you've, you've built up a tolerance over time. And like I said, you know, you could, you could drop it off. I mean, really you wouldn't need a month or, you know, probably if you dropped it off for 10 days, you would, you'd only need half as much. Yeah. That doesn't make it better. I mean, it's just like, you know, your body, your body's not, not using, you know, because you have fewer, you have fewer receptors. So you have to have a higher density of that, of that chemical around, have, have to have a higher density of caffeine to saturate those receptors because there's fewer receptors. But you're getting the same, you're getting the same effect. We, you know, when you look at your aura data, you, we talked about HRV. You also are going to see deep sleep REM sleep, you know, and you mentioned earlier stage two sleep. So like when I look at my aura, it's going to say light, deep REM, you know, you mentioned stage two. Could you kind of unpack light, deep REM? Yeah. So, so, so really what, what the stages are, which the, none of the devices measure the stages are brainwaves, right? So the slower the brainwave, the deeper the sleep. So theta and delta are the lowest brainwaves in the, you know, you get down to the lowest, lowest, the deepest sleep, the low, the slowest brainwave is three to four Hertz. REM sleep is somewhere around eight to 12 Hertz, right? So it's, it's kind of opposite. So when you first go to sleep, the first thing that happens is you go through deep, you go into deep sleep. Deep sleep is really the anabolic restorative replenishing part. So the, uh, you've probably heard of the glymphatic systems by now, like that that's come out since I've been doing sleep medicine. So that was kind of one of the coolest things that came out. And what happens is the structural neurons that hold like the neurons that hold the structure of your brain. They actually contract about 30% and they create channels for the cerebral spinal fluid to flow and get rid of waste products. You know, every cell in your body is a miniature you. It takes in nutrients. It takes in oxygen. It produces work and it produces waste products. The waste products don't get, you know, there's not like a, uh, a, uh, a super highway to get rid of the waste products, especially in the brain. It's a closed area. There's not a whole lot of fluctuation in space. There's no way for places to go. Um, and so what happens is everything shrinks down the glymphatic, you know, the, um, the cerebral spinal fluid flushes all of that out and gets it all into your lymphatic system, gets rid of your waste products. That allows your cells to start functioning better, start, um, replenishing neurotransmitters, replenishing glycogen stores and things like that. Actually, the brain doesn't store glycogen very well. Um, and then you, the first, uh, so a sleep cycle is some, is, is basically 90 to 120 minutes. So you go through a stage two sleep is really just, um, the first time when you're really asleep. So all, all sleeping really means is that you have quit paying attention to your environment. You're no longer processing your sensory data. Your eyes still work. You're still working. Like everything's still working. You're just not paying attention to that data. Now there's a threshold that we can get over, right? I can turn on a bright light. I can shake you. I can make a loud noise. You'll wake up, right? So you are sensing all that. It's just, your brain's not responding to it anymore because your brain's doing other things. So deep sleep, anabolic, um, my brain's measuring my testosterone. It's measuring my estrogen. It's measuring my growth hormones. It's measuring my DAGA. It's measuring everything. And it's saying, Hey, pituitary, you know, dump out some LH. We need more testosterone. Push that up. Put out some, uh, GNRH. Let's get some more growth hormone in here. And you start rebalancing thyroid, everything, all your anabolic hormones start rebalancing and you start repairing. Your immune system is your repair system. It's the exact same thing, right? It's all the same cells, cell signalers, which are what peptides are. Cause those to go there, repair your muscles. Start, you know, if you strained your tendon, you start repairing that. That's all anabolic. That's deep sleep. The first sleep cycle is almost all deep. And so you go from stage two down to stage three, stage four. That's the slowest brainwave. Go across time, come back four or come from four to three, back to two. Past being awake. REM is actually a higher brainwave state than being awake. And then REM is when you start rehearsing everything you've heard, learned, seen, thought about that day. Figuring out, is that something I want to do? Is that something I want to learn? Is that something I want to hold on to? Emotional categorization of events. So you have an argument with your wife about dishes in the sink. That should be gone, right? As soon as that argument's over, that should be gone. What we find with PTSD, people with poor sleep problems, poor sleep quality and all that stuff, they don't emotionally categorize well. And so usually when you're in a really traumatic event, you have a lot of stress hormones, you have a lot of rumination, you have a hard time sleeping, you aren't sleeping well. And that doesn't get filed away into, well, you know, it's really just kind of this and it's not that different from that. And I've kind of been through something similar. It stays up here by itself and it becomes this unrealistic intensity tag that can – Yeah, like why is that such a big deal? You said they were looking at it and going, that makes no sense why this is such a big deal, but emotionally it's a big deal. Yeah, so you don't categorize it well. Now, everything that we talk about today, you're literally going to rehearse that four or five times. Like we've done research that proves – they can tell what you're thinking about. They prove that you will – if you're learning a list, you will recycle that list multiple times during the night and you'll figure out is that something you want to hold on to. If you want to hold on to it, then you start making new neural connections. And what happens is over time – and it's not just today, like because you're going to think today about stuff you thought about yesterday. And so you'll rehearse that again tonight. And what happens is every time you form a new connection, you're connecting it to things that you already know. And now you can get to it from a different way. Like right now I teach you something and you're going to think linearly. What did he say and how did that order go? And then you can get to that information yourself. But once you connect it to a dozen other of your own personal experiences, other things you know, then you can access it from any way. Now you can work with it. Now you actually know it. That's what happens during sleep. If you don't sleep well, that doesn't happen. If you're sleep adapted, meaning that you're sleeping consistently, you're sleeping well, your brain's working fine, your stress hormones are fine, and I bring you into a laboratory and I teach you how to do something in the morning. I say I want you to type with your left hand only or I'm going to teach you some video game or physical skill or weight lifting. It doesn't matter. I teach you any skill that you don't know. It's not your bag. And then I say I want you to come back at 7 o'clock tonight. And then so I'm going to test you. I'm going to train you for an hour at the end of the hour. I'm going to test you. Come back at 7 o'clock tonight. I'm going to test you again. You're going to do worse than you did when you left training. There's going to be some decay over the day. No more training. Send you home. Come back tomorrow and test. You'll test better than you ended that first testing session. Here's something really fascinating now. Do the exact same thing, but I say, okay, after your training today, I want you to take a nap at noon before you come back at 7. Take a nap in the midday. Come back at 7 o'clock. You perform just as though you went home and slept a whole night. Then you go home and sleep that night and you perform again. Just like you. So you get two days of learning. So we're talking about working with trainers. When a fighter's cramming, I used to do this with a fighter. So get up, train for two or three hours. Take a nap. Train for two or three hours. Take a nap. Train for two or three hours. And go home and go to sleep. That's Kobe Bryant 101. You get three to four days of training in one day. You consolidate all that from short-term memory into long-term memory. You start connecting it to other information that you know. You enhance your performance. It is the most performance-enhancing tool in the world. There's a book written by a woman named Sarah Mednick. M-E-D-N-I-C-K, I think. She's a psychologist at UC San Diego. And she wrote a book called Take a Nap. And it has this little pinwheel kind of thing on the front. You can... And she has lots of cool research in there about, you know, short naps help with creativity. Medium-term naps help with executive functioning and learning. Longer naps helps with a little physical recovery. But you can spin this little wheel on the front. And you put the arrow to what time you went to sleep or what time you woke up. And then I want to take a nap. What's the ideal time for me to take a nap? What's the ideal duration for me to take a nap if I want to accelerate this facet? I want to accelerate my creativity. I want to accelerate my learning. I want to accelerate my physical performance. And she'll tell you exactly when that nap goes. Now, of course, I say exactly, but, you know, biology is a little messy. So, you know, we're not tuning carburetors or launching the space shuttle. But it's an approximation. And then you can dial it in on your own from there. Take a nap, change your life. Yeah. Fascinating. Great book. Efficiency and latency, right? If I'm looking at working with an athlete, let's say, what part of the program that we would run with them is they have their aura ring. And I'm looking at, one, is there a consistency, Pareto, 820, of when you go to bed and when you wake up? Yeah. Is there a goal of time in bed? And typically with these guys, I'll set a goal of, like, time in bed, 8 1⁄2 or more, time of sleep, 7 1⁄2 or more. Yeah. You know, are those – should it be more for those guys? I mean, should they be trying to get closer? Because I've heard Moss talk about 9 hours and 15 minutes of sleep, which for some of my guys I think is just not practical. So the ideal way – you know, there is a significant amount of variability. Yeah. You've heard of these super sleeper genes. You know, the odds that you have that are, like, the same of getting struck by lightning while being attacked by a shark. Like, almost nobody has that, right? David Goggins. Yeah. And they don't – and even their research doesn't – it doesn't show that they're optimal with 5 hours of sleep. It just shows that they suffer less. Like, they decay less. They're still optimal with somewhere close to 8. But it's really 7 1⁄2 to 9 1⁄2 is kind of where that window turns out to be. And the way we figured that out is you – we did it with college students. They're the only ones dumb enough to do this for such a small amount. But it's called the bunker trial, and they used these World War II bunkers, and they put them in these dark, cool sort of caves with, like, kind of a bucket used as a bathroom and a bed. And they locked them in the room for 14 hours a day, let them out for 10 hours a day. Now, the average person sleeps for 12 1⁄2 hours when you do that. And then over the course of time, somewhere around 6 to 8 weeks, everybody ends up sleeping 7 1⁄2 to 9 1⁄2 hours. And that's where those numbers come from. Because they repair their debt. Yeah. So they get back all their sleep debt, and it's like, now this is my circadian rhythm, and this is my natural, and this is what my body needs to recover. Now, if I go run an ultramarathon today, I need more sleep than if I just sat around on the couch and watch television all day. So there are physiologic demands because you have to repair more and all that. But the answer to that is, like, the only way to truly know how much sleep you need is to do something like that. Like, I go to sleep at the same time every night. I wake up whenever I wake up. No alarm clock. And that takes you a while to figure out how long that would be because it's going to be longer at the beginning because most people are running around with a little bit of sleep debt. But then you'll find it, like, over time, if I go to sleep at this time, I'm going to wake you up within 20 minutes of this time no matter what. I could be in a cave, right? I could be in a cold, dark environment. No sound. No temperature change. No light. No stimulus to wake me up. I'll wake up around that time. But as a general rule, that turns out to be between 7 1⁄2 and 9 1⁄2 hours. I'd say athletes, I'd push towards the longer end. If you could stay in bed 9 hours and get all the sleep. Now, if you do 9 hours in bed and you're awake an hour every single day for a couple of weeks, you don't need 9 hours in bed, right? Right. So that's kind of how I'd go about figuring that out for guys. Yeah, so for a lot of these guys listening to this, it'd be like, you can probably get to bed at midnight every night minus a travel day. So go to bed at midnight, set no alarm, let yourself go as long as you can in bed until you want to get out, and then that will normalize over the course of a season. And the cool part about being able to look at some of these high-performing players and their sleep data, one of the things we look at and see is, I mean, I can look at it because of the 50 guys that I'm coaching, I'll go in and look at their sleep data. And the guys that are the most consistent performers, there's a pretty good correlation to the guys that are the most consistent sleepers with their time in bed. Absolutely. I mean, the guys whose Aura scores are pretty flatline are often the most high performers other than some guys look like a roller coaster. Right. You know, and the roller coaster, I think, can be an impact of too much caffeine late in the day where they can't fall asleep. They're hammering an energy drink right at 7 o'clock before a game. Right. Or they're eating really late after a game, or they're on their phone in bed, or they're playing video games when they get home that they need to decompress. And it's like they have to change the structure. Or they're more emotional and they're more likely to ruminate when it gets night. You know, when it's bedtime, they're going to, like, that's the me time. That's where the brain starts going. Yeah, there's no one around to distract me. Yeah. So now it's like, oh, man, I did that. Talk about rumination. Yeah. Rumination is the concept. I lay down and my head gets going. Yeah. You have SEALs or athletes that do that. How do you help those guys through that? Yeah. So this is what I recommend. And I will differ from probably every sleep specialist you've ever heard. I differ in this one aspect. I know you're familiar with CBTI, cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia. Yep. And there's certain concepts you don't want to associate your bedroom with a place where you don't get good sleep. And so they say you'll leave your room if you aren't sleeping well. And, you know, there's, you know, distract yourself with the book, distract yourself with music, you know, something like that. But there's great evidence to support that a really good meditator is getting about 80% of the benefit of being asleep. So if you aren't asleep, the next best thing you could be doing is meditating. So there's only one way to get there, though, right? Because you have to be able to drop everything that you're going through in the day. So what I tell everybody is early in the day, not right before bed because it will stress you out, but early in the day, 6 o'clock, 7 o'clock or something like that, multiple hours before you go to bed, write down your to-do list. And your to-do list is for you. It depends on how far in the future are you likely to worry. I'm a 24-hour guy, maybe. Like, if it's more than two days away, I'm not even going to think about it. Some people, six months in a way, they worry. So whatever it is for you, your to-do list. On the other side of the page, you know, put a line down the middle of the page. On the other side of the page, you put a to-worry list. Now, the difference is to-worry list are things you don't have any control over. But you're going to worry about them. You know you're going to worry about them. You don't want to forget to worry about them. So we're going to put them on the list. Now, here's the fact. The most capable – first of all, this list. Are the things that are important to you? By definition, you made this list. This is what you said is important. These are the most important things to you. These are the things that your performance matters the most on. When are you at your best? You're at your best after you've had a good night's sleep. You've woken up in the morning, so maybe an hour after you wake up in the morning. That's your best. That's when you're going to be able to handle that list the absolute best. If I said, hey, man, you have to fight Mike Tyson in two months, would you like four weeks into it go, eh, let's just fight now? It's like, no. I'm going to get my ass kicked. So I want to be as prepared as I can possibly be. So this list is hard for me. This is everything that's important. I want to be as prepared as I can possibly be. So here's the deal. You set an alarm clock one hour before you need to be in bed. That one hour is time to get ready for bed. Once that alarm clock goes off, you have another alarm clock that goes off in the morning. And between those two alarm clocks, 100% of your life is focused on sleep. And so you get into bed an hour after that alarm clock goes off. You do whatever your kind of nighttime routine is to settle yourself down, cool your house off, darken things down, relax, get rid of stress. Get in bed, and then you lay in bed and you meditate, or you do progressive muscle relaxation, or you do box breathing, or you do prayer, whatever it is for you that's a meditative state. You do that until you fall asleep. If you wake up, you need to go to the bathroom, get up, go to the bathroom, get back in bed, do that, and then you meditate again until you fall back asleep. You don't look at the clock. If you look at the clock, you start doing mental math. You figure out how much have I slept, how much more time do I have if I don't go back to sleep. And then if I skip my shower, and you start doing all the stuff, and you start waking yourself up, nothing matters until that alarm clock goes off because that's all preparation. So if you aren't sleeping, the next best thing you can do is meditate. So if you wake up at 4 o'clock in the morning, you go to the bathroom, you come, and you get back in bed, and you lay there, and you start meditating, it'S4 o'clock in the morning. Your alarm clock's not going off until 8. You're going to fall back to sleep. When? I don't care. It doesn't matter because the next best thing you can be doing is meditating. Now, if anything pops in your head that's going to take you out of meditation, you go, that's on the list. I'm going to handle that when I'm at my best, when I wake up in the morning. It doesn't make any sense to think about that right now. Right now, I'm going to meditate. I'm going to prepare. My meditation is preparation for that list, and I'm going to meditate until I fall back asleep. Now, if I get up at 7.30 in the morning and go pee, I might lay in bed and meditate until my alarm clock goes off. So great. You've got 7 1⁄2 hours of sleep. You've got 30 minutes of meditation. Get up and get after it. Yeah, and that list, you know, it's funny you mention that. I've done this without knowing this, but having a list in the kitchen. Like I'd get done with my work day, call it 6.30. I'm in the house. I'm hanging out with the kids, trying to get to bed by 8.30. Them at 7.30, me at 8.30. And stuff pops up. Oh, I need to reschedule this teeth cleaning. And they didn't get back to me. So it's like I could grab my phone and send a message to myself, but then you're opening yourself up to Pandora's box. So I grab a notebook. I write these things down. Paper and pen, and I tell people, put that next to your bed. If something comes to your head that's not on the list, put it on the list. And when it's out of your head, it's on paper, you can free yourself up from thinking about it. It's great. That's awesome. And then you wake up in the morning, and you can go and attack that list. Yep. Yeah, it's really good. Really good. And what you'll find is over time, that list doesn't change a whole lot. Like once you get that list down, it's like there's a few things that are cycling on and off. But for the most part, it's going to look the same. Especially the Tawari side. That stays consistent for like years. Yeah, that's good. That's good. We just got a couple minutes left. Could you just tap into real quick cliff notes on efficiency and latency? Yeah, so latency is not super important. What latency really is is a marker for are you sleep deprived? If you lay down in bed and you fall asleep within 30 seconds, then you're sleep deprived. No matter how well rested you feel like you are, that's an abnormal amount of time. Sleep efficiency is really another name for that is what we call sleep architecture. So if I look at a polysomnogram and I'm looking at your brainwave state, now something I didn't get into is the reason these devices aren't nearly as accurate as a polysomnogram is they're making a lot of inferences from a few data points. But you need your brainwave. You need your heart rate. You need how much your eyes are moving. You need how much you're moving. You need to, you know, like there's all sorts of things that go into that. So what we call that, like, does it look like I went across stage two for 10 minutes. I went down into stage three for 15 minutes. I went down into stage four. I traveled across that for 45 minutes. I came back up and it's this perfect graph. And that's something else I didn't say is first sleep cycle is almost all deep, a little bit of REM. Next one's a little more REM, a little less deep. By the time you wake up, it's almost all REM and a little bit of deep. That's normal sleep architecture. That's also sleep efficiency. It just means that you did what we expected you to do. Like you got your anabolic repair and then you worked on your brain. The reason you remember your dreams, you're dreaming during REM because that's all the rehearsal. That's all thinking about. And if you wake up during REM, you remember your, right? If you wake up in the middle of the night, you're almost never dreaming, right? You're like, I don't know. If you wake up early in the night because deep sleep, there's some dreaming in it, but it's a different category of thing. So sleep efficiency is just really how well do you go through the cycles? Are there predictable? If your mattress is uncomfortable and you have to move and you're in a REM or you're paralyzed during REM, you've got to come out of REM to move. You know, mattress is too hard just cutting off blood supply. Mattress is too soft. It's causing joint pain. Yeah, like my arm falls asleep like four or five times a night. Mattress is too hot. You've got to move to a cool spot. So if you're waking, you're literally, you're not going to remember it. You're not waking up like conscious waking up, but you're waking up out of your sleep stage and you're moving. Stress hormones are too high. You're cycling in and out of deep and REM way faster than you should. You have six or seven sleep blocks instead of four to five sleep blocks. That's sleep efficiency, which is really kind of more like the quality of sleep. But I always call it sleep architecture because I like to look at the polysomnograph and go, yeah, you went through here. You did that. You were primarily deep here. You're primarily REM in the morning. That's good enough. Yeah, and then latency is how long does it take you to fall asleep. How long does it take you to fall asleep? So if you, you know, normal sleep latency is about 10 to 15 minutes. If you're usually 20 minutes and you're 20 minutes every night and you feel great, who cares? But you're looking for consistency across all these things. Yeah, you're looking for consistency. Right, yeah. Yeah, and definitely if you're getting, a lot of wives will say this about their husband. Before his head, before he's completely quit moving, get into bed, he's asleep already, right? That dude is sleep deprived. Yeah, right. That's just all there is to it. You should not be able to fall asleep that fast. If you're falling asleep that fast, then you're just absolutely in exhaustion. Yeah. And interesting, I'll just say this super quickly. Insomnia for men and women are different. Men, adenosine causes sleep pressure that's different than circadian rhythm. The sleep pressure forces you into sleep. If you've been awake for multiple days, you can fall asleep on top of a cactus in a gravel field in the middle of the day. You're so damn tired. That's what men are usually experiencing. Men have more muscle mass than women are approximately the same size brains. So we have more adenosine. We have more sleep pressure. So when men have sleep issues, high stress hormones, poor sleep quality for metabolic reason or something, usually the sleep pressure allows us to go to sleep. We do one sleep cycle. We flushed out, like lymphatics have flushed out the waste products. We've gotten rid of some adenosine. And now the next sleep cycle, we come wide awake because we have enough cortisol to keep us awake. Women, less muscle mass, same size. So they need the circadian rhythm to be aligned. And so they get in bed and they start thinking about all the things they did wrong and whether or not they screwed up their kid's life forever and what they have to do tomorrow. And they have a hard time falling asleep. And then once they fall asleep, they usually stay asleep. Awesome. So that's sleep latency extreme for women. Like that's their sign of insomnia. Men usually don't have that. Yeah. Dr. Kirk, man, I could sit here and break this down all day. We're going to have to get you back on the podcast. But this has been a phenomenal episode on sleep. And hopefully, you know, the athletes listening to this are able to go in and take away some of these concepts around consistency and efficiency and latency and architecture and understanding that sleep is not a luxury. It's a necessity. And if you want to be a high performer, then you have to put a high priority on sleep. It's the most performance enhancing tool there is. Dominate the day. Dr. Kirk, thank you. All right. Thank you.