 i sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit sanit of brick will become very heavy on you and it will not allow you to advance as fast as if you feel light. So he said, what he basically made me do, he made me go into a river, grab the brick with the brick master and throw it in the river, get rid of the brick. And that's when I felt so good. I really did. It's a mental exercise. That applies to anybody in life, right? Yeah. So, and then what it allowed me, it's allowed me to focus on my present moment. You know, everybody has mental bricks. Mental bricks are the things that we hold on to, mistakes that we made, decisions that we didn't make, failures that we experienced. And the thing is, you have to let go of those mental bricks. Mental bricks, if you carry them, they have the same physical toll on you as a real physical brick would. You would never carry a physical brick like this for five, 15, 30 minutes, three days, three weeks, and expect to have the energy that you need to perform at the level you want to. Psychologically, when we carry those mental bricks, we're doing the same thing to ourself.