Hey, how you doing? Brian Kane, your peak performance coach here and thanks for checking out this Monday message in September where I'm going to share with you some of my favorite motivational stories that you can use to inspire yourself and others. In this story, as we're telling here in the barn, aka my workshop, welcome to the workshop, is about an event that takes place in Vermont every year. You see, Vermont, one of the greatest states in the country, has a woodsman competition is a fundraiser to help local charities. And in that fundraiser, 10 woodsmen come in and they've got 12 hours from 8:00 a.m. till 8:00 p.m. to cut and cord as much wood as they possibly can. And for 10 years straight, one woodsman won the competition. Same guy. And he wasn't the biggest, he wasn't the fastest, he wasn't the strongest, and he definitely wasn't the best woodsman. And for you competitors out there, you know that the best team never wins. The best fighter never wins. The best woodsman never wins. It's the best team, the best fighter, or the best woodsman that plays the best. So, this one woodsman, we'll call him John Allen. And John Allen would start cutting at 8:00 and at 8:45 he would go and he would disappear in a shed. He come back out at 9:00 and he would cut till 9:45 and he would go disappear in a shed. He come back out at 10:00. He would go cut till 10:45, disappear in a shed, come back out at 11:00 and keep that same routine as a machine of consistency until 8:00 at night. And for 10 years straight, John Allen won the Woodsman competition. So naturally, everyone wanted to know what's he doing when he goes in the shed. And if you're successful, you know that people are going to want to find out what your secrets are. And often the first thing they're going to wonder is, is he going in the shed and taking performance-enhancing drugs? Is he going in the shed? Does he have a twin that comes out that cuts wood so he's working half as hard as everyone else so he can go faster? And the answer is it was neither of those. You see, John Allen understood the principle of working harder, not smarter. And he understood the principle of sharpening your axe. John Allen would go inside of the shed every 45 minutes and sharpen both sides of his axe so he could go out and he could cut smarter, not harder. And here's the key point about sharpening your axe. You have to go to work on yourself more than you go to work on your job. Work harder at yourself than you do at your career. You see, formal education, if you're a student going to high school, going to college, what that will do is that might get you a job. Self-education will get you everything else in this world that you can imagine. So, there's a simple question. What are you doing to sharpen your axe? Are you watching all these Monday message videos? Are you listening to my podcast that comes out every Wednesday where you get to hear how some of the greatest coaches and athletes in the world sharpen their axe? There's many other ways you can do it. Maybe with my daily dominator book where you simply read one page a day or go through the pride program to help build that elite mindset. What are you doing to sharpen your axe? And if you can't describe it in great detail, like if I asked you your birthday, when's your birthday? You'd say September 20th, 1978. If you can't answer what you do to sharpen your axe like that, your axe is getting dull. Time to go to work and sharpen that axe.