 сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл сл and I did. What were you doing in May of 2019? I was in college. That was COVID, right? 2020 was COVID. What year did you get drafted? Yeah, that's right. I was playing for Miami freshman year. That was freshman year at Miami. We were maybe at the regional by then? It was towards the end. Wow. So here we are now. We were just talking again before I air about how it's one thing if I talk about mental game or a coach talks about mental game, but when a guy who's in the arena pitching in a postseason game in the major leagues in 2025 and having a career year, when you talk about the mental game or Corbin Burns talks about the mental game here, it's different because you're the guy who's in the arena. So thank you for being here. Thank you for sharing your experience in the mental game. What is the mental game to you? The mental game to me is all-encompassing both on and off the field of everything that goes on between your ears that allows you to perform at an elite level. It's the way you sleep, the way you eat, it's the way you take care of your mind, the way you meditate, the way you visualize. I mean, it's all-encompassing. It's not just like a one or two things. It's a total immersion thing for me. You know, just all the stuff that you just listed there, we could dive into all those and hopefully we will. Talk to me about the way, tracking how you sleep. Obviously you're wearing a whoop, right? Talk about why it's important for you to track sleep. The tracking of the sleep is, we were saying it a few minutes ago, instead of thinking of sleeping, think of like recharging. You're charging. You're making sure that your body and mind are going to be at full capacity when you wake up and that you have the maximum amount of juice for the day because if you sleep like crap, you wake up, you're foggy, you get to the field, maybe you forget to do your journal. Maybe you're a little bit late to stretch and you miss a couple things in your warm-up routine. It just spirals. Whereas if you wake up feeling as close to 100% as possible to start the day, it's the cascade effect of, okay, now I'm on time. Now I'm looser. Now I'm more mentally ready to do what I need to do. So I love the mentality difference between sleep but recharging, right? It's how I recharge myself, my battery, right? And some guys are wearing Aura. Some guys are wearing a Garmin watch. You're wearing a whoop. And they're all doing one thing, which I think is creating awareness, right? How has that awareness around sleep or just increased awareness around taking care of your body, whether it be through macros or using a DEXA, how has awareness helped you in your career, do you think? It's been a game changer. It was something that I thought I was decent at before I started diving into the mental game. And then once I started diving into it, I realized how bad I was at it. Because awareness is a 24-7, 365 thing. It's not a like, oh, I just became aware of this. I'm aware. It's like, okay, well, what about the week before that when you weren't aware of it and you destroyed your body a little bit? It's so important to stay completely up to date with all of your sleeping, your eating, all that stuff because Major League season, if you include spring and if you include potential postseason games, you will be on that field 200 times. And if you think that one bad week of eating, sleeping won't affect the next few months, you're wrong. You're just wrong. It might not show up massively, but it will have an effect. And you're competing at the highest level and the margin for error is tiny. The margins, especially the Major Leagues. I was talking about a guy that and the first taste I got out of the Major Leagues was just up, down, up, down, up, down, up, down. In order to stick, you have to make decisions about okay, I am going to go 100% all in on X, Y, Z. Because if you don't, somebody else will. And they're going to be the one that sticks. And they're going to be the one that wins in the margins. I think that would be the title of this podcast is How to Win in the Margins. I love that title. Yeah. I knew it would come to us. We didn't have one beforehand about how to win in the margins, right? And you talked about a margin with Whoop. And one of the things you showed me beforehand is how you track your macro nutrition. Talk about winning in the margins with nutrition, whether it be eating for fuel instead of taste and eating the same thing all the time or how nutrition plays a role in your performance. Well, this offseason was the first offseason where I put it in my habit share every day where I am tracking my macros and basically everything I put in my body. Like if it was a car, like you have a fuel gauge. If I'm just eating without tracking, I don't know when I'm fueled, when I'm not, what exactly I'm putting in my body. So again, back to the awareness of like, am I eating enough protein? Am I overeating my carbs? Am I eating healthy fats versus unhealthy? Am I fueling, not eating? Am I recharging, not sleeping? Am I looking at this as a productive task rather than something for pleasure? Am I just eating because it tastes good? Am I eating because I had, I scrolled on Instagram and I saw an ad for something and I was like, ooh, that tastes good. Let me go on DoorDash. It's a lot different when you start like, you know, seeing everything you're putting in your body and also seeing the effect that it has on your DEXA scans, on your body composition in a very quick way. Because, you know, one month to the next, my DEXAs have all had change. And when you track, you know exactly why that change happened. And you increase that awareness around what you're putting in your body. And then you even got so detailed, there's heavier days, more carbs, lighter days for you, less carbs. And then you take your DEXA scan, which for the people that don't know is a, like getting an MRI machine and it gives you basically your body fat, lean tissue or muscle mass and your body weight, right? And then you get a body fat percent. And then we take that DEXA and we set performance metrics off of it of what do we want our ideal body weight to be? What do we want our body fat to be? What do we want our lean tissue to be, right? And really an off-season training program should do two things. Increase your explosiveness based off of a force plate jump and increase your lean tissue or body composition to where you want it to be. Then we get your Garmin scale, set that scale based off of what your DEXA is. So every day you're getting on that scale, there's an awareness of how close am I to what my ideal body comp is throughout the season. Yeah, and then you can actually set real goals around it because you're not just setting a goal that you don't know how to achieve. You're setting a goal that you have an actual plan to achieve. And that makes it, one, easier to achieve the goal, but two, it kind of makes it fun. Like when I- Competing. Yeah, I'm competing against myself. You know, I'm competing against how disciplined can I be today? You know, and that gets fun when you're doing it at the highest level. Yeah, and then you see the results on the field. That's also why it's fun because then you start performing a little bit better and you start saying, well, shoot, the 1% here, the 1% there, the 3% there, the 6% there, that's 10% that you didn't even know you weren't unlocking. And you unlock it, performance goes up, and you see the very direct correlation between, you know, winning the margins and not winning the margins. Talk about continuing to win the margins. The difference for you last year, 2025 season, you have a career year, only because we haven't had the 26 season yet, but you had the career year, 25. What difference was that, let's say, last year in your mental game versus when you talked about early in the career, it was up, down, up, down, up, down. What would you say the biggest differences were for you mental game-wise? I didn't allow the highs to bring me too high, and I didn't allow the lows to bring me too low. I was big on riding the highs and thinking that I had everything figured out, and I was big on reinventing the wheel when things didn't go well. And I'm still battling the urge to do that because I am, at heart, a bit of a perfectionist, which as a pitcher, you'll never be perfect. When you do an execution journal, you'll realize that 80% is about as good as you can do, and when you rip an 80%, you probably shoved. So making sure that when things go really well, I don't think that I have everything figured out because I'm hopefully going to be playing this game for quite a long time, and I've been around guys that have played it for decades, and none of them have it figured out. Every single one of them work every single day super, super hard to win the margins. It's not like you're doing this to get to a destination. It's an ongoing thing of how can I just get a tiny, tiny bit better. And for those guys, it becomes how can I get 0.01% better rather than 1% better. Yeah, in the beginning, right? I think when we look at it, our time together was kind of we started, I can't remember what year it was, but started, had a gap, came back together, and I think the difference is when you start, when you get started with a mental game for somebody, they're like, man, that's a lot. There's a lot to do there, right? And now where you're at, it's just what you do. It just becomes part of your everyday routine, you know, whether it's, you've mentioned habits here, you've mentioned calendar, you've mentioned, you know, execution, all these things I want to dive into. Last year before game three of the wild card, they show you throwing a shadow bullpen on TV in the game, right? And then talking about your in-game routines and the consistency and the imagery and all that. There's so many places I want to take this, but talk about, if you would, execution and why that's become so important for you. It's the only controllable aspect of pitching. Outside of fielding your position and controlling the running game, the only thing you control is where you throw the baseball and how you throw the baseball, how the baseball leaves your hands. I used to beat myself up for executed pitches and then be like a, you know, I was very well known for giving up a bloop and a blast where I would give up a bad hit per se where I'd throw a decent pitch, ass out single, ground ball gets through the shift or maybe the umpire misses a call and then instead of just saying, okay, I executed the pitch, let's go on to the next one, I would allow my emotions to tell me like, oh, like, screw that guy for not calling us, I would get mad, I would get angry, I would start the, what's it, not the, not the woe is me. The woe is me, feeling sorry for yourself. Woe is me, but there's a term that I read for it, the, maybe like self-fulfilling prophecy where it's like, oh my God, this always happens to me and then it happens again and you're like, see, it's not my fault because it always happens to me and it's like, no, it doesn't, you allow it to happen to yourself because you take your focus away from executing pitches to allow yourself to feel sorry for yourself or MF somebody else for not doing their job as well as you wanted them to do and next thing you know, you're not focused on the next pitch, you throw it without intent, it leaves the yard and you're walking back to the dugout saying, well, that wasn't my fault. But you threw that pitch without intent. But I threw that pitch without intent because I was focused on the pitch before. Crazy, this week, two text messages I got that summarize and basically talk about exactly what we're saying here. One from a guy that's a top prospect that said, man, I threw 65 pitches and this is a game where he goes, spring training game, five innings, one hit, eight punch outs, no walks, one home run, one hit. Yes. And he's like, the one pitch I threw, the one pitch I was not totally convicted in and I shook two and then wasn't convicted in his home run. So that was one. You sent me a text after the most recent outing that was like 13 out of 15, oh, oh, and like eight out of nine, one, one. There was no, I had to ask you, hey, I didn't even tell you a line. What was the line? How did it actually, how was the outcome? How did it go? I had an idea. The line was good. Yeah, I had an idea, but you were so focused on just the execution. Because I had no control over my line. I had zero control over the line, none. And it's kind of freeing when you realize that because I think we went back to just, you know, going back to last year a little bit, there was the outing that really stuck out. The turning point outing was the Red Sox game that we broke down for a while because I was like, well, I mean, I executed decent. Like, I gave up like seven runs to the Red Sox that day. Gave up a couple homers, some like four or five ground balls that got through and I was like, man, like, what do I do? Like, do I do something different? And we got to the point where it was like, well, you executed somewhere in like the mid, I think it was the mid-60s or you can pull it up. Let's pull it up and look exactly. Somewhere in the 60s, which for me, it's like if I'm 70 plus, I'm doing my job. If I'm in the 60s, I'm competitive. If I'm below 60, I'm not competitive and I'm not doing my job. And it was one of those like middle of the road games where it was like, hey, you know, that was the worst possible outcome for how you pitch today. It was 62% overall, 69-00, which is, which is, you know, major league average 00 is I think I punched out like 62. You punched out eight, no walks. Punched out eight, no walks and gave up seven runs and it was like, well, that's probably the worst it could have gone in the stats column. So let's not change a damn thing. Let's move on and keep going. And then the next, I think the next four outings, I, the next, the next three, the next three outings, eight innings, one hit, no runs. Yeah. 5.2, two runs, seven innings, no runs. Yeah. So what? 8, 15, 21 innings. You give up two runs after that. Yeah. And it was like, I literally went from that outing to almost throwing a no hitter. And whereas if that would have happened the year before, I would have spiraled into like, oh my God, like I gave up seven runs. Like I have to change. Something has to change. Like maybe we need to do this. Maybe I need to think about, and it would have just turned into the, like, let's fix this rather than let's just accept that. Yes. The worst thing that could have happened that day happened. Let's go back to execution. Let's figure out what needs to be a little bit better and let's do it. And, and how valuable is that one conversation, that one opportunity, right? That it looks like one conversation, but it's really, I mean, we talk weekly, right? It's, but it's, but it's in a culmination of all the, all the investment that you've made, all the training that you've had to be able to catch yourself in that moment and go, man, my execution was, was actually pretty good. I didn't walk anybody. I don't need to make any mechanical adjustments. I just gotta, I just gotta be a little bit better. And today was my day to be snake bit by the game. Yes. And to be able to then come back and have the next three games where you're so dominant, how valuable is that one, like, shift? I mean, it can change the course of a season because I think at that time, that was when my, I think that was the peak of my ERA for the year of like the highest it had gotten. And, you know, I don't really like to look at my stats. I like to look at my execution. Yeah. But if I would have been a stat hawker and been like, oh my God, like, I'm almost at a five ERA. Like, I have to bring it down. I have to. And if I would have gone into that mindset rather than the mindset I went to of process and execution, then, then the next game, you know, maybe we go back into the spiral of maybe the leadoff hitter gets on on a rollover ground ball and I'm like, damn it. Like, now I have to, I can't let that guy score. And then maybe a bloop goes and it's first and third, no outs. And I'm like, oh my God, it's happening to me again. And then the spiral, the spiral happens. Whereas when you are process oriented and you have that foundation, there's never going to be the spiral effect. You can just, you can just live with a poor performance or, you know, a poor day of luck per se and move on. Assess the success and the failure of the day. Make any adjustments that need to be made and just move on. Genuinely move on from it. One of the things that we do as a part of your training process is listen to the execution podcast. And the execution podcast is literally me reading the chapter execution from Harvey Dorfman's book to mental ABCs of pitching. Yeah. Right. And of the, I try to read every mental game of baseball book that's been written and ABCs of pitching that chapter alone on execution. It's why I made it a podcast. I thought it was so well done. How many times do you think you've listened to the execution podcast? Twice a week. I listened to it on my, every day that I touched the mountain. So bullpen days and start days I listened to it. So probably 50 plus times. Easily. Yeah. Easily. Yeah. Easily. I actually, it's funny. If you go out before the game you'll think I'm a psycho because I'm just like I have my earbuds in and I just sit in the bullpen and I like to get accustomed to my environment. I get there super early and as the, as I'm hearing it in my ear I just say it. I'm just like reciting it. Like I just, it's so ingrained in there that I just can go word for word with almost the whole chapter now and just know every word of the chapter by, you know, just by memorization of, I've heard it so many times, it's second nature. I don't even have to think about it. My favorite conversation or part of that whole chapter is when Harvey meets Greg Maddox after a game on the park. I'm out. He's like, Mad Dog, how was it out there? And he's like, you know, 62 for 80, Harv, good day. 50 for 73. Yeah, right. Exactly. You know, pretty good day. Pretty good day. That's amazing. You know, you talked about being in the bullpen, headphones in before a game, listening to execution. Well, last year when you're pitching, I think it was game three against the Tigers in the wild card, right? They, they, they show you as you're pitching in the bullpen, doing a shadow bullpen before the game. Talk to us about shadow bullpens. That is where I go through all of my visualization before the game. I go through every pitch. I come set, visualize the pitch, exhale. Then I come set, visualize the pitch, exhale, leg lift, make sure my tempo's correct. Then I do another set, come set, visualize the pitch, and go through my motion. And, that allows me to make sure that when I get on the mound to throw my pre-pitch bullpen, that's not the first time that I've actually looked down the rubber to home plate and visualized what I'm about to do that day. It keeps, it keeps everything slow. It keeps it slow. And it allows me to kind of go through mechanics, too, where I'm thinking a little bit. I think, I visualize the pitch, but I also think about my mechanics and I go through my checkpoints slowly. So that way, when I do have the baseball in my hand, I can strictly focus on execution because I've already, I've already checked all the mechanical boxes in my head. So in that shadow bullpen, you're practicing the pre-pitch routine. Yes. The pre-batter routine. Yes. The red, yellow light release. Yes. The body language you want to have and projecting confidence. All of it. Working back to the rubber after you throw the pitch and all the breathing that goes along with that. I'm like, I'm in a trance out there. Like if you like, it's like a meditative environment. Yeah. I'm visualizing there's a catcher back there. They're calling a pitch. I'm coming set. I'm gripping the baseball with whatever pitch the catcher called. I go through. I throw it. I visualize the outcome of the pitch. The shape? The shape. I visualize all of it. And then I'll tell myself, okay, great. 1-1. Cutter. Executed. Perfect pitch. Base hit. All right. Good. Man on first. Let me go through my, you know, man on first routine of assessing, okay, is he a red light, green light, yellow light runner? Is this a time where he's going to go? Okay, how quick do I have to be to home plate? Okay, I'll slide step. He's a yellow light guy. He's probably not going to go, but I can't leave. I can't just not focus on him. So I go through all that. That way, none of that is in my head when I step on the mound so I can focus on selection, location, target. All I have to think about is throwing the baseball because I've already spent the mental energy on that off the mound. Selection, location, target. That's it. Heads up baseball 101. Easy. If it's easy and it works, why do anything else? That's it. That's it. You know, and I think that's, that's ideally what the mental game is doing for you is it's allowing you to have a process that's repeatable, that keeps things simple so you can be free and compete in the moment. Simple is, it's not the same word as easy, but simple is what you need as a pitcher because so much of baseball is so complicated. What isn't is pitching. Pitching isn't complicated. It's, it's not easy, but it is simple. Yeah, Harvey would always say, pitching is easy, people are complicated or pitching is simple. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I like that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Talking about keeping things simple and awareness, right? One of the things you mentioned earlier was habit share. And using a success checklist. And if you go back and listen to the Corbin Burns podcast, one of the first things he talks about is that checklist, right? I think for, for listeners here, if you go back through our feed on mental performance mastery, there's a podcast with Al Leiter, where he's talking about execution, right? Really deep dive there. And he worked with Harvey Dorfman as a 19 year big leaguer. We got a podcast with Mitch Spence where he talks about kind of getting into handling adversity, overcoming that. Same with Cole Reagan, who had two Tommy Johns before he got out of high A and, you know, has been an all-star and punched out 200 guys in a season. So I think sometimes as the player, when you're in it, it can sometimes feel like, man, maybe this isn't for me, right? As it got, as both Al Leiter talked about looking for a job on Wall Street and Cole Reagan thinking about applying back to college, right? And both of those guys. Oh, 100%. So many times. 100%. But the idea of the success checklist in a repeatable process, talk about habit share, which is the app that we use to keep a success checklist. What's that do for you? It's again, it makes it so I can be so focused on what I'm doing in that moment. I don't have to, like I have like 40 something things on there now, like every day that I check, yes or no, did I do? And if I'm trying to keep track of 45 things in my head every single day, how am I going to be present? How am I going to focus on the current task? If I'm preoccupied with thoughts of like, okay, did I do this? Did I do this? Maybe I did this? Did I do this? It's not possible. It's so much easier to just have a checklist and not all checklists may be 45 like mine is, but that's not all at the field. Like I have a morning routine checklist. I have a PM routine checklist. I have an at field routine checklist. I have habits that I just, things that I want to do checklist. A checklist for your aura or for your move, a checklist for your garment. I just, it's so easy. I just click it, check. Yeah. Easy. Don't never think about it again until tomorrow. What that does is it creates three things. Clarity. What do I need to do? Accountability. Am I doing it in support of when we're on our calls, breaking it down, looking at it, going, Hey, I'm struggling with this. How do we, how do we solve it? Right. And it's a lot of times it's just having a trigger of when I do it. Where does this fit in my day? Yeah. Well, for you, you know where everything fits in your day because you work off of a calendar. How important is keeping a calendar and a daily schedule for you? Same thing. I don't have to think. It's just there. And it's also a big confidence builder because at the end of the week, it's your start day. And you look and you see, I fill out my calendar every single day. I've stuck to my calendar and I got a whole bunch of green dots on my habit share. I've done everything that I need to do to be successful today. Why would I feel anxious? Why would I feel subconscious thoughts of doubt? There's no reason. I've done everything I can do to prepare for this moment. Let me just go play. Let me go see what happens. Let me go do the best that I can do and be able to live with the fact that I actually did the best I could do today because I trained as well as I could. The two places that confidence come from, preparation and production. Most people don't necessarily know the preparation process at a deep enough level like we're talking about, but they're in the big leagues because they've been productive. They've gotten results. But when you get to the big leagues and the margin for error is so small, and we're talking about winning in the margins, you can't only take confidence from production because this game is going to humble you, so you better lean into your preparation process. What are some of the other key things around your mental preparation, whether it be watching mind movies or mental imagery, anything else that you feel like is a cornerstone for Slade's mental preparation? meditation? I have one of the big habit share things that I do is a free flow meditation where I have no agenda. I just sit in silence, close my eyes, and just basically, I call it like my software update where I'd like once a day usually, maybe every other day, I'll sit for anywhere between five and thirty minutes depending upon how much updating needs to be done. And I'll just go through in my head and I'll go through and just let my mind be at peace. I won't direct it. I won't tell my mind where to go. I'll just let it go where it wants to go and I'll deal with wherever it goes because if I don't sit there and deal with it in that five to thirty minutes, those thoughts and whatever's happening in the back of my mind will never have a chance to come to the front of my mind and actually get dealt with. So getting those back of the mind thoughts to the front of the mind and dealing with them in just pure silence is so important, especially as a guy who has a lot of back of the mind thoughts and just a lot of thoughts in general. There's a lot of stuff going on up there. So the software update though allows you to be more free, more present, more clear. Yeah, it just takes away those back of the mind thoughts that are, you know, they get in the way. One of the other, you know, things that we've talked about is this idea of not being principle, I'm sorry, not being preference driven, but principle driven, right? Your MVP process and your core principles and decaf and coming up with a set of core principles, right? And I don't think it necessarily matters what they are. It just matters that you have them because if you don't, this is Vitor Belfort, the UFC world champion, shared with me one time and he goes, look, the difference between a boy and a man is a boy works and lives off of preference. That's what I feel like doing where a man lives off of principle. This is the direction I'm going because my principles drive me in that direction. What are the core principles that you say drive like your day-to-day behavior in decisions? I'll rip through my acronym of decaf. It's discipline, energy, emotional intelligence, emotional intelligence, consistency, attitude, awareness, and focus. Those are my core principles that when I am living in alignment with those things, being disciplined, being energetic, bringing juice, being emotionally intelligent, being in touch with my and other people's emotions and not just being a robot or a brick wall to people when they're trying to connect with me, being consistent, having the right attitude, directing my energy to the right places, and then awareness and focus, making sure that my attention is in the right places and that I'm able to sustain it for a period of time. When I'm doing all those things, I am the person that I want to be. It's not just about baseball. I'm the person I want to be. And that's going to translate to the baseball field. When I'm out there doing what I love, if I'm living in alignment with my identity, I'm probably going to be a better baseball player versus if I'm clashing with my identity as a baseball player, my identity as a person. If those two don't align with each other, there's going to be wires up here that don't connect. They cross because certain things will not make sense. It's like, well, if I'm doing this here but I'm trying to be this guy off the field, then which is right? And you don't really know the answer sometimes. But having a set of core principles, which mine are apples, accountable, present, process, love, energy, and service, it gives you like a North Star, it gives you a compass, a GPS. And I've had mentors of mine now when I have to make a decision that I think is difficult, whatever it is, and they would say, well, how does it align with apples? I'm like, well, it aligns like this. They go, well, there you have it. There's your answer. Simple. Run it through the filter of apples, where does this fit? Last couple questions. In-game routines. Take us through if we're watching you pitch this year and we see you doing a pre-batter routine. What's a pre-batter routine look like for you? So you're going to see me, we'll go before the inning starts. I'll either have the baseball or the rosin bag in my hand. I'll have my arms by my side. My chest is out. I'm portraying big body language and my eyes are on the wire. And I just sit there, chest straight to home plate, straight to the hitter. Big, long, slow, deep breath to just remind myself that I'm in control of myself and the situation to slow my breathing down, slow my heart rate down, all the physiological things that go with breathing as well. And then you'll see me drop the rosin bag, put the ball in my glove, and then I'll start talking to myself. Because I like to say my thoughts out loud because if you don't say your thoughts out loud, then you can start saying some pretty ridiculous things in your own head and then you say them out loud and you're like, that's ridiculous. So I'll make sure I say like, for instance, oh, I'll just say pound the zone, present process pound, or get ahead of this guy, or attack, or just a verbal trigger to get myself ready for whatever situation I'm in. The verbal triggers are going to change. I'm not a robot. I'm not scripting this. It's just whatever feels like the right thing for me to say to myself out loud to focus me on the right things is what I'm going to say to myself. And I'm going to put one foot on the rubber on my right foot, head down, and then as soon as I pick up the catcher, selection, location, target, that's it. You get a red yellow light, right? Go 2-0, umpire's bad call, whatever it is, right? You get out of, green light, I'm in control, yellow light, I'm losing control, red light, I've lost control, right? We've talked about you've got to be in control of yourself before you can control your performance. If you start losing control or have lost control, getting a yellow or red light, what do you do to flush that? I have a few different techniques. Usually when I throw a bad pitch or maybe like a pretty egregious miss, new baseball. I actually saw a lot of golfers do that where they'll have a bad hole or bad shot, they'll throw the ball in the water. New ball, new pitch. That ball, ball of no good. You know, this ball, I'm going to make this ball go where I want. Next, new ball, new pitch. So I like that thought process. I like the clean cleaner, clean cleats, clean mine, on to the next. Wipe the rubber, wiping the last pitch away. You know, I kind of cycle through those three release routines based on, you know, what I feel like I need to do on the given pitch. So those are probably the three that you'll see in yellow lights. And if it's, if I do find myself in a red light situation, which is very rare now because I don't let yellow lights go to red lights anymore. Every time I have a yellow light, I do a routine. But on the off chance that I do get into a red light situation, I'll just call time. I'll call the catcher. I'll take the time that I need. We get, what, four mountain visits a game? Like, take them. Zach Gallen was actually the one that I saw do that really well and learn from him. He was not, he was so willing to just, mountain, big situation, I'm feeling sped up, slow down, come out, talk to me. And learn that from him. Whenever you want to call a mountain visit, call a mountain visit. Goes back to awareness. Awareness. I feel sped up right now. I just, you know, I just walked a guy on four pitches. I just did this. Something happened that I'm not really sure why it happened. I'm not really in control of myself right now. It's not a one pitch, like one release routine fix. Come talk to me. Yeah, it's awareness and it's no ego, right? Ego is the enemy. It's just a transparent, like, hey, I need to slow down here. Come on out. Yeah. I got two more questions for you. I know we got to get you out of here. Heroic Book of the Week. You're an avid reader, as am I. Talk about the Heroic Book of the Week and what benefit that's been for you. Yeah, it just shares so many different perspectives from so many different people in different backgrounds that are kind of pursuing the same thing. They're pursuing greatness in some aspect of their life and they're trying to teach other people how they achieved greatness or how they achieved happiness or how they achieved something desirable and hearing different perspectives talk with different words about the same thing can give you different thoughts or ideas or how to make it apply to yourself. One of the most influential ones that I read was the Russell Wilson one, the one that talked about neutral thinking and that was such a weird concept for me to think, like, neutrally because I was such a high emotion, like, intense, like, guy. Like, I rode the emotional waves because I thought that made me better and then it was, like, the neutral thinking aspect of, like, what just happened? What's my next best decision? Do it. Take all emotions out of it. Did something good happen? Who cares? Something bad happen? Who cares? It's over. Next one. What's the best decision I can make right now? Yeah, so good. That's, it takes what it takes. Trevor Moad, right? Yeah, exactly. Russell Wilson's mental performance coach. Rest in peace, Mo. Last question for you, Slater. It's been a fast 35 minutes, man. Unbelievable. I appreciate you doing this. It's been phenomenal. If you could go back and if you could remove the skull cap of any baseball player listening to this and you could plant one seed of success in there that would germinate that they would take with them from your experience in the mental game and listening to this podcast, probably should open up the, I probably should actually start the podcast with this question instead of close. I didn't think about it so people would get it. But with that one seed of success that you would plant around the mental game that would help other people listen into this. So this is one, I love this question because I've heard it on a lot, pretty much all the other ones and I've thought about this answer and it's one I've actually been saying to some people when they asked me in spring training some of the media people, your relationship with failure will dictate your future success. Your relationship with failure is so important and my relationship with failure used to be terrible. it would either be I would berate myself for failing or I would just say, I don't want to watch that, I don't want to watch myself do bad. What can I really learn from how bad I just did? And I wouldn't learn. My failure would be wasted. It would be wasted failure. Whereas now whenever I fail, whenever I have one of those bad days, I look at it and I borderline get excited, which is a weird way to describe that. Excited is probably not the right word, but I get like, I guess excited. Kobe Bryant would say losing is exciting. Yeah, because you will watch that back, that failure back, and there will be answers. There will be answers to the questions that you have when you watch. And they might not be answers that you want. They might not be like fun, sexy answers, but there will be answers in failure. And if you have the discipline to learn from your failures, the next time out, you probably won't repeat them. And if you repeat them, then you'll be better at recognizing them. And it's that cycle of like, I fail once today, I learn from it, I don't fail for another week, I learn from it, I don't fail for another month, I learn from it. And then it's just that like, you start spacing out those failures because you actually learn from them, whereas you start getting into the cycle of like, if you don't learn from your failure, you're just going to repeat it, it's going to happen again because you didn't do anything to change that behavior. And that's where I go back to your relationship with failure will dictate your future success. You will be more successful if you have the discipline to look at your failure unemotionally and just say, how can I get better from whatever happened today? Look at it neutrally, like you talk about learning, right? It's just information, it's just information. Same way with success, it's just information. Some success is, information that you probably feel a little better about because you feel good, but feelings aren't real. It's just what happened today? How can I do better? Like, you go to my last execution, it was my best one, 78%. There's still a well better how. If you look at the better, there are three different things that I noted that I could do better. On my best rep, I found three ways that I could get better. The best that I've done in a year and plus of us working together, I found three different ways to get better because it's neutral. You know? 78, 87, 78. So 78, overall execution, 52 out of 67, 00 count, 13 out of 15 for 87, and 1, 1, 7 out of 9. You do that, you're going to win a lot of baseball games. Yeah. But there were still areas where I noticed like, okay, you know, when I tried to go bottom rail fastball a few times, I didn't execute it because I didn't have my sights low enough. When I visualized that pitch, I need to visualize a lower target. Like, I mean, even one of them was a strikeout. Led to a swing and miss strikeout on a fastball up, but I wasn't trying to throw it there. It was just a happy accident. It was not an executed pitch. But you got your result. But I got the result, but I didn't execute the pitch. So it's like, you know, having that process mindset of, I technically failed on that pitch where I struck the guy out. It's like, probably wouldn't have thought about it like that a couple years ago. That's Greg Maddox. I would have been like, I just blew your doors. I was like, no, I missed my spot, but I got a good result. So good. So good. Slade, 40 minutes, we can do another 40, man. I get you out of here. Thank you for being here. It was phenomenal. Appreciate it. Thank you.