And why mental performance matters more now than ever. When I first started coaching mental performance over 25 years ago, I believe that success was 90% physical and about 10% mental. I was trained as a coach. I had a degree in physical education from the University of Vermont and a second degree in exercise and sports science. But what I found is that over time, physical training wasn't enough. Other things I learned by being around these elite performers, some of the top athletes and top teams. I started seeing it when I was at Cal State Fullerton as a grad student studying under Ken Ravizza and with the Fullerton Baseball Program that finished third of the country in 2003 and won a national championship in 2004. I realized that when I had started work with uh, UFC World Champion, a guy named George St. Pierre, see, I realized I had it backward. The truth is the mental game drives everything. It's all mental. Think about it. There's two athletes. Same skill level. One crumbles under pressure. The other rises and thrives. What separates them? It's not mechanics. It's not the physical skill. They're both talented. It's their mindset. I once worked with a baseball player who had every physical tool: size, speed, strength, but he'd spiral every time he struck out. We built a simple reset routine. There was a breath on a focal point, a left field foul pole. And a anchor phrase that he would use to say next pitch. And as he used that anchor statement to say, next pitch, it wasn't long. It was within weeks that his confidence skyrocketed, his resilience soared. Same player, knew mental approach. Totally different results. You see the mental game, it's not fluff, it's foundational. It's a difference between, "I hope I play well." "I'm prepared to dominate." So as a coach, if you're only training the body, you're leaving more than half of performance and potential on the table. Mental performance coaching is how you unlock that hidden half. So what percentage of your program are you investing into Mental performance training? What would it look like if you doubled that? Head over to BrianCain.com/Certification to learn how.