 This is Ryan Cain with the Mental Performance Mastery Podcast. We're continuing a tribute to Harvey Dorfman, an icon in the mental game. And today I'm excited to welcome my friend Sean Casey, who played Major League Baseball from 1997 to 2008, a three-time All-Star, a Cincinnati Reds Hall of Famer, a career 302 hitter, who has said that he would have never made it to the major leagues if it wasn't for reading one of Harvey's books and working with him during his career case. I appreciate you coming on to honor Harvey, brother. Cain, that intro gives me chills, because usually I'm not getting intros and they're talking about Harvey Dorfman, but you are right, dude. Like, I can't tell you, my dad bought that book for me, The Mental Game of Baseball, I was 16 years old. It was probably the only book I ever took the time to read when I was that age. And no doubt about it, 100%. I don't play 12 years in the big leagues, go to three All-Star games, do the things that career 300 hitter without Harvey Dorfman in that book. And then, fortunately for me, I was able to connect with Harvey when I was in the big leagues and have him be my coach for a few years. You know, when your dad gave you that book, you said you were 16, so you were probably sophomore in high school. Right. Like, at the time, at that age, right, because for me, I read The Mental Game of Baseball in the summer of my freshman year of college, and I wasn't really into reading or ready for that. But I just kind of, my roommate was a baseball player from Dartmouth, and he had it on the table when I grabbed it. What was it that your dad saw on you, or what was it that he heard about Harvey somewhere that made him get that book and give it to you, do you know? Well, you know what's funny, Caner? Like, I didn't play my freshman year in high school, and my dad was like, hey, you need to start working harder. He's like, you're not glaringly better than the next guy. So like, you might be better than the guy that you're not playing in front of, but the coach doesn't think you're glaringly better, so you're not playing, like, at the end of the day. And so I think my dad was kind of on a mission, like, any great father would be. I'm so grateful for him. Was on a mission to try to help me. Hey, if you start working on the mental game, there's a book I just bought called The Mental Game of Baseball here at Barnes & Noble. Why don't you check that out? Hey, here's a book for Ted Williams, The Art of Hitting 3, The Art of Hitting 3, Science of Hitting. Why don't you check that out? Here's Charlie Lowes' book. So he was like, always trying to help me that way. And my dad was an entrepreneur, started his own company when I was in high school, selling surfactant chemicals, and I think he was like always looking for an edge. So I think he passed that on to me, Caner. So I think when he gave me that book, he was like, you're not glaringly better physically right now, and also mentally. What if you started hitting every day in the cages? What if you started reading this book every day? What if you took these practices from this book and the things that Harvey says, and you put them into practice in the batting cages? You put them into practice in the batter's box. What if you learn how, what process over results really means? What if you learn to focus on the task at hand, right? And go one pitch at a time. What if you learned that being mentally disciplined is the greatest compliment you could give somebody? These are all things for obviously, you know, the mental game and baseball that I took heart to. So I think my dad gave it to me thinking, hey son, I've lived life a lot longer than you have. If you want to be glaringly better, you actually have to do something about it and hear some tools. So you start reading that book, your sophomore year of high school, you go on to have a great career at the University of Richmond, right? And then you end up getting drafted and into professional baseball. At what point was it that you saw out working with Harvey one-on-one, or how did that all come about? Yeah, it's crazy, Ken. I didn't meet Harvey Dwarfman until, I want to say I was in the big leagues five years. Five years in the big leagues, because he had started working with Scott Boris. Scott Boris had hired him. And kind of a funny story to tell you the truth. I've never told this story. I just thought of it. I ran into Scott Boris after a game in Atlanta one time, and the mental keys to hitting had just come out. And Scott and I got talking and I said, listen, I know Harvey's working for you now, Dwarfman. I don't know Harvey, but I feel like I know Harvey. Like I've known Harvey since I was 16. Probably at the time, I would say I was almost 30 years old, you know, 29 years old. And Scott Boris sent me a book, The Mental Keys to Hitting. I was like, wow, this is incredible. It's like Harvey's new book. I'm so excited about it. And that night, he was like, why don't you give Harvey a call? Or, you know, and I was like, really? Is that okay? So sure enough, that offseason, I called Harvey and I was like, hey, Harvey, how you doing? My name's Sean Casey. You don't know who I am. He goes, I know who you are. You're a hell of a hitter, son. I'm like, oh my god. Like it was for me, it was like the, you know, it was like the creme de la creme that my idol was like, I know who you are. You're a hell of a hitter. I was like, oh my god, Harvey, Dwarfman just told me I'm a hell of a hitter. And then I said to him on the phone, Harvey, you don't know this, but I feel like you've been next to me my whole career. I feel like your words that you've said in that book are a reason that I'm in the big leagues. And I just wanted to reach out to you and wanted to see if there was any chance we could talk or I could ever get shit. Bro, he was like, call me whenever you want. Call me whenever, and dude, and they're our relationship kind of took off. And I had one of the biggest, I think it was after the 03 season, the 04 season, I won the biggest years of my career. And, you know, I look back, I look back and just having the opportunity to talk to Harvey and connect to them, I think was a big reason why. What were some of the things that you guys talked about or worked on, those conversations that you felt like made such a big impact? Well, Harvey was a no bullshit kind of guy. You know what I mean? He wasn't going to let, he wasn't going to, I mean, I'm allowed to say that, right, Kane, on this podcast. Yeah. Like, basically, he wasn't going to co-sign your BS. Yeah. You know, so yeah, come on, I'm just struggling. I'm all over the place and Harvey's like, how's your process look? Oh, my process is great. You know, let me tell you a quick story. I got two quick stories with Harvey. One night I called him and I was literally, if you go back and look at the numbers, in like June of 2004, I'm not kidding you, I'm leading the world and hitting, I'm hitting like 393 in the middle of June, 200 plus of bats. I got 10 pumps. I'm raking, right? And I go 0 for 12 in this span, but with like 11 bullets, right? So I can see my average down to like 379. I did, dude, I remember calling Harvey and I just wanted to talk to him because I was frustrated. So I called him and he answers like, Hey, what's up, case? I'm like, you know, Hey, what's up, Harvey? He's like, I'm like really scuffling right now. So I gotta tell me about your bats. Oh, you know, so good through my bats, 12 of bats, lying out the second bullet to center, bullet in the gap, that makes a run in play. And he's like, sounds like you've got a pretty good process going on. I was like, yeah, my process locked in. He's like, well, not why the hell you calling me then? I said, well, because I don't have any results aren't there. He goes, I don't want to hear that. He goes, some years you're gonna, some years you're gonna hit them right out, people some years, they're all gonna fall in. It's gonna be, it is what it gonna be what it is. He goes, there's no need to call me if your process is tight. He goes, give me a call when you really got a problem. And he, you know, basically hung up on me. But I remember that, you don't remember that, Kater, because it was no BS. He wasn't gonna sit there and be like, you're gonna be okay. You're gonna be that's a no, you stink. Keep doing what you're doing. Focus on the task at hand, one pitch at a time. Keep doing that. And he's like, whether you hit a rocket at somebody or get a hit, that's not my concern. My concern is, are you are you taking a deep breath? Are you slowing down and you're hunting the heater? Are you looking middle way? Are you are you are you're flushing? You know, if you have a bad a battle, you, you know, are you get ready for the next one? So stuff like that, man, Harvey for me was just was gold. Was there any specific tools case that you guys worked on? Like, did he ever make you mental imagery? Audio is in those is kind of before cell phones and work shit like that was really easy to do. But like, what did he make you like mental imagery? Audio, he talked to you about watching highlight videos, which I know is a big part of your career. Was there anything else that like he did for you that you thought really helped? Well, you know what, he was big on he was big on watching like good film of myself, you know, I mean, watching on, you know, watch the positive swings, you know, keep putting those into your mind. And then one thing he was, you know, he was huge about was the three keys to keep it simple. And he was like, Listen, our brains can't take on too much at one time. He's like, What are your directives? What, you know, wherever your, where your intention goes, your energy flows, right? I mean, that's kind of, you know, a thing where he was like, we got to be able to focus on the ball, you know, Harvey was big on see the ball be easy, right? And so I threw another key in there. I said, see the ball be easy hammer it. And Harvey was like, All right, good. He's like, Now put that on a note card and put that in your back pocket. So when you get on deck, you can look at that really quick, see the ball be easy hammer it. And you have intention and focus when you go to go to the plate. And I came here, it helped me so much because I remember there was times where I would be in the box and I'd get ready and set myself up and I would just be like ball, you know, what to set up to be easy. I would think about smoking something. But then I would think to myself, ball, ball, ball, ball, and that was all Harvey's like, dumb it down, keep it simple. This game is hard enough. You can't be worried about what this guy's throwing all that stuff, look for his own pick spot and make sure you're seeing that ball as late as you can and get ready to hammer it. So that was probably one of the biggest things he told me was that like too many thoughts and he was no mechanics. He said, if you have one mechanical thing that you're working on on deck, you could work on that. And that was big on like try to get my, you know, get my hands back. So I would be on deck and I was okay, make sure you get your hands back, see the ball be easy hammer. But I get in the box, it was all about seeing the ball. So I just love that part of it. Can I talk about the mind movies of the highlight videos that used to watch? And I did a lot of work with Bill Harrison to be able to see yourself performing well. How important was that for you in your career? Well, what was great was if you go look at the mental game of baseball, Bill Harrison is really in that book because I think Harvey Cross passed with Bill Harrison at one point. And he was, you know, when he talks about getting your best look, what's your one through five, what's your best look? Did you see it out of four? Did you see it out of three? Did you see it out of five? Are you seeing it out of one and think you're seeing it? You know, really see the ball. And that was Bill Harrison's influence on Harvey Dorfman. I was lucky enough to work with Bill Harrison who Ryan Harrison now still is passing on that legacy with slowthegamedown.com. But Bill was big on man. Like, you know, back in the day, I got a DVD player and a DVD, you know, that now the guys got the iPad and they got the video guys and they got all this video. But back then I used to put a DVD on on the flights, you know, we'd be done with the games and I'd be flying, we'd be flying to San Diego or something. I would watch, you know, my 10 best swings, I put it to music and I would just watch myself rocket left center, rocket right center, bullet up the middle, you know, just to make sure that I would, you know, that meant that mental imagery of that the positive, positive, positive, you know, I instead of I wasn't a big guy that went back and looked, Hey, what am I doing wrong here? I was like, I would look what was when I was going well, what was I doing right? What was they doing right? And I always find I was one swing away one pitch away from getting it right. But that mental imagery stuff was crucial for me. You know, I know in case, you know, we're both big, big fans and believers of a technology that's new to the market called Pison talking about, you know, evaluating and assessing kind of cognitive performance, whether it's reaction time, whether it's focus, whether it's readiness, you know, obviously this technology didn't exist when you were playing. I think some of the things that you're talking about, right, whether it's having your three keys to lock you in with your focus, watching a mind movie, I would say that these probably impacted your cognitive performance and allowed you to play well on a more consistent basis. No doubt, man. I think this this the stuff that Pison has come out with this company is incredible. You know, where you wear the wristwatch, you can do some cognitive performance stuff right on it was far as like, you know, your reaction time and all that stuff. I think what's coming up the pipe for for Pison. No, I think, you know, you talk about the hydration meter. I think that's going to be incredible. It's going to be incredible with sleep. But I think the one thing came that's going to make it elite is the HRV monitor with like performance. I always say like when I was hitting, if I could tell what the breath, you know, what how many seconds in and how many seconds out would get my HRV to a place where I'm like, okay, that's right where I that's right where I need to be with my calmness or heart rate variability that I perform at my best. If every guy could figure that out, Caner, I'm telling you what, you go to another level, if you're on the bump and you're okay, let me get that nail nice breath four seconds in six seconds out. Bam, step, go, rip it knowing that four seconds in six seconds out gets my heart rate down to a certain spot where now I really let it rip. Now the flow in my body is differently. Now I'm turning my vision on my eyes are part of my brain, right? So I think Pison's on to something here with the things that they're going to start to be able to evaluate. I think if you know, learning for athletes, especially baseball players, and I think that's who they're really going after right now, you know, is that when you learn how to use this tool, it could take you to another level. Well, how important is measurement? Right? I mean, I know you I know that we've we've traded sleep scores and HRV scores and things like that. Like how important case you look at now where you're at in life with the technology that exists that didn't exist when you were playing. There was no sleep tracker when you were playing, right? And now all this technology that is there, knowing what you know now about the wearables in this in this cognitive performance in industry, what would you have done differently maybe back when you were playing based off of the technology that's available now, if it was available back then with the experience that you have and kind of your perspective now? Well, I think one of the biggest things, Ken, is that you just said they're like, what you measure improves. I really believe that what you measure improves. I mean, that's the bottom line. So like, if I could, if I could use the aura swing or ring or the Pison, you know, sleep monitor or whatever, you know, something like that to help me with my sleep, I think that would have been huge. And also too, I just think like the HRV stuff for me would have been it would have been incredible, even in my training. And I'm in the cages. Hey, man, give me a second. Let me let me really see where I'm at here. Let me see. Oh, let me see. Oh, that feels good. That's that's that's a different feel. And then bam, you could tell you could tell when you get to a certain demeanor. I always said it as soon as a company could figure out what what every individual's demeanor should be at their elite performance. The company's going to take off. Like I think Pison is going to be able to do that. But I know for me as a player, when I was in the cages, just training, if I had a if I had something to measure that demeanor, where I'll, oh, that's that's slow, that that's perfect. Oh, that's too slow. Oh, that's too geared up. Oh, no, got to get it back to here. I got to get the breath, you know, into this certain area where my HRV gets here. I just think that I would have used that night in and night out. Yeah, it's been able to bring some analytic to that performance state, right? And some guys are going to perform with a higher intensity. Other guys, they perform as if they're sleeping, right? And you see exactly as from a mental performance coaching standpoint, you know, there isn't one level of intensity that is going to play for everybody, right? And you look at like Mariana Rivera versus Trevor Hoffman, you know, or versus Troy Percival or Kevin Brown and Greg Maddox. Like they all look at a different way, a different level of intensity when they're performing. But I think bringing some sort of measurement to that makes a massive impact. Yeah, dude, really quick on that, on that note, I mean, talk about one of the greatest conversations I've ever had in my life, 2016 World Series, I'm up in the box with MLB Network and Harold Reynolds is talking to Hank Aaron. And he's like, Hey, case, come on over meet Hank. And I'm just like, dude, I'm like a little, I'm a little nervous. I mean, not many people I've met presidents, I've met actors, I've met musicians. I've never really been intimidated by many people, you know, Kane, I love people. Hank Aaron, I was nervous. So I walked over and he was so gracious, so kind, but nice to people I've met a great, great talking on what Harold walks off. So I'm like, I'm not walking off. I'm in a conversation with Hank Aaron, I'm going to throw some bullets at him. So I said, Hank, what were you thinking at the plate? Were you thinking about being nice and easy? Were you thinking about being nice and slow, relaxed? And he goes, and this is what I mean, this is about everyone things to be relaxed. I wasn't relaxed. He goes, I got my hands on that bat and I was ready to go. I was ready to hammer something. And I was like, wow, like, he might not have understood maybe where, maybe what we kind of do now. But back then Hank Aaron was like, no, I'm ready to go. Relax wasn't the word he used. You know, it was ready to hammer something. So I thought that was interesting because everybody, you're right, everybody has a performance state. You know, that's a little different. I remember Gary Shefford one time, I was like, case, you got to be more like me. I was scuffing at seven, he's like, case, you got to be more like me, you know, he, and he, he, chef's like, he's like, you got to be more relaxed like me. I'm like, relaxed, you look like you're about to have a panic attack, chef. I mean, you look like the opposite of relaxed, but like for chef, that was relaxed. That was like, you know, there was a rhythm there. There was something there. So if for everyone, everyone has a performance state that works for them, every individual that you coach, Kane or any player out there has to find out what that is. Like I challenge you guys, if you're in the cages, or you're in the, in the field, or you're on the bump, figure out what is the performance state that you work best at. Yeah. And it's funny how you may, we're talking about performance states, and I just did this this weekend with a client that was at the house and we use a speedometer as a visual because I think most people are visual learners, right? To put it to a visual. So if you imagine a speedometer, zero to a hundred, like where, where's the zone of your optimal performance or your ideal performance state, states being made up of like spotting language, focus, energy level, intensity. And this quarterback that was at the house, he said, well, I probably at my best at 80. I said, all right, so let's give you like a 70 to a 90 window. 70 to 90, he goes, no, 90 is too much. I'm not, he goes, 80 would be the top. So we said, but we landed on 65 to 80 was his green light, 65 to 50, yellow light, 50 below red light. He ain't ready to go. And he's like, that's a lot of times in practices or in games, it takes me a little bit to get going. I got to be able to move that needle up and get more intense. I have a tendency to slip down. But then if you look at 85 to like 90 was yellow, 90 to 100 was red light for him. So we have this little speedometer of red, yellow, green, where we want to be yellow, red, because you can get into yellow lights and red lights out of control, losing control, because you're too intense or not intense enough. And I remember, you know, it's interesting going back to Harvey 2010, I got to go down and visit him and his house in Brevard County, North Carolina, driving around to some doctors appointments with him and a friend of mine, Tim Brown from Vermont, who said it all up, Tim, thanks, shout out. And I asked Harvey, I said, what's the biggest thing, Harvey, you know, now you wishing you and you were just getting started with mental performance coaching. And he's like, you want to help guys grow three things you got to know. That's it. Awareness, strategy, action, awareness, they don't know what they don't know. They don't know where they're at. They don't know what they need to do to get there because they don't know where they're going. They lack awareness. He goes strategy, how they're going to get there. And then action, they got to do the work. He's like awareness, strategy, action, help them build awareness by asking questions, find out where they're at, where they want to go, give them strategy to close that gap. And then they got to put it into action. And he's like, and when you get on a call with them and you're coaching them, you're inspecting what you're expecting, you're asking them what actions they took. Because if they take the right actions with the right strategies, they're going to get the results that they want. And I was like, just so clear awareness, where am I? Where do I want to go? Strategy, what am I going to do? Action, go do it. And as I can sum up them, they'll never do it. Right, right. Why is that, Ken? Literally, I want to ask you, why is that you work with some of the greatest athletes in every profession? Why don't guys take action that they should? Great question. Yeah, and I think it's an individual. I think some guys some guys are desperate enough. Some guys are too comfortable. Some guys, they're not disturbed enough. Maybe gals. Yeah, or gals not disturbed enough. They see staying comfortable with what they're not what they're doing already easier than trying to change something to grow. And others just don't have the organizational capacity to be able to do it. And that's where I feel like a lot of the work I do with with some some athletes is just on organizing and processing their entire life so that they can do some simple things. I mean, something as easy as asking an athlete to listen to a three minute podcast, like mental performance daily, if I followed you around your entire day, there's not a three minute window where you could do that. Or if I wanted them to read for 10 minutes, the mental keys to hitting, if I follow you around all day, there's not 10 minutes where you can read the mental keys to hitting. So I forgot to bring the book. You're on your phone though, right? So we're going to put the digital copy on your phone. So here's what I've done with guys because in the mental keys to hitting, you know, there's little baseballs in there that break it up. Yeah, get the digital copy. I said, when you're on the toilet, do you bring your phone with you? Oh, yeah. Read the mental keys to hitting when you're on the toilet. That's literally the trigger. So what I found with these guys, a lot of reasons why they don't do it or don't do things you're asking them to do, it's no different than any other human being, is that they don't have the specific trigger as to when to do it. So it can be a trigger of like, what's something that a baseball player is going to do every day? Well, most days, they're going to go to a locker and change their clothes, read it when you get to the locker. Most days, they're going to get out of the toilet. Most days, they're going to get in a car and drive or on a bus to go to the field. Listen to this then, right? They can't read it when they're driving, but they can listen to it when they're driving. So what I found is that trying to create the intentional trigger really helps with the implementation of the strategy. I like that. Anchor in the behavior. I think I love that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They say like ABC, right? Anchor behavior, celebrate. Yeah. Celebrate. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, you already have good habits. Anchor another habit to that habit. Habit stacking. Yeah. Very good. Yeah. Love that. Okay. So let me ask you this mental game, right? Like you've always been into the mental game and now you're running Breakthrough Pro and I'm a training for people who want to take their mental game to the next level. Talk to us about Breakthrough Pro and talk to us about how people can get more involved with you as a mental performance coach because I see it, but I don't what a lot of our listeners, I think maybe don't know is that like you're a highly active and high mental performance coach who's making a massive impact in the lives of people that you're working with. So if people wanted to work with Sean Casey, get to be a part of your Breakthrough Pro program, how do they get more about that? Yeah. Well, thanks, Kenner. I appreciate it, man. Yeah. So Breakthrough, if you can go, you can go to breakthrough-pro.com is where you could sign up for our next season of Breakthrough Pro, which starts July 14th. Bro, for me, you know me. I mean, like I said, we're here talking about Harvey. I know the impact he had on me. I know the impact that's had on my life. I know the impact of mental performance coaching. I know the impact of all these concepts, habits, these things that I live every single day that I lived when I played and I live now as, you know, almost A-50-year-old grown adult. I want to pass it on, dude. Like I want to pass on that legacy. I want to pass on Harvey's legacy. I want to pass on the stuff that you do, our friendship. I know the impact you have on people. Like that's what I want to do. So, you know, in Breakthrough Pro, you know, tell you the truth. I called it Breakthrough Pro and this is the reason why. I think one of the things was like, Breakthrough your limitations, Breakthrough your BS, Breakthrough your limiting beliefs, Breakthrough the things that you think are holding you back, Breakthrough your comfort zone. Right? I think that's why I named it Breakthrough Pro. And I said, bring your mind and your life to the pro level. You know what I mean? Like bridge the gap. You know, they say what one can be, one must be, you know, bridging that gap between, you know what, there's more out here. I just don't know the concepts. I don't have the knowledge, you know, to go to that next level. And I think at Breakthrough Pro, you know, we have seen so many, you know, kids, whether you're a college athlete, whether you're, you know, we've seen a lot of call, we have a college golfer, we have college baseball players, we have high school baseball players, we have a college, we have a high school rower, we have a woman that is an artist, you know, all these great things. So, for me, Breakthrough Pro is taking your game of life to another level. It's an eight week program, bro. Sunday nights from seven to eight, you get me and a buddy of mine, John Dennis, who's at the same level as I for one hour for eight weeks, dude. And for me, I think it's, it's, it's transformational. And anyone out there that hears this podcast, come join us Breakthroughdashpro.com. Eight weeks, one hour a week, a guarantee. If it doesn't change your life, I'll send you all your money back every single dollar. Yeah, you can, you can call that the double money back guarantee because if you join a Sean Casey program and you ask for your money back because you didn't think it was good enough and you actually went through the program and you actually watched all the videos that come with the program, I will also give you your money back. So it's a double money back guarantee because I could tell you that just getting around Sean Casey, like I woke up this morning, I had some food poisoning. I wasn't sure I was going to be able to make today's podcast. And right now my food poisoning is gone. Casey, you have completely cured me of any ailments from spending this time together with you on the call. So I appreciate you making time to come on here to talk about Harvey, you know, is this a little tribute series? We're talking about the conversations, the content and the careers impacted by Harvey Dorfman. Anything else that you would want to share, maybe you say specifically, whether it's about Harvey or about the impact that mental performance makes to speak specifically to like a professional baseball player that might be listening to this about the difference that maybe a mental performance coach or Harvey or the mental game would make for them if maybe they're still not yet doing that or working on that aspect of the game. Well, here's the deal, bro. And you know what I know, if you get to the level of the big leagues, it's one thing to get there. It's one thing to stay there. It's another thing to excel there, right? At the end of the day or wherever you are, division one baseball, high school baseball, this relates to everybody or any sport, UFC, golf, whatever. I think at the end of the day, if you asked these guys that are starting to perform at a high level, hey, man, you're really doing great. You've got great abilities. Look how much potential you have. How much of this game do you think is mental? Oh, man, this game is 90% mental, man. 90% mental. Every day I got to figure this out and figure out my emotions and not to get too high and not get too low. Hey, how much do you work on the mental game, man? If it's 90% mental, zero. You know what, zero? You got no program. You got no game plan. You got no coach. You got no book you read daily. You got no habits you're doing. You got to be absolutely kidding me. Like that. I think that's how big of a joke I think it is. When people tell me that, I'm like, you got one shot. You got one shot to be a big league ball player. How long you going to spend? Because it's all good. It's all fun and games when you get up there. You want to spend 10 years there or two? Because your town will get you there. Your mind will keep you there. The strategies will keep you there. How do I go one pitch at a time? How do I turn the page quickly? How am I able to show up day in and day out? How do I play when I don't really want to play? How do I play when I'm exhausted? When I'm struggling? How do I find the fortitude to keep going? Right? How do I get out of my comfort zone? All that kind of stuff. How do I play when I'm a little injured? There's so many different things about the mind. The mind is so powerful. But yet we don't take the time to work on it, right? We'll take the time to get in the cages and have the tea. We'll take the time to get in the cages, do a million soft-toss stuff. We'll take the time to throw out bullpen sessions. But I tell you what, guys, at the end of the day, the mental part of the game is game time. There's a ton of five o'clock hitters. I've seen a million of them. There's a ton of, you know, players that are great before the game. But come seven o'clock when game time hits, the guys that work on the mental side of the game, I believe go to another level. And at the end of the day, if you don't have some sort of coach, you don't have some sort of person or a book or a theory or something that you're reading every day that you're doing every day. You know, if you want to have a great relationship with your wife, Kain, or you talk to the bear once every week, do you think you'd have a good relationship? She probably would enjoy that more, but I would love to try to do it a little a lot. Right. But think about that. Think about that. If you talk to her once a week, oh, no, once every three days you talk to her. Oh, no, maybe once a day. Dude, this is something that's an everyday thing that you need to engulf yourself in to be, to go to another level. So you obviously can see I'm passionate about it. You know me. I just know what it did for me, dude. And I know working with guys like Harvey Dorfin and Bill Harrison and a guy named West Seim and some of these guys that just helped me, you know, go to that next level, man. Like, like, if you don't have a mental performance coach, hey, good luck, man. You're going to only get to go as so far as your talent takes you. Joe Madden, I think, said it best a couple of years ago, and he was a manager with the Cubs and he said, if you used to work with a mental performance coach, it was because something was wrong. And now if you're not working with a mental performance coach, you don't want to be great. Oh, that's good. I feel like for baseball players, you have a hitting coach, you have a pitching coach. Hopefully you have a strength coach. You're not writing your own strength program. You don't need to be doing that as a pro athlete. Right. But you do your own mental game. Like, yeah, mental performance coaching, physical conditioning, arm, you know, pitching coach, strength coach, nutritionist, mental performance coach. Like if you don't have those four people as a part of your team, and maybe you can use your organization for those, maybe you can't. Right. But what is it that you are leaving uncovered? And I always do, I call it the missing link in athletic performance because at the highest level, people get there because they have ability. But to stay there, it's because they figure out the mental game. And if you take a look at guys that play for a long time, you know, did I don't think Sean Casey played 10 years, 12 years in the big leagues and hit 300 because he was the most talented guy that was up there. You know, I don't think Derek Jeter was the most talented shortstop in the Yankees organization every year. Tom Brady was probably not the most physically tooled out quarterback in the Patriots or the Tampa Bay organization, but nobody was going to beat those guys mentally. No doubt about it. And it's funny, you lined up all those coaches and all these players say 90% of the game is mental. That's a pretty big percentage. You don't have a, you don't have a guy that counts.  mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere mere How many O for fours do we get? Because our self confidence, self-esteem is so low that we can't bounce back from it. So guess what? You do that 20, 30 times a year over 162 caner? That's O for 120, bro. O for 80. Just because you can't get your mind right, the anxiety is too gripping. It's paralyzing at times. The stress is overwhelming. You don't know how to deal with it. Because you don't have somebody that you're bouncing stuff off of, hey, how do I deal with this? I always say you're one pitch away. That one pitch away is pretty far off when you're engulfed with just a cesspool of anxiety. Well, it's the first chapter in the book, The Mental Game of Baseball, by Harvey Dorfman, where we got this started to come full circle, where he talks about Gary Carter's goal is to get two hits a game. And if he started the game and he was two for two, he would check out his last two app apps because he had accomplished his goal. And if he started the game O for two, he'd need to be pressing and he'd give away his last two app apps because he was pressing. So he was never looking at it as app app, app app, or pitch to pitch. It was just game to game and I got to go two for four. And if he started off one for two, he'd usually end up two for four. So the whole thing about starting off with the approach of winning pitches, stacking days, every series, every day, every pitch has a life and history of its own. Can I just compartmentalize and be in the present moment? And I was looking at, somebody sent me a clip of Michael Jordan, and when they were talking about the last dance. And I said, what was Michael Jordan's greatest gift? And as I asked people, they say, oh, it was his ability to jump, it was that athleticism, it was his brand, it was his star power. And then they say it was his ability to stay present. Michael Jordan lived in the present. He never focused on a shot in the future that he hadn't made yet. And what if and what could happen? He never lived in the past cause it was dead to him. All that mattered was the present moment. Right, one pitch at a time, one shot at a time, all that stuff. I got one more quick story for you, Kena, cause it's an incredible story. And obviously I'm not going to say the guy's name, but I had a guy on my podcast. It's on the cusps of Cooperstown. He's not going to get in, but he's got, a lot of home runs. He's only a few away from like probably getting into Cooperstown. And I was talking about that to him in the conversation. And he wouldn't let me put this on the podcast because it was after the podcast was over. And I said, what do you think your odds are getting to Cooperstown? And he must, he admitted to me, he has some regret. And I said, why do you have regret? And he's like, matter of fact, he started working with Harvey, his last three years in the big leagues. So his career started going downhill, started working with Harvey, and he started this incredible uptick again. Then he ended up retiring, but he started working with Harvey and he was like, wow, I started going to another level. My game started going to a level. And he goes, for my whole career, I thought having like a mental coach was like a crutch. I thought those were just for the wimps. Like I was the guy that bashed mental coaches. I was the guy that bashed mental coaches and ran into Harvey at some point and we started to work together. And he's like, what he did for me was incredible. And he says to me, he said to me, he said, had I had him my whole career, or had I bought in years earlier, he would be a slam dunk Cooperstown guy, but he's just gonna miss it. He's just gonna miss the holy grail. And he says, the reason why, I wasn't consistent mentally enough. I didn't have the tools to be consistent mentally. I just went on talent the whole time. So when sometimes I scuffle, I scuffle bad, right? And I think a mental coach really helps you to keep your process where you're not just falling off a cliff and then coming back. You're kind of riding that wave. It doesn't mean you're not gonna have your downs, but your downs are, you come back a lot quicker. And I just, I always will find that conversation fascinating. One day I hope, I'll ask, I asked if I could share it. He said, no, but I'm sharing it with you to say, the guy that was that close, the one regret he has is that he didn't work with the mental performance coach, especially Harvey Dorfinn years earlier, because somebody asking him whether he would be in Cooperstown, wouldn't even be a conversation. He would 100% have been in. One crazy thing is cases, you look at that example, here's a guy knocking on the door to get into Cooperstown, but how many guys knocking on the door to get in the big leagues? How many guys knocking on the door to even get drafted and play professional? Or how many guys knocking on the door if we keep coming down from high school to get into college, middle school to get into play high school? And I think that, you know, in the higher levels, we talk about those guys getting into Cooperstown, but I think for parents listening to this and coaches listening to this, if you start the mental game with your kids, the younger they are, if they get an opportunity to play high school baseball instead of not, or play college instead of not, the longer they can stay involved in organizational activity and athletics, I think the better opportunities they're gonna have in life. And you look at the suicide rates, you look at the depression rates, you look at the mental health issues, as we're recording this in May, and it's Mental Health Awareness Month, which I've been kinda studying, you know, and it's just the statistics of being involved in organizational sport are alarming at how positive those are for kids' mental health, you know? And for the kids who are not able to do that, maybe it's because they start mental training too earlier, they never get it even at the younger ages. So I think it's relevant, knocking on the door in Cooperstown, and it's relevant as a father who has two young kids to hopefully get my kids to be able to handle the anxieties and the pressures of anything you sport to stay in it. Dude, my kids have all, three of my kids, my youngest daughter has me up, but she's gonna have all taken Breakthrough Pro, you know, with their dad leading the course, and obviously my friend John Dennis, but dude, it's had an impact on them, no doubt about it. And think about this, you know, as a human being, your brain's not fully, you know, fully developed until you're 25 years old. You start getting these kind of concepts when you're 12, 13, 14, 15, 16 years old, you know, just something that says, hey, what's gratitude look like for your body? You know, what's accountability? Accountability, I've never heard of that, yeah, you're 14, start getting used to it, you're gonna have to be accountable to somebody, especially yourself, you know, in your life, you know, what's a proper perspective looks like? What are my limiting beliefs holding me back from, right? Like, how do you play with grit? What does that mean? What does that look like? How do I take action? I know I have these strategies and stuff, you talked about that before, like action strategy, you know, and then awareness action strategy action, like Harvey was saying, like, you know, what are these concepts? What does a process, a protocol look like? What, you know, those kind of things. So like, for me, I'm like, hey, for your kids, whether you do Breakthrough Pro, or you do Caner's, or whoever you do, find somebody that can get your kids some concepts and some actionable tools to take, whether they're on the field, or they're in school, or whether they're with their friends, whether their brains are developing not till they're 25 years old. Like, that's, for me, if I'm an adult and I'm a parent, that's what I'm doing. I'm looking for my kids to get around these kinds of concepts, life coaches or mental performance coaches. So that's my last part of it, Caner, like, hey, you got kids, start looking into this stuff. Yeah, Sean Casey, I appreciate you coming on to talk about the life and legacy of Harvey Dorfman, sharing some conversations, content, and the impact that it made on your career. Anybody who wants to check out Casey's Breakthrough Pro course that kicks up in July, I'm gonna put a link in the show notes below, make sure that you check it out there. And Sean Casey, I appreciate you making time to join us here on the Mental Performance Mastery Podcast. Caner, brother, I love you tons, man, and I'm so grateful for Harvey Dorfman. Harvey, rest in peace, I'm grateful for you, and dude, I'm grateful for you, man. You've had a big impact on my life and what you're doing for the players and all the people you work with and the athletes, man, you're this generation's Harvey Dorfman, so appreciate our friendship, dude. Love you tons, man. Love you, man. Talk to you soon, brother.