Hey, how you doing? Brian Kane, your peak performance and mental conditioning coach here with a Monday message and we're going all the way back to 1994, November, Williamstown, Massachusetts. It's a high school football banquet after my sophomore season at Mount Greylock Regional High School. Our guest speaker that night was Glenn Foley. He was an assistant coach at Williams College. And I can't exactly tell you what he said, but he changed my life. And he changed my life because he shared a poem that stuck with me to this day. That poem was The Man in the Glass by Edgar Guest. Back in 1994, I wasn't able to jump on the internet and find the poem that fast. So, I actually drove down to Williams College a few days later, went to his office, knocked on the door, and said, "Coach Foley, that poem was fantastic. It changed my life. You hit me at the right time with it. Can I get a copy of that?" And I carried a copy of that poem with me every day since. The poem goes like this. When you get what you want in your struggle for self and the world makes you king for a day, just go to the mirror and look at yourself and see what that man has to say. For it's not your father or mother or husband or wife upon whose judgment you must pass. The one whose verdict counts most in the life is the one staring back from the glass. He's the fellow to please, never mind all the rest, for he's with you clear to the end. And you've passed your most dangerous difficult task. If the man in the glass is your friend, yeah, you might be like Jack her and Chisel Plum and think you're a wonderful guy, but the man in the glass says you're only a bum if you can't look him straight in the eye. You may fool the whole world on your pathway of years and get pats on the back as you pass. But your final reward will be heartache and tears if you have cheated the man in the glass. And it hit me that time 1994. Remember it like that hit me in the audience saying, "Am I living my life? how I want to live it. Am I really doing everything I possibly can to be the best that I'm capable of? Am I pursuing a vision of what my greatest future could be? At that time, I wasn't. And you fast forward from 1994. I go to the University of Vermont for four years, play baseball, go out to Cal State Fullerton, and I remember sitting in a graduate school sport philosophy class with my mentor Ken Raiza. It was probably the only class in the two years I was with Ken Riza where I wasn't locked in, dialed in. And I can't remember what was going on, but I remember not sitting in the front row. I was sitting probably closer to the back, just not as engaged as I should have been until he put this picture on the board. Ken Revisit hung this photograph here of the existential man on the board as he was talking about philosophy and he said, "In existentialism, the answer to all of life's questions lies inside of you." and it immediately brought me back to the man in the glass and brought me back to the Taconic restaurant 1994 in Glen Foley. And I took this picture and I actually have it uh tattooed here on my leg. I put it there so that if I was wearing shorts, obviously no one's going to see it. It's a tattoo for me, not for anybody else. But I wanted to share with you the reason why and how this one picture and how that one poem and how one day can change your life and set you on a course that you couldn't even imagine. So, if you're watching this video, what's that one poem for you? What's that one image for you that makes all the difference? And I want you, I challenge you this week. Take a look inside of yourself. Ask yourself the question, who am I? What do I really want? Where am I now? Where do I want to go? Then, what's your plan to get there? If you ask yourself those questions and you're struggling with what's the plan to take me from where I am right now to where I want to be, that's what we offer one-on-one coaching for. That's what our resources are for. We're here to help you live the most amazing life possible and to have maximum success through the Monday message, through the Daily Dominator, and any of our other resources at brikane.com, and through the one-on-one and team coaching programs that we have. If you want more information, head over to briancane.com. Check out our coaching programs. Check out our products. And with any investment that you make in yourself through Brian Kane Peak Performance, if you're not 100% satisfied, we will always, always refund your investment 100%. Thanks for watching this video. When you look in the glass, don't see you for who you are today. See the best version of yourself that you possibly can be and strive to live that way today. Thanks for checking out this Monday message. Now go dominate the day.