 alcholicarcin-kelly-man, couldn't be more fired up to have you on the Mental Performance Mastery Podcast. Thanks for joining us. Yeah, thanks for having me. You know, as a Major League Baseball player and a catcher, talk about the importance of the mental game for you and what you do. I mean, I think it's pretty much everything we do. The physical side of the game is really important, but I think the mental side is what actually gets you to that next level. And having routines, following the routines, and understanding those routines, I think, is something that a lot of players don't really do. They have them, but they don't really know why they do them. Why do you do routines? It keeps me grounded. It's something, it's like my foundation. I come in every day, I know exactly what I need to do, basically down to the time of when to do it as well. And that goes with a lot of experience, a lot of trial and error and knowing what works for me, but then also being a little vulnerable and trying something new. So I think those things have really, you know, evolved over my career. And I think it's something that is, you know, that I'll continue to do until my career's over. You know, we talk about the games, the routines as a baseball player. You have a pregame routine, you have your in-game routines, and you have kind of some post-game routines. Let's dive into sort of the pregame routine from a mental performance standpoint. Obviously there's the hitting drills and stuff you're doing, but what does it look like for you if we were to follow you on a pregame routine with the Cubs on a game day? What's it look like for you from a mental performance standpoint? Yeah, I think, you know, it actually starts before you even get to the field. You know, I have a family of kids and when I walk out the door, you know, you kind of have to switch roles in a sense. You go from being at home, being present with your family and your kids and all right, now it's time to go to work. So getting in the car, you know, listening to podcasts, listening to different music, different things to kind of get you to transform into that, carcin the player. So when I get to the field, I go down into my locker, I get dressed, have my journal, I take my journal actually to where I eat, and when you go to the kitchen, get some food, and I'll run through my journal of things, you know, affirmations, three keys to keep it simple, most important tasks of the day. Hit those, do a crossword, I love the crossword, get your mind right, and then you kind of start your physical routine. You go to the gym, prep that way, go to the cage, come back, and then usually by that time I have pitchers notes and notes on the team that we're playing, so I'll run through those. We'll have a team meeting, you know, hitters meeting, go over the pitch, go over their starting pitcher, come back, have some more food, and then go in to hit a mental imagery, you know, meditation of grounding myself, understanding who I am as a player and as a person, and then hit that, the video, the hype video, which is actually probably one of my favorite parts is just to kind of, again, transform you into that zone, get you ready to go compete, and, you know, say a couple of affirmations as I'm walking out, and then it's go time. So like the alignment between the journal and what you're writing down with your one word, your three keys, your affirmations, the mental imagery audio, where you're repeating those affirmations, you're looking back at your best performance, looking forward to how you want to play that day, and then the mind movie where you're seeing yourself in your highlights from your season or from your career, and then the words that come on the screen that reinforce the affirmations and the three keys and the one word and other mindsets that you want to have, as well as the music that might be your walk up song to home plate at times, right? How does all the alignment of those things help you from just a confidence standpoint in a game of failure? I mean, you've prepared, you know, we do a lot of this too in the offseason. I mean, obviously we, we've talked about it throughout the season, but a lot of the work, I mean, we've been talking for, you know, a couple years now, but it, like this takes time and it takes hours and hours and hours of really diving into what works for me as a player and then also, you know, some adjustments I can make. And I think having that alignment, it gives you a strong foundation to go, no matter what today, I've done all the things I can control. And at the end of the day, if there's, if it's, you know, a successful day in a sense, out, great outcome wise, then great. And if it wasn't, I still did everything I could possibly do in my control to be the best player in person I can be. And that you can, you can hang your hat on every single night. Talk about evaluating from a process lens versus just an outcome lens, right? It's the middle of the Olympic hockey is coming up next week and the week that we're recording this year before spring training. And a lot of the hockey guys I work with, they evaluate their performance solely on production. It'd be like you saying solely on base hits, right? As your career has evolved and your understanding of the mental game and what's controllable has evolved, how has the way you evaluate your performance shifted from like a two for four into winning pitches and quality at bats? What's that look like for you? It's taken a long time, but it is probably the biggest mental shift I think a player has to go through to really reach the potential that they want to get to. When you, when you base your days and your attitudes and your everything on the production, on the field, where it's so volatile that it goes up and down because you can, you could do everything right and still fail. You could literally do everything right and still fail. So why am I going to dictate my day, my attitude, the way I go about my business on that? If I have something I can control and really focusing on the things that I can control, that's all that matters, right? We're putting all the effort and energy into things that you can control. Then you can be like, I did everything I can. There's nothing else I can do. I can hit an absolute rocket and some guy goes flying in the air and makes a great catch. And there's a lot of players, you see players get pissed and they're mad and they're throwing stuff and you're like, what else could you have done? Is there literally, what are you going to go out there, run out there before the ball gets to him and try and trip him? Like, like you can't do that. Yeah. So why, I mean, there, there was one moment I had that really switched my thinking. I hit a ball, I think it was in Milwaukee. And if it was, and it got caught at the track, if the, if the ball was five feet to the left, it's a home run, but it was five feet to the right. And he caught it and I go, am I really going to dictate my day on five feet? Like once I left my bat, I couldn't control it. So I, I'm not going to get upset about that. I did everything. I did everything right. So why am I going to beat myself up on something that I did and I had no control about. Yeah. And you're a millimeter or maybe less away from that ball being five feet left or five feet right off a pitch that's a hundred miles an hour. Right. Right. Like the game's hard. Yeah. Every, every game is hard. Right. And I think to get to that level of consistency that we talk about, everybody was like, Oh, how do I get better? I want to be consistent. Yeah. I want to be consistent. And the way to do that is to not have your mind wrap so much on the results. Yes. The results matter, but the things that you can control every day are going to put you in a better position to have those results that you want. You know, we were talking about how do we continue to get better, you know, as you, as you grow in your career, getting better sometimes isn't about going wider and doing more. It's about identifying what you don't need so you can do less at a deeper level. And I think the journaling, you talked about the pregame routines. One of the other things I know you're real consistent with is the in game routine of the pre-pitch routine and the radio light release. Talk to us about your pre-pitch routine at the plate. And we might show some video of this over while he's talking about it in the podcast. Yeah. Uh, it starts, you know, before you even get on the on deck circle, you know, standing like I'll stand at the tops are not the top step, one step down. And I'm going through closing my eyes. What is this? Like after every pitch that goes by on the guys that go before it'll go by and I'll close my eyes and I'll think about, I'll position myself. I'm in there like in the box. You're doing this on the on deck circle. Meant to let that I'm doing this in the, I'm in the hole in the hole. Okay. Yeah. And I'm like feeling the bat like taking deep breaths. And then when I go into the on deck circle, you know, you do, I have a routine of the way I swing, you know, take the weight, take a couple of lefty swings. Then as I, after I hit the, the, the bat weight off, then I'm locking in, I'm watching the game and I'm seeing myself, uh, every pitch that goes by out, that goes before I envision what it looks like from my perspective in the box. Then it's your time to hit you, you know, the way you walk to home plate, the way that you're holding the bat, your, your, your posture, you know, the, what you're saying to yourself. I mean, it's all, it goes, all of this makes a huge impact. You're, you're, you're all intentional. It's all scripted. It's all predetermined and practiced. I remember we were in the garage over here doing it. Like when, when the, the pitch clock came in, like, and how much time you have, and we were scripting it out and walking through it just to feel, I mean, you do, you know, you think about it, a player that plays every day, you're going to do it 6, 700 times. You still practice it. Yeah. So I'm going to practice it now. So when, when the game comes, it's just, it's just second nature. So you're practicing the way that you actually get in the box, not just hitting your practicing the way you walked to home plate with your hand on the barrel and big body language to prime and position yourself with confidence. You know, and if anybody watching this, if you check out the book, Presence by Amy Cuddy, who's a social psychologist at Harvard, she's got a TED Talk scene by probably over a hundred million people about the science and power of body language. One of the biggest things is like posturing the way you carry yourself. So why would we, I, when I've worked with the UFC fighters, we've always practiced walking to the octagon and walking big because you can lose the fight before it starts. Well, baseball players are the same way. You can lose a nap bat before it starts. If you're walking up there like Linus Dragon is, you know, towel behind him or blanket behind him because he's over his last three. Instead of you pulling the shoulders back, walking like your 10 feet home bulletproof hand on the barrel, looking at the pitcher on the mound, getting to home plate. When you get to home plate and you clean out the box, are you intentional about feeling the dirt under your feet and hearing that as you take possession of the box? Absolutely. I mean, the way you get in the way I put my bat down, the way I use my cleat to clean out and make a hole and how does it look? And, and then you put, I do a little line as well to know where my stride length is, like all of this matters. The way you step out and you take your swings, you take your breath, you know, your focal point on your bat. We talk a lot about that. It's right before you get in, you find that focal point on the bat. You take your deep breath and maybe it's one, you say one little affirmation or one little cue to like kind of lock you in for that pitch, do it, and then you come out and reset every single pitch. You win that, and your goal is to win every single pitch. And when you think about winning a pitch, that's a lot more tangible and easier of a task to do than I got to win an entire day or I got to have this average at the end of the year. It's like Kurt Sagnetti, the football coach at Indiana that just had the greatest season in the history of college football, win 16 games, talking about just stacking days, every play has a life and history of its own. It's the same thing we're bringing into baseball. 100%. You win, you, I mean, you think, if you think about the whole course of the season, it's like, I want to have a good season. Okay. How do you do that? You have a good month. And then how about that? You have a good week. And then you have a good day. And then you have it a good, good at bat. And then you have a good pitch. Like you, you break it down to such, if we can be so focused and locked in for every single pitch of a course of a year, you will be where you want to be. So good. Radio light release. You, you swing through a pitch and you miss, you start losing control. How do you flush that and get back in control for the next pitch? Yeah. There's a physical release and then a mental release. Um, for me, it's usually calling time. Cause I mean, and we only get one time, right? So I try not to use my times right away, but if I call time, it's a full step out batting glove, you know, un, unlatch it, unlatch it, put it back deep breath. And it's, and it's basically move on to the next pitch, move on. Don't get hung up on, you know, a bad call or, you know, your timing was off. And you did a bad swing or, or, you know, a bird flew in front of you, like whatever, whatever it is that pitch is over, you're moving in the next one. And I'm going to win that one. Wonderful. And you have something to go to when you get in better yellow lights because you're going to, because you're playing at the highest level. Absolutely. Right. And I think one of the things, rich, Franklin, a UFC fighter I worked with said, I asked him, so what's the biggest difference our work made? He goes, man, when we first started working together, I thought the goal was I was never going to get out of green lights. I never have self doubt. I'd never have negative thoughts. I'd never get pissed to myself. I'd never go into red yellow lights to use our language. You know, what I realized was that's impossible, but the goal is to actually recognize when you get into yellow to try to prevent red and recognize when the yellow soon, so you can try to get back to green. And I think that's the same in every sport. Um, as a catcher, right? We talked about the app at the plate routine, the radio light release, anything that you're doing from a routine standpoint behind the dish, maybe after calling a pitch, taking a breath before you get set, or if you wear one or get crossed up or something does not go on your way, do you lift the mask up as a way to like, let that go almost like your batting gloves and the mask goes back on to kind of like signify them into the next pitch. What's that look like behind the plate? Yeah, it's, it's a really good question because there's a lot of, I mean, you're catching 150 pitches a night, maybe more. And a lot of it is, is you start to think pitches ahead. Like if we're going to set a guy up this way or that. Um, but then you have to take in the information that you're given. So if the, if, if we're able to locate a heater down in a way, okay, where do we go from there? And you're kind of thinking along those lines, but a lot of the times some, we mound visits, you take a mound visit and you walk to the mound, says a lot. Instead of, you know, if you're walking quickly. Like usually, usually you go take a mound visit because something's going on. Pictures need a break. Picture is, is, uh, you know, things are moving too fast. You can see when the body language and, and you're kind of playing psychologists, trying to figure everything out, but taking that and, and understanding and, and walking with your, with, you know, shoulders back, good presence. But that kind of resets me a lot of the time. And you're taking, there's so much going on. It's like trying to calm everything down and staying within the moment and trusting your ability. You know, we put all this work in and the mental game where you, you have those routines when I get being intentional, when I'm hitting versus putting the gear on, running out to the field, right? You don't take your bats back to, back to home plate. You don't take catching your bats. So having that intentional feeling and like having that going, when you're running out to the field and going to catch, like I'm catching, I'm going to be back there, take my deep breath, every single pitch and be ready to go to help, help our team win. Last question for you. Appreciate you coming on, man. It's been, it's been awesome. You talked earlier about, about, you know, being a dad and kind of flipping the switch on the front side from dad into major league baseball player, catcher, commander, out there, leading and competing. Talk about the flip side game gets over. Regardless of the outcome of the game, how do you transition kind of out of major league baseball player, high, high performer, competitor into being a loving and serving husband and father at the end of the day who's got to go home and, and love your toddlers. Yeah. It's a lot of fun. Um, when the game's over, you know, you take your shower, you put your clothes on. Once I close that journal after I've done the recap of the day, like I'm dad, I'm dad. And I think it's been one of the biggest things that's happened in my life that has able, has enabled me to be present at the field and then come home and be dad. Like I don't want to, I don't want to be that dad that's staying up and talking about baseball constantly and doing and not being present and missing things with my kids. So when I close that journal and I go home, like, what do we have for dinner? You know, what did the kids do while I was playing? You know, I love, you know, being, and being in Chicago, we play a lot of daygames, so I'm home and I get to have dinner with them and put them to bed and read stories. And, you know, I think it's, it's a very, it's a very good thing for me to just be able to flip that switch and be there and also be there for breakfast too. Like professional sports, there's a lot of traveling and a lot of, a lot of things going on when you can be present for your family. It's one of the most special things for me. Like it gives me goosebumps. Like I love being home for my kids and, and also sharing, you know, what I do, but also having that flip, flipping that switch is, you know, it's fun. I know I said last question, but I got to, I got to dig in on a couple more. You know, Matt Carpenter said something to him. He was on one of the first college baseball teams I ever worked with at TCU in 06. So I can't remember what year it was, maybe 23. He's playing with San Diego and I go to see him and we're, and we're pregnant. We're getting ready to have a kid. And I said, man, what difference did having a kid make for you? Like, how did that change things for you? And he said, the biggest thing a kid did for me was, you know, it gave me something else in my life that was, was as important to me as baseball had been my whole life. He goes, so it was easier for me to turn the baseball switch off at the end of the day, because I was turning the dad switch on. And he goes, and when you can turn it off, you have more to give when you turn it on, when you come back in the next day. And he's like, I always thought my edge was being a grinder and first guy there, last guy to leave. And he goes, and there was an element in a time of my career where that was true. But when I had a kid, I was able to give more when I had to turn it on. Have you found that same thing for you? Yeah, for sure. Yeah. It just, it makes you really enjoy those moments because you know, it's essential. Yeah. And at the end of the day, too, like baseball is going to come and go, but your family's going to stay there. Yeah. Your family will be with you. And I think that's really, that helps me give, give my all when I'm at the field. Cause I know the game, the game will end one day. Um, and I want to give everything I can to the game, but also to my family as well. And I think having that balance, I'm able to give more like, like Matt was saying, like give more when I'm at home because I know like baseball is baseball. I'm going to go home and be, be the dad. And then when I come back, I can lock back in. He was a mental performance coach. I was working with a guy named Charlie Smith and we were talking about turning the switch off at the end of the day. He goes, don't look at it like turning the switch off. He goes, look at it like turning the switch on for being a dad. He's like, your switch is on for coaching or playing all day. Then when you go be a dad, you turn that switch on. And he's like, if you're thinking about, I can't turn my coach switch off or I can't turn my player switch off. Think about it like this. I can't turn my dad switch on. Who wants to say that? Nobody. Yeah. Right. Like you got to be able to turn the dad switch on and, and the player or the coach switch on, you got to be able to turn them on when they need to be on in order to turn one on the other one can get turned off or dimmed. But like you got to be able to turn that dad switch on too. I thought that was like, I'm so, so trying to turn this one off when it's like, no man, turn that one on and that one goes off automatically. It's just a different perspective. It's like clap on, clap off. Yeah. Yeah. Speaking of the clapper, man, I saw you clap with that order ring on there. Talk to us. How do you use the order ring? What's that do for you? Yeah, I use it. I mean, a lot during the offseason, just to understand my recovery and my sleep. And I would say use it mostly for sleep during the season, knowing, you know, how much we were working and the travel and knowing when I get a good night's sleep. And it might, it might help me adjust my workouts the next day or how do I approach that day when we were talking earlier, like the routine. It's like knowing, you know, if we get home late, if we get a three a.m. four a.m. when we're getting home, you're probably not going to work out hard the next day. So knowing, knowing how you recover, knowing those, those numbers and, and, you know, sleep scores, all that stuff. But then you can make adjustments in court during the course of the year. Like, oh, I'm not getting enough sleep. So I like, how do I mix in a nap here to help me get enough recovery so my body doesn't break down? There's a lot of technology out there that can, that can really help you, you know, be, be at your most efficient cell. Well, I think it also increases your awareness, right? It increases your awareness of if I eat late, if I drank, if I'm on my phone in bed, what happens to my recovery scores the next day? If I engineer a good night's sleep and I eat, you know, three hours before bed and I'm not on my phone and blue light glasses on or hold plunge sauna, whatever. How does that increase what I'm doing? And then also knowing, like if you're grinding and you're sick and you're a couple of days in a row of like lower scores and there and you have people coming into town or you're on the road and you're in a city, which in every city, there'd be somebody who would want to take you to dinner or whatever it is. It makes it a thing a little bit easier for you to say no to those things because you're like, no, I got to prioritize sleep tonight because the last three days I've been grinding and I'm validating what I feel by being able to look at the data, you know. And then I think just by being aware, you're going to make better decisions to try to win that game because you're a competitor. 100%. I love it. Awesome. Carson Kelly, thanks for being on the Metal Performance Mastery podcast, brother. You've been great. Absolutely. Thanks for having me.