่ell่ell, AIR AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER AIER What was it that caused you to want to get into the mental game when you were playing, you know, back when it wasn't really as popular or normal as it is now? What was it was because I was a top pick out of high school. I was going to go to University of Florida. I was a good student. I actually wanted to go to college. I was drafted by the New York Yankees. George Steinbrenner got involved, gave me an offer I couldn't refuse. I signed professionally. Three years later, I'm pitching in Yankee Stadium, debuting. I grew up in New Jersey. While I grew up a Mets fan, this was like batshit crazy, like, oh, my God, pinch myself. Don Mattingly's at first base. Willie Randolph is at second. Bobby Meacham, Mike Pagliarula, Dave Winfield in right, Claudel Washington center, and Ricky Henderson left. I'm throwing to Rick Cerrone, who was already like veteran guys all the way around. And I say that, Brian, because I got to the big leagues like a lot of talented guys, right? Like, the talent proceeds or overwhelms actually what the hell you're doing or what you even think you know you're doing. So I get to the big leagues, and I don't know what I'm doing. I'm there in 87, 88, 89. I get traded, and it was the start of some injuries. And the setbacks of physical, and I had some success. But when I tell you I didn't know what I was doing, I didn't know what I was doing. Like, with respect to a process and a plan and all the things that I knew. All right. So I'm going to say – so during that time, I had Lou Piniella, old school tough guy. Billy Martin was in my first full year in the big leagues, old, old school tough guy. And then in 1989, George Steinbrenner hired Dallas Green, old school tough guy. So we never talked about the mental game. It just wasn't a thing. You were a – pick your word if you were to start engaging in the mental game. I'll tell you this. In A-ball, I'm in Fort Lauderdale coming up. And again, when I tell you – I don't know. They said I threw – I threw upper 90s, but whatever the guns are now, whatever. I had a big arm. Didn't know what I was doing. But Bucky Dent was the A-ball manager in Fort Lauderdale Yankees. And he knew – and I was wild. He brought in a hypnotist. I go in this back room at the Fort Lauderdale Stadium in the clubhouse. And I'll be honest. I'm hyper shit as you are. So think about this. I'm sitting. It was laughable. So Bucky's like, I got this hypnotist guy. And again, it was a disguise for your mental process sucks. And you got to start figuring out what the hell is going on between your coconut. So we go in this room. And we got this hypnotist. And he's doing this thing. And I'm telling you, Brian. It's like a scene out of The Natural. It was The Natural. And I'm sitting there. He goes, okay, close your eyes. And he turns the lights down. And now I'm getting a little creepy. I'm like, this is weird shit. And he's like – and then he's like doing this thing. And I'm looking at him. I'm looking at him. I'm like, are you kidding me? So he sees him. It's not going. But he's trying to get me in this place. And I look at the guy. Don't even – I forget his name. If you ever run into Bucky Dunn, ask him about him bringing the hypnotist for Al. And I looked at him. I said, sir, man. I think I started laughing. I said, this isn't for me. Like I'm like follow the birdie. Like right now I'm looking at all the shit around you. Like I'm – you know what I'm talking about because you're the same shit. So that doesn't work. But my point was there wasn't a mental process. Fast forward, two shoulder surgeries, one at 23, one at 25. Went back to college, started accumulating college credit. I thought I was going to get a job on Wall Street and become a trader. And my career is done after three seasons in the big leagues. My first pitching coach in Oneonta, New York, was Gil Patterson. Gil Patterson then left New York Yankees and went to the Oakland A's. Met Carl Keel slash Harvey Dorfman. Harvey Dorfman was working in the A's system in the 80s – back in the 80s. End of 90s. And he said, you know how – I'm driving in – I'm down in Fort Lauderdale area in the winter in Plantation, Florida. And I'm driving by a field and I see Gil Patterson. He was big on stick drills and he was working with kids. And I'm like, wait a minute. That's Gil. I pull over. I hadn't seen Gil since Oneonta, which was like – Yeah, yeah. 84, 85, 67, 89. I hadn't seen Gil in six years. I said, Gil. He's a great guy. Do you know Gil? No, no name. Oh, my God. Unbelievable human being. He just finally retired from like pitching coordinator stuff, big league pitching coach at times. And we connected. And he started working with me. This was after a second shoulder operation. Dr. Andrews did both surgeries. And, you know, back then, 89 and 91 were my surgeries. Like, you know, it's – Not like it is today. I'm not saying it was the 50s where they were like, you know, using like, you know, chainsaws. But it was not like it is today. Okay. And he said – he said to me, like after we started working, he said – he goes, you know who Harvey Dorfman is? I'm like, fucking Harvey? Like the baseball Bible mental book? I got them all together out there. ABC's the pitching, mental game of baseball. Damn right you do. Mental game of hitting. And I know. I know you've got your wall of your guys. Yeah, yeah, yeah. All right. And you've got a lot more. Okay. I said, yeah, it's a baseball Bible of every minor league player. You should go see him. Okay. I connected with Harvey immediately. Like how you have the ability to connect with people because you got it. Some people got it. Some people don't. There's a lot of people in this business that have good information but they don't know how to get the shit appropriately to the player. I flew out from – I was in Florida. I flew out to Phoenix. Harvey picked me up. He lived in Prescott, Arizona. He had a breathing, you know, lung thing that he needed, like no humidity, et cetera. He and Anita were up there. His kids were already grown. And for a weekend, it was like a think tank. It was in his basement. You know, Anita's wife was, you know, wonderful lady. But he taught me a mental process after being in the big leagues, 87, 88, 89. And I met Harvey the winter of 91 going into 92. And it was the start of me knowing what my job was. And, you know, I know you know this. And I'm telling you, I'm just looking at you. I know you know all this shit. But I can't believe that we are now fast forward in an era where every team has a psychologist. They got their sports coaches. They got their mental, this, sentimental, that. Most of them aren't very good. Most of them have the information. But they're not very good because guys that they're dealing with are alphas. You don't get to the major league level without being some kind of alpha. Now, you may show it differently. Some guys are a little more introverted, a little bit quiet. Some guys are a little more quiet. But you got this. You don't get to this level. So when you have a mental coach trying to pierce this and it's a massively insecure game, the only way that you can get through that is to accept and admit that sometimes you're fucked up. But for the lack of a better word, I need some, I need a little guidance here. I need to get back on the track. So when I talk to guys about a mental process, and the job for a pitcher is to be mentally and physically prepared to execute a quality pitch consecutively until the manager takes the ball, the game is over without allowing the exterior distractions to come into the task at hand. Yes. Is it out of his book? Yes. But it's real. So real. When you get to that tangible place, and I know you teach it, like that's all that matters. I got control of this ball right here. Who's up? Okay. Okay. You know, Frank Thomas. Okay. I got to get in on him. He's off the plate. He dives out over. He crushes right center. He likes the ball out over the plate. Okay. Fastball in. Slider now. Change up now. Fastball in. And they're pages of books. I know you know this shit. But when you have guys that don't have a process and they don't have a plan, they don't know. Tell the guy. How many answers do you get, Brian? Hey, what's your job as a pitcher? Yeah, just this past week. I got probably 15 before somebody said execution. What are the typical answers? Throw strikes. Get guys out. Keep my team in the game. Hang a zero. Punch tickets. Compete. Work fast. Be aggressive. Go five innings to save the bullpen. Have a shutdown inning. All of which are outcomes of doing your job. With your job being execute this pitch right here, right now. And if you execute this pitch and you put the count in your favor, you have more options than you do if you don't execute the pitch. And the count is now in the hitter's favor. You know? And it's like if you just focus on the simple task of what you can control. And I think that's the biggest thing I always go back to in the mental game is what do I have control over here? Where I throw the baseball. Not the umpire. And one of my high school teammates, Chris Conroy, is a major league baseball umpire. And if they let him umpire in the big leagues, they might as well let somebody who's blind umpire in the big leagues. Shout out Chris Conroy. But, you know, the uh. He's one of the things that he's got to strike. No, he's great. He's great. But the uh. But the idea that like your focus. When you think your job is something that you cannot control. But in baseball, the only thing you can control as a pitcher is where you throw the ball. Can't control umpire. Can't control the guys behind you. Can't control what the hitter does. And you can execute a pitch exactly where you want to. To the location. With the shape. Exact design. And it gets hit for a home run. That's right. And you actually won that pitch. Because you executed the pitch. So it's why the other day. An article came out about your son Jack. And his quote was all about execution. And I'm like, I wonder where he got that. That's how Al talks. You know. So to see him talking about execution. To hear you talk about it. To hear Harvey Dorfman. If you just pick up the book. The ABC's of Pitching. And just go through the chapter on execution. It's like light bulb goes off. That goes, well, my job actually is quite simple. But people are complex. I remember I had a day with Harvey. And he said that. He goes, yeah. Baseball is simple. People are complex. And so bringing it back to you. But here, part of that. I'm sorry. But I started it with mentally and physically prepared. To execute a quality pitch. Right? So the mental process. And I'm going back to my first manager, Billy Martin. And anybody who's out there knows Billy Martin stories. If you don't, look it up. I mean, he fought his. You know, he'd punch his players. And he'd punch a marshmallow man in the elevator. And like he was a tough old school dude. So you weren't talking about the mental stuff. And then, therefore, as a result of something that is massively important. It's greater than, I don't know, if we were to value it, it's more than 50%. Because there's so many guys that are in the Hall of Fame that I know that didn't have my stuff. I'm not a Hall of Famer. I had a nice career. I had great moments. But I didn't figure it out. And there's, it's, yes, stuff is nice. My son, you mentioned, like he could throw upper 90s and touch triple digits. Still got a pitch. Gosh, when I talked to him, I was like, Jack, that's awesome. But like, you know, 102-0-2-1, you're pitching on type route. You know, hey, you know, your secondary pitches, you landed it 40% of the time. You got to, you know, just, you know, and those things you can control. But the mental process, mentally prepared. What is that? It's a scouting report. It's your breathing. It's your visualization. It's going over the night before of the lineup. And I'd close my eyes and make the pitches. And I'd have three perfect innings. And then I would pitch myself into jams. I'd never give up a run in my visualization when I used to do it before I'd fall asleep. But I would, I'd create a jam. You know, walk the first guy, base hit, and then get out of it. Whatever. Feel, feel, look and feel what that, what that feels like to get out of it. And then the physical. That's what all these guys work on. I watch Jack. I'm like, well, all these guys. I go to these gyms. These guys are massive. They're freaking, they're, they're, they're action figures. But if you're not working on this, and then you're wondering, like, why things go sideways. This is what I tell people. When I'm talking to big leaguers, high school, college, where you play. I said, when you get in a slump, how do you get out of it? I never say if. Man, that's the thing. When we watch a season, we'll have our Cy Young guys. Cy Young guys may only have two or three bad starts. MVP guys, they don't have bad months. They might have a bad week or 10 days. The mortals, you know, they're having, they're having a really good month. They're having a so-so month. They had a great month. They had a bad month. Bad months, five starts. Joel Tabelli, who was the manager of the Orioles back in the late 70s. No, early 80s. He worked for Steinbrenner in the minor leagues. And he said, Al, I look at my starters in the month, five starts. I said, I need for you to dominate and win. Dominate could be, you know, back then it was seven innings or more. You're going to have two mediocre starts. One might be a no decision. One might be a loss. You might even snake a win. Five and a third and you give up four. And then you're going to have a bad start. So I look at it in five innings. You have six months, right? 30 starts. Dominate. So-so. Bad. So you're going to have six bad games. He goes, you know what that season is? He said 15 and 12. So when you start thinking about, you know, it's like the player is like he's 0 for 8, 10, 12, 14. I don't give a shit what it is. You know, instead of like, okay, you know, I'm going to get 550 at bats. How do I get out of it? And that goes back to, as a pitcher, it's the tangible aspect of executing a pitch. Mentally, physically prepared to exploit Brian Kane's weakness. He doesn't like soft down and away. I'm going to tease him with cheese balls near his face and I'm going to get him down and away. And he's going to flail at it and hopefully he hits it at somebody or misses. He might dribble one through the hole or crack his bat and doink one over the first baseman's head. But now mentally tough guys are like, okay, it's part of the game. You mentioned earlier, umpires are inconsistent. Maybe I don't have the best shortstop or a left fielder who's slow. And, you know, shit like that. But that's not my control. Get on a mental plan and a mental process. Every time that I do it, I go up to Cape Cod every year. Kelly Nicholson. You know Kelly? Yeah, Orleans. Beyond love the guy. He is just salt of the earth. And he lets me hang out with the guys. I'll watch bullpens. And then I talk to the team. And I've been doing it since Jack was, how old are you in fourth grade? Whatever. Eight, nine. Yeah, so Jack's been coming up there. And, you know, and it's just, and so many big league guys. Oh, your guy, Corbin, was there one of the years. Yeah, Burns. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, Burns was there. Then he went to St. Mary's or something like that. But there's a bunch of guys. But it's the first thing I say. I was like, all right. I start with the pitchers and then I get to the hitters. And, you know, I think it's getting better because of guys like you, of what your job is. I was going to ask you, how have you seen the mental game evolve, right? You've seen, like, you have a kid who's in the big league. So you've been in baseball as a player. You've been in baseball now working for the MLB Network sort of as an analyst. Now you're in the Major League Baseball as a father to a son. You know, you've seen it from a lot of really cool different areas. How have you seen the mental game evolve over the course of your career? Phenomenally better. As I said, I know I'm beating a dead horse. I came from a place where you didn't talk about the mental game because you were weak. I can't believe your mental game. You're not mentally tough. So then you'd hide behind it. And it was the worst thing you could do. You know, in order to have resolution, you must have revelation. In order to solve something, you have to find out what the hell the problem is. And if you hide behind it, and I shared this with you earlier, and I share it all the time. But, you know, you have a guy and you look at it and you're like, damn, 6'5 ERA. His last four starts, he hasn't gotten out a third inning. Hey, Bri, how you doing, man? You doing all right? Round of coffee, eating eggs in the morning. Yeah, yeah, man, I'm good. So what's going on, man? No, no, no, I'll figure it out. Push you away, hurry up, get the coffee, run out of the room. Man, that guy's not good. And that's where, like, I got to a place. And I said it publicly. Radio, Mike and the Mad Dog, New York City, back of New York Post. I'm like, right now, it's like I'm four starts, bad starts. I got a 6 ERA. Hey, man, what's going on? Hey, the Mets are, you're supposed to be the ace. You're not. I know, I know. You know what? I'm struggling right now. But I'll figure it out. I got it. You know, my curveball's not right. I haven't had a feel for a changeup. Whatever. I'll give you whatever might patronize you to throw a couple quotes to get the hell out of me. But I am going to figure this shit out. But if I do the pretend, no, no, I'm good. Yeah, yeah, yeah. No, no. No, you're not. No, you're not. Let's get to the real shit. It's like addiction, right? I'm people who are addicted to shit. Like, how many people hide behind alcoholism or drugs or whatever? Like, if you don't want to fix it, tell everybody you're all right. But if you want to get better, and then you realize you're not alone. I'm not insecure. I'm not a puss. Like, this is important. Well, it's like an example you shared, right, of talking to a player recently. You're like, do you have a hitting coach? Do you go to the weight room? Right? That idea of like, yeah, I go to the cage for at least an hour a day. Yeah, I'm in the weight room an hour a day. What are you doing for the mental game? Nothing. Well, how important is the mental game of baseball? A guy is going to say 90% mental at the major league level because everyone's good. Well, what are you doing to work on your mental game? Nothing. But they still don't connect the dots. Like, you can actually train the mental game and coach the mental game by doing drills, concentration grids, mental imagery, breath work, watching video, highlight video of yourself, and seeing good shapes, all those things, scouting report, whatever you want to call it. You can actually drill and train the mental game like you do your swing, like you do your pitch shapes. But guys don't understand that yet in 2026. Because you're scared, right? I mean, you know, I think you're an open book. I'm definitely an open book. Now, people might find that annoying. Like, yeah, he talks a lot. Shut up, Al. I just think we're all on this planet and we're all flawed. And if I reveal something that you might think, wow, did you hear what Al said? I might help you. I might help somebody to realize, somebody who was lucky enough to get 19 years in the big leagues and do some really cool stuff, that we're all in that place. It's how do we get out of it? And we're talking about baseball now, but we're talking about life, right? How many friends and family members and stuff that we just are stuck. So from the time I met Harvey to where I started understanding what my job was, and it transcended into being a husband and a parent and a friend and a person in the community. And, you know, we could just extend that circle of, oh, that's interesting. Yeah. I'm not sure about that, but you know what? I'm going to look into it. Hey, what do you think? Blah, blah, blah. I do it on television. There's a, somebody might throw me, because we free roll it at MLB Network and I love it because it's like this. And they have cameras that are out there, but we're not supposed to square up to a camera. As soon as we square up to the red light, they go to a three shot because they want us to just be a couple ex-big leaguers talking shop. And, you know, sometimes there's, you know, it's only baseball, but I am not afraid. If I did Yankees for 12 years, Michael Kay was the play-by-play for the Yankee Yes Network. And there might be something where he just throws a, hey, Al, what's he doing? You know, Michael, I'm not really sure. You know, here you are an analyst on television. How many guys talk a lot of shit and they pretend like they know what they're talking about? I don't know. Man, I think it's this. Hey, I'm not a hitter, and I'm going to talk to Kevin Long tomorrow, but it looks to me he's not, you know, like, it's okay. You can't know everything. So there's something endearing about that when you could get to the rawness of the human mind of accepting our limitations. Because that's how we get better. Look how you got better. I mean, this shit's, like, nicer. You got cameras all over the place. You got a fancy background here. No, because you're good. And you connect. Continuing to try to get better. And trying to get better. Because you're real. And don't patronize, guys. One of the things that I think that, and I've worked with the Mets for a few years, and we bring in sports mental coaches or whatever. I don't know what they call them. Performance coaches. And they're nice people. But I call it out right away. I mean, that's how I eventually got to you. Because there was some experience with other people. And I just look at them like, no, this. And you got to, you got to, what is it? Pat. Know the players. You got to pat. Kick in the ass. And leave alone. Right? And that's real. I played with Kevin Brown with the Marlins. We both signed in 1996. And then we win the World Series in 97. We beat Cleveland. The best year. And I play with Hall of Famers. The best year I saw as a starting pitcher, as a teammate, in my career, 19 seasons. And I play with some great ones. Kevin Brown. Harvey Dorfman. He was hired by Dave Dombrowski to go to the Marlins from the A's when he was doing all the A's stuff. I'm telling you, Brian. I don't remember him pitching less than seven innings. Well, 97 was my senior year of high school. I was a huge Kevin Brown fan. The guy was intense. Like, it was so fun to watch. Yeah. So, Harvey, who's as raw and as real as a human can get and will get in your face. Little dude like this wearing a hat and he looked like a goofy little guy. But he will get in your face. Kevin and I are different massively in so many ways, right? As people. You know, whatever. I'm lefty and he's serious. Like, you know. And I like Brown. I saw him recently. But, like, massively intense. But Harvey knew how to mess with me and he knew how to deal with Kevin. You know, like that. And you know that. You deal with guys. Like, you figure out what makes them click. Which is the first thing. Find out who they are before you start trying to fix them. And Harvey was good with that. That's why he did the immersion. And you do the same thing. That's why we built the pool house. Yeah. I want to know who is this guy. If he lets me crack the nut and find out what kind of upbringing he had, what was his upbringing? That's how we're a product of our upbringing, right? Yeah. But some of us get out of maybe something that was dysfunctional, et cetera. But so he was able to do things to modify what the player is. And I think a lot of these performance coaches, they read their stuff. They go to the classroom. They have their professors telling their things. They have all this stuff. And they're smart. But it doesn't. It doesn't connect. Yeah. We don't connect. And when I say the tip of the spear, and I'm not beating my chest on that, but... You were one of the first guys. I was. I was. Yeah. And Mad Dog, if you get... Do you talk to Greg Maddox? Not yet. No. Yeah. So Mad Dog, he was... We came up together. By the way, I was telling... When this all started, I was drafted in the second round. 1984, second round. Greg Maddox was a high school player out of Las Vegas. We were both first team All-American out of high school. I was the lefty in New Jersey. Greg Maddox was the righty out of Las Vegas. Second rounder, Greg Maddox. Three picks in front of me. Second round, Billerica Mass, Tommy Glavin. He was 47th pick. I was 50th. And I think Mad Dog was like 38 or something in there. And Mad Dog got... You know, again, it came back to the Harvey Dorfman book. But Greg talks about it over the years. About, you know, hey, I figured... Like his... A couple things that stood out in my... I remember I pitched the same day as Mad Dog. And then two days later, I have a side day. We're still at Turner Field. I go out. It was right center for the visiting team. He's left center. Or maybe it was vice versa. And I noticed that Maddox, he threw his entire bullpen from the stretch. And I'm watching. Because Maddox was already a dude. Like, I don't know how many size he already had. And he didn't throw hard. But he was unbelievable. Impeccable. Command. Great movement. Etc. And we get done. And I kind of waited for him. And, you know, he's reserved. Like, he's not going to bounce over to me. And I said, Maddox, you didn't throw anything from the windup. And, again, back to, like, real simple stuff that's not profound. He says, when you have to make a pitch, are you winding up or are you throwing from the stretch? Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding, ding. Yeah. Of course. Walk the first guy. Dribble up the middle. It's first and third. And there's guys that probably throw their entire bullpen out of the windup. Right. Yeah. Right. And it's... But it's like... Yeah. That was me. Because I felt better. Like... You feel better. You feel better with your windup. But you're not... It's second and third, one out. You're not winding up. That was... But so... And then Maddox talking about, if the game is mostly mental, I need to start working on the mental game. I'm surprised you haven't gotten him. Does he... Does he, like... No. That's going to be an off-the-air conversation to make that happen. Somebody... Who was I talking about? I mean, he's out here, right? He's in Vegas, I think. Right. I think... No, but he comes out here. He... Yeah. With his bro, Neil Mike's now. With... Who's he with now? The Angels. Angels. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, Kurt Suzuki's with the Angels now, too. As a manager. Hey, Kurt is a player, 2002 and three at Fullerton, man. I'm excited for him. And I say that, and I'm sure there's some others, but I can't think of... I was a young kid in the late 80s, and I don't remember there being guys talking about the mental game. And obviously it was out. I don't know what year, Harv... Harv probably wrote that book in right around 86, 87. Yeah, yeah. Somewhere in there. 88. Yeah. Awesome. Al, last question for you. If you could remove the skullcap of all the people playing in Major League Baseball right now, and you could plant one seed about the mental game, right? Knowing that some players are working with mental performance coaches, and some players don't even know what it is, right? You got the whole gamut. What's that seed that you would plant for those guys now with all the experience and the wisdom that you've gained in your whole life and career that you'd say to a player, you'd plant that seed now about the mental game? Okay, so I might need a couple seeds, but one, we touched on it. You know, do you have a mental... First of all, I would start out, do you have a mental process, mental plan? Yes. Okay. Then my number one seed to start growing that plant would be control what you can control. I think it's an insecure sport. It's about failure. It's not about if, it's when you get in a bad stretch and how you get out of it. And the thing that always boils back to success or at least solace in your space is I can control this. What can you control? And how do you not get to a place of start, oh, he could have had that. Oh, the umpire screwed me. Like, oh, the manager sucks. Like, what? Mentally, physically prepared. Now, I'm using it as a pitcher, but you can flip it. Use it for anything, yeah. And control what you can control. That's mental toughness. Mental toughness isn't going back to the dugout and throwing shit and cursing and fighting. That's not mental toughness. That's not mental toughness. Mental toughness is to be in that space. I know what you teach because I know with my son, but it's to stay there. That's why Dave Stewart, he used to wear his hat like this. I said, Stu, why'd you do that? He goes, man, I just want to look at the... Stu, you know. Have you been around, Stu? No. Badass. Yeah. And he goes, I'm just going to look. You know, I don't want to look around all around here. I'm looking at the catcher. I'm like, makes sense. You know, and if that's it, execute, execute, execute. And then you look up on the scoreboard, wow, seven innings. Right, right. One run, eight punch outs. Yeah. Right. By going one pitch at a time. Focus on execution. Mentally prepared. Mentally and physically prepared to execute a pitch consecutively. Quality pitch. Until they take the ball out of your hand. Quality pitch. Quality pitch. Until they take the ball or the game is over. Without allowing. The caveat. You know it. Is all of this. I think you got nice new lights. How many cameras you got here? Four. Yeah. Like, don't. Like, boom. Right? Yeah. I don't know. I didn't even think about that until you mentioned it. Right? Yeah. Yeah. Good. Now, Ladder, thanks for being back here, man. Let's go get another coffee. By the way, and it sounds like I'm patronizing you, but I don't. But I'm glad you exist because you're making a difference. Not just for Jack. Because you're not bullshit. And while you have a nice living and you're making good money and deserving, don't be afraid. And I know you're not. When a guy's needing, you know, the kick in the ass. Because there's a lot of people out there that don't do that. And I know you do. Yeah. And you're making people better. You're a coach. You're literally a life coach. Right? Yeah. Like, what are we doing here? What's our purpose? You're helping people be better. You're helping people on their journey to try to get closer to where they want to be. Yeah. You know, and whether you're a baseball player listening to this, a pitcher, or an executive listening to this, controlling what you can control is paramount to success at anything that you do. Anything that you do. You know? And I think a lot of stuff we're talking about mentally and physically prepared to execute a quality pitch. Well, are you mentally and physically prepared to go on an executed quality podcast? Are you mentally and physically prepared to go in and execute a quality day of being a girl dad? You know? And that's part of why I invest into some of the fitness and recovery equipment stuff you were giving me shit for earlier. And why I quit drinking was one's helping me be more mentally and physically prepared to go and serve. And the other one is not. You know? And at one point, it may have served me in other capacity. And now it's like, it doesn't really serve me anymore. I do four things. Fitness, family, coach, and create. And if it doesn't fit within one of those four things and improve my fitness, family, coaching, or creating, why am I doing it? And Sean Casey's been a massive part of that. Just helping with an intention and accountability. And, you know, I think anytime you guys share your stories and share your life experience, there's two types of experience, expensive and inexpensive. Expensive experience is making all the mistakes yourself. Inexpensive experience is learning from people who have wisdom and knowledge and experience from being further down the road. And I look at, shit, my life is really trying to take all the inexpensive experience you can gather from Ken, from Harvey, from guys like you, from Case, from, you know, Matt Holiday and other guys who've had a chance to be around that got to work with Harvey or work with Ken and learn what they did to try to accelerate my learning curve so I can accelerate the advancement of players in their career and their lives. Let me add to that because that's awesome. And I hate to put a bow on that. It doesn't need it. But don't allow your insecurities to get in the way of what you just described. I love what you said because we learn from everything you said. Like you encapsulate. When you have a professor in front of the room and he's teaching the class, somewhere there was a professor or somewhere there was somebody who taught that, right? We're always passing this baton. And, you know, I find the insecurity of the human mind to get in the way of, what was the last word of your, of your, what you live by? To serve? No, the last one. Fitness, family, coaching, create? Create. Yeah. Create. Create is to what? Get better. You're looking for more or, you know, further it along. And I think our insecurities get in the way of, eh. Yeah, well, we get into a comparison mindset instead of a compete mindset, right? And it's like you get on a plane and compare yourself flying across the country in any category. There's someone on that plane who's got more bigger, better than you do. But if you just compete to be a better version of you, you know, and better today than yesterday, better tomorrow than today, keep making progress. Progress is the goal, not perfection, you know? And to try to be better, you have to make progress and you better have a process. And if you run those two things, the outcome will take care of itself. Maybe not immediately. It's not an exact science, right? It's like execution doesn't lead to result immediately. But over the law of average and the percentage of a season, the execution will dictate the outcome. But the fact that you are even thinking that, create, is that you're trying to get better. It doesn't mean you're going to get better. But if I'm, if I today, I'm trying to do something to make myself a little better, I may not be better. But the very intention of trying to be better is making you better. It's a goal. Exactly. That sounds like a yogiism, but it is. Right? Yeah. Yeah. I might not be better at the end of the day, but I'm thinking about being better. Yeah, yeah, yeah. It's awesome. And you've created that life now. Yeah. Based on your discipline. Creating and hoping to be better today than yesterday. You are. You know, and keep moving forward. Al, thanks for being here, brother. You got a big fancy board here. This is nice. I don't know how to do any of that. I just hire people. Yeah, you do. Good to see you.