Hey everybody, Brian Kane, your peak performance coach here and thanks for checking out this short video about two of the greatest things that happen in sports. It's two of the reasons why we compete and you saw it just last night in the UFC when Holly Holm, a huge underdog, shocked the world and took down the undefeated and undisputed Ronda Rousey. Ronda Rousey had been tearing through people had won her last three title fights in like an under twominute span and all three of them combined and Holly Holmes sent her to the canvas with a world shocking knockout in the second round. You see, it was world shocking to everybody except for maybe Holly Holm. You see, you've got to have a belief. You've got to know that you can come back and you've got to know that you can win in any situation. Anytime there's a fight, anytime there's a competition in anything, there's only two people that step out there. There's only two teams. And when those two teams step out there, there's only going to be one winner. You got A-50/50 shot every time. Don't tell Holly Holmes you couldn't win that fight. Don't tell Matt Sarah he couldn't beat George St. Pierre, April 7th, 2007 UFC 69 down in Houston. And don't tell these TCU Horn Frogs right here in Fort Worth, Texas, down 8 to1 in the eighth inning against NC State in an NCAA regional matchup and they come back to win. Anything is possible. And in athletics, you got to believe that you can win. You got to believe that you can go out there and that you can succeed. Oh, and here's the second piece. How do you respond when you get sent to the canvas? How do you respond when you get knocked down? When George St. Pierre lost that fight April 7th, 2007 to Matt Sarah, he came back and went on a 7-year tear undefeated, maybe going down in the history as the greatest mixed martial arts fighter of all time. How is Rhonda going to respond? That's what's going to be most fascinating. is not that she lost, but how was she going to respond? That's what we're looking for. And TCU, how did they respond? Well, on that Saturday night against NC State, they were up 4 to3 in the ninth inning. Their all-American closer Riley Ferrell on the mound, two outs, he's throwing 97 mph. And then a player from NC State after a walk goes dead center. Home run right there. Frogs lose 5-4. They got to come back and win twice on Sunday, beating NC State in that second game. And then they got to come back and win again on Monday to earn the right to go on and play in a super regional. And they did. They got off the canvas and they swung. I can't wait to see well how Ronda Rousey is going to respond to this adversity. And I can't wait to see how you're going to respond to the adversity that's coming your way. Remember two things of why we love competing. We love to prove doubters wrong. We love to go out there and shock the world. And we love to see how we respond to adversity. Dominates your day.