Hey guys, what's going on? Brian Kane, your peak performance coach here with a Monday message. Just wanted to come at you with a couple of my uh gentlemen here wearing some Quaptona Beach tank tops. Played for 7 Park High School in Maryland and their team hit over 50% quality at bats over spring break. So, I'm here paying them a visit, saying hello. Beautiful day here on the Chesapeake Bay where the Blue Angels are going to fly. Here's what we were talking about. You see, you got to you got to ABC. You got to always be coaching. And in this message, I want to share with you the person who's going to win the race. You see, they had heard the story about the tortoise and the hair. And they know that who starts faster, gentlemen, the who? The hair. The hair. The hair. The rabbit starts faster. And then the tortoise always wins, though, because it's patient. It's persistent. Most importantly, as these guys know with hitting quality at bats, it was consistent. You see, you've got to be patient. You've got to be persistent. And you've got to be consistent in pursuit of what you want. However, you must also start fast. Now, if you were to take a hybrid of the tortoise and the hair, put it together, you get an animal that we would call Smokey, and it would smoke both of them. But let's say you took Smokey, a combination of someone who was fast, who started fast, finished strong and was patient, persistent, and consistent along the way, and they worked hard. Well, they would might get beat by the person who worked smart, but we don't know that. But we do know that the person who would win that race would be the one who worked what we call smarter. New term developed right here on this boat. Smarter and harder. S M A R D E R. Can you work smarter? Can you work smart and hard at what it is you're pursuing? Start fast, finish strong, be patient, consistent, and persistent along the way. So, here's to you working harder and smarter, which we now call smarter. #smarter. Give it to them, boys. Dominate the day.