 Tons of fitness videos, tons of fitness videos, tons of fitness videos, promis the secret to losing fat fast, then hit you with a workout that would make a navy steel throw up, boiled chicken for lunch, and lots of crying. If you're not suffering, it's not working. But what if I told you a simple walking method can burn fat faster than killing yourself with cardio? I know that sounds hard to believe, but it's just one of four science-backed strategies I'll show you to help you lose fat up to two times faster, without losing muscle. And I've crunched the numbers to prove it. Okay, so the first strategy is adjusting your fat intake. And I want you to think of losing fat like managing your money budget. So this bowl right here, this is your daily calorie budget for the day. Let's say it's 2,000 calories. Now these little balls I got over here, this is your protein and carbs. So protein like chicken and carbs like potatoes. Now they contain four calories per gram, which just means you can have a lot of them and it's not going to do much to your calorie budget, right? But these guys over here, these big kahunas, these are your fats. They contain nine calories per gram. So you can see just having a few of them can quickly make you go over your calorie budget. So when it comes to dieting, the thing about protein is that you still want to have a lot of them because it's going to help with building your muscle and it's also going to help with losing fat as you see later on. And the thing about carbs is that I find if people cut them out too early, you experience an immediate drop in your energy levels. So with fats, not only does taking out, you know, maybe one or two fat sources from your day immediately save you a ton of calories. But the only real compromise you're making is slightly less tasty food. Now for health reasons, you don't want to go below around 35 to 50 grams of fat per day. That's your minimum. But you'd be surprised with how much fat you're actually consuming. A ribeye steak with oil and butter is already over 60 grams of fat. That's almost 700 calories right there. So here's what I want you to do. Think about the fats you eat every day. Cheese, butter, and even healthy fats like avocado. Starting tomorrow, cut however much you usually have of these in half. Now I'm half Filipino. So my big fat sources were from meats. Tons of pork, sausage, spam, and even weird meats like full out pigs laid on the dinner table and balut, which is basically a half born duck, which is very cruel now that I think about it. And it explains why every friend I brought over for dinner never ended up coming back. Anyways, I want you to also check if you're eating any of these high fat proteins. Delicious, but calorie bombs. So try having just one of these daily. And then for all your other meals, choose a more pure protein source from this list. And you can apply the same concept even when you're eating out. All right, so I'm at Chipotle. I just got the chicken bowl with some guac and cheese. And I took out half the guacamole and half of the cheese. And I'm going to use my Builder Science app. It's got an AI scanner that'll calculate the calories. So we got about 100 grams of guac and about 15 grams of cheese together. That's 200 calories, right? So just by cutting the fats in half, you're saving 200 calories. And so when you're ordering, maybe just ask them for a little bit of guac, a little bit of cheese instead of the normal serving that they get. You can apply this when you're eating out. Apply it to your foods that you eat at home. And obviously, if you take out all the fats, it makes it taste not as good. So that's why I'm saying just cut half. You know what I mean? You still get a lot of the flavor, but you save a ton of calories. Now, I would recommend using some kind of food tracking app to keep track of this. I personally use the one that we built here called Built with Science Plus as it personalizes the fat intake for me. And it lets me know how much wiggle room I have and to prevent me from going too low. But regardless of how you track it, if you just cut one fat source in half and make one protein swap, boom, you're saving up to 250 calories per day, which already speeds up your fat loss by half a pound per week. And you can lose even more by combining it with the next strategy, the walking method. So when most people think about fat loss, the first thing that comes to their mind is cardio. But the truth is, cardio isn't very effective. Let's take a bunch of people and have them burn 2,000 calories from cardio every week. On paper, after a month, this should amount to about 2 pounds of fat loss. But when a study actually tested this, the average fat loss was less than half of that, with some people not losing any fat at all. Why? Well, some of the total number of calories you burn in a day comes from intentional exercise, like cardio or lifting weights. But what most people don't know is you burn way more calories from all the things that you do outside of the gym. So simple things like typing at a computer, walking your dog, or even cooking dinner. Now, all these non-workout activities, they're called NEAT. And what's fascinating is that a highly active person, they can burn up to 2,000 more calories every day just from NEAT compared to someone who's more sedentary. 2,000 calories. So what happened with the participants in the study is that even though they burned a ton of calories during their cardio sessions, they took the lazy route the rest of the day. They just ended up on a couch lock watching Netflix with their most intense activity being carrying a Dorito from a bag to their mouth, tanking the calories they usually burn from NEAT. Plus, cardio sessions can also make you hungrier. And oftentimes, people eat back all the calories they burned, or even more. So while cardio is great for your heart and health, it's kind of just meh for fat loss. A much better approach I personally use myself and with our Built With Science clients is plain old walking. Okay, so I actually learned this one by accident. Back in the day, long before YouTube, I got a summer job as a funeral caterer. Weird gig, I know. But I was on my feet all day, unloading caskets, serving people food, and trying my best to cheer them up. And I remember looking at my phone, and I was getting on average like 12,000 to 15,000 steps a day. And so after two months of this, even though it didn't change anything with my diet and did no cardio, I ended up being the leanest I had ever been in my life without even trying. I remember every time I'd go to the bathroom, I'd lift my shirt, and every week my abs would pop just a little bit more to the point where I was contemplating turning that funeral room into a magic mic show. Thankfully, my YouTube channel took off, so I no longer have to cater at funerals. But walking, to this day, is still my main form of cardio to get lean and stay lean. So much so that I even invested in an under desk treadmill. And so all I do is twice a day, I'll use this guy for 30 minutes while I'm banging out emails or just like mundane tasks. And that alone is 6,000 steps. And then the rest of the day, let's say I'm going to the grocery store, I'll make sure to park further away just to get more steps in. And then whenever I need a break, I'll just go for a walk around the block, and boom, I'm easily at over 10,000 steps. And I use my Build With Science Plus app on my phone to just track my steps and make sure I'm hitting my target. But you can use the health app on your phone or whatever it is for Android. I just want you to try to hit 7,000 to 12,000 steps per day. Anywhere within that range, that's a good sweet spot to aim for. And guys, to put this into perspective, a 30-minute walk, that's 3,000 steps, right? So let's say that every day you start just doing that. The average person is going to burn 100 to 200 calories from 3,000 steps. So if you just simply add a 30-minute walk every single day, after a month, you can lose an extra pound of fat. And every single week, that's going to speed up your fat loss by about a quarter pound of fat. And you can speed this up even further if you apply the next strategy with your diet, which is called the accidental deficit. The easiest way to prevent calories from being stored as fat is by not eating them in the first place. Let me show you. So this sad hand pillow chips right here, that's 250 calories. That was the easy part. Now, I'm going to put on this mask, and we're going to see how long it takes me to burn off those chips jogging on the treadmill. Wish me luck. So that was an excellent reminder of how much I hate running. Guess how long it took me? Just under 25 minutes. Honestly, longer than I expected. Way easier just to not eat the chips. It proves the point. Your diet can do most of the work. And that's where the accidental deficit comes in. Think about the last time you got really sick. Like when you were stuck in bed for days, barely able to nibble on a cracker. And by the end of it, you shed a few pounds without really trying. It's kind of the same idea as that. No, I'm not telling you to go give yourself food poisoning. Can we try one where it's like, obviously, don't put your mouth directly on it, but hold it up and you're like lowering it down? But think about your busiest days at work or school, where you barely have time to eat, let alone think about food. And by the end of the day, you get home and realize, holy crap, I've barely eaten all day. Why not use those days to your advantage? For example, Kevin is our head engineer for our app. And as soon as he sits down to code, he just logs in. It's insane. Like he doesn't even think about food all day. And I actually have to remind him of his basic needs like drinking water. What did you eat today? So he barely eats at work. But when he gets home, he'll Uber eat some pizza or takeout and pretty much just eat whatever. So when I tried to help him get in shape, all we did was he swapped his unhealthy dinners for better options. And he quickly lost 11 pounds in a month. Now we did have to slow this down because there's definitely such a thing as losing weight too quickly. But you can speed up your fat loss by applying a similar concept once or twice a week. So during your busiest days, I want you to rely on quick grab and go protein sources and ready to eat fruits. So things like protein bars, beef jerky, those ready to go Greek yogurt cups, and apples, bananas, oranges, whatever. Right? The point is you're not eating much and it's mainly protein and fruit. And then once you get home, do not Uber eats. Do not get takeout. I want you to make a really big dinner of just a ton of lean protein to make sure you're getting enough protein for the day to keep your muscle. And then just bake a ton of veggies. Right? So bake or steam. Or you can even just have a big bowl of a mixed salad. Afterwards, I want you to go right to bed before you get to snacking. I'm going to pull up a sample day of what this could look like. Now if you do this right, you could end your day eating as little as 1300 to 1600 calories. For most people, this is a huge deficit. And it's why I don't recommend doing this more than once or twice a week max. And preferably on your rest days. But even just doing this once a week, that can increase your average daily calorie deficit by about 100 calories. And help you get rid of an extra pound of fat per month. Or a quarter pound of fat per week. And it'll feel like you're not even trying. Right? But this will work even better if you combine it with the last strategy. Eating foods that do the work for you. When it comes to dieting, everybody talks about calories in versus calories out. But they're really just focusing on the calories in side of the equation. But did you know, certain foods can actually affect the calories outside as well. For example, look at these two plates of food. They have the exact same calories. But this one can help you burn fat just a little bit faster. How? Well, most people don't know this. But your body burns a certain amount of calories just from digesting food. And protein is special. Because a solid 20-30% of its calories immediately get burned up for digestion, absorption, and metabolism. Which is more than double any other food. As a result, studies have shown going from a low protein to a high protein diet can raise your daily calorie burn by about 4-5%. It may not sound like much. But that's like doing a 10-minute jog every single day. It can add up to an extra pound of fat loss every month. Not to mention all the muscle building benefits this has as well. Now, as for how much protein you should aim for every day, if you take your body weight in pounds, so let's say you're 200 pounds, and you multiply that by 0.8. Now, if you're in kgs, you want to multiply by 1.8 instead. That's going to give you your daily target. Right? So 200 pounds, 160 grams of protein per day. If you're way under that right now, then I would definitely prioritize your protein intake. But if you are hitting around that or above that, then that's awesome. And instead, focus on the next two foods, resistant starch and fiber. Let's take two groups of people and have them eat 2,100 calories per day. But one of them, we're going to feed them mainly processed foods that have been stripped of fiber and starches. So think chips, white bread, and juice. The other one, we're going to feed mainly whole foods with lots of fiber and starches. Think potatoes, oats, and fruit. So a recent study actually did this. And again, despite eating the exact same amount of total calories, the whole food diet, in addition to being far more filling, led to participants excreting an extra 116 calories per day in their feces. Now, as a half Filipino who grew up eating a very low fiber diet with every plate basically looking like this, white rice and processed meat, trust me, I get it. It's not easy to adjust your diet into these foods. So start small. Just whenever you can, swap your processed foods for whole foods that are higher in fiber and resistant starch. So think oats instead of cereal, potatoes or beans instead of white rice, popcorn instead of chips, and slowly make eating fruits and veggies with every single meal non-negotiable. Now, if you put all four of these strategies together, even with me being conservative with my calculations, you're looking at an extra 1.2 pounds of fat loss per week. That's over twice what most people manage on a typical diet, which according to research is just half a pound per week. But even if you just pick one strategy to start out with, that's already going to make a noticeable difference. So start small. And if you want my help with personally setting up your workouts, your diet, and your cardio every week in a way that uses science to maximize your results, then I highly, highly recommend checking out my app over at builtwithscience.com. If you want a full fat loss meal plan and to see what applying these strategies actually looks like in practice, then check out this video next where I made Kevin, our head engineer, eat just like me for 30 days. Thanks for watching. Don't forget to subscribe for more. And I'll see you next time.