

=== FILE: 3 Guys Train Forearms Everyday - Only 1 Was Worth It [sc-iN3hLQQw].txt ===

 Over the next 30 days, I'm turning this forearm into a powerhouse. Because after over 10 years of training, I always assumed my forearms would get jacked from normal lifting. But they didn't. And my forearms are now the second smallest part of my body. Even worse, people started noticing. And weak forearms don't just affect how you look. They can hold you back in the gym, are linked to shorter life expectancies, and have even been shown to decrease your odds of being hired. So I'm training my left forearm every single day. Using science-backed exercises. But I've also recruited two friends to test the most popular forearm protocols on the internet. So by the end of the 30 days, we'll know which method and what exercises actually build the biggest, strongest forearms at risk. But first, we need to get our baselands. Because all of us are right-handed, we're going to be training our left arms for the experiment, with our right arm serving as a control. We're taking measurements across our lower, middle, and upper forearms to see if our different training programs grow some areas more than others. This is the smallest one I've ever measured. And while for this experiment, size matters, or matters even more, is who can last the longest. Ah! What? Does it count? What the f*** is this? This simple test measures your support grip, which is essential for rock climbing, deadlifting, and even bringing in your groceries. And for this one-hang test, most beginners should be able to hang for 10 to 20 seconds, with 90 plus seconds being elite. No, this is so hard. And with Robin holding on for a max of 12 seconds, 12 seconds! It's not over! It was my turn. And while I'm hanging, I should probably explain this is just the first of multiple tests we'll be using to assess our grip strength, which can actually be broken down into three different types. And while I am feeling pretty good about my support grip, Ah! Okay. 115. When it came to our next test, the results were a bit more... Humm-way. Can I see? Normal! 121.4. Normal? I'm about to break this. This second test measures our crush grip. Think if you're trying to crush an apple with your bare hand. I felt your handshake. It's like a little girl. Oh! That was pretty high. No, you're not gonna hit it. Yeah, you're not gonna hit it. I still cannot hit three digits. That's as hard as he goes. To make Dennis feel better, multiple studies have found the average person's grip strength today is far weaker than it was even just 20 years ago. Which is problematic since grip strength is one of the best predictors of your overall strength and activity level, which explains why researchers found a strong correlation between weak grip and early death. Robin, don't pass out. Okay. 108.2. And for our final test, we're measuring finger and wrist strength by testing our pinch grip. By attempting to hold three 10-pound plates between our fingers and thumb. And after struggling in our first two tests, this time Dennis just couldn't get it up. This is so embarrassing. I'm a fitness guy. Yeah! Sanctuary, sanctuary, sanctuary, sanctuary. Zero. But then it was Robin who put both myself and Dennis to shame. No way, my foot will go. That was pretty good. Six seconds. Now for our training. That's right. Oh, okay. This is going to be yours. You're going to be training your forearms just through gripping. There we go. Robin will be sticking to 100 reps every single day with a hand gripper as his only training. Meanwhile, Dennis will also be training daily, but he'll be using my left over rice. Dennis is trying the rice bowl approach that I've seen everywhere online with people documenting some pretty crazy results. Robin and Dennis will be trying to compete against my science-based gym routine that I've designed to maximize growth. But in order to design the best workout possible, we need to understand the three main areas that make up your forearm. Starting with the most beefy part of your forearms, the flexors. To train them, it's pretty simple. Wrist curls. I'm going to try these with dumbbells, but also some cable variations to see what works best. But if you lift weights, your flexors are already trained indirectly. So you're probably lacking a bit more in the next area, the extensors. These muscles sit on top of your forearm, creating some pretty crazy striations when you develop them, and may also help with elbow pain. Now to train these, you just got to extend your wrists, which I'll be trying out with dumbbells as well as this cable version. Last but not least is this big chunk of muscle that sits right around your elbow crease, which is in my opinion, the most noticeable, impressive forearm muscle. It's called the brachioradialis. Now unlike the two other muscle groups, this muscle doesn't cross over the wrist and won't be trained through wrist movements. It instead helps bend your elbows during curls, but so do your biceps. So to target this muscle more, you'll want to first rotate your arm into a neutral hammer grip. If you do just this during regular curls, you'll already feel the difference, but you can take it a step further. So I've been paying close attention to some really cool bicep studies, and it seems like placing your arm on an inclined bench or pre-tru curl puts your biceps at a disadvantage and forces your brachioradialis to work harder and experience more growth. So I'll be doing one exercise that applies that as well as reverse grip curls, which also seems to target this muscle well. I'm going to give all these exercises a shot, training each area of the forearm with three sets to failure every single day. And after 30 days of experimenting, I'm going to share what I think is the number one exercise for each area. Plus, give you a fully optimized forearm workout based on my findings. But by the time I'd finished just my second workout on my new plan, I was already wondering if my forearms were even going to make it the full 30 days. My forearms have never been this sore before. Clearly, I don't train them. I don't know if I'm going to be able to do this for 30 days. So it's like cutting here and around the fingers. It's cutting alone. First exercise, wrap rise. And while Dennis doesn't have 100 reps to worry about like Robin, Hey, no, no. He'll be following a popular rice training plan that we found online. Now I always thought training the muscle every single day just wouldn't allow it to recover and grow bigger and stronger. But some new research is making me rethink that. Because in a recent study, strong, well-trained lifters bench-press every single day for 34 consecutive days. They did one set where they tried to lift as much as possible for one rep, and then afterwards they did five later sets for volume. And you would expect training like this every single day would burn most lifters out. But by the end of the study, the lifters made insane strength gains, adding an average of 40 pounds to their one rep max, which for well-trained lifters would normally take easily over a year to accomplish. Now while the study focused on bench-press may not be the perfect model for how to grow your forearms, my hypothesis is that short and daily training shouldn't be anything to worry about. And if anything, may end up getting me the fastest gains in my life. But by day three, I was already feeling a lot of discomfort. Not just doing my forearm muscles, but in my actual wrist joint. Oh, that hurts. It's so uncomfortable. And when I checked in with Robin, he was having a similar struggle with trying to hit 100 reps every day. The fact that only person who wasn't struggling so far seemed to be Dennis. It feels kind of nice. Today I'm doing legs, so I'm doing Bulgarian split squats. Usually I wear wrist straps on both. I'm only going to wear a wrist strap on the right side. If I'm being honest, I actually think relying too much on lifting straps is a major reason why my forearms have become underdeveloped. Because ever since I found out about a study that showed lifting straps instantly increased people's deadlifts by around 40 pounds, I started out in straps not just on my deadlifts, but to all my back and biceps exercises. And so my forearms just simply stopped getting challenged. So now I'm trying to make up for all that missing activation. But because a common issue beginners have is their forearms in grip giving out before their other muscles like biceps and back, I'm curious if Dennis, even with his right training, will experience some benefit in his exercises where he typically gets forearm cramps. Which is why on day one, I also had Dennis, Robin, and myself test our personal best on the incline biceps curl. And on day 30, we're going to retest to see if the forearm training of our left arm actually leads to better curling strength compared to our right. And since Dennis and I are already tracking our workouts through our Built with Science Plus app, we'll be able to see if there are any other strength jumps that happen as a result of this improved grip. Robin, on the other hand, he doesn't have a current workout plan, but he does have his own motivations. When I play piano, I'm not good with the left hand. I always play right hand more. I'm really excited also how this exercise will come out. In fact, me playing with left hand. And while I'll have to wait to see if Robin's plan improves, his progress with the grip training is already improving. He's already smashed 100 reps on the lowest difficulty, which means he can start upping the resistance. Which meant I was the only one who was continuing to struggle with the daily workouts. Okay, so one thing I've noticed about a lot of forearm exercises specifically for this guy right here, the break your radialis. I found that dumbbells, it's really hard to get the forearm down without aggravating the wrist and elbows. So I'm going to experiment with the cables. Keep my palm facing down. Way better than dumbbells. With some exercise swaps, my joint pain was no longer an issue. And I even found some home-friendly exercises I could swap in when I didn't have a dumbbell. But the craziest improvement by far was the visual change I was already noticing. It actually feels like new begins again. Feels like I'm a beginner, just like my muscles are growing super quickly. Which is really motivating because I haven't had that since I started lifting. Even my wife seems shocked by my progress, asking me the one question every guy wants to hear. Why is it so big? What do you mean? Like is your other one miniature now? Let me see your other one. But it feels pretty, like it feels bigger? Well it looks like it. But it feels pretty jacked though, right? Yeah, yeah. But size doesn't mean much without functional strength. So after 15 days of training, I wanted to see if each of us could pass a simple grip test. Today we're going to do a general fitness test. Usually you take 100% of your body weight and you have to do a pharma carry for at least 30 seconds. But since we're only training one arm, we're going to divide that weight in half and we're going to do that for 30 seconds. 3, 2, 1. Alright, walk. Oh, easy. Come on, Robin. This 30 second challenge is a pretty reliable benchmark for assessing your grip strength. If you can make it the full 30 seconds, your grip strength is performing as it should be. You pass. But if you fail, Keep walking, keep walking. Robin is down, Robin is down. You've got some serious work to do. No, Robin. You pass. Good job. Robin, he doesn't get that high bar, he didn't pass. He doesn't low pass. You have two weeks to pass this, okay? And while Dennis and I did manage to complete a pharma's carries, Dennis's form has gotten so strong that regular rice is no longer challenging. I got these to increase their resistance. These are like metal bowls. So we're going to add them to the rice. Hopefully one night, do my workout, make it a little bit harder. We also got them a wooden spoon to make it more difficult. It's a lot heavier for sure. I would say like five times more difficult to do. As for my own training, everything was going good until week three. I am frustrated. My list this week have been horrible. Like my forearm strength has tanked. I'm a little worried because my forearms feel exhausted. I don't think they're recovering well, but I'm hopeful that in the final two weeks that my strength really starts to pick up. Fingers crossed. Seeing my strength start to dip was definitely concerning. But when I looked closer at the data on the daily bench press study we talked about earlier, some days the people got stronger. Some days they got weaker, and for many days it stayed the exact same. But by the end of the 34 days, all of them got significantly stronger than when they started. So I'm hoping if I just stay the course, I should be able to break through this plateau before we get to the final test. Every single day I can see the progress. Basically I am able to comfortably do the exercise now. This exercise definitely helped me to basically learn this. And after 30 days, Robin was getting stronger and stronger with his hand gripping, and he even made it to the hardest setting. I'm not sure the parking lot was the best place to do this. Meanwhile, Dennis couldn't wait to stop carrying his rice bucket everywhere he went. As for me, I realized how much my arms benefited from direct forearm work. It took under 10 minutes a day, and I can easily fit it in between sets. Plus, I started relying on straps less, and my grip more. But here's what I didn't expect. After experimenting with dozens of exercises, there were only a few that didn't hurt my joints. So I narrowed it down to my top three for growth. In the exact workout I'm going to stick with after this. I'm going to show you all of that in a second. But first, let's see how my strength results compared to Dennis and Robin. And what they don't know is I've also prepared a bonus test. What Reddit claims is the world's hardest jar to open. But we'll save that for later. First is our crush grip. I can feel that too. Best for Dennis's rice training. Show the camera. Okay, that doesn't count. 86. One more time. One more chance. One more time. I thought he was going to break this. He's 6'4". Were you eating that too? I'm predicting that this is going to be the biggest strength increase for Robin because this is what he trains. Go Robin. No way. The 4 was 108. No way. No way. Run the end. You got it. 111. 111. 111.4. Last time you... Which meant round one is going to my science back gym plan. As for the dead hang. 112. The time came in almost exactly the same as my day one time. Which isn't the progress I was hoping for. And it means either Dennis or Robin have the chance to take the win. Let's go Robin. What the... Wait, wait, wait, wait. What is... 6 seconds. 5.59. Not 6 seconds. What was his last time? 12. 12 seconds. What happened? So hand grip hurt does not help with your dead hang time. Which means it's down to just Dennis. And even though Dennis claims his rice bucket was barely a full workout. His single arm dead hang was already well past his day one time of just 5 seconds. Holding my breath too. 14 seconds. What have you been doing? Holding my breath. Help. Oh I'm sick so I need that help. What I think also helped Dennis is the fact that his rice workouts mainly challenged his grip endurance. Building up to longer and longer sets of stirring the rice. Plus the fact that he was regularly lifting weights throughout this process. But what really surprised me was what happened when we retested our biceps curl strength. Our rep performance on our left side increased more than our right sides did. Something I was not expecting especially for a well trained lifter like myself. Suggesting that stronger forearms may in fact lead to strength boost in other lifts as well. However when we tested Robin who doesn't lift any weights at all his results hadn't changed. But when we got to the pinch test. 20 seconds. 20 seconds? Wow. Let's go. And even though I did improve slightly from day one compared to Robin my extra second just doesn't feel very impressive. 6 seconds. Yo how'd you do that? 20 seconds. 40 seconds. So across the three tests we ran it seems like each method of training did a better job at improving different areas of grip strength. However when it came to our bonus test. Oh no what are you doing? Oh my god. Again. Same expression. I swished it. Hey hey hey hey. You can't do none of this funny stuff. God. Look at it. It's so painful. Now it won't be this painful if you're following the right workout plan using our built with size plus app. With it you're gonna get a completely customized workout routine based on your body and not just for your forearms but for every single muscle. That way you're not gonna be embarrassed the next time you try to open a lid or even take your shirt off at the beach. I had high hopes for you. Really? You can't open it you're not joking. It also guides you with your diet and lets you track your nutrition with a snap of a picture. You can try it for two weeks free over at BuiltWithScience.com or by scanning this QR code right here. Alright? Yeah. Yo I'm nervous. I don't know if I can publish this video. What? Oh wow look at this. You guys want some jams? But now let's talk about growth. So when we measured the average growth across all three measurement points, third place went to Dennis's Rice Training. Leading to modest growth through his upper forearm but no growth through his middle and lower forearm. Followed in second place by me. While my forearms experience a ton of growth through the upper and middle of my forearm, the lower part around my wrist stayed exactly the same. Rather than the other hand, he had barely changed his upper forearm but the highest growth around his middle and lower forearm. However, because of his training experience, he probably experienced the biggest newbie gains out of all of us. First time in my life I did an exercise. It's the first time I knew the whole lot of you have done that exercise. Hopefully these gains convinced Robin to commit to something more than just gripping, but based on my data and my own 30 day experience, here are my picks for the top three forearm exercises. And I've even added all of these forearm exercises to our BuiltWithScience Plus app. I will say Farmers Carries as a bonus at the end of your workouts is a great idea, especially for beginners. And as we saw with Robin, simply getting a hand gripper is an easy, low barrier to entry way to get started and might even grow the lower forearm a little bit more. And here is the workout I'm personally going to be sticking with going forward, doing it twice a week on my leg days or rest days. And if you want to pair your forearm training with a full body workout plan that hits every single muscle, then check out this video next. Thank you so much for watching and I'll see you next time.

=== FILE: Every Supplement That Builds Muscle Faster Than Protein [XbWzneHAgRM].txt ===

 I asked a doctor of sports nutrition, cited in over 5,000 research papers, with published studies on pretty much every supplement you can think of, to rank the top 8 supplements for both the muscle. From the ones that actually help you pack on your size, the ones that are just burning your cash. The goal? To find out which supplement delivers the most gains, without any negative side effects. You could argue that this is the most effective supplement on the list. These results look exactly like if you just took straight up and stared. At the end, I'll be testing our number one supplement on my friend Dennis. And trust me when I say you're not going to believe how his body is called. What counts, Dr. Iggy? Let's start with every Jimbros second favorite white powder, creatine. Creatine is the king of fast results. And one of the ways it works is by pulling water into your muscles, filling them up like balloons. Now this can make you look fuller and more jacked in a matter of weeks. But does this change in appearance actually mean you gain muscle? Definitely part of the gain in fat free mass that we see in creatine studies is due to the fact that it's coming into the muscle for extra storage and it's bringing a little bit of water with it. We also see tangible effects on strength and power performance. And the longer term data would suggest that this does materialize into actual muscle proteins and muscle tissue. Together, these benefits have been shown to provide a three pound boost in lean mass in just eight to 12 weeks when compared to a placebo. For reference, here's what those gains actually look like. And because you only need five grams of creatine per day to saturate your muscles, it's incredibly cost effective. For an extra one pound of lean mass, it's going to cost you a total of $7.70. But in order for creatine to make it into S tier on our list, it's going to have to pass three criteria. Is there enough scientific research backing it up? How much will you have to spend before you'll build one pound of new muscle? Now, creatine scores great on both of those. But the third criteria, are there any negative side effects? Is where creatine may have a dark side? Now, whenever I've covered creatine in the past, many people reach out in the comments concerned about hair loss from taking it, with some simply refusing to take it at all because of these fears. I should have worn a hat so people would take my answer seriously. It all dates back to a single study that found a very tiny fluctuation in a hormone called DHT. DHT is a hormone associated with hair loss and men. And one study back in 2009, participants who took creatine had higher levels of DHT. So as soon as this paper was published, I'm sure you can imagine everyone assumed creatine causes hair loss. But when we look closer at the study, we found another explanation. It was true that at the end of the study, the group taking creatine had higher DHT levels on the placebo group. When you look at the difference between the groups before the study even started, the difference was basically the same. And this means the subjects selected just happened to already have higher levels of DHT. However, this was the only study ever done on creatine and hair loss. And so even myself, I still had reservations. Until now. A study published just this year was the first ever to measure creatine's impact, not just on DHT, but on actual hair loss. And they found no changes in both DHT and hair follicle health from taking creatine. In other words, you're probably going to lose more hair worrying about the effect of creatine than you ever will from taking it. But before we officially rank creatine, there's still one way you could be taking creatine that would make its effect completely useless. You see, many supplement companies are now rushing to capitalize on creatine's popularity, flooding the market with creatine gummies, candies, and other easy to take options. But when independent labs recently started testing these gummies, they often found only a fraction of the creatine that was on the label. Sometimes nothing. Now, you might assume it's greedy supplement companies who are just trying to cut corners or rip you off, but the real answer has to do more with chemistry than actual corruption. You see, when you dissolve creatine in water, it slowly starts breaking down into a new molecule called creatinine. Which is basically useless for muscle growth. Now, if you're just mixing creatine into a shake, that's not a problem at all, as there isn't enough time for this breakdown to occur. But when companies dissolve creatine in water in order to inject it into gummies, all that breakdown is slowly continuing as the gummies get shipped to the store, purchased by you, and then sit on your counter. So by the time you finally get around to eating it, there's barely any creatine left. Now, some creatine gummies, they are manufactured in a way that prevents it from this breakdown, but it's hard to tell which ones do versus don't. So if you actually want the full benefits of creatine, your best bet is to stick with the cheapest, most stable form, creatine monohydrate. It can sit in your cupboard for years without losing potency, which is why creatine gummies are dropping all the way down to D tier, whereas creatine monohydrate is going right into S tier. But there is one supplement that might actually dethrone creatine and give my friend Dennis steroid-like strength gains. You'll see why later on. But we still do have seven popular supplements coming up, with the next one backed by a small army of influencers who swear by its benefits. It's called turkosterone. Turkosterone? Yeah, a natural anabolic substance. You look leaner, thicker, fuller, better. Now, these influencers are right about one thing. Turkosterone is a natural steroid, but it's a steroid for plants and bugs called ecto-steroids, and they're produced to protect them against certain insects. So the theory behind it was that if you could package these plant steroids into a supplement and use it in humans, you might see steroid-like gains without the dangerous side effects. But when we looked into the research to see if these claims were true, we wound up finding the one thing I wasn't expecting. There was actually a published study in 2023 where they went out and collected a bunch of turkosterone products just off the shelves, and they did extremely high quality laboratory testing to see how much turkosterone was in them, and none of the eight turkosterone products contained even 1% of the labeled turkosterone. Now, after this blew up, most manufacturers did actually start putting turkosterone into their products. But the thing is, even if you are getting the quote unquote good stuff, there's still no promising data to show what actually provides a strong benefit for building the muscle. So theoretically, you could spend thousands of dollars on turkosterone without gaining even one additional pound of muscle. Now, to be fair, it is still early, it's a new supplement, and there haven't been too many studies out, which is why for now, we're going to place it in D tier. But if taking a natural steroid won't even help, what about a supplement that researchers did find produced gains almost identical to steroids? Some of these studies were reporting, for example, seven to eight kilograms of lean mass gained over a 12 week study. And this was in people who knew what they were doing, trained people lifting weights. Obviously, any gains of that magnitude are going to catch people's eyes. The supplement they were taking is called Beta Hydroxy Beta Methylbutyric Acid, or HMB. Now, it's actually a substance our bodies already produce naturally to reduce muscle breakdown and increase recovery. Knowing this, researchers were curious about what would happen if you filled your muscles with double or even triple your natural levels. Would your gains triple as well? Well, that's actually what these early studies seem to find, until people took a closer look. In the months and years that followed, these papers started to get a lot of scrutiny from really respected reputable researchers in the area. I'm saying we have very, very low faith in the results of these papers for a variety of reasons. And while the credibility of these studies was never fully resolved, in every single study that followed it after, no one has ever come close to even getting these results, with HMB having no detectable benefit for trained lifters, but a potential small boost of half to one pound of lean mass in new lifters. And since HMB is relatively cheap as a supplement, a new lifter could gain in the best case scenario one pound of lean mass with a $20 purchase. Now, I've personally never tried it, but it could be worth experimenting with. But because of the lack of strong consistent evidence, we're placing it in C tier. Now with HMB and Turquaster on both underperforming, I think it's time to go with something that should rank pretty high, protein powder. It's very well studied and safe to use, but it also might be the supplement I personally wasted the most money on. And to be clear, I do sell my own brand of protein powder at BuiltWithSanaries.com, so I do think it's valuable. But when I was younger, I would drink multiple protein shakes a day, hoping I could supercharge my gains. But according to the latest data, I probably would have made just as much progress if I was just throwing one of those extra shakes right into the trash. Protein really gets its time to shine if your baseline protein intake is low, right? So if you're eating 0.8, 1.0 grams of protein per kilogram of body mass, and you decide you're going to use supplementation to bump that up, we can realistically expect some pretty substantial increases in fat free mass. On the other side, if you are already at 1.8 grams per kilogram and you decide you're going to start supplementing with protein, we may really not see anything meaningful in terms of additional gains. And we actually just published a whole video that'll tell you exactly how much protein you actually need. But for now, follow the simple rule, take the total grams of protein you eat in the day, and divide it by your body weight in pounds. If that number is below 0.55, then adding just one to two scoops of protein per day, especially if each scoop contains 30 grams of carbs does, this can help you gain up to an extra one to two pounds of lean mass over the next three months. Now, basically the average cost of most protein powders, that means you're going to be spending about $77 to gain one new pound of lean mass. Now you could just get that protein from chicken instead and would cost about the same. But you need to eat this much chicken breast to match the 29 grams of protein in the scoop. And especially when you're eating out, it's hard to know the exact amount of protein you're actually getting, unless you're using my build with science plus that to scan your meal, which instantly gives you a full breakdown of all the nutrients. Plus, protein powder is just way more convenient. It's tasty and has the highest quality amino acid profile out of any protein source. So while yes, it's pricier than creatine, based on our criteria list, it's still enough to place protein powder firmly in A tier. However, not all protein powders are created equal. So could the type of protein you choose move that A tier up or down? Well, for years, I would have said that whey protein made from cow's milk is the king of protein powder and easily a tier above any plant based protein. Because study after study showed higher muscle protein synthesis right after taking whey compared to plant alternatives. But new research shows that doesn't tell us the full story. You see, when scientists looked at longer term studies that measured actual muscle growth, they found plant based proteins can be just as effective as long as you're getting enough total protein from a variety of sources. You could go completely vegan or completely animal source with your proteins, and you'll probably end up at the same place, which places plant protein also in A tier. But first, what if we paired protein powder with a ton of extra carbs? Say hello to mass gainer. Basically, you're looking at a protein shake and you're looking at a whole bunch of other calories, right? So these usually have a little bit of fat, whole lot of carbohydrate either coming from sugar or maltodextrin. So they say you're going to take a serving of this and by the time you're done, you're going to have consumed like a thousand calories. That's pretty much the promise. Now for some guys who struggle to put on size, this promise might be appealing. Like my friend Brandon, when I tried to help Brandon bulk up last year, we quickly ran into a problem. Even at just 13% body fat, Brandon was barely ever hungry. And it felt like I literally had to force feed him to help him bulk up. But if I got him to drink even just half a serving of masking or a day, that's an easy 500 calorie daily boost, which in his case could lead to an extra pound of size per week. And at the end of the day, you are paying quite a premium for what is essentially a protein shake with a whole bunch of sugar. Why not just a normal protein shake in a candy bar? Now, depending on how often you're taking mass gainer, your total cost to gain just one pound of lean mass could be anywhere from $50 to over $300. I would have to put it, I think I would go with a B. B tier. Okay. Yeah. At the end of the day, will it work? Yes. Is it the best way to do it? Probably not. So if mass gainers losing points for costs, I want to test a supplement that only cost me $25 from a local drug store, fish oil, rich in omega three fatty acids. We typically associate fish oil with heart and brain health. In my case, the terrible flavor where my mom would feed me a spoonful before school every month. But new research makes me wonder if my mom was actually providing me with a secret sauce for adding muscle. There's been some research indicating that very high doses can help acutely with recovery from very intense training sessions that might be able to increase hypertrophy or muscle growth. Generally speaking, what they tend to find is it may have a small positive effect, particularly in older people. Now, in younger adults, the effect was much smaller, but for older untrained adults, taking two grams per day of omega threes over 12 to 24 weeks, increased lean mass in some cases by up to one to two pounds. So for the right individual, this adds up to a cost of about $105 to gain one pound of lean mass. But for most people, even though it is a great supplement, I recommend for overall health for actual muscle growth benefits, it's going to have to land in C tier. Now, we all know that one of the most powerful supplements for muscle growth is steroids, which work in part by increasing your testosterone levels. But what if, instead of taking steroids, you just took a testosterone booster? So there have been studies that have kind of done all the math of what kind of a testosterone increase you would need in order to really move the needle in terms of total muscle mass and just kind of normal physiological range really don't do a whole lot unless you're going from like 300 to 1000. So while some testosterone boosters do give you a boost, you're looking at most of an increase of about 15%. Now, while this may be beneficial for your mood and libido, if you're currently on the low end for muscle growth, it's not anywhere near enough of a boost to make an actual difference. Plus, considering that some testosterone boosters in the market have been shown to be completely ineffective, I'm throwing these into F tier. However, I should mention that there are some testosterone support products that contain a few key micronutrients like boron, magnesium and zinc. And if you don't get enough of these, then studies have shown supplementing with them cannot only boost your testosterone in your overall well-being, but improve muscle growth as well. But these supplements only help if you're not getting enough of them through your diet. Now, one way to tell if you are is with a blood test, but a much easier way is just to log all your meals into a fitness app like our Bit with Science which we recently upgraded to show you a complete breakdown of all your micronutrients. So, you'll know exactly which ones you're getting too much of, or in this case, too little of. And so if it turns out you log your food and you are deficient, then supplementing with the testosterone support or anything that contains these key micronutrients is enough to move this all the way up to B tier, which leads me to our final supplement on our list and the one that I believe can produce steroid-like results, but without any of the side effects. What's even crazier is we've actually known about the benefits of this supplement for decades. In 1972, researchers recruited well-trained college athletes. And for the first eight weeks, the researchers just put them on a standard training program and tracked their progress. In these eight weeks, their bench press improved by an average of 4.5 kilograms, while their squat improved by 2.7 kilograms. Not bad. But for the next four weeks, they were given the secret sauce. During the supplementation period of only one month, bench press increased by 13.3 kilograms and squat increased by 18.9 kilograms. So, we're talking about three to seven times greater gains in half the time right after the initial gains were made. The results from the study were so shocking that I had to test it for myself using my friend Dennis. So, what is this magic supplement I'm giving Dennis? Yeah, so in this particular study, the supplement was a placebo. You see, every college athlete in the original study, they believed that they were taking an approved steroid and then proceeded to lift heavier and heavier with confidence. And right now, Dennis believes he's testing a new supplement called Muscle Max 100. A product that I've told him will increase oxygen to his muscles to help him bang out PRs on every exercise, as long as he gives it 10 minutes to kick in. Oh, it tastes good. This is like apple or something, like sour apple. And for reference, these are Dennis's current PRs in pull-ups, dumbbell press, and squats. If we can pull out, yes, I can even do one. Your record on here is two. And at the end of the day, what was really causing the effects was they expected effects. Keep your core tight. Let's go. Oh, my God. Five. Your record is two. We are. What kind of fraud is this? They believed in themselves. They got in the gym every day. They trained their ass off and they really believed I'm going to be stronger today than I was yesterday. And they believed that day after day after day. Again, just like what I said earlier, is I don't feel the fatigue and I don't feel the burn as much, especially when I finish a set. It just feels like nothing. I feel like I'm doing. Dennis isn't full belief, but the real challenge will be squats. And if you want to give yourself the same belief and confidence in your own workouts, that is exactly why we've designed Built with Science Plus. Every single week, it's going to tell you exactly what to eat and what workouts to do based on the latest science and how your body is responding. It not only guides you with proper form on every single exercise, but it pushes you just the right amount to help you set PRs every single week. It's a personal coach in your pocket, which is how our members of all different body types and experience levels have seen incredible results following the simple plan the app creates for them. To try it for two weeks free, just scan this QR code or head to builtwithscience.com and you're going to start setting PRs just like Dennis is right now. He actually jumped up his normal weight from 60 pounds to 70 pounds, just because he believes he's gotten stronger. So I'm curious how he's going to react when they tell him the truth. The only thing, the only thing, what I like the power of a is fake. It is fake. You have to read the fine print. Dennis, I think you said it the best earlier. It's the power of the mind. It's the power of the mind. And while Dennis may never forgive me for this, he did hit three major PRs just on belief alone, placing our placebo into S plus tier. So you're saying that real story is in your mind. The truth is, even the best supplements only account for a very small amount of growth. You'll easily get five, maybe even 10 times the gains by dialing in the other aspects of your training, your nutrition and the recovery. And for a complete muscle building blueprint that'll show you exactly how to do just that without costing you a penny, check out this video next. Subscribe for more and I'll see you next time.

=== FILE: How to ACTUALLY Lose Belly Fat in 2026 (Using Science) [QyCFeB8mBz8].txt ===

 this is the mesh. With the age of 35, had the most belly fat ever in his life. But less than a year later, he now looks like this. His belly fat is now lower than 98% of men. This is because nobody approaches losing belly fat in three layers, with each layer requiring a slightly different strategy, which works for both men and women. But most people are stuck in the outermost layer, layer one, which is right where the mesh's journey began, with the day one body fat of 29.45%. Now, one of the cool things about dexa scans is they don't just give you an overall body fat percentage. They let you split the body into regions, so you can see your body fat percentage in your arms, your legs, your hips, and even your belly, where the mesh clocked in at 34.4%, higher than anywhere else on his body. You said that belly fat's like one of the areas where you struggle, and you feel like genetically you're kind of like cursed. And the uncomfortable truth is, he wasn't wrong. Almost every single guy who has run through a day one dexa scan has shown that their belly carries more fat than anywhere else, which can become a serious health risk. As large population studies have shown, every few centimeters you gain around your waist increases your risk of metabolic disease and death, even if your weight stays the same. But to see how consistent this belly pattern is, and whether this holds true for women, my team and I analyzed eight years of dexa scans from nearly 18,000 American men and women. And what we found actually paints a pretty clear picture of why belly fat seemed so hard to get rid of. For men under 25% body fat, their belly fat levels are actually about the same as the rest of their body. But once you go above 25%, your belly now becomes the preferred place for fat storage. And this doesn't just mean belly fat becomes easier to gain, it also means it becomes harder to lose. So we plotted the data to show the rate of fat loss from different body parts as you get leaner with the belly here in red. Now the flatter the line, the slower the rate of fat loss. So at higher body fat levels, notice how fat quickly drops off from the arms, the legs, and the hips, while fat in the belly remains much higher. But right around 30% body fat, belly fat actually starts to nose dive and the other areas flat line. And by the time you get to 25%, the belly is no longer fatter than other areas and continues progressing faster afterwards. So it seems like once your body has burned off enough fat from easier to access areas, it'll eventually start pulling more and more from your stomach. Now for women, the picture actually does look quite a bit different. They tend to store less fat in the belly to begin with, and more in their hips, their legs, and their arms. For example, this is my friend Nicole, who was starting her fat loss journey at 33%. When I looked at her belly fat, though, it was almost identical, 33.7%, whereas her legs and hips clocked in much higher. And if the data from our Dexa scans proves reliable, we should see that when Nicole and the mesh see a similar drop in total body fat, Nicole will probably see more of that fat loss coming from the belly compared to the mesh, at least as they're both working to burn through what I like to think of as the first layer of belly fat. So this is a soft outer layer of belly fat that prevents you from seeing any ad definition. When men burn through this, you should see some upper abs poking through and usually some shape in the rest of their abs. Now for women, the waist tightens up and rolls smooth out, but you're not going to see any clear ad definition yet. And typically the end of layer one gets you at 20% body fat for men and 28% body fat for women. Now the good news about this layer is it actually requires the least amount of effort to burn off. For the mesh, all he needed was four core habits, plus a bonus one to help him push through the biggest challenge this layer posed. First, I set in a mesh up with a workout plan consisting of just three workouts per week. Just to make sure any weight he does lose comes directly from fat. And we may even see some muscle gains at the same time. Second, I gave him a few simple diet rules at every meal include a portion of lean protein about the size of your palm, prepare most of your meals at home where portions and ingredients are easier to control and build each meal around these core foods. With these changes, he shouldn't even need to count calories to start seeing change. Third, I sent him a baseline goal of 8,000 steps per day to bump up his daily calorie burn. And lastly, I got him a scale to track his morning weight with a weight loss goal of just one pound per week. Now I also set up in a mesh with our BitLessSciencePlus app to help him track his weight loss, coach him in his workouts every week, and just get healthy meal recipes to try out. Now even though layer one requires the least effort physically, it's actually the hardest mentally. And the mesh found this out when he checked back in on day 30. Despite being seven pounds down on the scale, he didn't feel like his belly had changed at all. He actually texted me afterwards doubting the plan was even working. But if you look closely at his chin, his chest, and his arms, you can clearly see that these areas have leaned down. And when I measured his waist, he was already down three centimeters, which meant he was definitely losing belly fat, just not at the speed he was expecting. And if you remember from earlier, that's exactly what our DEXA data predicted. In the early stages, fat comes off from the easy areas first, while the belly lies behind. So by day 60, even though he had lost another three centimeters around his waist, visually, his belly hadn't progressed as much as his chest and his arms, where he even had some new veins showing. And then when you compare Namesh's progress to Nicole's, who had lost a similar amount of total body fat, she was down eight centimeters around her waist and already had some ab definitions starting to poke through. And while we were finally starting to see where Namesh's abs would eventually come through, the abs are relatively small, flat muscles. Compared to your big arm and shoulder muscles, you simply have so much more fat to lose before your abs can start poking through. Remember, the goal of layer one is not to get six pack abs. And if I wanted to prevent Namesh from quitting right before the going gets good, I desperately needed a way for him to see all the progress he was clearly making everywhere else, which leads me to his bonus habit, where I asked Namesh if he'd be willing to take a progress photo after his morning weigh-in. When reviewing these photos, I wanted him to not just hyper fixate on his belly fat, but to be able to see the progress he was making through his chest, his shoulders and his arms that he was clearly overlooking. And with the ability to look back at his pictures every week, Namesh genuinely started to notice the progress he was now making. Plus, now that he was below 25% body fat, progress around his belly finally started to really pick up. All the way to day 90, where after losing 12 pounds of fat, layer one was successfully burned off, revealing some clear upper ab definition. Now, although it may not seem like it, compared to most of the influencers you see on Instagram, at this point, Namesh is already leaner than about 84% of men. But to push this even further, he's going to have to get through layer two, which for most men gets you to around 15% body fat and 23% for women. But I'd say a layer two is where most people give up. In layer one, it seems like nothing's changing. Or is layer two, fat loss actually slows down or even stops because your body starts to fight back. And the strategies that work for layer one no longer do now. So two weeks, the weight hasn't changed. The progress photos I'm taking daily, they look identical. And the weird thing is, like, I'm recording most of the meals and being pretty consistent, I feel. So yeah, I don't know what's happening. Just got to figure this one out and see what's going on. For starters, depending on how much fat you lost in layer one, you're going to now be carrying less weight than you did before. And this is like taking off a 24-7 weighted backpack, which decreases your calorie burn. Plus, your body has now sensed the fat loss and tries to counteract it by conserving your energy. It's subtle at first, but you might sit down more and just walk around less without you even noticing. Now, when this would happen to me when I was younger, I would try to counter this by ramping up my cardio, adding 20 to 30 minutes of intense running or cycling after each workout. And while it worked, eventually I would just stall again and then I just didn't have the energy to add any more. Which is why for Nemesh, we simply decided to move his daily steps from 8,000 to 10,000 steps a day. This works as an insurance policy to help keep his daily calorie burn consistent without spiking his hunger or burning him out. The one exercise I did ask Nemesh to bump up though was the strength training. Most research suggests that just 2-3 full body workouts a week, around 4-6 hard sets per muscle, is enough to prevent muscle loss while you're in a deficit. But I'm curious if by going above this minimum, Nemesh can actually build muscle even as this fat loss gets more and more intense. So, we took his 3-day workout split and changed it to this 4-day split, focusing more on volume on muscles that Nemesh had been struggling to grow, like his shoulders and arms. I will be doing a final scan and measurements at the end of his journey to see if he was actually able to put on muscle. But, the extra steps in workout isn't actually going to bump up his daily calorie burn all that much. The more impactful side of the fat loss equation is his calorie intake. Up until this point, he hasn't been tracking calories. But to get rid of Lillier too, it's almost non-negotiable to make sure he's consistently in the deficit. And to fight out how many calories he needs, I entered Nemesh's current weight and activity into our Built with Science Plus app, which landed at a daily calorie target between 2100 and 2300 calories per day. Now, if you're not on our app, then you can take your body weight in pounds and multiply it by between 10 to 12. It's not perfect, but for most people, that's roughly around the calories you want to aim for during the stage. But with his favorite order at Chipotle already coming in at just over 900 calories, I needed to show Nemesh some better way to use his calories, which meant setting him up with the 2100 calorie meal plan. Okay, don't take this the wrong way, but I got some butter chickens. Yeah, I'm taking all that fancy and that's fine. Consisting of apple cinnamon overnight oats for breakfast, butter chicken for lunch, some quick snacks before his workout, and a homemade, freezable burrito for dinner. And what I think is the most important part is saving enough room in your diet for one treat at the end of the day to look forward to. For me, my go-to is always a ninja creamy ice cream that I make with our BitLessScience protein. And for Nemesh, it was a combination of either sugar-free jello, Greek yogurt, caffeine-free Coke Zero, and smart sweets. And if you guys do want Nemesh's full meal plan, I'll give you a PDF of it completely free and I'll put a link in the description box down below. But what's perhaps the trickiest thing about this phase is not everyone's metabolism will respond the same. Researchers in 2019 discovered that most people's metabolism falls into one of two categories. The first is what researchers call a spend-thrift metabolism. People in this group, when their calories are restricted, their metabolism stays high and they continue dropping weight. However, the second group is what researchers label a thrifting metabolism. And when this group was placed in the same deficit, their body's adapted to reduce their calorie burn and slow their weight loss to a crawl. Now there may be an advantage to having a thrifting metabolism as you typically have an easier time gaining muscle. But when it comes to fat loss, you may have to restrict your calories further or increase your daily activity in order to keep up with individuals in the spend-thrift group. The question we needed to figure out though was which group would Nemesh fall under? If his metabolism was spend-thrift, 2,100 calories should be enough to keep seeing progress. But if he has a thrifting metabolism, then our app will notice if he's not progressing and likely recommend dropping his calories a little bit more. Luckily, Nemesh's body was clearly responding to his calorie intake as fat loss around his belly was really starting to pick up. With visible definition in his upper abs and his obliques finally coming in. Now for most guys, burning through all of layer 2 will usually take about 10 to 16 weeks depending on how aggressive you are with your diet. But by this point, you should see a visible 4 or even 6 pack depending on how your fat is distributed. Whereas for a woman, your stomach will look visibly tighter and depending on the lighting, you might even see some definition in the upper abs and down the middle. But even after burning through layer 2, there's usually still some softness left around your abs, especially in the lower belly and around the love handles. And for those areas, you'll need to burn through the most stubborn third layer of belly fat, where less than 1% of people ever succeed. But while this final layer is the hardest to lose, it's actually when your belly visually progresses the fastest. Because there's now much less fat covering your abs, even a small loss makes a noticeable difference. So instead of waiting months or several weeks to see changes, now you might see sharper app definition every few days. But it comes with the catch that every pound of fat you lose now is going to feel like a battle. Part of the reason for this is not all body fat is created equal. Certain fat on your body is packed with beta receptors, which you can think of like a gas pedal, making it easy for your body to burn for energy. Most of the fat you burn off of to this point or from those areas. Whereas the stubborn fat left on your body is full of alpha 2 receptors, which instead work like a brake pedal. Slowing down fat release so your body always has some fat reserves to rely on. And typically the areas that have most of these receptors are going to be lower abs, love handles, hips, and especially the glutes. It's why shredded glutes in professional bodybuilders is seen as the holy grail of a weak conditioning. So just struggling to fall asleep today, a wee bit. I'm usually pretty good at falling asleep. But the hunger is sitting in a bit more than usual. And at this stage, your body ramps up hunger, lowers your energy, and basically does everything it can to prevent more fat loss. So I had to introduce Namesh to two simple strategies to break through. But first was his food selection. Namesh's diet had a ton of wiggle room when he was on layer one. And when we moved on to layer two, things had to get a bit tighter. But for layer three, our margins are thin. We needed every calorie he's eating to go as far as possible to keep him full and energized. That meant no more cream in his morning coffee and fewer nights out for drinks. We also strategically swapped the rice in his meal plan for yellow potatoes, which in a well known satiety index study scored as the most filling food you can eat. In fact, I'm currently working on another project where we tested a simple no calorie counting diet mainly based around potatoes. And let's just say the results were pretty mind blowing. So make sure to subscribe so you don't miss that. But no matter what you eat, your body's resistance to fat loss is only going to continue to get stronger the longer your diet lasts and the leaner that you get. And one side effect of this is stress hormones like cortisol start to rise. This is where many people get blindsided. Higher cortisol levels make your body hold on to more water. So at this stage, you can literally wake up one morning and your belly will look worse than it did the day before. Softer and more bloated. And when you're this lean, even a small amount of water retention around your midsection becomes very noticeable. Now, when this used to happen to me, my first reaction was to assume that my plan just wasn't working and my belly fat was not coming off. So I panic, adding more cardio to my workouts and dropping my calories even lower. But this only made things worse, putting more stress on my body and even eventually causing me to lose muscle. But once you understand what's really happening here, rather than trying to fight harder to lose fat, your best move might be to stop fighting at all, which brings me to our second strategy, diet breaks. So as soon as I could tell the muscles body was starting to hold on to more water and just wasn't responding well to his plan, instead of lowering his food, we increased it. Roughly 500 calories higher than he was dieting at. And mainly by adding more carbs to his day, rice, bread, and some of his favorite snacks. Usually he'll want to do this for anywhere between five to 14 days. As that's often enough time for cortisol to come down, sleep to improve, and those relentless hunger signals to finally ease off. But for the match, five days was all it took. And even though he was eating more, his abs actually came back looking sharper, his energy also improved, and he just felt ready to push forward again. The only question I needed him to answer now was how far he wanted to go. Based on where he was currently at, if we wanted to push all the way to 10% body fat, which is where the vast majority of your stubborn fat is actually gone, it would probably take another eight weeks of dieting. But for some people chasing that level of leanness, it's just not always the smartest move. Take my brother-in-law Dayton. He dropped from 33% body fat down to about 18% in just five months, the leanest he's ever been in his life. And by that point, his body was definitely starting to resist. So if I had tried to push him to get even later in one go, it would have almost guaranteed a crash and uncontrollable weight regain afterwards. So instead, we hit pause on his fat loss and shifted to maintaining his new weight, followed by lean bulk to gain some more muscle. And now that his body has actually settled into his lower level of body fat, he'd be ready to tackle another diet if he wanted to get leaner. But the second reason layer three just isn't for everyone is that most guys overestimate how much muscle they have and underestimate just how much fat they have to lose. In fact, every person that I've dieted this lean has been surprised by just how low the scale has to go to get there. So if you don't have much muscle to begin with, you may end up feeling and looking a little bit skinnier than you'd hoped for. Fortunately, it seems like the mesh has been able to build some muscle as he's lost fat. But today is actually the day he's going to get his final dexa scan, which will tell us how much fat he lost and how deep he made it to losing his third layer of belly fat. But first, I should also mention that from the start of his journey until now, it has taken the mesh 275 days, using this exact plan for each layer of belly fat. Now I'm sure some of you would be expecting those results in half the time. But for context, Namesh also took a five week trip in the middle of his plan where his goal was just to maintain his weight while keeping up with his training. And he also just personally found the slow and steady approach worked best for him. So while taking almost a full year may sound like a long time, think about how many years it took for you to gain your belly fat in the first place. And think about what you were doing this same time the last year. That time is going to pass regardless. So Namesh, just focus on making small improvements week after week until he was here. All right, let's see what we got. Damn, dude. Dude, there's no way. Holy s***, look at this. One, two, three, four, five, six. I feel you got an eight pack coming in too. Coming slowly. Dude. And like the size is there. Yeah, you know what I mean? Yeah. Give me a little double bicep flex with camera. Holy crap. Bro, you look amazing, dude. Holy s***. Namesh's total body fat dropped from 29.5% on day one all the way down to just 16.7%. But when we zoom in on his belly fat, the change was even more dramatic from 34.4% down to just 13%. That's a drop of 20 percentage points. And the best part is he actually gained almost seven pounds of lean mass throughout the entire process with a good chunk of bad being actual muscle. I'm getting there. I'm happy, man. What do you mean you're getting there? You're there, bro. Holy crap. Cheers, man. I appreciate it. That's incredible. Look at this. I'm just going to peel it. If you guys are watching and you want, you know, a pine that takes care of all the guesswork for you, I can't physically be there, but it's the next best thing. He can vouch for it. Just head to BuildWithScience.com or scan this QR code. You get two weeks free to try out the app. It's going to take care of all the workouts, all the nutrition for you. It's actually going to per size the plan based on your body, just like it did for Namesh. Yeah, 100%. And just to Jeremy's point, I mean, without the app, it would have been really hard. I was tracking everything every day and the app does the foods, does the weights and everything. So just having everything in a one stop shop, again, not pushing it, but it genuinely helped a lot. So Namesh, you can vouch for the app as well. Yeah. Well, it didn't do the hard work, which is showing up at the gym and prepping the meals. That was all you. That was not your guidance that wouldn't be possible. But yeah, I am, dude. I'm freaking stoked for you. Holy crap. Thanks for so much. I wish it wasn't so cold, though. I want to just go to the beach right now.

=== FILE: I Tested 3 Muscle Building Diets - Only 1 Was Worth It [D6Qw2dfrFRg].txt ===

 How much muscle can you really build in just 90 days? And more importantly, how can you do it without gaining fat? To find out, I'm testing the three most popular muscle building diets on my brother-in-law. So by the end of this video, you won't just find out how much muscle he gains, but which one builds muscle fastest, which one burns fat while building muscle, and which diet completely backfires. This is a bit of a disaster. So last year, I helped my brother-in-law Dayton drop from 33% body fat down to his current body fat of 17%. And now he's hungry for more. Now that I've cut, I really want to bulk up, get bigger. I'm not getting fat again. Like, I refuse to get fat again. So to help Dayton with his goal, I'm starting him off with our first diet, main gaining. The theory here is that by training hard while eating just enough to maintain your weight, your body is forced to burn off your body fat to fuel muscle growth. And to measure if that actually happens, Dayton's getting dexa scans before and after each diet to see how much his muscle and fat changes. But because short-term dexas can be less reliable, we also took ultrasounds, skin fold, and circumference measurements to get a more complete picture of which diet actually works best. Now to set up his main gaining diet, if you take your body weight in pounds and multiply it by 13 to 16, depending on your activity level, that's roughly what your body needs to maintain. But I know from personally working with Dayton for so long that his current maintenance is right at 2300 calories. This is a sample day of eating I've created for him to hit that target. As for protein, Dayton's targeting at least 100 grams of protein per day. Now, while that might sound low, some new research suggests that if you're eating enough calories and you're not bodybuilder level shredded, then your protein needs aren't nearly as high as most people think. In fact, if you take your body weight in pounds and you multiply it by 0.7, that's already enough to maximize your gains, which gives Dayton more room for carbs to fuel his workouts. I got my veggies, lean protein, and my carbs. We're seven days in. My weight hasn't moved. We're doing good. But what's going to have no doubt the biggest impact on his gains is his training. So I'm having Dayton train five days a week using my personal favorite workout split. The plan seems to be working. He's sending me PRs every workout. And with his app, we'll be able to see how much his strength gains from each diet match up to actual muscle growth. But just as a going was getting good. All right, guys, quick update. So I just realized that both of my roommates are moving out. And that leaves me with only two months to find replacements. If I don't find someone that's going to leave me with a lot of money to pay all on my own. And on top of that, my business is hit a dry spell. It's the slowest it's been for a long time. So that's a lot of stress right now. And it's making it a little hard to stay on track with the workouts and the diets. With all the added stress, he began snacking a lot more than usual. And it also didn't help that this was filmed during the holidays, where he couldn't resist my mom's Filipino desserts. I got my third plate of the night dessert is called ube and then some sort of rice put it. But then something happened that might just end this experiment altogether. My grandpa, he passed away a few weeks ago from cancer. And he was a big male role model for me as my dad passed away when I was seven also from cancer. So he was my father figure. So yeah, it was honestly a tough time for our whole family, but especially for Dayton. And even though he could have easily quit the experiment, he stuck it through, not missing a single workout. And even though he tried his best to stay on track with his nutrition, when he returned for his second check in on day 30, the results weren't quite what we had planned. You actually gained two pounds of body weight. Now the goal was to maintain your weight as best as possible. And the next phase, the goal was actually to gain two pounds in a month. Luckily, his overeating actually lines up perfectly with the next diet that we had planned, a lean bulk. That's where you take your maintenance calories and you bumped them up by about 250, which typically results in around two pounds of weight gain per month. So we decided to swap the order of his diets and save the main gain diet for the very end of our experiment. The good news is that it seems like those actually two pounds went to the right places. Okay, based on Dayton's results, combined with the data from our additional measurements and scans, after 30 days of lean bulking, he's gained an estimated 1.35 pounds of actual muscle. As per whether that's good or not, in a 2020 minute analysis from a huge number of short term training studies, participants gained roughly 2.4 pounds of actual muscle, but it took them 10 weeks to do. So Dayton's definitely above average. Plus, the last time I seriously assessed my own rate of muscle gain, it took me 60 days to put on just half a pound of muscle. So Dayton clearly still has the ability to build muscle quickly. As for fat gain, based on the data from his belly skin folds, ultrasound and waist measurements, he did gain some fat, but it wasn't excessive. So overall, Dayton's lean bulk was quite the success. But it does beg the question, can we speed up his gains further if we feed him even more? So for the next 30 days, we're running a fast bulk, cranking his daily calories up to 2800. That's 500 calories more than his body burns every day. You're probably wondering like where what types of calories should I be eating? Yeah, you're getting enough protein. So my personal recommendation is if you're going to add calories, let's do it from just pure carbs. Okay, because that's what's going to give you the glycogen and the energy that you need in your workouts, that we can see your workout performance just like really, really be taken to the next level. So it's not like we're taking his diet from this to this. We're just making small daily changes. So he gains roughly four pounds by the end of the next 30 days. I can have a little bit more rice, a bit more carbs, some more sauce, but I have to stay on track. I have to weigh everything. I can't make the same mistake I made last time. I'm just hoping he doesn't overdo it. Yeah, my roommate came back from Mexico and he came back with a giant bag of candy coated sugared peanuts and I love candy covered peanuts. So I did crush a lot of these. But at least Dayton was putting these extra calories to good use. So I think Jeremy's right about upping the carbs. I've been hitting PR after PR after PR. I have a lot more energy and I'm just feeling way stronger. Ding felt so good that he actually started adding more sets to his workouts and normally studies would never allow for this. Workouts are kept identical so the diet is the only variable. But I honestly think that misses a huge indirect benefit of eating more calories, the extra energy to train harder and longer. So instead of holding him back, we let him lose. Whether it leads to more muscle growth, we'll find out soon. In the meantime, as his body transformed, so did his business. His TikTok fitness videos drove traffic to his business content and the attention turned into orders. So I got some exciting news. My brother is currently looking for a place to live and I so happened to be looking for a roommate. He's really into working out and we have tons of things in common and we get along really well. So I really hope it works out because I need a roommate. And while Dean's work and roommate search were improving, he was now dealing with one major downside of his fast bulk. I've definitely been noticing a bit of extra belly fat. I've gained a little bit of weight as well. In my face, I can see I've gained just a little bit of weight. Those are the two spots I always notice that my face gets a little chupier in my belly. We'll find out soon whether that's just in his head or not, but there are a couple factors that should be working in Dayton's favor. For starters, a study on untrained lifters found that a fast bulk led to huge muscle gains over the course of eight weeks with minimal fat gain. But when that same fast bulk was tested on more experienced lifters, most of the extra weight gain now came from fat rather than muscle. In other words, fast bulking seems to work best when your body can actually use those extra calories to build muscle. And I learned this the hard way. When I first started lifting, I did a dirty bulk, sometimes even drinking a gallon of milk a day. And it worked. I put on a lot of size without much fat. But when I tried that same approach a few years later, it just made me fluffy. And I had to spend months dieting the fat that I gained with very little extra muscle to actually show for it. And while Ding isn't a total beginner, as he's still in his first year of proper training, there's a possibility that the fast bulk actually works out the best for him. The last 30 days, you've gained four pounds. Okay, what have you noticed? Strengths, overall size, I just feel bigger. I feel more energy. I feel strong. Definitely did. Yeah, I've noticed a little bit of fat gain, but that was to be expected. Well, you look fuller, dude. Even just in this shirt, like your arms, your chest, I feel a lot bigger. And his pull-up strength since day one has actually doubled. Let's go. Up. Look at this, this back. You can see it through the shirt. These haper. You look like a ninja turtle. As for his muscle and fat results, Ding gained an estimated 1.8 pounds of muscle, 30% more than what he gained during his lean bulk. But it did come with the trade-off. This time, he gained three times more fat than during the lean bulk. And I've seen this quite a bit. People, fast bulk, they put on size and fat, and then they hit a point where the fat gain is so overwhelming, they never actually cut to get rid of it. Luckily, Ding was still looking relatively lean. And with the extra fat that he gained, it actually put him in the perfect position to take another shot at our last diet. Main gaining. Which means that you have to maintain your weight. No more tons of ground beef. I have to go back to chicken and turkey. Okay, I know it's coming. And while Ding may not be thrilled about scaling his calories back, if he sticks to the plan, he should still be able to build muscle and instead of gaining fat, actually lose some. That's because while muscle growth does require energy, that energy doesn't have to come directly from the food you eat. Most people carry well over 100,000 calories stored as body fat. And your body can tap into that energy to fuel muscle growth. In fact, when Dayton first started working with me on a fat loss diet, he was still able to build muscle. Not as fast as during his bulks, but at a pretty solid rate of about 0.7 pounds of muscle per month. And instead of gaining fat, he was losing about five pounds of pure fat each month. And he's not somewhere exception. We see it all the time in studies and I've seen it countless times with our app members, even people who have trained for years. They started dropping fat while building new muscle, because for the first time in their lives, they're actually following a proper plan. And that is exactly what our app does for you. You enter your info, it gives you a personalized diet and training plan. So you quickly see results and then it adjusts your plan over time based on how your body responds. And you can try it completely free for two weeks over at BuiltWithScience.com or by scanning this QR code right here. All right, guys, in order to keep the ground beef in the diet, I've been mixing extra lean ground beef with lean ground turkey. That way I can keep the fat down and the flavor up. And if you put enough seasoning in, you really can't tell the difference. Now, while his fast bulk had more room for sweet treats, this time, Dean had to get creative. So I came up with a snack that's kind of like a chocolate peanut butter frozen yogurt snack. And here it is. Really good. Kind of tastes like a Reese's peanut butter cup, but with some banana. And while I was worrying Dean's energy might take a hit, he seems to be training just as hard with his new workout So I got my new roommate and it's actually my brother. And it's been really nice having him around. We've been working out together, hitting PRs together, pushing each other in the gym. Today we're doing dips. I'm going to try and beat my PR. Not only that, but they started prepping meals together and keeping each other accountable. But to Dean and Cole, sticking to the training is more than just for building muscle. I've been working out the last year and a half. Before that, I was an addict for 10 years, living on the streets, getting in trouble. Pretty much waiting nothing. Now look at me. After dealing with the loss of my grandfather, it's really got me thinking about family, how me and my brother lost my parents at a young age. I really haven't had my brother in my life for about 10 years due to his own struggles. So I'm just really happy that he's doing better and he's going to be living here. And while Dean was enjoying his time training with Cole, his progress on the scale was completely stable, which is exactly what we want. But it was now hard for him to tell if he was making any actual progress. But research shows that if you keep your exercises the same week after week and your strength is going up, especially in the six to 12 rep range, that is a very strong sign that you are building muscle. Regardless of what the scale says. Now we'll see if that's actually true for Dayton, but I'll be honest. Main gaining is just not for everyone. If you're already pretty lean, say under 15% body fat for men or 25% for women, your body may not have enough stored energy to reliably fuel a muscle growth, which can leave you spinning your wheels. And if you're underweight like I was growing up, you're not going to gain 20 pounds by main gaining. But if you have enough body fat, you're newer to training or you've just never trained or dieted properly, main gaining can be a great alternative to constantly cycling between bulk and cutting, which is why at the end of the video, I'm going to showcase the results from all three diets and explain which one will work best for you based on your body. And bro, you are a master of maintaining your weight because your weight is the exact same as it was 30 days ago. Before I show you the next results, let's pop open the hood. Now keep in mind that Dayton did all of this with only dumbbells, a bench and a pull up bar. Now what he doesn't know is I'm going to be surprising him with a brand new gym setup to help him and his brother continue their journey. But before I surprise him, let's review the results of his final diet, starting with muscle gains. Dude, look at this chest man. Every time I see you, it's just like ballooning up. Holy. So after 30 days of his main team diet, Dayton gained an impressive 1.1 pounds of muscle. That's only 15% less than his lean bulk and 37% less than his fast bulk, leading to a total of roughly 4.4 pounds of muscle over the whole 90 days. What's interesting is his strength gains during each diet actually match quite well with how much muscle he ended up building. So if you don't have access to fancy scans, tracking your lifts is an easy and pretty reliable way to assess your gains. Now as for fat gain, for the first time in our experiment, rather than gaining, he actually lost a bit of fat. His waist tightened up and some of his belly fat actually came off, which brings me to our final question. Based on the results of all three diets, which one worked best and is the approach I'm going to actually recommend for Dayton? Well, while the fast bulk delivered the most gains and he did enjoy the extra food, it came with a disproportionate amount of fat gain, which I know Dayton would end up regretting. As for me in gaining, I was honestly surprised with how much muscle he still built. But since I know he felt the best with more calories and he does want to prioritize building muscle before attempting to cut to 12% body fat for the summer, the lean bulk, it just makes the most sense for now. But that's just my take for Dayton and it might very well be different for you. So I wanted to make this chart right here to help guide your decision. But just keep in mind that in all three diets, Dayton still made tremendous progress. So I don't want you to overthink it. Eating well and training hard is what's going to drive most of your gains. And as per which diet, Danes decided to stick with a leaner bulk. I think if we stick to that, I don't get too much belly fat over the next few months, then I can hit that 12% easier. It won't feel like I'm giving up so much. True. And to help Dayton get there, it's time to reveal the surprise that I've prepared for him in cold. Oh, you went overboard, dude. I don't think you know what this thing can do. I don't. That's what I mean, dude. I have no idea. I got you a barbell. I got you weight plates. I have more weight plates coming. How's your whole experience been? Amazing. I mean, my whole life changed for so many positive ways. Just diet, my energy, everything's has been overall better. And it's thanks to you and your app. It's just so nice to not have to overthink. It's just it does all the little things, the monotonous stuff that no one wants to do. It just takes care of all of that. If you guys want to give the app a shot, you can get two weeks free at billisdines.com or scan this QR code right here. And if you guys want to try out a full body workout plan that's all done for you, then give this video a watch next.

=== FILE: It's Boring, But It Destroys Your Body Fat In 30 Days [dPvuB0aJnNU].txt ===

 This is the simplest diet where you can eat like a buffet, every meal, no calorie tracking, just crazy, fat loss results. But that's just my theory. These four foods were scientifically selected to maximize fullness, calorie burn, and rewire your unhealthy habits. And over the next 30 days, we're testing if this can actually beat every other diet on the market, or if it ends up completely backfiring. I'm just not seeing like a huge difference. I've just had enough. This is Max, a personal trainer and train conductor. And according to his DeXaScan, he's pretty jacked with a body fat of 19%. And our female subject, Isabel, is a legree coach. I personally never tried it before, but it does look pretty impressive. And her body fat is 31%, which is actually far better than the US average. So both of them are already pretty fit, but they do want to lose some of their stubborn fat and tighten up. And they've already tried the usual ways of dieting. I think just with the tracking is something that I kind of struggle with, mostly with just having a busier schedule. I don't always take time to kind of, you know, weigh everything out. And yeah. And for Max, even though his worker routine is actually pretty solid, he has some interesting diet habits. Well, usually I wake up, I go to the gym, fasted, and I hit up a buffet. Usually like a sushi buffet, or I go to Gui Bi, which is like you grill meat, or I go to hot pot. I feel like two or three times a week. A week? Yeah. I just love eating. But he eat until he was sick, to the point where it would negatively affect his sleep. And it's a habit that he really wanted to break. Luckily, if my science checks out, then this diet won't just help him lose fat with unlimited food and without counting a single calorie, but it should also psychologically reset their brain to eliminate hunger, cravings, and unhealthy food habits. Now we'll see if that actually ends up happening. But the diet they've been waiting for is... So please open your cupboard. Oh, oh, my favorite. But you're gonna have to put the cover back on. Huh? What? Unfortunately, the fun ends here. What? This is the last day. What? That you're gonna be able to eat those. Because for the next 30 days, you are only going to be eating this. What? Potatoes? Oh my goodness. It's a buffet. It's an all you can eat buffet. I call it the CPB diet, and it's pretty simple. Just three rules. One, you only eat chicken breast, potatoes, broccoli, and carrots. But you can eat as much of these as you want. Two, you also get olive oil, but you're limited to one tablespoon per meal. And third, there are no liquid calories, diet sodas, or artificial sweeteners. I think I can do it, but it's gonna be kind of sad. I love eating avocados. And chicken for breakfast will be weird. I should have went to the buffet yesterday before I came in today. And to help them stick to the diet, I'm actually gonna reward Isabelle with a professional photo shoot for her new Legree website after the 30 day challenge. Cool. Wow. So the catch is, the photos that we take, you have to use it on your website. So, and Max, if you can stick to it, we are going to get you 10 fully compensated buffets of your choice. Okay. Let's go. All right. Now the theory behind this boring diet is simple. It's a short reset that's supposed to change how food feels to you. So you stop chasing food for pleasure. Plus, each food is scientifically chosen to keep you really full. So while you can eat as much as you want, your brain just doesn't want to. And these effects should get more and more powerful every week if they can stick to it. I meal prepped some food for breakfast. I'm going to have some shredded chicken with some carrots and some mashed potatoes. Hopefully this is kind of like an easier breakfast to eat. I don't know. Just a lot of thoughts like, I can do it. And then you're thinking that can't, but a lot of potatoes and chicken. As expected, Max and Isabelle are already struggling early on with strong cravings for their usual foods, but that should slowly subside if they're able to make it through the most difficult first week. Think about it buffet. Even when you're stuffed, you can always make room for something new. New taste, they light up your brain's reward system, which is why you end up eating way past what your body actually needs. But when you keep food simple and you stop constantly switching things up, that reward system, it doesn't get triggered as much as a result. People naturally eat about 20 to 30% fewer calories. They lose more fat and they keep it off more easily. And this effect, it actually gets stronger over time. In fact, in one study, people eating the same mac and cheese every single day ended up eating about a hundred fewer calories less per meal by the end of the week, just because it became less exciting. That's why pretty much every lean fit person I know, they tend to stick to very similar go to meals every single day. This experiment, however, it takes that idea to the extreme. Every time I think about food, it just images of a potato just pop in my head like potato. I would be at work, I'd be thinking about what I'm going to eat. That's all, just potatoes, just images of potatoes just constantly popping out in my head every time I'm hungry. Now there is some pretty crazy science behind Max's favorite food, potatoes. So back in 1995, a team of researchers wanted to figure out what foods keep you the fullest for longest. So they gave participants 240 calorie portions of 38 different foods and then they tracked how full they felt over the next two hours. They then compared everything to plain white bread, which was set at a fullness score of 100. Here is how all the foods scored. Potatoes absolutely crush the rankings and for the same calories were three times more filling than white bread and eight times more filling than Isabel's favorite treat, croissants. But here's the catch, preparation matters. If you fry them, that advantage almost completely disappears, which is why we limited each meal to just one tablespoon of olive oil. And to boost the crazy effect of potatoes, that's where broccoli, carrots and chicken breasts come in. Fiber rich vegetables and lean protein, they not only add a ton of volume and fullness for very few calories, but they also take more time and energy to digest. So your body burns more calories processing them. But the most powerful effects of this diet, they're not really going to kick in until after the first week. Once their brain's food reward system starts to reset, the hard part is getting there. We can finally stop eating dry chicken. So my friend let me his sous vide. This is my first time using it. We got the water to 62 degrees. And we will have these cooked in about an hour and a half or so. I made some chicken waffles because she was tired of eating regular chicken. You said before. Good. Now with this rate, by the end of 30 days, they're both going to have a PhD in cooking chicken and potatoes. But what's really interesting is they've both been weighing themselves every morning and logging it into my Bilt with Science Plus app. And based on their weight trends, accounting for the initial water weight drop, the app can actually estimate how many calories they've been eating, even though they're having tracked a single calorie. And according to those estimates, Max was only eating about 1800 calories per day while Isabelle was closer to 1300. But here's the crazy part. Neither of them have complained once about being hungry. In fact, it's been the opposite. They've actually struggled to eat enough. And with week one coming to an end, they're finally starting to feel some of the positive effects of the diet. I feel a lot better. I feel like I've kind of settled down all my emotions and I'm focused now. I have mental clarity, good energy, consistent energy and no crashes throughout the day. I have mentally accepted this challenge. Initially, I was honestly very frustrated and irritated because, like I said, I had no idea what to expect for this experiment. My body, I think, on a physical level has also started to accept this diet. Now as for the physical results, after just one week, both of their bodies had visually tightened up and their measurements revealed some pretty insane changes. It's down over three centimeters. All I did was like, put a bit, like five pound result. Holy crap. That was something like that. What do you mean something like that? Five pounds is crazy for a week. The belly is also down 1.5 centimeters on the waist, which is crazy. Chicken. I've been tracking my weight. I feel like it's not consistently going down, but it's like up a pound, down a pound, up a pound, down two pounds. It's just like fluctuates every day. And girls have learned the weight scale is 10 in the month and everything, but your waist definitely went down. Now even though they've seen some fast results, the goal of this experiment isn't to have them eat this extreme diet forever. It's to reset how their brain responds to food and then gradually move towards a more flexible approach that they can actually stick to long term. In fact, later on, I'll show you how applying just a fraction of this diet can make your fat loss way easier. And since Isabelle absolutely cannot handle another day of chicken for breakfast, I'm letting them add in three different protein options. But there's a catch. They can only choose one. Oh. Yeah, that would have helped a lot. We have eggs. We have Greek yogurt and we approach it better. I think I'll do eggs. Max. I don't need it. I think I'm just going to keep going. I'm seeing good results with what I got. And then I'm really curious about what's going to happen in 30 days. I admire your choice. I am a little scared for you, but I believe in you. And just like that, the experiment now takes two very different paths. Isabelle adds eggs while Max decides to push the original diet even further. But what's perhaps the hardest part about this diet is what they've been missing out on, especially since this video was filmed during the holidays. I've been feeling a lot of FOMO lately. So the fear of missing out here. I was invited to a potluck, a birthday potluck social and me and my wife couldn't go. I went to this grand opening of my friend's bakery. Isaac's Bakery, baking factory. So I went and then I realized I couldn't even sample anything. I can't even try it. Just a lot of missing out on stuff. We had family lunch today and I also missed out on that because it would almost be no point of me going and just watching them eat, right? Oh for dinner. What do you got? Broccoli. Yum. Luckily, Max has found some other ways to stay busy. I replaced that with drinking tea, reading books, planning some sort of activity with my friends that doesn't revolve around eating. That helped me eliminate that bad habit and replaced it with good habits. Now this is actually one of the biggest benefits of this diet. Most people don't realize how many decisions they make around food every single day. Where to eat, what to order, how much to have, it can get draining. But when you repeat the same three or four meals, the decision is already made for you. And that leaves more mental energy and willpower for everything else. Resisting junk food at night, focusing on work and crushing your workouts. Which are especially important here because if Max and Isabelle continue losing weight this quickly without proper training, a lot of that weight loss is going to be from muscle rather than fat. Which is why I've given both of them access to our Built with Science Plus app to help guide them with their workouts every single week. And after two weeks, neither Max nor Isabelle has broken the diet. And Max is down another three centimeters off his waist. It's honestly one of the fastest waist reductions I've ever seen. But about cravings at this point? No, like maybe here and there if I start chatting about it, but then it goes away after. How have the cravings changed since day one? It's changed a lot. Like I haven't been really craving too much things. Like it's kind of been a habit now that I wake up, go to the gym. That's the first thing I do. And then when I do feel hungry, I eat my chicken and potatoes that I've prepared. And then there's no craving. So it's really weird how it's just like become a habit. That's all I eat. It's really weird. Last time you were at 71 centimeters and she's down to 70 centimeters. Okay. I don't think you realize a centimeter a week is like, that's a lot. Plus for this week, we're going to add some special ingredients to Isabelle's diet. Oh, I'm very excited. Orange, tomato, avocado, Greek yogurt and bok choy. I find it so weird. She's so excited for this. Oh my gosh. I love it. Yeah. And these additions weren't chosen randomly. These foods not only provide one nutrients and color, but oranges ranked as the most filling fruit in the satiety study from earlier, whereas bok choy is extremely low calorie and one of Isabelle's favorites and Greek yogurt just gives her another lean protein option to mix things up. The only thing though for the fats, you know how you've been limited to just like one tablespoon of olive oil, it's going to be half an avocado. Okay. So you have to choose like a tablespoon of olive oil, half an avocado. Oh, got it. Okay. But that's not it. We're also adding one treat meal per week. In the research world, this is called a plant hedonic deviation. Basically a deliberate temporary break from your normal routine and it can help keep your social life intact and give you a mental and physical boost and research suggests this actually leads to better long term results compared to staying strict every single day. When working so hard that I think you deserve something other than chicken and potatoes. Oh, sushi. But I'm curious, after weeks of eating the same healthy foods, how would their bodies react? And could this actually trigger their cravings instead of suppress them? I think it would make it harder because it would distract you from your habits because then you'd be like, oh, this is so good. Let's just why not get another day of this? I definitely thought it would spike like more cravings. So I was a little worried to have it. But honestly, I feel totally fine. I feel like it's been easy just to kind of get back into routine again today. And since Max declined my offer to add more ingredients last time, I'm going to try again and offer him the exact same things I gave to Isabel. Plus under here, I have four more food ingredients that you can add into your diet. Okay, I think that would help. But I don't know. I've already committed to that, right? So I've already put in so much effort into maintaining that and I've already had a treat meal that I think I almost got to keep going. I'm pretty committed. So no more treat meals for Max. He is officially sticking to the strict diet for the rest of the experiment. And while I do respect his decision, there is a serious problem he's overlooking. I plugged in your current diet into our BitLessScience app. I looked at the micronutrients and these are the big ones that you're not getting enough of. It would be a good idea to start supplementing with these. I am rooting for you. Yeah. I honestly was not expecting this. On the other hand, Isabel has been enjoying her new foods and her weight has continued to trend down. But there is one challenge she's dealing with that Max honestly just can't relate to, her menstrual cycle. So during this time of month, hunger and cravings can ramp up, which can make consistency harder. And you often hear that women need to completely change their diet to workouts around this time. But there's actually no strong evidence supporting these changes. Instead, the research suggests keeping the overall structure the same and instead just listening to your body. So for Isabel, that just meant making small adjustments without breaking the plant. For her, this meant increasing her meal volume by adding some more potatoes and managing her cravings with simple things like tea or gum. But while Isabel was handling that like a champ, Max just might have hit his breaking point. I just can't take this anymore. Just this chicken breast and potato diet. I just had enough. I got to the gym yesterday. I just laid on the mat for a solid 15 minutes. It's mostly the thoughts. Every time I stop and think about something, I spiral down this deep hole. Am I making progress? Am I getting leaner? I don't know. I can't really tell. I think I am. People are saying you're getting smaller, but then you're like, getting smaller. That's not good. Max has been losing weight at nearly double the rate that I'd usually recommend. So muscle loss was my biggest concern. Luckily, research suggests that as long as your diet is short, protein stays high and you're training hard using a solid program, then you should be able to maintain your muscle even with rapid weight loss. But whether or not that would actually hold true here, I honestly didn't know. And since losing muscle was Max's biggest fear going into this, I'm honestly a little nervous what to expect in their final scans. All right, everybody. I just finished my last workout and we're going to demolish our last couple of chicken breasts before the Dexa scan. And we are done. We are done with this challenge. Here are some progress. The last little push here. Just to get that little push. I'm actually finding the last few days quite challenging, to be honest, mostly because I am also in the end part of my cycle, which tends to make me feel more bloated, more puffy, feeling like I'm comparing that versus day one. I'm just not seeing like a huge difference. Okay, so I have your Dexa scan results. Well, first off, before I show you the Dexa scan results, what's the first thing that you're going to eat after this? I think I'll have a steak and a fruit because I haven't had fruit in a very long time. We're going to eat some eggs. Some blueberry pancakes. Blue pancakes. That's sweet. Sounds like you had that plan for a while. Yeah. Isabel, in the last 30 days, you lost five pounds of fat. Oh, okay. And your body fat went from 31% down to 28%. And you gained about half a pound of lean mass, which means you built some muscle in the process as well. Like that's crazy. I don't think you realize for 30 days, especially for a woman at your body weight, body size, like that's a huge change. Typically we see maybe 1% or a 2% drop in body fat percentage per month. So the fact that you got a 3% drop plus built muscle plus lost five pounds of fat. No, I'm really happy with that. That's really cool. That's amazing. In the last 30 days, you lost 14 pounds of fat. Wow. Whoa. Whoa, that's insane. 14 pounds of fat. Wow. 30 days. It's crazy. What? That is insane. Yeah. That's not even something I recommend. But you did it. Holy crap. That's crazy. And your muscle stayed the same. Wow. That's awesome. Wow. Based on the scans, it doesn't seem like you lost any muscle. Wow. Now your body fat percentage, you started at 19.3%. And today you are at 12.9%. Whoa. I didn't expect that. Wow. Dude, it's your special diet. 12.9%. You've discovered something. That's insane. This is a breakthrough in science. No, I don't think you realize. 14 pounds of fat and go from 19 to 12.9. That's insane. In 30 days. Yeah. In 30 days. I honestly did not think that was possible. I don't think that was possible either. Now, to be honest, I was very worried about giving him a phase as a prize after such an extreme challenge with the worry that he'd just gain all the weight back. But he actually decided to treat his friends and family, making up for the moments he missed during the challenge. My sleep was actually better. I felt like I was sleeping more and having better quality sleep. I felt really proud after hearing my Dexter results just because, I mean, I can't compare my progress to Max because obviously a guy versus a girl, like it's so different, just everything. Comparing to where I was before to now, I feel really proud of losing five pounds of fat and I've never been on a weight loss journey or tried to intentionally lose weight. The good news is, even if you apply some of the basic principles from this experiment, it can still get you really solid results. For me personally, I'm planning to get the full diet a shot during my next fat loss phase, which is why we've created two free 30 day guides. CPB strict, which follows Max's diet and CPB flex, which gradually adds flexibility every week and to get them for free. All you have to do is start a free two week trial of our built with science plus app. The app is going to create personalized workouts for you and also lets you track your daily weight. And if you opt into our experiment, you're going to help us test how these diets compare against normal calorie counting using anonymous data. You can sign up using a link in the description box down below or by scanning this QR code. As soon as you do, you're going to get your guide instantly emailed for you to keep forever. And you can check out this video next if you want a longer sustainable plan that took the mesh from this to this. Thanks so much and see you next time.

=== FILE: NEW Walking Method 2x Better Than Running？! (Tested) [BL3vZdk61to].txt ===

 running burns that faster than walking. A 30-second workout can never compete with 40 minutes. And if you do too much cardio, then you're going to lose muscle. But are these actually true? In this video, I'm using the world's most accurate calorie and fat burn tracker and talking to the top sports scientist to bust the 10 biggest cardio myths. Starting with our first myth, walking isn't hard enough to improve your fitness. To find out, my editor Andy is walking 30 minutes a day for the next two weeks. But first, we need this baseline. We're running two before and after tests to see if walking improves Andy's fitness. The first one is a VO2 max test. You basically push your body as hard and as long as possible until you physically can't go anymore. Keep going, keep going, keep going. Many scientists consider this score to be one of the strongest predictors of how fit you are and even how long you live. Now, the highest scores ever recorded, they come from elite cyclists, cross-country skiers and Olympic level triathletes. Andy is not one of those people. He averages less than 3,000 steps a day, giving him a day one VO2 max score of 34, which puts him below average for his age. But we also want to measure if his heart improves under normal, less intense conditions, which is why we're also running what's called a submaxible test. But Andy isn't our only guinea pig. I've recruited multiple subjects with completely different body types and fitness levels to see whether or not these myths affect everyone the same way. So while Andy's working on our first myth, we still have nine more myths to bust, including our next one. There's more sweat, equal more fat burn. And to help me with this myth, we have Alicia, who's biking in a very cold gym right now. And using our metabolic heart, we're going to be able to track every calorie burned and also her fat burn. And once her 10 minutes are up, she's going to take a break for a heart rate to return back to baseline while we turn up the heat. Then we're going to find out if she actually burns more calories and fat, cycling for the same time at the same pace, only this time in a hot, high sweat environment. Do you think you're going to burn more calories in the hotter environment? Dripping sweat. Yeah, I think so, because I'll be sweating a lot more for sure. And we're going to go exact same speed. We're the same resistance and I want you to maintain 37. And now cycling in the warmer environment, Alicia is already breaking a sweat just after six minutes. But here is the surprising part. Fitter people, they actually start sweating sooner. Their bodies get better at cooling itself. It activates sweating earlier and in greater capacity so you can sustain harder efforts without overheating. All right, keep the pace up, keep the pace up. But all that extra sweat would only improve her fat loss if it's also causing her body to burn more calories. Three, two, one, you got it. After just 10 minutes of cycling in the heat, Alicia literally had sweat dripping on the floor. Was this harder? Yeah. Last time you said, what, 7.5? Yeah. What was the difficulty of this time? Like a 9. 9? Do you think you burned a lot more calories in this one? Yeah, for sure. Definitely. Well, we are about to find out. Okay, so in the cool workout, Alicia burned 131 calories at an average heart rate of 150 beats per minute. But in the heat, even though her heart rate was actually higher the whole time, she burned just 120 calories. How? Well, even though her heart was pumping harder to cool her body, the workout now felt much harder. And even though I tried my best to keep her on pace, I did notice her performance dipped more often, explaining the lower calorie burn. And when we also compared how much fat she burned in each workout, the percentages were quite similar. So all that extra sweat was basically just for show. Later on, I'm going to use a mask to test how different workouts affect how much fat you burn. But first, can you eat back whatever calories you burn from exercise? You've probably seen the invites to a run club that ends with donuts, ice cream, or even beers. And the assumption most people make is that as long as you work out hard first, you can eat back the calories you just burned off. And to test this, I prepared a table of snacks for Andy and Alicia. Now what I want to do is I'm going to give you each a plate and I want you to fill it up with however much food you think you just burned off. I like how they're just like so hesitant about what they're choosing. I don't know what you said. Andy's making a good choice with the orange. I felt like he didn't want me to judge him, so he's trying to balance the plate nicely. People are really, really bad at estimating how many calories they're consuming. They're usually underestimated by at least 20 to 50%. Do you like the way they do this? I do like the way they do this. That looks good to me. I think I'll take this. And the second thing is that people think they burn way more calories than their workouts than they actually do. Usually they guess two to three times more calorie burn from their workouts than they've actually burned. And it helps explain why even if you've added some exercise to your routine, that you may not be seeing the results you want. And when I went back to analyze their plates using the Built with Science app meal scanner, their total calories added up to... So your plate, 535 calories. Your plate, 526 calories. Oh wait, I didn't see there's another one. I thought it was just one. You tricked me. No, it was just one. You're trying to hide it. Now to be fair, Andy and Alicia had no idea how many calories they'd actually burned during their workouts. So here is the real question. What would happen to their weight if I had them eat back that exact amount of calories? Would their weight go up, down, or stay exactly the same? Now you would think it would just balance out. But here's the problem. If you're dieting, then after cardio, your body tends to compensate by burning fewer calories for the rest of the day. It lowers something called neat. Things like fidgeting, walking around, and movements you probably aren't even aware of. This is one reason why research consistently shows that when people try losing weight through cardio alone, they end up losing only 20 to 50% of what you'd predict based on the calorie burned from their workouts. So if you burn 500 calories from cardio and then eat back 500 calories thinking you're breaking even, you're probably going to be disappointed. And you're better off looking at cardio as a health benefit instead of an excuse to load up on food. But if you still like the idea of getting calorie data after every workout, then how much can you actually trust the numbers from your wearables? Now many people assume these devices are completely useless because they just estimate your calories based on your weight, age, and heart rate. But to test this claim, we're not only going to be collecting data with our metabolic cart, which has an accuracy rate above 98%, but will also be using a normal Apple Watch. So at the end, we'll be able to compare results from every workout to find out just how reliable these wearable fitness trackers actually are. Now go ahead and lock in your prediction now. And I'll even give you a hint. After measuring our first two exercises, we are currently sitting at a respectable 84% accuracy. But it's still early and we have six more myths left to test, including, Do you actually need 10,000 steps a day to get the most health benefits? You see, our obsession with getting 10,000 steps per day actually dates back to the 1960s, when a Japanese step counter was released called the Mampo Meter, with Mampo translating to 10,000 steps. However, there was no actual science behind this number. The marketing team just thought it sounded catchy. And they were right. The 10,000 steps slogan blew up, until it eventually became synonymous with the benchmark for health. Now, when you look at the new research back in this claim up, at first glance, everything does actually check out. According to an analysis from earlier this year, compared to people averaging less than 2,000 steps a day, getting 10,000 steps reduced all cause mortality, cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, and even dementia. But here's where it gets really interesting. So the people in these studies, they didn't actually need 10,000 steps to see these improvements. Most of the health benefits actually started to level off, once people were hitting a daily average of just 7,000 steps, which for many people is a more realistic target. But if you're thinking walking only gives you big benefits if you're older or just not very fit, I'm actually running our VO2 Max experiment with a second subject. My friend Brandon, who lists weights and plays sports, but just doesn't walk much outside of that. So while Andy is trying to improve on his VO2 Max score of 34, Brandon will be following the same walking protocol to see if it improves his above average score of 43. To help them do that, they're going to be doing what just might be the most effective way to walk, the Japanese walking method. And start. This involves three minutes of brisk walking at a pace that's fast enough to get your heart rate up to 70% of its max. Then you follow it up with three minutes of normal walking to get your heart rate back down, and you repeat that for a total of 30 minutes. Researchers in Japan compared this walking protocol in one group to just walking over 8,000 steps a day in another group. After six months, the group who was assigned interval walking outperformed the 8,000 steps group in every single category, including an almost 10% jump in aerobic capacity. Now in just two weeks, we'll be retesting Andy and Brandon to see if this interval walking actually improves their results. But in the meantime, these brisk walking sessions may be good for more than just conditioning. Many people claim exercising at this low intensity, also known as zone 2 training, is a sweet spot for fat loss. To come to your aerobic level of fitness, we have different zones. And your fat burning zone is zone 2. If you have the goal of fat loss and you're not doing zone 2 training, then you need to be doing zone 2. So to test this myth, here's what I'm doing. Two 10-minute workouts. The first is zone 2 incline walk at around 60% of my max heart rate to get my body in the fat burning zone. Then I'm turning up the speed for a higher intensity run to find out if my body actually will burn less fat. And the results, it might surprise you. You can clearly see that my body relies far more on fats when I'm doing the zone 2 incline walking compared to when I'm running. The actual fat percentages, when I was doing the incline walking, 75% fat burn, when I was doing the running, 15% fat burn. So when they say zone 2 training is actually the best exercise for fat burn, that's actually true. However, there is a big difference between fat burn and actual fat loss. Let me explain. Your body is smart. If you burn more fats during your workout, your body compensates by relying more on carbs the rest of the day. Whereas if you burn more carbs, the opposite happens. So while zone 2 is great for health and endurance, as it makes your body better at producing energy and recovering between workouts, when it comes to losing body fat, what matters most isn't the heart rate zone of your workout. It's how many total calories your body ends up burning. Which should make it quite obvious that running is way more effective for fat loss than walking, right? To test this claim, I sent Dennis out with our calorie tracker and asked him to walk for a mile, take a break, and then run for a mile. Now Dennis and I may have different definitions about the word run. But while his slow jog was still burning more calories per minute than his walking, when I tallied up the total results, I was not expecting both workouts to burn almost the exact same amount of calories, around 150 each. But when I reviewed Dennis's footage, things started to make sense. So I reverse engineered his pace based on how long each mile took him. His walk came out to 3.2 miles per hour, which for a guy his height is actually a very brisk walk. Honestly, it would make him the perfect walking coach for Andy and Brandon. But his run was only 4.6 miles per hour. And if you've ever tried walking faster and faster, you know there's a point where jogging actually feels easier than continuing to walk. And that borderline is important. Because while, yes, Dennis still burned more calories per minute while jogging, the difference wasn't actually that big. And so to confirm this, I tested the same experiment with my wife, Tawney, using a treadmill to control for speed. She burned 98 calories matching Dennis's walking speed. But when jogging at 6.2 miles per hour, her calorie burn jumped up to 110, which is fairly consistent with most of the research. Running typically burns 10 to 30% more calories compared to walking the same distance. Plus, you can expect an extra 10% from the afterburn depending on how hard you push. But what both tests show is that while it does take longer, walking at a brisk pace is still a great calorie burner. And for some people, it can be much easier to stick to or just start out with compared to more demanding cardio. It's one of the reasons why meta-analysis comparing less intense to more intense cardio found that they were both equally effective for fat loss. So the key is choosing what you'll actually be consistent with. But with busy schedules, maybe you don't even have 20 minutes a day to block off or walk in and run it. And if that's your situation, there is a way to get an even better benefit from your cardio in as little as 30 seconds. Now, I know that probably sounds too good to be true, as some people believe cardio has to last 20 minutes or longer in order to have any benefit to your health. But a recent study challenges that idea. Researchers had two groups. One did the classic approach, 40 minutes of slow and steady cycling. The other did what's called exercise snacks, just a 30 second all out burst running up a staircase, done three times throughout the day. Both groups did the workouts three times a week. After six weeks of this, the long cardio group didn't significantly improve their VO2 max. But the stair sprints group, who trained for just 90 seconds total each day, they improved their VO2 max by 7%. And this isn't just some fluke. Study after study shows these short exercise snacks can improve nearly every marker of fitness. Now, depending on your fitness level, this could be 30 second sprints using stairs or the Stairmaster, 20 body weight squats, 15 burpees, a minute of fast jogging. The key is pushing hard enough to spike your heart rate and doing this multiple times to break long periods of sitting. Now, to be clear, longer slower sessions are still extremely beneficial for your health in other ways. But if you're tight on time, this is a powerful workaround. But with just two myths left before Andy and Brandon's retest, it's time to buzz our next myth. Is cardio the best exercise for fat loss? So to find out, I first tracked my calorie burn during my main form of exercise, strength training, a full lower body workout that's easily my toughest workout of the week. Complete with barbell squats, hip thrust, hack squats, and hamstring curls. After one hour of heavy lifting, my total calorie burn added up to just 370 calories. For comparison, it took just 25 minutes of moderate intensity on the assault bike to match that same number. Now, you might be surprised, but that's because lifting weights involves short bursts of effort, followed by rest periods where your heart rate drops back down. Whereas on the assault bike, I'm giving consistent effort, which keeps my heart rate high the entire time. Which helps explain why meta-analysis from earlier this year found that those who stuck to cardio for 10 weeks or more lost more total weight and slightly more fat compared to subjects who were only strength training. But here's where it gets complicated. If you're relying on cardio alone for fat loss, only 50 to 75% of the weight you lose typically comes from fat, as your body taps into muscle to use for energy. Muscle loss has been shown to be correlated with higher hunger and a higher likelihood you'll eventually regain any fat that you do lose. Strength training, it fixes that by giving your body a reason to hold onto muscle so that almost all the weight you lose comes from fat. And in some cases, you could even get a similar result to my brother-in-law, Dayton, who followed his workouts and diet plan made by my belt with science plus app and lost 19 pounds. But also gained 6.8 pounds of lean mass in the process, which means he actually lost 26 pounds of pure fat in just 150 days. Now, if he had instead relied on cardio alone, while he may have lost a similar amount of weight, without the muscle gain, his transformation would have looked completely different. So no, cardio alone isn't the best exercise for fat loss. It strengthens your heart and it does burn more calories, but you need to pair it with strength training for the best long term results. But what would have happened if I doubled or even tripled how much cardio Dayton was doing? Would all that extra cardio lead to muscle loss, even if he was still strength training? To help me answer that question, I brought in an expert. I would say that, you know, our guys are on their feet in terms of practice, six to eight hours a week, somewhere between six to seven miles of distance covered in a practice week. That's Dr. Mark Lewis, the director of Applied Sports Science for the Houston Texans, where he's working daily with athletes who do more cardio than any gym bro you'll ever meet, yet still managed to be incredibly jacked. I've seen 650 pound squatters, like with a good full range of motion squad, 400 plus bench presses. I've seen 350 pound incline press. What's crazy is that in most of those situations, we actually didn't let them go to what their true max was just for safety reasons. Now I know NFL players are a bit of an outlier compared to most lifters, plus they have a team of specialists helping them manage nutrition and recovery. So what would happen to an average lifter who ramps up his cardio to four to five sessions per week? I don't think it's anything that's going to move you in an opposite direction. In fact, I think it would put you in a better place. From a muscular development standpoint, I think it would help your work capacity in the gym. It would help your body composition. It would help you recover between your strength training bouts. Ultimately, it's going to help you put on strength to help you gain lean muscle mass. In fact, one group of researchers were so convinced certain cardio methods could help gain rather than hurt it that they took subjects who were already fit and had them perform 45 minutes of single leg cycling, followed by both legs completing the same strength workout. The results? The cycling leg grew almost twice as much, with a lot of that growth coming from type 1 endurance fibers, which may result in better to low resistance, high rep work. But the researchers also think that the cardio itself improved the muscles blood flow and nutrient delivery, which might explain why the clods of many professional cyclists are absolutely massive. Now there is a point where doing too much cardio can actually cause muscle loss, but there's two key things you can do to prevent that. Try to have strength training first, then do the aerobic. If you can separate them, I think that's ideal. And I would say separate them by around six hours in a perfect world. So if you do a really long run, that's like 90 minutes, two hours, you got to have protein after that. But you also got to make sure you got a good intake of carbohydrates as well. Probably somewhere between 1.5 grams, two grams of carbohydrates per kilogram of body mass. In general, a thumb, at most people that worry about this stuff don't really need to worry about it because they're so far beneath a threshold of having to balance these things strategically for it to actually manage or matter. So with no reason to fear cardio impacting your gains, it's time to retest Andy and Brandon to see if their two weeks of walking made any improvements to their fitness. I never felt such in like bad condition as now before I started doing workout. And I hope today my results will be better and I'll get to a better point. Yeah, and we'll be starting out with their sub max test first followed by their vo2 max. So while they're completing test one, I did have a chance to add up the remaining data from our apple watch test and let's just say the results were not what I was expecting. The data we got was all over the map with different exercises where the apple watch would under report, others where it would over report and a few workouts where it actually seemed like the data was bang on adding up to an average accuracy coming in at 79% Which is honestly a little bit higher than I was expecting. So I'm not going to say that it's completely useless but given the range of estimates that we did get, I don't think you should rely on it for anything more serious than just having interesting rough data. And that is why for Brandon and Andy's final tests, we're relying on the most reliable equipment available for testing. Right here on that. I'm scared. All right. Three, two, one, go. On his first test, Andy was only able to make it nine minutes and 36 seconds before he had to tap out. This time when we hit the nine minute mark, he was still going strong. You've got it. Over nine minutes gone now. Ten minutes. Well done. Good job. Ten, twenty. Andy ran almost a full minute longer than he did in his first test. But how much did that actually improve his score? 34.9. So a modest improvement. A little bit. Now, while that may not sound like much, that's a 3.5% increase. And for contacts, V02 max usually declines by about 1% per year after your mid-20s. So if Andy chose to do nothing, then by age 65, his score could go down to as low as 22. Which means he struggled with simple things like going up the stairs or getting groceries. But in just two weeks of walking, he didn't just slow that decline. He actually pushed it in the opposite direction. And when we looked at the data from his submaximal test, the changes were even clear. At the exact same brisk walking pace as last time, Andy's heart rate was now lower. It recovered faster. His breathing was more efficient. And he was relying more on fat and less on carbs to fuel. So in other words, his heart and his muscles got better at doing the same work with less stress. And he could feel the difference too. Overall feeling of my body, like I feel better just in general. More health here. And that's exactly why he's decided not to stop there. Andy wants to take this to the next level. So I've decided to start personally coaching him through a calisthenics program to see just how fit we can get him using only his body weight. Subscribe to the channel to make sure you don't miss his transformation and comment go Andy below to show your support. Now Brandon, on the other hand, his results actually look quite different. He's quite fit. And while his already above average real to max score actually managed to increase by one point, his submaximal test didn't show the same health improvements as Andy. Suggesting that the bump in his max score was likely just from familiarity with the test. But his walking protocol wasn't quite enough to drive actual improvements to his fitness. At least not within the two weeks. And that actually reinforces the biggest takeaway from this video. Exercise can work in almost any form as long as it's challenging enough for you. It doesn't have to be all out or time consuming. Just moving most days, even if it's just walking already makes a difference. And occasionally adding something more challenging helps keep pushing your fitness forward. But there's no magic exercise or perfect intensity. The best exercise is the one that you can stick to long term. And that is exactly the approach we take with our Bit with Science Plus app. It takes care of your strength training, your diet, and your cardio for you. Nothing extreme, just a clear plan that adjusts as you go. It's even taken my brother-in-law Dayton from this, a similar starting point as Andy, all the way to this in just 150 days. So if you're not sure where to begin, you can scan the QR code here or check out bitwithscience.com to try it free for two weeks. Because the longer you wait to take care of your health, the harder it is to get back. And if you liked this video, then you're going to love this one here where we tested all kinds of cardio exercises. And compared them based on calorie and fat burn. So give that a watch and see you next time.

=== FILE: The 6 Exercises That Grow Every Muscle (ALL YOU NEED) [r7J5k2p5obk].txt ===

 Instead of doing 100 exercises with just these six, you can grow every single muscle. The last exercise, it's one I've never seen in my 10-year fitness career, yet can completely change the way you train. Why should you believe me? Because I got the answers from the brightest head in the world. Mr. Mike Isretel. I get to be relevant today. Yay! There are eight muscle groups in the human body. Now, we have six exercises. I'm looking for exercises, fundamentally, that take care of multiple muscle groups at the same time. So the close grip incline bench allows us to hit our upper pecs. I think girls like them or something. The front delts, and then the triceps. Traditionally, if we would just do a normal incline bench, then it would hit the pecs really well, the front delts really well, and the triceps kind of like that. But close grip incline means you hit all of them kind of in the same ratio. So we're getting some good peck work, front delt work, and tricep work. Typically, the way you would set this up is in a regular incline bench scenario, which most gyms have. You'll notice something real quick. This is a very high incline. You don't have to go in a high incline. It can be high. It can be average, like 45 degrees. It can be 30 degrees. Anything in between is really just dealer's choice at that point. Yeah, and that's a good point too. Unless I was really, really careful with my elbow tuck, like this would be all front delts for me. Here's a big, big detail. Close grip is super individual. If you're gigantic, close grips out here. If you're teeny tiny, close grip is over here. The only way to catalog if you're doing it right is, can you get the bar to touch your upper chest at the bottom? And that's probably the best way to do this. You see my shoulders are back. My chest is up. My elbows are tucked in. Gently touch every time. Press up and back. You want to resist the temptation to press forward, because that's going to cantilever over and feel weird. So you start at your clavicles and end up over your eyes, or just your upper part of your forehead, because that's where you're going to auto-stabilize. So one thing I do notice, your wrists are directly over your elbows. I'm not sure if you care much about that with the close grip, rather than imagine if you were like this. If you want to press as much as possible, and be as strong as you can be, and use your chest a ton, wrists over elbows is a very good cue. For close gripping, a lot of time, your wrists are going to be inside your elbows, and that's not a problem. That's actually how you generate a lever arm for the triceps and get them involved. Exactly. So this incline, as I said, too much, so feel for the lower arm. Yeah. I'd say really. Whoa, you lower it to that much? That was only one, what? That's going to be a problem, bro. That's it, flawless. Well, Dr. Mike is literally the best trainer per knee. He just compliments you. You could always do better, brother. You're always a failure in your father's eyes. Literally my childhood PTSD. And that's just one of six exercises that hit multiple muscles. Now the next one might be something you're already doing, but with a tiny adjustment, it can completely change your growth. Next is our next upper body move, which is the underhand pull-up. Any kind of pull-up is great, but remember we have six exercises and a whole lot more muscle groups. So we need to get the pull-up to involve the biceps a bit more than normal, which is where the underhand pull-up really shines. Underhand position, you want full stretch with a dead hang, bringing your chin to the bar, or just a little bit over to hang, and then come back down. It's going to hit almost the entire back, definitely the lats and all the muscles that pull vertically. It's going to hit the rear delts. It's going to hit the biceps. That's three muscle groups, checked off. That's a big deal. And you guys will notice he's not rushing anything. He's got plenty of power on the way up, but on the way down, he's under smooth control for that big, deep stretch. And one thing that I definitely noticed, made a difference with my back involvement, is that dead hang position, right? Like letting your shoulders actually shrug up towards your ears, getting a full stretch in your lats, but reversing that on the way up, right? Like literally shrugging down like that. Whereas before, I was just kind of, you know, stay within your- You can do more pull-ups like that, but no one gives a shit. People only care about how big your back is. But talk to people, no one gives a shit about that either. Okay, so that's two out of six down. Yes. What do we got next? This is why this video won't be super boring and have all the exercises ever known or is already doing, but also why this video might not be the most useful, unless you hear us explain it, because you probably don't have access to a bar like that. And please don't misunderstand me. I don't mean like, oh, you probably trained in a normal gym and not a specialty gym. I just want to communicate something really clearly. I'm phenomenally wealthy and extra privileged. And so when I say you probably don't have it, I'm looking down on you because you're poorer than me. And I honestly just don't like that. Just to be clear. He's not lying. I saw all the Lamborghinis in the front yard. Yeah, so this is a cambered bar bench press. The reason I have a camber bar here is because it's been shown time and again now that the deep stretch and pushing a lot of tension through that deep stretch really just does grow more muscle. And as the bar descends, you want to lift your chest to meet the bar. Yes. Oh, dude. Yeah, right? That is a deep stretch. One second pause at the bottom and then up. Yeah, one thing I'm noticing with this is that you really have to focus on keeping that chest up and reaching your chest towards the bar. Otherwise, if you don't do that, you're just going to compromise usually just with your shoulders. Yes. Right, shoulder rounding forward and that's no good for your chest. And I think the same applies even just for like a regular bench press. Absolutely. Because I think a lot of people, they don't even have the range of motion to get a normal bench press down to the chest. So I really like that cue of shoulders back but also reaching your chest up towards the bar. Yes, thank you so much. That reach cue is something we've been doing at RP for a long time and it works super well. It works with every chest exercise. It works with flies. When you do flies, reach your chest forward at the bottom. It's going to fucking work great. I'm a fan, man. Can I take this home? Yeah, sure. Well, we have a new one every day, so I don't care. If somebody doesn't have access to the camber bar, can you replicate this with dumbbells, for example? Yeah, you can get a factory job. You can go begging on the street. Dumbbells work incredibly well for this. When you do dumbbells, you want to reach around your chest. You don't just touch the dumbbells to your nipples. You want to go out a little bit and get an extra deep stretch. Regular barbell works phenomenal and machines work great. If you have a flat chest press machine, control deep stretch for a second, come all the way back up. This works totally fine. And so when I'm traveling and I need to work out and I have a horizontal press, if I'm traveling and it's all whatever, I do whatever exercise I want, if there's a camber bar at that gym that I go to, I'm gonna be using it. If there's not, I'll probably use a straight bar. If there's not, I'll use dumbbells. If it's not, I use a machine. And if not, I just put some pads on the ground and do deficit push-ups. They work great as well. You really, really have to be in a bind, work out equipment-wise, to not be able to do some kind of horizontal press. We've already hit multiple muscle groups in just three exercises, but it only gets better from here, especially the last one. I've never seen anything like it. Okay, exercise number four. So we still have to hit hamstrings somehow, like glutes. Another one is quads and adductors and stuff. And then the third one is side delts. Cause you notice we've done pushing, front delts, pulling rear delts, but like what is your physique if you have small side delts? So this next exercise, number four, addresses two of those problems right up front. This is a common movement that does rowing and it does the stiff leg of deadlift at the same time. It's kind of cheating you guys. We are going to take traditional overhand grip on a barbell. We are combining the barbell bent over row and the stiff leg of deadlift. We're going to keep a nice tight, lordotic lower back. I'm going to lower down like this, all the way my tummy out, knees back, so that we have hamstring tension. So at the very bottom here, I'm totally loosened my upper back. I'm totally tight in my hamstrings, totally tight in my lower back. I'm basically bent over. And then here I'm getting a hamstring stimulus and a glute stimulus and a lower back stimulus. And then as I come back up, I also row to my tummy. Come down, stiff leg of deadlift, row. Stiff leg of deadlift, row. Stiff leg of deadlift, nice. Long time spent here really annoying, really painful for the hams and then row. And as you notice, as I come up, it gets easier, it's a leverage advantage. So the weight that we use for stiff leg of deadlift can still be something we can row for enough reps to really benefit. Cause if I did the stiff leg of deadlift part and then I did this for the row, Jesus, I'm never going to provide enough challenge for even muscle. Knees back and then. And then row, yes. But spend a long time getting into that low position and go real deep. Oh, I'm getting a hamstring pull. Yeah. Boom, two cues for you. One is chest up and the other is knees back. And are you aiming for like the belly button area? Yep, whatever is natural, whatever fits. Keep your chest up at all times, including at the bottom. Yeah. Keep those knees back to get nasty hamstring tension. Ooh, I feel that for sure. Yeah. It knocks out basically like, I don't know, three muscle groups sort of at the same time. Maybe four, if you count your lower back as separate. So it does lower back, it does upper back rowing, it does glutes, it does hamstrings. The thing I like about your choice of hand placement too is that you went overhand a little bit wider. So it'll hit a little bit more of the rear delts and the mid-upper back compared to the underhand chin-ups that we did, which is gonna buy us a little bit more of the lat. So it's like very complimentary in that way. Is this something that you would do if you were not just limited to six exercises? So there's two questions baked in there. One is if you had more exercises. The other is if you had more time. More exercises? I could do this, but I probably wouldn't, to save time. I sure as shit would do it. And that's what I think a lot of people bash exercises that are less specific to a muscle, but they forget about the real world and what's actually practical for the average person. It's like I'm getting four exercises in one here. Maybe it's not hitting each of those muscles at 100%, but maybe each of them are hit at 70%. That's an amazing use of your time. Exactly, I couldn't agree more. Let's say don't have access to a barbell or it's a busy gym, you only have dumbbells. Is this possible with dumbbells as well? Yes, and as a matter of fact, let me actually demo it for you really quick. What we wanna do is change the cueing just a little bit. And take the dumbbells and we're gonna kind of tuck them into our hips at the top. So same as normal, bend all the way deep, knees back, chest up, tension on the hands, and when you come up, put the dumbbells in your pocket. Stretch the dumbbells out in front of you, real hamstring pain, bring the dumbbells back in. Gives you a leverage advantage, it makes it easier for your back, tougher for your hamstrings, your hamstrings are stronger than your back, so that's good. What's missing? Nobody cares about legs, we're done. Let's do more chest. Yeah, come on. So we need something that hits the glutes a little bit more. The stiff legged dumbbells are so good for the hamstrings, we really just don't need any more hamstrings. So we need more quads and adductors, we need to take care of the front side of the leg. And we're gonna do the high bar squat. This is my favorite leg exercise of all time. It hits quads, adductors, glutes, even lower back, even a little mid back for stability. It does target your abs at heavier loads substantially. This is an exercise that's gonna check a ton of boxes for us and leave us just one exercise away from a real whole body routine. Pinch your shoulder blades back. High bar squat since right above the traps, just where the neck ends. The low bar squat since just below the traps and intersects your rear delts. High bar, we're gonna be doing today right up there. The main reason there is again, just to bice it a little bit more towards the front of the body. Yes, high bar squats are gonna let you stay more upright with your torso. They really hit the quads a lot more. If you want low bar, you can lift more. It's more intense for your back, more intense for your glutes, but kind of already got that with the stiff leg and adductlum row combo. So this is gonna be a really good thing for us. So shoulder blades back, perfect high bar position. You're gonna want your toes at roughly shoulder width pointed out a little bit so that you can really sit down in a natural way. The first thing you're gonna do is push your butt back as if there's something fun back there. You're gonna keep your chest up the entire time though, so you don't wanna lean over at all. You wanna stay completely upright. So butt back, but chest up, and then bend your knees and let your knees do the rest all the way way over your toes with the knees. Full stop at the bottom and come back up. Beautiful. Big chest the whole time, look forward, and then knees go way over your toes. All right, Dr. Mike, so we are five exercises deep. We're onto the last one. I'm not gonna lie, I'm getting a little concerned because there's one muscle group that we have yet to hit and I'm not even sure if you're gonna address it. The side delts. The side delts. Have been rated by scientists as the single most sexually attractive muscle in the male physique. Side delts are these guys right here, and the bigger they get, the more manly you can look. I actually did a study on the shoulder to waist ratio, the ideal ratio, and they surveyed a bunch of females from different countries. The number apparently is 1.6, and that just gets girls crazy. If you thought the side delts were important, they are ultra important. If I was a hot girl, I'd be walking around with a tape measure. Oh, what's up? You seem cool. Hold on, yeah, and ooh, you know, this is like a lunch coffee date. Dinner date would be a little bit wider. We could do some laterals, those are great, and they're great, however. We haven't had a chance to do biceps. We've got some rowing, we've got some underhands, but how can we involve more of the forearm flexor muscles while also hitting side delts? While also hitting upper traps, which you've hit a little bit with stiffly bevels, but not a ton. The answer is the dumbbell upright row. We've got something special, because if we just do this, it's the side delts, and it's also gonna be your traps, which is cool. But by doing the dumbbell upright row, bring it up nice and high, slowly control. What we're gonna be able to do is do some forearm flexor work, as well as your side delt work, as well as the trap work. Again, we're kind of getting sort of three muscle groups here, which is awesome, because we only have six exercises. A big tip on this, which I'll coach you through in a second, is to imagine that the only purpose of the exercise is to get your elbows as sky high as humanly possible. That's your Q number one. So all the way up, big elbows, and then all the way back down. And you kind of wanna hold a little bit the top, connect with the shoulders, and then all the way back down. This right here, this little guy, this elbow, I want it right here. That's it, and the same for that side. Boom. And notice you're coming up in front of your body. That's not wrong at all. That's totally cool. If you want more involvement of the forearm flexors, the biceps, et cetera, keep it close into your body, even closer still. Try to get the dumbbells to almost drag up your chest. Yes! Beautiful. And something you guys will get to see in the B roll is the angle of pull in this exact technique is like all side delts. It's one of the best side delt exercises ever. And as soon as you get up to the top, Jeremy, control the descent, because your body's gonna wanna tear that down. You're gonna wanna control it, and the control comes from this side delt muscle. Flawless, man. This is an excellent technique. Now for some people like me, this can be uncomfortable on the shoulders joint and traps, so feel free to switch these out for normal lateral raises instead. So we have the six exercises. Let's say somebody can commit to two, maybe three full body workouts per week. How would you go about programming these exercises into the routine? I would have one of two options. Day one is all of these six exercises, but in the five to 10 rep range. Pretty heavy. Day two, halfway through the week, same exercises, but sets of 10 to 15. Lighter, higher reps, a little bit of variation, not as bad for like tendons and stuff like that. Injury probability goes down. The novelty psychologically goes up, because the same pounding ass weights all the time. That's no fun. Lower reps, higher reps is awesome. Do you think people can build a pretty good physique with just these? Two days a week of training an hour. In each one of those hours, you do these exercises for a few sets. I think you can establish a wonderful physique. I've also made PDFs of the full body workouts that you can download completely free over at BuiltWithScience.com slash only six. And we even made one for females. And for more personalized guidance, scan this QR code to try my Built With Science Plus app for two weeks free, where we help thousands of members transform their physiques. All right, so we're about to head into Dr. Mike's Lamborghini, go for a rip. Is there anywhere you wanna point our viewers to where they can catch up to you, learn some more stuff? We have a YouTube channel, RP Strength. You'll see my giant face on it. Click on things, not watch it around children because the jokes on here are very restrained compared to what we say on the channel. All right, let's go for a rip in the Lambo. I love it, rich people time. This is much better than a Lamborghini.

=== FILE: The Muscle Building Myth Everyone Fell For (NEW Study) [HJHeGGSp1tQ].txt ===

 I just spent over $40,000 on this study to prove everyone wrong. Because recently, the entire fitness community has become obsessed with the same thing. I'm all in the stretch wave these days. Ultra-focus on the stretch. And now you get a much bigger stretch here. The theory is if you modify and exercise to stretch your muscle more, or challenge it in the stretch, it now becomes S tier for growth. And to be fair, I said the exact same thing. And for good reason, as we had dozens of studies supporting this idea. But despite all this research, the evidence back in our claims, it has some massive holes in it. And there's a real chance the succession with the stretch is completely overblown. So, to find out, I assembled an elite research team, brought in custom machines, and spent an entire year running one of the most comprehensive studies ever done. All to answer one simple question. Is the stretch really the key to building more muscle? And the result we found didn't just shock me. Do these findings change your thoughts on some of the exercises that you may have thought better for growth? Kind of. Yeah, I think. Before we get there, it's important to understand what the stretch actually means, and where all the hype came from. So, we've actually known about the benefits of stretching a muscle for growth since the 1970s. It started when researchers hung weights from the wings of chickens to stretch their lat muscles. An odd experiment, I'll admit. But just from this stretch alone, the chicken's lats grew by 170%. Then, in humans, they tried something similar. Extreme loaded stretching. They tested this on the chest, and even on the calves. Where my friends, Dr. Eric Helms, worn intense stretching calf boot for an hour a day. Both muscle groups saw almost as much growth from loaded stretching as you would expect from normal strength training. This gave researchers a clue that something about stretching a muscle seems to be a powerful signal for growth. So, they wondered, how can we transfer these odd stretch benefits into normal training? One way they tested this was by comparing tricep push downs to overhead tricep extensions, which places the long head of your triceps into a deeper stretch. That deep stretch led to 1.4 times the growth. Remember this exercise. Because later on, you'll learn why exactly it works so well for the triceps. But, what if you didn't just stretch the muscle more, but actually challenged the muscle most when it stretched? To test this, researchers would have people hold a max contraction with their legs fixed at different angles. When their leg was more bent, which challenges the quads in a more stretched position, their muscles would grow up to twice as much as when their leg was straighter and the quads not as stretched. But they didn't stop there. They tested it again using real reps, comparing the bottom half of a leg extension to the top half. And again, the version that hit the stretch harder led to way more growth. And that is when the trend exploded. Suddenly, stretch-focused training became the answer to everything. Faster gains, S2 results, weird, optimized exercises that looked nothing like what we used to do. But the deeper I looked, the more I realized there were three serious gaps in the research that no one was really talking about. First of all, almost every study showing that training in the stretch helps muscle growth has only been done on the biceps, quads, or calves, because they're easier and cheaper to test. But other muscles don't stretch the same way, and some are built completely differently. One muscle in particular, researchers shown, gets a crazy growth response from the stretch that we don't see in others. I'll reveal what that muscle is at the end, plus how to train it. But second, many of these studies, they compare totally different exercises. For example, preacher curls versus incline curls. Preacher curls hit the biceps hardest on the stretch, and they did show more growth in one study, but they also lock your arm in place, making it hard as a cheat. So what's the extra growth from the stretch challenge, or the extra stability, or both? And third, this one's a bit more technical, but most studies measure growth using ultrasound. It's fast, it's cheap, and I've used it myself in past videos. But it has limits. Not every muscle can be accurately measured with ultrasound. And for the ones that can, it only provides a snapshot of a muscle by looking at the thickness, often at just one point. This is an issue, especially with stretch research, as muscles don't grow evenly from top to bottom. So while one region might look like it grew more, it could have grown less in other areas. Now these issues sound small, but once you see how they played out in our study, you'll understand why they matter so much. But now comes the hard part. How do you actually design a study that fills in these three gaps? First, I reached out to my local university and put together a research team. And we also collaborated with some of the smartest minds in the field, including Brett Contreras and Kasim Hansen, to build the plan. The goal? To test muscles that rarely ever get studied, and to see if the benefits of the stretch, which worked for the quads, calves, and biceps, would hold up when applied to muscles like the chest, glutes, side delts, and rear delts. And because these are muscles that can't be measured accurately using ultrasound, we needed to get the gold standard, MRI. So MRI gives us a full 3D model of each muscle, and it's incredibly precise. But it's also insanely expensive, costing roughly $1,000 an hour. For our study, we needed at least 20 hours. And well, you can do the math. This was a huge chunk of our budget, and I'm incredibly grateful that Brett Contreras, also known as the GLUT guy, stepped in to graciously help us fund it, which left us with just one more problem left to solve. So we wanted to test if an exercise that's hardest in the stretch actually builds more muscle compared to if we could somehow make that same exercise hardest in the squeeze. If the stretch grew more muscle, it would validate every exercise swap and adjustment science-based lifters have been recommending for years. But if the squeeze built more muscle, that would mean all those recommendations weren't necessary, or even worse, were actually hurting your gains. But how exactly do you take the same exercise and make it harder in the stretch for one group, and then harder in the squeeze for another? And that is where our equipment became the key to the whole experiment. Prime Fitness USA, they provided us with three custom machines, for lateral raises, hip extensions, pec flies, and reverse plies. But here is a really cool part. So with a simple turn of a knob, we could change the resistance profile instantly. With this knob, we could make pec flies brutally hard in the beginning when the chest is stretched, or hardest at the end when it's fully squeezed. But aside from that one change, the exercise and the range of motion stays exactly the same, meaning the only thing that could affect growth was whether the movement was hardest in the stretch, or in the squeeze. It was the cleanest test of stretch versus squeeze ever done. From here, we recruited 20 subjects, both men and women. And while 20 people might sound like a small sample size, we use a unique design that controls genetics, diet, and all other individual variables that usually muddy the results. It's called a within-subjects design, which splits each person in half. One side of their body did the stretch focus training, and the other side did the squeeze focus training. This now makes our 20-subject studies statistically much stronger than a regular study with well over 40 subjects. And my hypothesis, as well as the hypothesis from the rest of our research team, was that the stretch side would no doubt outperform the squeeze side. Pressure on the heel, nice and tall, and then we're sweeping that leg down and back, good, controlling up. However, when I got to talk to some of our test subjects, most of them were predicting the exact opposite. I think my left leg, which is the one that gets harder near the end, is going to more. Just because it's harder. JJ is my friend, and I enrolled him in the study. And I mean, like ever since like two weeks ago, I just kind of noticed he was getting some wicked gains on his shoulders. Is one shoulder noticeably bigger than the other? That, I don't know. That, I don't know. But definitely there's been some size growth. We'll see. We'll see in the MRIs. Interesting. But to ensure no one's bias would actually influence the results, we blinded everything. The MRI analyst, Nora Statistician, knew which side was which, and I didn't see any results until the stats were finalized. Now, analyzing the MRI data alone took Adam Jones, our head researcher, over 200 hours, as every single image had to be manually outlined and measured. But our adherence was insanely high. 97%. Out of 400 possible workouts, 388 were attended. And as a result, most people's muscles grew by around 20% bigger, which is excellent for just 10 weeks. And it makes it more likely that if there was a difference favoring one side, we'd be able to catch it. And the results we found didn't just challenge my views, but also that of my fellow science nerd, Jeff Nippert, who had some interesting thoughts when I showed him the results. But we'll get to that in a bit. So, which side grew more? Stretch or squeeze? Now, before I say the winner, I want you to take a guess which side won. No cheating by skipping ahead. Stretch or squeeze, just lock in your answer. Okay, so after $40,000 spent and a year of hard work, our results were chest, same growth, side delts, same growth, rear delts, same growth, and glutes, same growth. Every single muscle grew the exact same amount on both sides. There weren't even trends suggesting that one side performed better. We even reported growth at three points along each muscle to see if maybe the stretch affected certain regions more, as well as one total volume comparison. Still, same growth. I was honestly shocked. But when I dug deeper into the data, which I'll show you in a second, it actually explains why so many of us were misled, which leads me to our final question. What do these results mean? And what are the stretch-focused exercises that actually matter? Okay, so after comparing data from our study against past research in the field, I noticed a few things. First, when it comes to the stretch everybody keeps talking about, it's not all one thing. In fact, I would say it's actually three different ideas that just get mashed together. The first of which is what I'm going to call the degree of stretch. So not all muscles are built to stretch the same way. Some of them, which are mainly found in your hamstrings, quads, calves, and triceps, they're bi-articulate. And that just means they cross two joints, which lets them stretch further than most other muscles. And here's the important part. Studies consistently show that exercises that stretch these muscles more grow them faster. And because these muscles are also some of the cheapest and easiest to test, it makes sense why so many studies found stretch training to be more effective. Now the second way the stretch gets applied to training is through a basic range of motion. So how deep you go on each rep. And again, studies find that the stretch position, often the bottom part of a movement, tends to be the most important part for growth. So if you're simply not going deep enough on an exercise to reach that point, that will most definitely limit your gains. And again, nothing in our study contradicts these findings, as both our stretch group and our squeeze group were still completing a full range of motion each rep. What our study tested was the third and most misunderstood piece of the stretch conversation, the resistance profile. Does making an exercise harder in the stretch actually lead to more growth? And from our study, the answer is a clear no. As long as the exercise takes your muscle through a full range of motion, and there's at least some tension in the stretch, it doesn't seem to matter if the hardest part. Is at the bottom or the top. And these findings, they actually line up with another brand new study published just this year, that compared cable lateral raises to dumbbell lateral raises. Even though one of them was designed to be hardest at the bottom in the stretch, and the other hardest at the top during the squeeze, both led to similar shoulder growth. Now here is where things get even cooler. Some muscles, they do still respond differently to the stretch. And I'll show you which ones in a second. But I first want to cover some of the limitations of our study. For one, we used untrained subjects. Now some argue that beginners grow from almost anything. So they're not ideal for detecting smaller differences between training methods. And while that is a fair point, it's also worth noting that most research in this area does use untrained participants, and still finds clear differences between the groups. But I do think that for well trained lifters like myself, doing something new can often spark growth. And I actually think this happened to me. After years of only doing dumbbell lateral raises, which challenged my shoulders hardest in the squeeze, switching to cable lateral raises at hip height to make it harder during the stretch, seemed to grow my shoulders much faster. Now whether it was the new stretch challenge that I wasn't used to, or simply me just enjoying the exercise more and pushing harder, it worked. And the good news is that this isn't an either or situation. You can do both in your workouts like I do, because we still don't know if combining both stretch and squeeze-based exercises leads to better long-term results. And lastly, although we tested muscles that had rarely been studied before, there are still others that may have responded differently. Take the calves for example. They seem to be one of the few muscle groups that respond extremely well to training in the stretch. So much so that one study even found that doing just half reps at the bottom in that stretch led to more growth than doing full range of motion reps. But here's what I think is actually really encouraging. Even though this is just one study, if future research on more muscles continues to align with what we've found, it means something important. As long as you're training hard and you're not cutting your range of motion short, there's actually a wide range of exercises that can be very effective for growth. Hip thrust, for example, can be just as good as squats for your glutes. Reverse dumbbell flies can be just as good as cables. And chest flies might just build your chest as much as the bench press, which is all great to know if you're working around an injury, limited on equipment, or just want something that's easier to recover from. The exceptions, however, are these handful of biarticulate muscles that do actually benefit from the extra stretch. And these are the exercises that researchers found, grows them best. So I would highly recommend making sure these are in your routine. The lats also might be another exception, but we just don't have the data yet. But that's just my opinion. And I want to talk to someone who's also been a huge advocate of the stretch to see if any of our research changes his recommendations. Yo. Okay, so now that you've actually had a chance to read the results, I'm really curious to hear what you think. Yeah, it looks amazing, by the way. Like, oh man, I didn't realize you were using MRI for it. I think it's a really, really important area that you've helped kind of fill in. Do these findings change your, I guess, your thoughts on some of the exercises that you may have thought are like better for growth? Kind of. Yeah, I mean, I think with the pecs, that's probably the one that like, I'm like, ah, okay, well, now you know what, you don't get a little bit of extra range of motion by doing the bench press, like, as long as you're training hard and, you know, doing enough sets, maybe it doesn't matter so much. So that's a cool finding. I think like my takeaway based on this new study is that like, there's just flexibility, right? I think this is like, hmm, this like kind of gets to like a deeper point about what science-based training should be and how it should be communicated. I don't think there's anyone in the evidence-based field who would be like, no, no, no, like, this stretch is literally number one, like, more important than training hard, more important than how much volume you do, more important than like controlling the weight and progressive overload and consistency and all this stuff. Like that's not a take. We kind of have like a lot of the puzzle pieces in place when it comes to those like fundamental variables. And these are just like the final few pieces that we're like trying to fit in. Yeah, yeah. And that was one of the goals with our study too. Now, I know some people are going to watch this and say, science-based lifters always flip-flop in their stance, but nothing in our study disproves the past research. It simply gave us more clarity as to where the stretch actually matters and where it probably doesn't. And that is what science is all about, building on what we have, questioning what we don't, and refining our stance as we learn more. But I will admit, this whole experience has definitely taught me to be more cautious about how I interpret and communicate new findings. And actually, this study is just the beginning. We have already started our next study, which is the first of its kind. I'm going to give you a sneak peek of that in a little bit, because when I first started this channel seven years ago, one of my biggest dreams was to run studies just like this. And now because of your support and everyone who has joined our Built with Science app, that dream is real. Now, we take a portion of the app's profits and we put it directly into funding studies just like this. And in return, you get your own science-based pocket coach that builds your workouts, tracks your progress, and helps you train and diet smarter, all based on the latest research. That is exactly why we're running our first ever MRI study on back growth, comparing rows versus pull downs, so that when you follow the app's workout routines, you know that you're doing what's truly most effective. Tons of our users have also been loving the new AI version of me, which is trained with all of my knowledge, our dietitians, and the latest science. It looks at your strength data, it gives you personalized coaching whenever you need it, and as a result, our members have been getting some insane transformations. And the best part is you can try it completely free for two weeks. Plus, for Black Friday, if you end up joining, you'll get a special 20% off, valid only from right now until December 1st. Just head over to BuiltWithScience.com or scan this QR code right here. And if you're watching this after the deadline, I've included another code in the description just to make sure you're still getting some perks. And if you do want to read the preprint of our study, I'm going to leave a link in the description box down below. Thank you so much for watching and see you next time.

=== FILE: The ONLY 2 Exercises You Need to Fix Your Flat Butt [dOn0cLh7Ek0].txt ===

 this is what weak and underdeveloped glutes look like. They're often the hidden reason your strength stalls, your posture breaks down, and that nagging back pain never goes away. But the good news is you only need two exercises to fix this, helping you move better, jump higher, and even run faster. Now I got these from the world's leading glute expert, Brett Contreras, who literally invented the hip thrust and has helped thousands of people build stronger glutes. You can even do these at home. The first exercise you've probably never done before, and for the second, I'm going to show you the simple bonus technique that completely changed my results. Oh! While your glutes are made up of three muscles, the largest muscle by far is the gluteus maximus. Now this muscle, it gets weak and underdeveloped if you sit all day and don't properly train it in your workouts, which for some people leads to issues with posture and back pain. Now its main function is hip extension, something you do when you deadlift or when you're squatted. But to my surprise, Brett didn't actually pick those as his top movements to grow this muscle. I think the reverse lunge is the best, but it's too good. It makes you too sore. If I have you do dumbbell walking lunges to failure, say we did it out in the parking lot, and I just had you go up and down to absolute failure, your glutes get too sore, your glutes, your adductors, everything gets so sore. This is actually the problem with many glute exercises. It's easy to work your glutes through lunges, squats, and deadlifts, but they also come with three key problems. The first is that most of these exercises are taxing compound movements that target multiple muscles at once. And while this is usually a good thing, if other muscles like your lower back or even your grip are given out first, then you could reach failure while your glutes still have seven or eight reps left in the tank. And what's even worse is that if you already have weak or hard to activate glutes, other muscles can steal your glute canes. Now I actually ran into this problem myself. Usually squats would hit my glutes really well. But after neglecting my glutes for a while, once I came back to doing heavy squats, all I could feel were my inner thighs and quads taken over. It's why even if you've gotten really strong on squats and deadlifts, your glute growth just may not reflect it. And finally, soreness. It's one of the things I have hated about many glute exercises like Bulgarian split squats. The days after were brutal and would make me dread doing them ever again. In some cases, it was even tough to recover before my next leg session, which is when Brett proposed an exercise I'd actually never tried before, but he's found extremely effective at growing the glutes without the soreness and limitations that most exercises come with. But the step up does not get you a sore. I see. And therefore you can perform it more frequently. And we want to train glutes two to three times a week, at least twice a week if you can handle three times a week, have at it. So we're going to do it with body weight first. So stand up on the platform. OK, for this one, you can have both hands up there. We're just learning the movement. So you are going to step back, keep the back leg in line with the torso, lean forward and sit way back. Tap, come up. OK, reach back even further. Tap, come up. Now, when you reach the bottom, I want you to freeze frame. Because remember this pattern here? Oh, that's stretching like 45 torso. The exercise Brett has me suffering through is called the glute focus step down. It actually looks quite similar to a lunge or split squat, but there's one key difference. By keeping one leg in the air and following a few simple form tweaks, it forces your glutes to do almost all the work. I was honestly shocked with just how effective it was, even with just my body weight. Now, Brett does have a custom platform just for this. But even if your gym doesn't, that's not going to be a problem. Just move a bench next to any equipment or rack that you can hold on to for balance. Then slowly push your hips back while folding over at your torso. You want to reach your back leg out until it lightly touches the ground. And then without using any momentum or boosting yourself up, drive your hips forward to the top by using the glute of your planted leg. Now, to prevent your quads from taking over, you want to try not to let your knees bend too far forward over your toes. For more glutes, keep your knee right over your foot. And lastly, do try to choose a bench height so that at the bottom of the movement, the thigh of your front leg is parallel with the ground. And if your platform is too high, you can always add a plate for your back foot to shorten the rep. And because these are so tough, even with just your body weight, you can easily do this at home with a sturdy chair next to your counter. But eventually you will want to progressive overload this exercise with weight over time. And there's a way to use that weight for even better glute activation. When you have weight in the opposite hand, this glute has to stabilize you. When you're standing straight up, it's mostly glute medius. When you go down into the stretch, it's not glute medius anymore. It's the gluteus maximus so that it has to produce a little more activation to counteract the rotational torque imposed on the hip. So by holding the dumbbell in your opposite hand, you're now not working just the glute max, but the outer upper glute known as the glute medius as well. In fact, this exercise works so well for me that it hasn't just become a staple in my own workouts, but I actually asked our team to add it to our built with science plus app so that our members can easily add it to their workout plans complete with a form guide and easy progress tracking. But here's the thing. This first exercise challenges your glutes most of the bottom when they're fully stretched and Brent believes it may build more of your lower glutes. But if you want that full round shape, the kind of glutes they write country songs about, you're going to want to pair it with another exercise that challenges your glutes in the squeeze position and may help develop more of that upper region. Now, in the past, I was always biased towards doing stretch focus movements like the step down because they seem to grow muscle faster. But recently, Brett and I together ran a study that compared training muscles in the stretch versus squeeze position. And we even tested the glutes specifically. And while you can see the full results of our study in this video here, what I will say is that combining one stretch focused and one squeeze focused exercise is likely going to give you the biggest benefit and not just for growth. I've seen big strong dudes at squat 315-405. They didn't have in range hip extension strength. So they were prone to getting low back pain because they want to enter tilt and put everything in the flex position. When you have extended range hip extension strength, you notice you start noticing good things. Your body starts distributing stress better, squats feel better, deadlifts feel better. You start taking longer strides when you walk. So to build the type of strength that Brett is describing, we're going to use the hip thrust. Now, I know what some of you guys are thinking. There is no way I'm doing that in the middle of the gym. So you're telling me you're okay with bending over with a barbell, but not with thrusting with a barbell. Come on, that doesn't make sense. Now, if you're still not comfortable, there is a more subtle, easy to set up alternative that can work just as well. It's the single leg dumbbell hip thrust, which you can even do at home. But regardless of if you use a barbell hip thrust machine or the single leg version, they're only going to work at growing the glutes if you follow these three steps. First, you want to make sure your upper back is high up on the bench to maximize your stability. Second, plant your feet far enough away such that at the top position, your knees are directly over your feet. If they're too close, you're going to work more quads. But if they're too far away, you're going to work more hamstrings. And lastly, brace your core, squeeze your glutes, and then drive your hips up. But the final tip Brett showed me, it might just be the game changer that your glutes have been missing. What I would say if you want to be pure hingy, your gaze will go like this. Come up like that. And you'll push as tall as you can possibly go. Yes. That's like pure hinge. One more. Now I'll show you a more pure scoop. Look forward, move for this, turn them down. That's what the pub is this way. Yes. Good. Gotta do a blend. I kind of like the scoop. Oh! Fuck! Yeah. And it's good to know both. I've never done it that way. This small adjustment instantly lit up my glutes. The difference? It's called the scoop method. You tuck your chin and keep your eyes forward. Then you let your back arch at the bottom and simply focus on moving from the chest down, tilting your pelvis upwards by squeezing your glutes. I'll be honest, it does feel very weird at first and you're not going to be able to thrust as much weight or go as high, but it did create the perfect setup for my glutes to dominate the movement. The key that I found, however, is just really keeping that chin tucked into your chest, which explains why Brett was holding my head. But this is also a great way to do hip thrust for people struggling with recurrent back pain, like my wife, Tawny, who previously had to cut hip thrust entirely from a routine after she slipped to this. But after Brett got her to start training with her chin tucked, she's been able to work out the heavy hip thrust, completely pain-free. And I'm actually challenging her right now to see who can grow her glutes the most in 90 days. So be sure to subscribe for when that video comes out. But this is where it gets really interesting. So for Brett's clients, 60% of them found the scoop method worth their glutes better. But the other 40% prefer something called the hinge method, where you look forward at the bottom and look up at the top and hinge your body in a straight line. So the key is to simply experiment with both methods to find what works best with your body. Now, before you go, let me show you how to actually work these into your routine for the best results. So Brett recommends doing three sets of 8 to 12 reps two to three times per week. And this is what each full leg workout could look like. But for the best results, you're definitely gonna wanna personalize these workouts to your body. And with our built with science plus app, you don't just get form guides and progress tracking for every exercise, but it builds you a personalized plan to grow whatever muscle you want to focus on. And it keeps your training and nutrition all in one place. And now we actually have an AI version of myself that knows all your strength and workout data to give you real-time tips and coaching, just like I would. And it's this deep personalization that's the key behind the countless transformations our members have been getting. And you can try it right now for free for two weeks over at builtwithscience.com or by scanning this QR code. Then check out this video next for two exercises that completely transform my shoulder growth. Thank you so much for watching and see you next time.

=== FILE: The ONLY Workout You Need For 2026 (Do This 3x⧸Week) [n_YW24F5HGc].txt ===

 after 10 plus years of coaching and lifting, this is a workout I always come back to. It's a quick, full-body workout that hits every single muscle, giving you the best results and the least amount of time. The key is choosing the right exercises and modifying them based on your body structure, your experience level, and your goals. Now, there's six main exercises in total, plus a bonus exercise we're going to use to target your specific weak points. Well, let's start with a pretty unique exercise, one that's been shown to grow your whole chest just as much as flat presses, but it comes with the added bonus of more upper chest growth and even strengthens your shoulders and your triceps. It's the low incline dumbbell press, but the key with this exercise is adjusting the incline based on your body structure. And to find the perfect incline for you and your body, all you need is a wall and your phone. You're going to place your phone between your chest like this. If it points straight up, you have a flat sternum like me. And in this case, super easy for your shoulders to end up dominating the movement. So in this case, you want to use a lower incline one notch up from the bottom. But if you do this test and your phone angles back like this, that means you have a steep sternum. In this case, you want to use a higher incline two notches up from the bottom. Once you set your incline, you need to avoid the most common mistake almost everyone makes. It's pressing in a T shape. This limits how deep you can go. It is also riskier for shoulder injury. Instead, I want you to tuck your shoulders into more of an arrow shape. This gives you deeper stretch on the chest and is much safer for your shoulders. Now, if you're a beginner, do expect this to feel a bit wobbly at first. That's perfectly fine. That's why I recommend using higher reps 10 to 15 per set just to practice the skill of the movement. And if you're a woman, you actually have a unique advantage over men. You can tolerate higher reps better than we can, which is why I'd also recommend sticking to higher reps 10 to 15 per set. Now, as you get more advanced, I do recommend treating this as a strength builder. Going heavier and dropping the reps down to 6 to 8 per set. Okay, now with the first upper body exercise done, it's time to move on to a lower body cheat code. An exercise that's been shown to grow your glutes just as much as this does strengthens your lower back. Just like this does. Grows your quads just like this does and even builds your inner thighs just like this does. But it does it all in one. It's the barbell squat. But before you start loading up the bar with weight, I actually think a massively underrated exercise everyone should do is the goblet squat. So by holding the weight at your chest, it forces you to brace your core, enabling you to go deeper and much safer. And you can go surprisingly heavy with this. In fact, I'd recommend sticking with this until you can do 50% of your body weight for 10 reps. If you're 160 pounds, that means an 80 pound dumbbell. Then using a barbell is just much more convenient to start adding weight. But as you get more advanced, you can start to personalize it based on what muscles you want to target the most. One way is by elevating your heels. This allows your torso to remain upright and you can drive your knees forward. Growing more of your quads than your glutes or your lower back. But if you're somebody who wants to grow your glutes more than your quads, really simple way to do that is by grabbing a bench or a box and placing that behind you as you squat. You're going to push your hips back, touch your butt onto the bench, keeping your shins vertical. This form is going to hit your glutes more than your quads. But the most important part of the squat is adjusting your foot stance based on your hip structure. I find that about half the people I train, they prefer a stance that's slightly wider than shoulder width and toes a bit outward. Whereas a quarter of the people, they prefer hip width and toes straight forward. And the rest do best by going wider with the toes way out. So try all three and stick with whichever feels the most natural. But now it's time to move on to an exercise that if you get really strong at it, completely transforms your back. And honestly, it just looks really cool. It's the pull-up. Now let's quickly set some targets. So if you can do zero to one, that's beginner. Two to five, average. Six to twelve, fit. 13 to 20, advanced. And if you can do 20 plus, you are elite. And here's the equivalent for women. I can currently do 24 in a row. And I want you guys to comment below how many you can do. But if you can't even do one yet, that's perfectly fine. Do this exercise instead. It's the inverted row. This is going to help build your back strength as well as your core strength. Work up to sets of 15 reps. Once you can do that, you're ready for pull-ups. But not overhand grip. Start out with a neutral grip. Most people are stronger using this grip. You can use a band or a system machine at first if you need to. But the goal is to work up to sets of 10 unassisted. Then you're ready for overhand grip. Do expect your reps to drop initially by about half. That's perfectly fine. Aim for sets of five to eight strict reps. But once you can do more than eight, you want to start loading this with weight. And again, work your weight back up to eight reps. And every time you can do more than eight reps, add a bit more weight. And repeat the process. Now it's time to move on to a lower body exercise. The strengthens your lower back, grows your hamstrings, and even prevents them from injury. It's the Romanian deadlift. Unlike the squat, almost everyone performs best with their feet about hip width and toes forward. And a quick way to test this is by jumping up and sticking the landing. Where your feet naturally land is usually the sweet spot for you. But from here, the key is learning to hinge at your hips rather than bending through your back. And the easiest way to learn this is to start with a single dumbbell held by its ends. Brace your core and slowly push your hips back. Keep going until your hips can't go back anymore and then come back up. Practice this. Once that feels natural, switch to two dumbbells. Keep the weights close to your legs as you slide them down your thighs and shins. And there's actually two ways of doing this. One way is going to target the glutes. And you just simply bend your knees a little bit more. And if you want to hit more hamstrings, keep your knees a little straighter. But once you get stronger with this movement, it does become more convenient to use a barbell to add more weight. In this case, you want to avoid the most common mistake. You're using the range of motion that your body is just not built for. Some people, they can go all the way down to the floor. Others like me have to stop right below the knee. Both are correct form as long as your back stays flat and you feel the tension in your hamstrings. I also prefer using relatively lower reps here, 6 to 10% as I find going too high reps, combined with a high load is just really fatiguing on the body. Okay, but now it's time to finish off the back. We already trained some of the back muscles with pull-ups earlier, but to build real thickness through your mid and upper back, you need to target the muscles between your shoulder blades. Most people neglect these muscles, which makes their back look flat and can't support good posture. To fix this, how we need to grab a lot pull down bar with a wide overhand grip. Set your feet high, brace your core and think of your hands like hooks. Pull your elbows back in an arrow shape behind you, squeezing your mid back muscles. And as you pull, I want you to aim for the level of your lower chest. I also prefer using relatively lightweight here, but high reps, 10 to 15% just because I find it's easy for other muscles to take over. But if you're still struggling to feel your back muscles working, start by keeping your arms straight and practice letting your shoulder blades slide forward to open up and then squeezing them back together. Once you can feel that mid back engagement, keep that same motion and add the full row. And as you get more advanced, there's a way to do that drill to your advantage. You want to do normal set with full reps until you can't do any more full reps. After that, do three to five of those shoulder squeezes just to make sure that your back muscles actually reach failure. Okay, so the last main exercise is going to hit the shoulders. And when most people think of the shoulders, they think there's only three heads. The research has shown the shoulders can be divided into up to seven different heads, which just means you want to target them from all different angles. And my favorite way to do that is with a lateral raise superset. So you're going to grab a pair of dumbbells, set up an incline bench, and first you're going to lay your back on the bench and raise your shoulders out in a Y shape slightly in front of you. This is going to target a little bit of the side and some of the front fibers of the shoulder to help build your shoulder width. Keep doing this until you reach failure and then immediately flip over, chest on bench, and this time raise the weight out to your sides and slightly behind you. That's going to target a little bit more of the rear of your shoulders to help build roundness in that 3D look. But if you're a woman, this can be uncomfortable on your chest against the bench, which is why I recommend putting a hoodie or pad between it just to create some space between that and the bench. But perhaps the most important part of this exercise is the weight that you use. Don't let your ego take over. I can only use 25 pounds here and that is more than enough. Okay, so those are the six main exercises. Now we're going to customize your workout based on what your body needs the most. So I want you to pick one or two of the following accessory exercises. If you're a beginner, highly recommend adding a core exercise like the dead bug. You flatten your lower back into the floor and slowly extend your opposite arm and leg. Building core strength here is going to instantly help all the exercises we covered earlier. But if you want to focus more on glutes, then you'll want to use some kind of hip abduction. This is going to build the muscle that creates the upper glute shelf that most people want, but rarely trained directly. Now this next option, if you pick this, I give you mad respect. It's calves. And in this case, the thing you want to keep in mind is that a lot of research has shown exercises where your legs are straight rather than seated will grow them more. So stick to standing or leg press variations instead of seated. Next, if you want a little bit more arm growth, I'd recommend an arm superset. My favorite thing here is doing incline dumbbell curls, go to failure, and then immediately put your arms overhead. And this is going to help grow some of the tricep muscles that we have yet to hit from our other exercises. Another option, if you're somebody who lacks upper back growth is doing calcostrox on an incline bench. You lean forward, arms straight, and shrug your shoulder blades up and in. And the last option, this is going to grow a muscle that I honestly think almost every advanced lifter is weakened. It's this little strip of the upper chest right here. And to do this, you can use a cable fly or a peck deck, but instead of your back straight, I want you to lean forward. This is going to shift the tension towards those upper chest fibers. Okay, so here's what the full body workout looks like for beginner, advanced, or somebody who wants more glute emphasis. If you do this workout two, three times per week, you're going to see some pretty impressive results. But if you want the best results possible in a transformation like this, then you need to pair these workouts with the right diet plan. And if you want all that guesswork taken care of for you, so all you have to do is follow your personal plans every single day. Highly, highly recommend trying our Build With Science Plus app over at BuildWithScience.com or by scanning this QR code for two weeks free. Thank you so much for watching. Give this video a watch next, and I'll see you next time.
=== Rebuilt on 2026-03-03T06:30:57.441994Z ===
