 116-percogelogelogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogogog both brain development during pregnancy, as well as during childhood, and leading all the way up to our third decade of life. During today's discussion, you will get the most up-to-date information about autism and its treatments. You'll learn why the prevalence of autism is rising, the role that genes play in autism, and the novel treatments that Dr. Poska is developing to treat what is called profound autism, which are the most severe cases of autism. Dr. Poska is one of a small handful of researchers that pioneered the discovery and development of what are called organoids and assembloids, which are essentially human brain circuits derived from stem cells that form in a dish so that one can study them directly. And while that might sound artificial, today he explains why those organoids and assembloids are immensely powerful for understanding exactly what is wrong in psychiatric illnesses like profound autism, schizophrenia, and other psychiatric challenges, and for developing cures. So today you're going to learn a lot about human brain development and about stem cells, which is going to be important for anyone interested in how the brain wires up, how to treat various diseases of the brain, but also for anyone who is considering stem cell therapies. As you'll soon learn, Sergio is an extraordinary scientist, but also an extraordinary teacher. By the end of today's episode, you'll have the latest information on stem cells, organoids, autism, and what is being done to cure autism and other psychiatric conditions. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is, however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science-related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, today's episode does include sponsors. And now for my discussion with Dr. Sergio Pasca. Dr. Sergio Pasca. Welcome. Thank you. It's great to be here. We're old friends. Shared a laboratory space years ago. We'll get back to that a little later. In the meantime, these days there's a ton of interest and I think misunderstanding about autism. As soon as the topic of autism comes up, immediately some people will say, why are we trying to cure this thing? I know autistic children and adults that are delightful people that lead functional lives. They might be a little bit different or a lot different than other people, but why are we trying to quote-unquote cure autism? And then other people will say, well, there are people with autism who need constant care, who will never live independently. Tell us about autism, what this spectrum really is, and then we'll talk about what your laboratory is doing to try and literally find cures for the most debilitating forms of autism. Well, autism is a complex condition. It's a spectrum, as you said. In a way, you could say autism and neurodevelopmental disorders. It's behaviorally defined. There's no biomarker. So in a way, it's a condition that is defined exclusively by observing behavior, which is actually the case for most psychiatric disorders. But it's essentially diagnosed by the presence and absence of certain behaviors in a certain period of time or up to a certain age. And of course, what triggered, I think, a lot of discussions in recent years is because the number or the prevalence of autism has increased. So now it's close to almost 3% of the general population, which, of course, it's a big number. 3%? Almost 3%, yes. Wow. So that has increased even since I was in medical school. When I was in medical school, actually, it was considered a rare disease. The reason why I actually studied autism because it was a very rare disease and we had very few resources, so we thought studying a rare disease would be easier. But now we also know so much more about this condition. So we do know, for instance, that there is a strong genetic component to it, which for a while, obviously, we didn't. In fact, in early days, the psychoanalytic perspective dominated, especially in the 50s and 60s. So it was thought that it was resulting from having very cold parents, in particular a cold mother. Emotionally cold? Yeah, emotionally cold. It was the so-called refrigerator mother hypothesis of autism. And then in the 70s, some of the first biological studies were done, primarily in twins, that show something quite remarkable, that if you have twins that are identical, genetically identical, and one has autism, then the probability that the other one has autism is very, very high. Even with different mothers? Sure, yes. But generally, we think that there is a strong heritable component to autism. So that was like in the late 70s. And really just in the last 10, 15 years, we've learned actually that there are genes associated with autism and with certainly with very specific forms of autism. So that's what we would call generally profound autism today. The conditions that are severe, that are causing an impairment, they're very often associated with other conditions, such as intellectual disability, so low IQ, epilepsy. So because it is a spectrum, of course, it creates a lot of confusion. And certainly, there's no doubt that there are individuals that have autistic traits that are fully functional in the general population. But the reality is also that there are kids that have autism who are very impaired and will require actually lifelong care of sorts. You know, another way of like thinking is about autism is that autism is not one disease. And I think, you know, no psychiatrist or even biologist who's studying autism would ever consider that this is one single disease. The way I look at it sometimes is, like think about the fever of the 19th century in medicine, right? So you see this very often in movies, right? They will say, oh, he has a fever, high fever. He's going to die from high fever. Well, that fever could have been a viral infection, a bacterial infection, could have been cancer, metastatic cancer, right? Could have been an autoimmune disease. The treatments are very different. But in that time, that's all we knew. It was, we were observing that behavior, in which case, raising of the temperature, but we didn't know the biology. Today, we will use very different treatments for those conditions. And some of them, of course, we don't even treat, right? We just observe. So I think in autism research such as it is the case for many psychiatric conditions, they are defined behaviorally, but there is a disconnect with the biology. Very often, we don't have good biological, we don't have biological markers by definition. And so that disconnect, I think, creates a lot of confusion. I have a couple of questions. First of all, is the prevalence of autism higher in males? I've been told yes. If it's 3% overall, is it, what's the distribution for males versus females? The ratio varies also based on severity, but generally, it's been one to four. So more males than females. And we just recently had our colleague, Nir Al-Shah, on the podcast who basically said the difference between a biological male and female comes down to this SRY gene, not even necessarily on the Y chromosome. If a baby has the SRY gene, you're going to get a fully functional male. If not, you're essentially dealing with a female. So presumably, something about the SRY gene is conferring a vulnerability to autism. I think it's fascinating. Well, there are a lot of discussions, of course, like what causes this difference. And, you know, some discussions are just in terms of diagnosis that perhaps some of the girls are not getting diagnosed properly that they're, we do know that some of them are very good at sort of what we call like masking the symptoms or sort of like, you know, learning the skills, social skills, and so like covering for that diagnosis. But what we do know for sure is that there are differences in how the male and the female brain, especially around birth, can actually take up injury. So think, for instance, about premature birth. You know, one of the best predictors for a premature baby in terms of outcomes, it's actually to be a female. Just in general, females, preemies will do much better for whatever reasons. You know, the way the nervous system is built, the resilience, we know that the maturation stage is also different, right, for the male and the female. You know, think about like acquisition of certain milestones that happen much faster in girls. They generally tend to speak a few months earlier, to walk a few months earlier. So just the nervous system is maturing at a different pace and can take injury differently. So it could be that that is certainly the cause. But at the same time, and as we were talking, since autism is not one single disease, it is very hard to point out to one specific factor that is behind it. I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge one of our sponsors, David. David makes a protein bar unlike any other. It has 28 grams of protein, only 150 calories, and zero grams of sugar. That's right, 28 grams of protein and 75% of its calories come from protein. This is 50% higher than the next closest protein bar. David protein bars also taste amazing. Even the texture is amazing. My favorite bar is the chocolate chip cookie dough, but then again, I also like the new chocolate peanut butter flavor. And the chocolate brownie flavored. Basically, I like all the flavors a lot. They're all incredibly delicious. In fact, the toughest challenge is knowing which ones to eat on which days and how many times per day. I limit myself to two per day, but I absolutely love them. With David, I'm able to get 28 grams of protein in the calories of a snack, which makes it easy to hit my protein goals of one gram of protein per pound of body weight per day. And it allows me to do so without ingesting too many calories. I'll eat a David protein bar most afternoons as a snack. And I always keep one with me when I'm out of the house or traveling. They're incredibly delicious. And given that they have 28 grams of protein, they're really satisfying for having just 150 calories. If you'd like to try David, you can go to Davidprotein.com slash Huberman. Again, that's Davidprotein.com slash Huberman. Today's episode is also brought to us by Helix Sleep. Helix Sleep makes mattresses and pillows that are customized to your unique sleep needs. Now, I've spoken many times before on this and other podcasts about the fact that getting a great night's sleep is the foundation of mental health, physical health, and performance. Now, the mattress you sleep on makes a huge difference in the quality of sleep that you get each night. How soft it is or how firm it is all play into your comfort and need to be tailored to your unique sleep needs. If you go to the Helix website, you can take a brief two-minute quiz and it will ask you questions such as, do you sleep on your back, your side, or your stomach? Do you tend to run hot or cold during the night? Things of that sort. Maybe you know the answers to those questions. Maybe you don't. Either way, Helix will match you to the ideal mattress for you. For me, that turned out to be the Dusk mattress. I started sleeping on a Dusk mattress about three and a half years ago and it's been far and away the best sleep that I've ever had. If you'd like to try Helix Sleep, you can go to helixsleep.com slash Huberman, take that two-minute sleep quiz and Helix will match you to a mattress that's customized to you. Right now, Helix is giving up to 27% off all mattress orders. Again, that's helixsleep.com slash Huberman to get up to 27% off. You mentioned that autism is diagnosed by behavioral measures or the lack of behavioral symptomology, what we call positive and negative symptoms, which can be confusing language because people think positive means good. No, positive is the presence, negative is the absence. I haven't looked at this literature in a while, but the last time I did, it seemed that babies or young children failing to focus their own gaze on the eyes of other people is one of the major diagnostic criteria. It seems they look at the face more holistically or they'll zoom in just on the nose, but they're not really making as much eye contact. Is that still a diagnostic criteria? It's not part of the diagnostic criteria. Interesting. But it is one of the features that has been observed. Of course, it also has to do with just in general like joint attention is one of the earlier. So, you know, if you just tell a child like, oh, look here, right? So if they kind of like have that attention, if they engage in that attention, it's one of the features that is associated with autism. It's not certainly diagnostic. It's not pathognomonic, so to speak. So it's not specific to the disease in any way. But there's certainly many deficits and some of them can actually be compensated later. There were some other things I've heard over the years, for instance, that when children with autism have a fever that their symptoms improve. Is that still the case? Yeah. So those are mostly anecdotic reports of patients who would have a very high fever and then, for instance, they were nonverbal. So many patients with autism or individuals with autism will have, you know, will be nonverbal. They have very few words or if they, you know, they're not able to communicate. And so there are a few reports of parents saying that when they spike the very high fever, they'll start talking in sentences like very briefly or like engage. And in fact, I mean, that is known, you know, kids in general when they have a high fever, they tend to be more talkative. It activates somehow the nervous system. There have been a lot of hypotheses about this. Some of them having to do with how the neurodienergic system is activating during fever. Others saying that there are some of the cytokines, the immune molecules that are present during fever that are somehow getting into the brain, activating the nervous system. And others as simple as, oh, ion channels, right? Ion channels will open more when the temperature rises. So something about the circuits functioning differently during that. But it's mostly anecdotic at this point. And it's certainly, again, probably not present in all individuals with autism. Also because autism is, again, not one single disease. So we would not expect it to be present in all. A few years ago there was a lot of excitement about the idea that autism might somehow be related, perhaps even caused by deficits in the microbiome. There were some mouse experiments of doing fecal transplants from what we call wild type or healthy mice into mice that had some symptoms that resemble autism and there were improvements observed to the point where I think there were some human clinical trials using fecal transplants. Whatever became of that? You know, I think, again, almost everything has been associated or thought to be causal. But generally demonstrating this is very, very difficult. So, you know, we cannot deny that perhaps improving the microbiome will improve the, you know, the quality of life of some of these individuals. But whether it's really causal, there's no clear evidence for it. Think about it, just to give you another example. Think about sleep. Many patients will report, especially the ones that are profoundly impaired, will have severe sleep disturbances. I mean, 70, 80% of them, you know, they can have nights where they sleep very little, right, then do that for like a week. So just imagine even just improving the quality of sleep for those patients can do miracle. I mean, all of us, right, if we don't sleep for three, four days, our social skills, you know, we become socially impaired. So I think, of course, correcting a lot of these issues. So for instance, many patients are picky eaters. You know, they don't like certain textures. So they will never eat, for instance, veggies, right? So that creates, in the early days, for instance, we thought that, you know, there are dietary disturbances that really are at the core. Of course, it remains to be seen whether just simply correcting those is going to be just improving or certainly reversing some of these forms. But again, most of the evidence points out towards a very strong genetic component behind it. And in fact, we now have hundreds of genes that we know when they are mutated, they are strongly associated with specific forms of autism. I'm curious what sorts of proteins those genes are upstream of. And I ask because David Ginty at Harvard did these really beautiful experiments where he induced mutations just in the periphery, so outside the brain of these mouse models for autism and saw a lot of the same symptomology, raising the question of whether or not autism originates in the brain or whether or not the deficits in the brain are the byproduct of changes in the body. Yes, microbiome, but perhaps their skin, their hearing, et cetera, are more sensitive. And maybe that's why they, you know, you could imagine if you were ultra sensitive to an environment that your brain would eventually wire differently according to and kind of overwhelmed by what was happening in the sensory landscape. Yeah, absolutely. And those are really elegant experiments that he's done. Many of the genes, you know, they fit in different categories. Like you would have genes that would produce proteins that sit at synapses, which was sort of like to be expected. Some of them are, you know, ion channels. They're proteins that would let ions inside or outside of a neuron. There are many of these conditions, so-called channelopathies. And there are the ones that are like synaptic related, so synaptopities. There are a lot of chromatin genes, so like proteins that pack the DNA in cells. Those are chromatinopities. So they're really, again, many, many categories of genes. And then what is also interesting is that many of these genes are also expressed in the periphery. So I think the experiments that you were mentioning are really elegant because it showed that indeed that can perturb the development of the nervous system even if they're affecting just the periphery. Of course, now in patients, there are present also in the central nervous system, so it's always difficult to distinguish. But just missing some of these critical periods or perturbing some of these critical periods of development can have certainly devastating effects later on. So if a parent comes into the clinic nowadays with a child that's diagnosed with profound autism, what is the treatment? Let's set aside the potential for epilepsy, which hopefully they would treat as well, or other things that might be secondary. But what is the typical treatment? Are they doing? Let's assume infinite resources, which of course nobody has. Most people don't have. But if one had infinite resources, what would be done? Would it be behavioral training? Would it be something to control the activation state of the brain? I mean, as far as I know, there's no single treatment for autism. No, there's no single treatment for autism. Again, in the context of this not being one single disease. What we can say today is that if, you know, family walks into the clinic with the diagnosis of autism, or perhaps like they receive it into the clinic, there's still like a 20% probability that they will leave the clinic with the genetic diagnosis. Meaning that it will be pointed out to them that this gene is mutated in your child. And it may be sometimes a mutation that was present in one of the parents and got transmitted, or maybe it was present in both, and somehow, you know, the child got two copies that were modified now. Or many of the genes were actually mutated de novo, meaning that the mutation was not present in either parents, but something went wrong during development, perhaps early in the sperm cell, in the egg cell, or perhaps in early stages of development, and a new mutation was acquired. But that is also, we acquire a lot of mutations, all of us. We have a lot of new mutations, right? About like 80 new mutations, 30 of them are protein truncating. So certainly the challenge very often is to, even when you see a gene that is mutated, to know whether that gene is truly causing the disease. So very often, the way we know is that we find many patients that have a similar presentation clinically. Let's say, maybe they'll have syndactyly. So they're webbing of the finger, and they have autism, and let's say epilepsy, and they all have a mutation in one single channel. Let's say in a calcium channel. So that would be Timothy syndrome, a genetic form of autism, where the mutation is very clear. Actually, there's one single letter in the genome that is changed and causes a relatively similar presentation in all of these patients. So about 20% of the patients will get a genetic diagnosis. Now, sadly, that doesn't do that much today because we don't really have specific therapies for those forms. I think the hope is that perhaps we will have individual treatments, whether they're going to be genetic or otherwise. So being part of that community is generally useful. And then the rest of the patients will essentially fit into this larger category of idiopathic, meaning that we don't really know the precise cause. I want to talk about Timothy syndrome, and I also want to talk about genetic approaches for fixing genes, so-called gene therapy. Before we do that, would you be willing to just speculate on why you think there's this fairly dramatic increase in the incidence of autism? People will always say, well, maybe it's better detection, better diagnosis, so I'd like your thoughts on that. And if there are increases that can't be explained with that, I just would like your thoughts. I realize we're not talking formal biostatistics here. I just, in your experience, you're an MD, you think about autism a lot, you're working on potential cures for autism and other neurologic conditions. How do you think about this increased prevalence issue? Yeah. Well, certainly the increase is still puzzling, right? So I think, on one hand, there's no doubt that the changes in diagnostic criteria, which have happened over time, I mean, we had to just refine what autism really is, that changed, you know, to some extent, the prevalence. We've also seen, you know, a diagnostic migration, so to speak. So some children, for instance, you know, 30 years ago would have been diagnosed with intellectual disability and today, they fit the criteria for autism. You know, about a third of individuals with autism also have intellectual disability, so there is also great overlap between the conditions. So there's been a move sometimes between the diagnosis over time. Of course, there are all kind of discussions about, you know, availability of services and to what extent that is also contributing, right? But, you know, we don't really, you know, we don't truly understand all the reasons behind like this increase. There's no doubt. We can't explain. We know that it's highly heritable based on genetic studies. So we know the heritability is very high, one of the highest for psychiatric disorders that we know of. But of course, we can, we don't have the genes for every single form. So it is likely that some of them are very rare, right? So essentially, just think of it as like, you know, they're individually rare form but collectively common. So it will take a while until we sort of like map all of them. And then, of course, there are environmental factors that we do know historically can contribute to this. So there are various exposures to environmental factors like in early days. Telidomide, for instance, was one of them that we know increases the risk for autism. So of course, those are contributing. But the telidomide was a drug given to pregnant mothers to try and prevent miscarriage, right? Exactly. It's no longer prescribed. It's no longer prescribed. It's caused major birth defects. Defects, exactly. Yeah. So there's certainly, you know, it's quite complex because first of all, the definition of the condition is quite difficult, right? And I think that is in general like the challenge with psychiatric disorders, right? And perhaps one of the reasons we've made such slow progress in understanding these conditions because of course, the power of modern medicine is in molecular biology. You know, we kind of deploy this remarkable force of an understanding. And in order to do that, you need two things. You need, first of all, to have a very clear definition of what that disease is generally biologically, right? Think about like myocardial infarction, you know, very clearly defined in terms of like what it actually means. You immediately have biomarkers, right? The patient walks in, you take blood, you can immediately tell. Yes, in 20 minutes, you can tell that they have a myocardial infarction based on a biomarker. And then the other one, which is certainly very important, which to a large extent is sort of like, you know, is the source of all the work that we've done is the unbearable inaccessibility of the human brain, so to speak. And to a large extent, the human brain is inaccessible for most of its development. And so, if you look actually across branches of medicine, you can see that there is a very strong correlation between how accessible an organ is and how many cures or therapies we actually have. Think even just in cancer, right? Think about in cancer, you know, which used to be, of course, an incurable disease, right, a century ago. Think about like leukemias in children. They were like 90% lethal in the 50s and the 60s. Today, they are maybe 10% lethal. And that is because a lot from this patients, right, it's very easy to collect. We've been bringing it to the lab, studying it, what goes wrong, and then deploying molecular biology to develop therapeutics. With the brain, sadly, you know, there's no way of doing it. And so, largely to, you know, what we've been trying to do is to like find a way of shortcutting that process. But I do believe that the major challenges that we're facing in understanding brain disorders, whether they're neurological or psychiatric, are on one hand, you know, the inaccessibility of the organ of interest, the brain. And on the other hand, our challenges are very often defining some of these conditions with biological markers because they're much more complex. The degree to which correlation has been leveraged to try and understand neurologic disease is kind of staggering. I'll just share a couple and I would love your reflections. I remember when I was an undergraduate and in graduate school, there was this prominent theory that a mother who contracted influenza, the flu, toward the end of her second trimester had a much higher probability of having a schizophrenic child. And there was so much said of that. And then now we barely hear anything about it at all. Although I think schizophrenia is more prominent at the, toward the poles where you have harsher winters as opposed to around the equator. But someone needs to check me. those, on that because those statistics might have melted away with more careful analysis. I don't know. The other thing is that you'll nowadays hear a growing interest in populations for which a given disease is very rare. So one of the things that's circulating out there now that's related to the vaccine debate, and by the way, I'm just going to, I'll myself go on record. I don't think there's any solid evidence that vaccines cause autism. And there's not. Epidemiologically, there's no evidence. There's not. I mean, there's this open question as to whether or not vaccines of all kinds can increase inflammation and there might be things downstream of inflammation. But for the record, there, right now, there are no published papers that have not been retracted that, that support the vaccine autism link. I think those papers are being reinvestigated under the new administration, but let's leave that aside for now. People will say, well, you have groups like Amish populations where the incidence of autism is significantly lower. Turns out it does exist. I looked at these data, but it's significantly lower. And then people will say, well, it's the absence of food dyes. It's the absence of vaccines, perhaps, et cetera. But then, as a genetic disease, we could say, well, there's also, there's a tendency for people in the Amish community to reproduce with other people in the Amish community. So it's a more restricted genetic pool. And so that could explain it as well. And I raise this not to create any additional arguments that are enough out there between people, but just because I think the correlative nature of all this is what kind of raises the opportunity for anything that's observed, like a fever, they get better. But as you said, healthy kids without profound autism also talk more when they have a fever. And so there's, there's been so much made of autism in the various conditions that could create it. And I think it's been very confusing for the general public. Even as a trained scientist, it's been very confusing for me. I feel like every six months or so, every year, we have a new pet hypothesis. but nothing's really, except for these genetic data, nothing really is rock solid. Right. And then, of course, the other issue is also that these conditions are disorders of the human brain. So if you think about it, even talking about schizophrenia, right, hallucinations, right, or phenomena that are very difficult to study, and of course, we don't know this. We know that schizophrenia is present in almost every population that we know of, even isolated population at 1%, right? And again, it's a little bit easier because it's done in adults, right? I think in children it's much more difficult. And in fact, many of the genes that were early on identified for autism were identified in this population, in the Amish populations. For instance, there is a very classic example of a gene that is associated with severe epilepsy and autism that was identified there for the first time. It's present in other places as well. So, yeah, I think, of course, the complexity of the problem is that you also want to make sure that you don't just associate something, you also want to reverse it in a way, right? So you would want to do the other experiment where you change it and it goes away, but you can never do that in the human brain. We can't just turn things on and off to see whether they're truly causal. And then, of course, human brain development also takes an incredibly long period of time. If anything, it seems that the human nervous system has done everything possible to slow down that process. I mean, we myelinate all the way to the third decade. Like, neurons are born and migrating through the nervous system into early postnatal years. Wait, you're telling me that our neurons continue to get myelinated, which, of course, for those that don't know, is the building of the encheathment that allows electrical signals to be passed down neurons more efficiently until we're 30 years old? Yes. There's evidence that myelination, especially in the frontal layers of the brain, are continuing up to the third decade. Our, unfortunately, now deceased former colleague, Ben Barris, he used to shout at people in lab meetings. Yeah. When they'd say something he didn't like, he'd say, what do you know? You're not even myelinated yet. Exactly. So he was right. He was absolutely right. Okay, so if you're in a disagreement with somebody younger than 30 and you happen to be older than 30, you can leverage the argument, what do you know? You're not even myelinated yet. Completely myelinated yet. All kidding aside, before we get into the incredible experiments that you're doing and the direction that you're taking to tackle these really hard diseases, I have to ask two questions. First, is the incidence of autism also increasing outside of the United States or is this something unique to the United States and Northern Europe? I don't know why we always pair those two. Yes. I should just be fair to the United States and Australia or whatever or is there something going on in the United States in particular that autism is increasing faster here? Yeah, no, this, you know, the prevalence for autism has been actually reported to be higher in other countries even before this. Some of the early reports many years ago showed that in Korea, for instance, the prevalence was very high. Now that the studies are done, also like in Scandinavian countries, it shows that it's probably around the same, you know, kind of like rate, one in 30 to one in 40, so somewhere between. Okay, so it can't be whatever is attached to whatever United States specific conditions. I mean, yeah, well, because you hear these arguments, oh, you know, it's the glyphosates in the crops in the United States and while I don't favor that argument, I do think we need to be cautious about what's in the food supply, but those same people often will leverage the argument that, well, in Europe, they're not using these things. Well, if the incidence of autism is the same and rising, that sort of does away with at least the clean logic of that. And perhaps another argument which is very important to, you know, bring is that we find the same mutations, right? I mean, the same mutations, if we're talking, let's say, a mutation in a specific calcium channel, you know, you'll find it in a patient in Denmark, right, as well as like one in Africa or in, let's say, Australia. So I think some of these genetic mutations are sort of like the same. Could we briefly talk about gene therapy and CRISPR? Just briefly, because I think in the context of a discussion about these neurologic diseases for which currently there aren't perfect cures or even cures in many cases, gene therapy does hold some promise. Yeah, absolutely. In simple terms that I and everyone else can understand, could you just explain what CRISPR allows physicians potentially to do? In other words, can genes be fixed in adulthood? Do they have to be fixed in the embryo? Just give your thoughts generally about CRISPR and gene therapy because I think most people have heard of it, but I think most people don't have an intuitive sense for how it works. So gene therapy is a rather actually broad term and it covers many ways in which you can correct generally a gene or a genetic defect that we think is causal. So on one extreme, for instance, you can envision a gene is broken, has a mutation, so what you want to do is you want to put it back. So those were some of the early efforts where you would put it in a virus and deliver it to the patient. An adult. In an adult or in a child depending on like the condition with the idea is that the gene is not there or like there's not enough of it, so I'm just going to deliver more. That's one extreme. Is it injected into the blood or do you have to go into the specific cell type that's lacking the gene? Many of the studies were done for blood disorders, of course, because it was easier so you would inject them. Of course, the other possibility is sometimes you don't want to put the gene, you want to put the protein already made. And that is the case for many conditions where an enzyme, so a protein that does some interesting chemical reactions that are essential to a cell is missing. So sometimes you just make that enzyme and then you deliver that. It's not always working but in some cases it actually works really well. Now, the other thing that you can do is you can try to correct that defect directly. That means you need to operate at the DNA level. So somehow you need to get into every single cell that is affected and correct that. And that's where CRISPR comes into play where presumably you could at one point deliver the guides, so the tiny pieces of nucleic acid that tell you where to go on the DNA and then an enzyme that will do the cutting and then the putting back or various other versions of this that you would correct. Of course, there are challenges with that. Yeah, where do you put it? I mean, so like for sickle cell anemia, I know they've essentially reversed sickle cell anemia using CRISPR technology. That's in the blood, right? It's in the blood. It's of the blood. Right. But if, for instance, we know about a genetic defect of, let's say, we'll talk more about this soon, but a mutated calcium channel that disrupts heart function and brain function and you come in with CRISPR, you know what gene is mutated, you have the healthy gene that potentially you can put back, where do you put it? Do you inject it? I mean, injecting into the heart is possible. Yeah. Into the blood supply, obviously easier. Getting it directed to the bone marrow. But to the brain is hard. Yeah. Well, presumably you could inject into the brain as well, right? There are ways in which you can inject through either surgery or through an injection in the spinal canal, like intrathecally. So that's certainly one way in which you can do it. It is very challenging though because, of course, the brain has a lot of cell types and, you know, you very often, the way you deliver this, like through a virus or through other modalities, you know, there's only so much of that virus that you can actually put inside the nervous system. And the efficiency is not yet like very high. So another way is to go like one level down so that gene will produce an RNA that will produce a protein. So perhaps we don't have to correct the DNA everywhere, but perhaps we can correct something that happens downstream. And that's sort of like being the strategy that we've been using primarily, just mostly because at this point and probably in the future it will be possible, who knows, like in 10 years or maybe even earlier, we'll be able to deliver very effectively some of the genetic therapies using CRISPR. Because certainly in non-human primate models, things like color blindness have been rescued by introducing a gene through a, when we talk about viruses, people often will think, oh goodness, why would I want to get injected with a virus? But we should just mention there are things like adenoviruses, which cold viruses are adenoviruses, that can be engineered so that they don't make you sick, but they can carry a cargo, like a gene you want to put into a nervous system or body that lacks that gene. So when we say using viruses to deliver genes, it's of the benevolent type or at least benevolent motivation. We think that those adenoviruses can live in our body for a long time without causing additional trouble. And they're very often modified to make sure that they don't cause disease. Of course, another limitation of that is that if the gene is really large, it simply won't fit in a virus. So for instance, that would be the case if you think about a calcium channel, calcium channel is a gigantic gene. It would be very difficult to fit inside a virus. And then of course, the other thing is like with these viruses very often, especially with the adenoviruses or AAVs, is that you will have one shot, meaning that you have to inject once and hopefully it would work because next time, you know, you may have an immune reaction, right? You'll have, you'll produce antibodies and so you won't be able to deliver again. So there, again, there are all kinds of challenges that, you know, people are working really hard to solve. And I have no doubt that in the next decade, we'll see, you know, therapies or, you know, perhaps even cures for some of these conditions. Of course, and I think you were bringing this up, one of the challenges like when we do this, because especially for disorders of the brain, neurodevelopmental disorders, so autism and other neurodevelopmental disorders, the question is always how early it is too late. You know, how much damage has it done, has it been done and how much can I actually correct? And that's one of the things that, you know, we're only now starting to really explore as we're thinking about some of the first clinical trials in this space. This might shock you a bit, but folks in the quote-unquote biohacking community, not me, are getting, I know some that have gotten folistatin gene therapy as a body enhancement thing. They're leaving the country because you can't do it in the United States and literally getting injection of a folistatin gene therapy to, I guess, have more muscle to, you know, improve that. I wouldn't do it personally. Also, I like working out, so I don't need a folistatin gene therapy, but it's interesting to note that people are doing this and I'm raising this as a segue into a discussion about stem cells because people around the world are getting injected with stem cells. In the United States, it's still not allowed by FDA for most things, but I think gene therapy has started. It's certainly begun, but it's not the sort of thing that your physician offers up. early. It's still very experimental for most things. And then for gene therapies, again, in the context of what you're mentioning is some of this, again, they're irreversible. So once you put the gene in and it goes into a cell, let's say, through a lentivirus that will integrate, you can't take it out anymore. That would be very difficult. It would get inactivated over time. So that's why we have to be extra careful with some of these therapies and make sure that we don't do more harm, which I guess it's always what we try. Absolutely. I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge our sponsor, AG1. AG1 is a vitamin, mineral, probiotic drink that also includes prebiotics and adaptogens. As many of you know, I've been taking AG1 for more than 13 years now. I discovered it way back in 2012, long before I ever had a podcast, and I've been drinking it every day since. For the past 13 years, AG1 has been the same original flavor. They've updated the formulation, but the flavor has always remained the same. And now, for the first time, AG1 is available in three new flavors, berry, citrus, and tropical. All the flavors include the highest quality ingredients in exactly the right doses to together provide support for your gut microbiome, support for your immune health, and support for better energy and more. So now you can find the flavor of AG1 that you like the most. Well, I've always loved the AG1 original flavor, especially when I mix it with water and a little bit of lemon or lime juice. That's how I've been doing it for basically 13 years. Now I really enjoy the new berry flavor in particular. It tastes great, and I don't have to add any lemon or lime juice. I just mix it up with water. If you'd like to try AG1 and these new flavors, you can go to drinkag1.com slash Huberman to claim a special offer. Right now, AG1 is giving away an AG1 welcome kit that includes five free travel packs and a free bottle of vitamin D3K2. Again, go to drinkag1.com slash Huberman to claim the special welcome kit of five free travel packs and a free bottle of vitamin D3K2. Today's episode is also brought to us by BetterHelp. BetterHelp offers professional therapy with a licensed therapist carried out entirely online. I personally have been doing therapy for well over 35 years. I find it to be an extremely important component to overall health. In fact, I consider doing regular therapy just as important as getting regular exercise, including cardiovascular exercise, and resistance training, which of course I also do every week. There are essentially three things that make up great therapy. First of all, it provides the opportunity to have a really good rapport with somebody that you can really trust and talk to about essentially any issue that you want. Second of all, it can provide support in the form of emotional support or directed guidance, or of course both. And third, expert therapy should provide you useful insights. Insights that can help you improve in your work life, your relationships, and in your relationship with yourself. With BetterHelp, they make it very easy for you to find an expert therapist who you resonate with and that can provide those three benefits that come from expert therapy. Interestingly, in a recent survey, 72% of BetterHelp members reported a reduction in negative symptoms as a result of their BetterHelp therapy sessions. If you'd like to try BetterHelp, you can go to betterhelp.com slash Huberman to get 10% off your first month. Again, that's betterhelp.com slash Huberman. Let's talk about stem cells, organoids, and assembloids, and you'll explain what those are. But let's wade into this through the way it happened chronologically. Sure. Most people have heard of stem cells, cells that could become other things. When I was a postdoc, any laboratory that worked on human stem cells worked on human embryonic stem cells, literally cells that were collected from aborted fetuses. This was given for medical study. There was an incredible discovery, which you'll tell us about, which basically made that technology obsolete and also allowed scientists to bypass a lot of the ethical considerations, serious ethical considerations, regardless of where you sit on that debate. I mean, you're using the tissue from a human embryo to study things. You could say some people will support that, some people won't, but then a new technology comes along and basically makes that technology obsolete, allowing you and others to do the work on stem cells and assembloids and so forth without having to take cells from human embryos, which is spectacular. So could you please tell us about that discovery of the stem cell technology that really changed the entire game and did away with this ethical, serious ethical battle? Let's call it what it was. Let's start first with stem cells and what they are because I think it's also important to define them. So stem cells are cells that have two properties. First of all, they in principle can become other cells and if they are of the most potent type, they will be totally potent so they can make everything. If they're pluripotent, they can make almost everything and then of course there are lower levels of potency for the cells. So we all carry stem cells in us. I mean, not in the brain or fewer in the brain for sure, but you know, in the liver and in other organs like in the gut as we renew the gut you know, every few weeks that is done primarily through the stem cells but those are restricted. They can make everything. They can make mostly that specialized cell type for which they have been so like primed. Now the earliest, earliest of stem cells like those pluripotent that are very important, those are present at early stages of development of the embryo and of course that happens post-conception. So the challenge has been that you have to remove them from a fertilized egg and if conception, if life starts at conception then of course you're interfering. So I think a lot of the ethical debates have started because of that. But you know, in early days, even if you were to do that, you wouldn't be able to keep those cells. It turns out that the cells are very difficult to maintain. And this brings us actually to the second property of the cells which is that in principle they can be maintained forever. If you provide the right conditions, they will divide and stay the same forever. Those are the two properties. So, you know, you can keep them forever, you can freeze them down, put them in a, you know, liquid nitrogen, bring them out anytime and they'll start exactly where they left. And then with the right guidance, they can become other cell types. So, only around, you know, 1998 was that when we could actually maintain some of the cells in a dish. So, somebody figured out a soup of chemicals that you can add and these cells will survive because up to that point it was not possible. So, that triggered, of course, the promise of this field that now we'd be able to take those cells and derive various organs, right, perhaps transplant them, replace organs. Of course, that ended up being much more complicated and, of course, there were all these ethical debates related to the source of those cells and what does it actually mean to use these embryonic stem cells. And yet, we've learned a lot about those cells in early days. What are the properties of those cells? And then, almost 20 years ago, Shinya Yamanaka, who's a scientist in Japan at the UCSF, came up with an absolutely brilliant idea. You know, we were always taught that the development, the development of the human or of any, it's a one-way street. Once you go down development, you never come back. So once you start making, you know, a stem cell that is more restricted and then at the end you make, let's say, a liver cell, you can never go back and become that pluripotent stem cell again. And that generally is thought to be useful to protect us from like cancer or like any other, so we don't have, you know, parts of our hands like differentiating into something else. And he thought that maybe you could do that, not in a natural way, in an artificial way, and that, of course, would be very useful. So what he did is he went and he looked at the genes that are expressed in pluripotent stem cells at very, very high levels, so very, very high levels. And almost as gene therapy, because we were talking about gene therapy, he took like the top couple of dozens of these genes and then started adding them inside skin cells. So he took skin cells, initially from mice and then from human, and then started adding them one by one, two by two, three by three, four by four, five by five, six by six, to see whether any of those cells, once they have this combination of genes that are expressed in pluripotent stem cells would somehow get confused and think that they're actually a pluripotent stem cell and then go back in time and actually become a pluripotent stem cells. And he showed indeed that a combination of four is enough. Of course, you can have six. And that ended up being what we today call the Yamanaka factor. In a way, it was like, it was almost like alchemy, right, where you sort of like, you know, transform something into something else, right? You make, out of this metal, you make gold. It was pretty much like that. It was like the essence of alchemy. And it turns out that that discovery was so profound because suddenly you could take a skin cell from anybody and put those genetic factors in, turn those cells into pluripotent stem cells that we'd later on learn they're almost identical to those embryonic stem cells. And now have those cells from any of us and use them for various purposes, perhaps for, let's say, making blood cells in the future or perhaps to, you know, model something outside of the body. And I was finishing my clinical training around that time. And I remember even seeing that paper. And of course, in my naivete at that time, I thought, wow, this is it. This is going to be, you know, the entry point for studying human neuroscience. I was doing experiments at that time, studying actually the cortex and recording from animals, electrical activity of those neurons and always like thought, it's like, I thought this disconnect between what I was seeing in the clinic, which were these patients with severe, profound autism and then recordings from the brain and thinking, we're never going to be able to do that. How are we going to understand this complex disorder of the brain if we cannot even listen to the activity of those cells live? And then suddenly, like seeing that discovery, you know, again, naive at that time, thought, well, that could be perhaps the way in which we could make neurons from any patient. And so very soon after I came to Stanford, which I guess is where we met, with sort of like this idea in mind that we will be able to make neurons from these patients and rebuild maybe some of the cells or some of the circuits of the brain outside of the body without doing any harm because we're not doing a biopsy of the brain or anything invasive, just essentially creating a replica of some of those cells outside of the body and then finally study them at will in a dish and do all kinds of experiments where you remove things and add things and perhaps at one day even develop therapeutics. And here we are, 16 years later, since that process really started, took a long time, but now for the first time we've gotten such a good understanding of some of these conditions and one of them in particular that actually a therapeutic is inside and we're preparing for the first clinical trial that is really arising exclusively through studies done with these human stem cell models without actually using any animal models, just essentially creating, recreating cells and circuits outside of the brain of those patients. It's amazing because it allows you to study human cells which has immense benefit. They're essentially limitless in number because all you need is one fibroblast, one skin cell or some cell that you can provide these Yamanaka factors to and essentially grow other cells. And we'll talk about what those cells that you create are capable of becoming, not just cells but circuits in a few moments. But I know it's going to be in the back of people's minds and certainly in the back of my mind. This idea that when one has a baby that you should keep the umbilical cord because the umbilical cord contains stem cells, usually I think the umbilical cord is discarded. Maybe some people keep it. I don't know. What is the current thinking on stem cells that reside in the umbilical cord? People pay a lot of money to freeze those and most people don't have a minus 80 freezer around so they pay to do that. What is the potential for umbilical stem cells in the future? Is it something that parents I don't want to say should invest in but if they have the disposable income that they would be wise to do that? So those cells that are collected from the umbilical cord are stem cells but they're already quite restricted in what they can make. So their applications are also restricted mostly to blood disorders. So I think it's important to keep in mind that they're not so like a universal uh you know solution to anything that would ever involve pluripotent stem cells in the future or stem cell therapies in the future. So again I think it's important to know that while they have certain applications and there have been quite clear cases where the availability of those cells were useful in a blood disorder in that child later on um they're certainly not you know they have these universal uses as maybe sometimes they're being advertised. When we hear about people typically leaving the U.S. uh to get quote unquote stem cell injections where are those stem cells coming from? Are they coming from those patients? And I should mention that there was a clinic down in Florida um that was offering stem cell injections into the eye for people with macular degeneration and that clinic was shut down and all stem cell injections in the United States to my knowledge all were shut down because those patients uh not only did it uh fail to rescue their vision it actually made them go blind very quickly uh so the FDA shut down uh commercial stem cell injections I think there's still places where they do a kind of workaround um and it's worth mentioning that PRP platelet-rich plasma is FDA approved it does not contain many if any stem cells despite what you might read um but what what are your thoughts on like when people go down to Columbia it seems like they go down to Columbia uh or elsewhere to get or Mexico to get stem cell injections assuming the conditions are are clean um and I I say that because I know of at least one patient who was paralyzed from an injection of stem cells into their uh spinal disc paralyzed almost died yeah fortunately is doing better now and it was because it went septic that got infected well that's one of the problems very often we don't even know what is being injected I think that is like a very important aspect we don't know what is sometimes are the cells from the patient that are being collected sometimes some of this umbilical cells sometimes we don't even know what cells are being injected like it could be cells from somebody else yeah they're incredibly risky procedures of course they've never really been observed there have been very few of any clinical trials trying to really address it in a very systematic way and very often that's also the case you know that's also because they're not really justified so in the context of autism this is very often like done uh you know and it's done not just in south america sometimes there are places in europe where you can get an injection of some stem cells for autism wait parents are taking their kids to these clinics and getting them injected with stem cells that come from some other patient some cells that are collected from the patient you know it depends a little bit on where it's done and how it's actually done but again even from a biological point of view you know what are those stem cells presumably doing let's say in autism you know we don't think that there is a cell that is missing in the brain so it's not like those cells can go and I think as I was mentioning before most of the cells are already restricted in their potential they can no longer make any cell type so you know the idea that you take these pluripotent stem cells and you just inject them let's say in the knee and it will like miraculously grow you know cartilage it's very often not really the case because those cells are not even capable of making cartilage so I think there's you know very often you know a lack of understanding of what these therapies really are and then of course there's sadly a lack of understanding of what is actually being injected so you know for autism this is unfortunately happening much more often than you would think so I very often get like parents or families that are asking me desperately you know with like exhausted old resource we don't know what else to do we've tried behavioral therapy we've tried this therapy nothing works and everybody's recommended that we should just go now to South America and do this injection should we do it or not and of course my answer is always like no because again there's no reason that that would work some parents come back and of course they report an improvement and which is generally temporary to the extent that we know of course it's never really been studied in a very systematic way partly it's of course there's a very strong placebo effect which you can you know especially in parents like by proxy when you have a child who's like very sick those placebo effects are very very strong these parents really want those kids to improve so they will see things that are improving plus those are still developing kids so week by week they may acquire new milestones and then the other thing which of course could be part of this is that there is an inflammatory effect very often and so that's almost like the fever in a way right like would increase perhaps some of the cytokines will create a fever perhaps that is associated we don't really know but certainly there are dangers associated with you know with like procedures like this that are you know lack the rationale first of all and then of course then they lack any regulatory you know framework yeah I mean I think the concern is very real for stem cell injections into all tissues but when it comes to eyes or brain and of course eyes are brain yes that's where I just you know take a big deep breath and hold it and like wide eye like oh my goodness no because we don't get new neurons you lose neurons they're gone I mean we get a few in the olfactory bulb in the dentate gyrus of the hippocampus a few but you know once they're gone that's it right and injecting something into the brain the probability of tumor growth is incredibly high absolutely and especially when it is in the brain where there's not enough space so we know that anything that grows in the cranial cavity will actually push down right vital centers so there are certainly risks associated with that so let's talk about the other approach which is the one that you are you've been embarking on I'll never forget when we were postdocs folks we were postdocs in the same room it was D222 yes we had a lot of pride in that room we had benches on opposite sides of the room and we sort of took over that room as an empty room this is you probably couldn't do this anymore there's an empty room let's bring some microscopes in there we just started doing experiments there and I'll never forget when you started building organoids you started building nervous systems in a dish and how excited you were and it's been remarkable to see your arc from that and it's not lost on me that you were working extremely hard then and continue to become really one of the luminaries of this field tell us what organoids are tell us why they're useful and what they're telling us already about how the brain develops and their therapeutic potential so let's start from the beginning around like 15-16 years ago we were able for the first time to get some of the cells that are now known as induced pluripotent stem cells these are the Yamanaka yes or IPS cells so induced because they've been induced to become pluripotent in an artificial way but again they stay like that so you can share them with anybody else like afterwards so we got some of those first cells in those early days and now the question was how do we make neurons and what you do is you really kind of like leverage everything that is known in developmental biology so we already know that there are certain molecules that are very important for making neurons so all you do is you put those cells in a dish in a plastic dish in a petri dish and then you start almost like when you cook you start adding various molecules on top and you see what happens and we knew that it's actually quite easy to make neurons that was already known there have been a lot of experiments done the decade before that showed that even if you just remove some of the factors that maintain those cells pluripotent those pluripotent stem cells will start out to differentiate and they like to become neural cells by default almost by default so it's actually not that difficult to make neurons so in those early days you know you would take those cells play them nicely those pluripotent stem cells in a dish and then remove some of these factors and then within a few days you will see that they will change shape and within a few weeks some of them will really look like neurons and when you look at them you can even look at proteins that only neurons will have you can actually get an electrode inside a cell and listen to the electrical activity so it was very exciting as maybe you remember in those days this burst in curiosity is always sort of like the ATP of the life in the lab so to speak you just want to wake up and want to go see what happened to those cells and it was clear in those days that we would be able to make those cells but would we actually see any abnormalities in those cells I think it was the question how would you know if you derive cells from a patient with autism how would you know that you found anything abnormal I think that was like a question we didn't even know what would be abnormal in the brain and so that's when we decided actually to focus on something that would be relatively predictable and that was this mutation in a calcium channel which was discovered just a few years before in very few patients that had essentially one single letter in their entire genome changed in a gene that makes a protein known as a calcium channel sits in excitable cells meaning cardiac cells and brain cells and every time a cell receives electrical input this protein opens up and lets calcium go inside the cell and that's very important because it couples electrical activity of the network with chemical activity inside the cells and what we knew about that mutation at that point that that's pretty much all we knew in those early days is that it probably allows the channel to stay open slightly longer just a little bit longer so more calcium would go inside the cells of course there would be no way to know because you can't get a neuron or cardiac cell from those patients to actually test it so what we did is essentially we recruited some of these patients we flew them to Stanford then we got a tiny skin biopsy made this iPS cells this takes months this takes already like four or five months and then we took those cells in a dish started to deriving neurons and after about five six seven weeks and we put them under a microscope and we started looking at calcium you can measure calcium inside we did that experiment was looking down the microscope and we essentially stimulated the neurons and you could just see how control cells will go calcium goes inside the cells and then it goes out and then in patients that had Timothy syndrome derived neurons you could see how the calcium will go and then it will stay longer it takes longer to go out so it was the first defect that we saw in patient derived neurons that were actually not coming from a biopsy so that was incredibly exciting as you can imagine but it was still relatively simplistic just a few neurons at the bottom of a dish of course for me what was particularly frustrating was that we couldn't go very far in development so think about the cerebral cortex the outer layer of the brain that presumably makes us human has multiple layers large diversity of neurons it takes 27 weeks to make all those cells in the cortex 27 weeks to make all those neurons and we're not even talking about glial cells that are coming much later for several years afterwards but just making those cells takes about 27 weeks and it turns out something that we discovered in three experiments done in a dish is that the timing of the development of those cells it's actually recapitulated in a dish as well so if you keep the cells in a dish they'll actually develop at the same pace they're not much faster and it's very difficult to keep neurons in a dish for 27 weeks to get all the neurons essentially they peel off every time you start to move them to another plate and at one point they just die And so then we thought how about never letting them sit down on a surface how about just aggregating them as balls of cells and letting those float and in those early days there was this amazing scientist from japan yoshiki sasai who started doing really beautiful experiments where he was already moving some of the studies that he was doing of development in 3D cultures where you can make an optic cup a part of the eye and so it was clear it was in the air this revolution of actually moving cells from 2D flat cultures 3D self organizing and that actually unleashed amazing new properties of the cells so essentially all we did in those days is I ordered from Germany this plate that were counter intuitively coated so the cells never stick right I mean every time we keep cells in a dish you want them to stick that's the major problem so they were actually coated so the cells will never stick and then there were like these balls of cells they were floating there and of course I remember talking in the lab and everybody was like oh they're not going to survive it's going to be a couple of weeks and they're going to and then a week passed and two weeks passed and they kept growing and growing and of the enthusiasm of every day to see are they still alive right and we discovered that we like and of course they're not an entire organ so they're not a representation of the entire brain but that's sort of like the term that we refer these days to anything that is so like three dimensional and organizing in some way and so we started keeping these cultures and then at one point actually we discovered that we can pretty much keep them indefinitely my lab maintain the longest cultures that have ever been reported like literally going for years for two three years in a dish and at one point in those early days when I was running out of funds in the lab and I came one day in lab meeting really determined for us to actually cut costs I told everybody go into your incubators because we're spending so much money in feeding the cells and everybody throws out 20% of your cultures and then people started saying so should I throw the ones that are like 500 days old and somebody was like the ones that are 800 days old and I said what you guys are keeping them for such long yeah they just keep growing in the incubator so then we actually did the first study and then we had a series of three studies done over the of trying to ask how far do they go in development so if you have a clump of human neurons that you have made from pluripotent stem cells and you keep feeding them in a dish how far do they go in development do they move much faster do they move much slower are they stuck at one point in development and it turns out that they keep track of development beautifully to such an extent that for instance we discover when they reach nine months of keeping them in a dish so about the time of birth they literally switch to a postnatal signature really on their own in a dish in a dish so you know there's this classic example in developmental neurobiology there's this protein that usually changes around the time of birth it's an NNDA receptor so maybe some people know about NNDA receptors binding glutamate they're very important but they change a lot during development they're made out of different units and the units change and it was very well known that during early development so prenatal before birth you primarily have 2B subunits and then after birth they're primarily 2A so if you look in brain development you just see how essentially 2B goes up and then it goes down and 2A goes up and when you look they meet around birth so very often people thought that it's birth itself that triggers that switch that canonical switch because we all thought that it was so classic and then you take an organoid that you maintain in the dish for 600 days and of course we're not inducing birth we're not changing media we're not doing anything special and no hormones changes we keep exactly the same media which is certainly a very simplistic soup of chemicals but we don't change it and then you just look at these two subunits and you see how 2B goes down and 2A goes up and they pretty much meet that nine months of keeping them in a dish so that tells us that there's some sort of intrinsic clock once you start a development the cells measure really but it tells us that there is this incredible ability of cells especially in the nervous system because of course those cells will keep for the rest of our lives we're never going to renew neurons it's going to be different for liver cells or gut cell but for neurons probably in particular they'll need to keep track of time really well so that was the first discovery that we've made which is still stunning today we still don't know the mechanism we're still working really hard on figuring out exactly how the cells are keeping track of time because as you can imagine if we understand what that molecular machinery is we used to call it a timer we now call it a timer we think it's more of a timer than an actual clock but understanding what the molecular biology of that is will I don't have to wait 70 years in a dish could I make it in a few weeks or perhaps could I take an aging neuron and somehow rejuvenate it by playing with that timer but just to make it clear we still don't know we have some clues about what it may be but it is still early days and I think that was one of the first things that this culture allowed us to do just watch development human brain development outside of the human body in a dish and actually witness that some fundamental aspects of brain development are actually recapitulated! even outside of the uterus and of course of the brain so that was the first and then of course I guess I'm a developmental neurobiologist by training and I've done a lot of circuit work in early days of course an obsession of mine was that especially for conditions as complex as autism and schizophrenia we need to recapitulate some of the circuit properties of the brain so we now know that probably both for schizophrenia and for autism it is very unlikely based on the evidence that we have so far that there are cells really missing from the brain we thought for a while that maybe some cells are missing of patients that have already died showed us that the composition of the brain of the cortex in particular it's very very similar so it's unlikely that the cells are missing or like but likely the way they're connected with each other is that makes a difference and of course in the beginning we were just making this clump of cells they're all for the cortex but they're not connected to anything cells do not reside in the place in which they're born in the nervous system we have the largest cell diversity of any other organ almost 2,000 cell types by the end of the first trimester there are about 600 cell types in the human brain you know think about the liver right maybe a couple of dozens the brain has to make you know hundreds of times more so how do you do that the only way is to actually make the cell types in different parts of the brain provide local cues there and then once the cells have been specified let them move and find their final position so the first assembloid that we've actually made were of a very stereotypical canonical movement of cells in the nervous system which has to do again with the cortex so the cortex again the outer are not born in the cortex but they're born deep in the brain so essentially all we did is we made two brain regions the ones that has excitatory neurons and the one that has inhibitor neurons and the plan was to put them together hoping that at one point the cells will know what to do and in fact that was one of the first projects in my lab planning that I remember gave to one of the students this very difficult task of figuring out how we're going to fuse these two cultures and they're about three millimeters in size so you can see them by eye and I thought it was going to be very difficult to put them together so the student worked for months trying to figure out biological glues using various electrodes and impaling them and everything else until somebody else came one day and said it's very simple you just put them at the bottom of a tiny ependorf tube which is the tiniest of tubes that you get you put them there overnight and next day they're completely fused but they're not just fused because now if you look inside within a few days the cells that are supposed to move start to point out towards the cortex they literally smell the chemicals made around 2015 and I still remember it was Ben actually Ben was so excited about seeing the cells he wanted to look at these movies every day and he said I still have this email from him where he was very preoccupied that he kept saying this new preparation is not an organ it's not a steroid it's something else you have to find another name he loved naming things! But he understood a lot about how to build a career but because naming Yamanaka factors made sense to name it after Yamanaka he got a Nobel and is immortalized that way like stem cells immortalized but I think the naming is essential because otherwise things can get lost in the technical details so who came up with the name of So he kept insisting that I should find the name. So I made this long list. I still have like in my notebook. Like I had a long list of about 20. And I would like keep sending Ben one. And you know, like Ben was always awake, like 24 hours. Yeah, he didn't sleep much. He never slept. So I remember after sending many emails going back and forth, and he was just like, no, bad name, bad name. I don't like it. And then at one point, I thought, well, OID because it's life. And then assemble because we're assembled at circuits. So I thought, assemble it. And I sent this and says, perfect. I love it. So you named assembloids. I named assembloids. And Ben sort of like blessed it, like one night at like 3 a.m. And so that was the first assembloid. And the first assembloid was for cells migrating. But then the question was, cells have to find each other and form circuits. And so within a couple of years, we started making assembloids that will have exons. So the long projections of neurons finding other partners. And you know how – I forgot who said this. It must have been Rodolfo Linas or – who said that the brain is sort of the next evolutionary step towards movement. You know, so like the nervous system has been this theory that has evolved as a way of like moving around. That was Sherrington. Sherrington said the final common path is movement. He was a physiologist. He was kind of vague in his statement. But I think it was Sherrington. And I don't doubt that Rodolfo said something about it too. I'm not going to try and take anything away from Rodolfo. Anyone that knows a Rodolfo Linas is he's not somebody you want to piss off. Well, we should check it. Like who actually said it. Give him credit. I like Rodolfo. But for us, that became like the next objective. Like can we actually build a circuit that will have a very clear output? So we would know that we've actually built that circuit. So what we did is essentially we thought about like the simplest circuit for movement, which is like the corticospinal tract. So that means that a neuron in deep layers of the cortex sends a long axons all the way to the spinal cord, finds a motor neuron, makes a connection. Then the motor neuron leaves the spinal cord, goes to the muscle. And essentially you only have these two neurons, right, that are connecting with each other with the muscle, two connections, one between the two of them and one with the muscle. So the simplest of circuits that you can have. It lets me move my big toe. Right. Exactly. It's a pretty long distance if you think about it. It's very simple. And of course, like in other species, it's a little bit more complicated. It turns out that in mice, there's an additional neuron there. So there are some changes that, you know, happened over evolution. But for us and in primates, it's as simple as this. So what we did was we essentially made an organoid that resembles the cortex and has some of those neurons. And then we made an organoid that resembles the spinal cord and has some motor neurons in it. And then we made a ball of human muscle that you can make from a biopsy. You can literally biopsy a muscle. You get the myoblast. You grow them and you get a nice ball of muscle. And then, of course, the challenge was that, you know, the reality is that we don't know how those cells find each other. Like in development, we know some of the molecular cues that they use. But we're far from having a comprehensive understanding of how they find each other. And I remember we were sitting down in the lab and kind of like thinking I resisted actually doing this as the first assembloid in the lab for a while. Because the probability was like against us. Like those cells in the cortical organoid that are less than 5%, the motor neurons are less than 10%. The probability that they find each other perfectly and in enough numbers to trigger muscle contraction was close to zero. And yet you do it. You put the three parts together. You let them assemble. And within a few weeks, you can actually now stimulate the cortex with whatever you want to use, with an electrode, with light. And then the muscle starts to contract. And in fact, the more you do it, the more reliable the process is. And then, of course, we went on to like reverse engineering and figure out that indeed the cells have connected in that precise way. So I think what we started actually to realize was that, of course, a lot of stem cell biology was, you know, I think a lot of biology was based on chemical and physical factors that we were leveraging. But we've never truly leveraged this kind of like next level of law or power in biology, which is self-organization. The ability of a biological system, of build it itself. If you think about it, the human brain builds itself. Of course, there are instructions, but there's no blueprint. There's no plan that the brain constantly looks to make sure that it actually made all the connections properly. Right. Instructions are sort of revealed at every step for kind of like the next step. And it mostly comes from the cells finding each other. So I think what we also started to learn from this was that all we need to do is make the parts. And if we make the parts right, then the parts will come with the instructions and then the circuits will assemble on their own. And so that has been really kind of like the beginning of it. And, of course, it became progressively more difficult to build circuits. And so, of course, if you put two, you may think, oh, let's make three. And if you make three, can you make four? So actually, we just published a few months ago the first four-part disembloid that actually now reconstitutes the pathway that processes sensory information in the nervous system. So you think about the cortex, you know, sends out to control movement and has an output, but it receives information from the outside constantly. And that happens through neurons that sit close to the spinal cord, have projections in the skin where they sense tactile vibrations or pain stimuli, send that information to the spinal cord. From the spinal cord, they cross, they go up to the thalamus in the middle of the brain, and from the thalamus, they go to the cortex. So this is a four-part pathway. So it took us years, first of all, to make the parts and then to put them together. And then, again, the beautiful thing about it is that while we still don't know all the rules of assembly, you can make this four-part. We call it a sensory assembloid or a somatosensory assembloid because it turns out that the sensory neurons that we can make are mostly sensory neurons that sense pain stimuli. And so you can actually put the four parts together, so the sensory, the spinal cord, the thalamus, and the cortex, and you have to put them in that order. If you change the order, the cells will not find each other. So you just have to create the minimal conditions for them, making the right cell types, putting them in the right order, and then they'll find each other. And within a few weeks, so it takes, you know, hundreds of days to build a circuit like this. But the beauty of it is that suddenly you look at it and you just see spontaneous activity that arises in the entire pathway, just starts to flicker, all in sync. Can you use this assembloid to study the effects of different pain medications? Yes. So that is certainly one potential. The other thing that you can do in the first application that we've had was for genetic forms of pain conditions. So we very often think that genetic conditions where you have a very clear cause, so like entry points, like Rosetta stones for understanding anything. So there are these interesting mutations in a sodium channel, so another channel. But the sodium channel turns out that if the channel is overactive because of a mutation, you'll have excessive pain. So these patients are highly sensitive. But then if the channel is essentially unable to function, then these patients have loss of pain. And that's equally bad. Many of these patients actually will die because they can't sense pain at all. Yeah, I think people don't realize that in mutations where people can't sense pain, people fail to make the postural adjustments. Exactly. That allow...