 amasivirgamblingaddict. Every single addiction is gambling addiction. If you drink and drive, you're gambling. Addiction is one of those things you can't apply logic to. People, what are you running from, Dave? I was like, well, I'm fucking running from myself, dude. I don't wanna look in the mirror. I don't wanna see myself. I hate myself. So I'm just running. So as long as I'm like doing graffiti, running from the police, blah, blah, blah, blah, you know, just hopping on a train, like, like literal running, like literally running to make sure I'm never sit still for one second, like, what are you doing, Dave? I'm playing drums in a band. I'm at a casino. I'm traveling doing the news revise. I'm painting at this. Like, I can't sit still because that means I have to sit with myself and I can't do that. I can't do that. I couldn't do that. I couldn't do that. I can now. Welcome to the Huberman Lab Podcast, where we discuss science and science-based tools for everyday life. I'm Andrew Huberman, and I'm a professor of neurobiology and ophthalmology at Stanford School of Medicine. My guest today is David Cho. David Cho is an artist. He's a highly accomplished painter, graffiti and street artist, writer, podcaster and television host. Many of you are perhaps familiar with David as the guy who famously painted the original Facebook offices, took equity for the job and got rich. Now that's a wild story, but David's whole life journey, what he did prior to and after that and what he has overcome along the way is a million times wilder. As he shares today, David grew up hearing and thinking that he was destined for greatness, but also hearing and thinking that he was a total disgrace. Today he talks with complete openness and vulnerability about addiction, about cycles of success and failure, and about channeling and overcoming deep shame. Today's podcast is unlike any other that I've hosted. David is wide open about his childhood abuse, his massive success, then career setbacks, relapses, and transmuting every possible emotion into art along the way. So no matter who you are, David's story and just as importantly how he's living right now, how he shows up on this podcast will change what you think is possible for you in life. It will force you to look inward and to use whatever joy and pain you have inside of you to be the best human being you can possibly be. David's show is as we say in science an end of one, meaning there is no other like him. Yes, because of his incredible art, but also for his willingness to share so openly and honestly so that others can benefit and grow. I consider it a true honor and privilege to host David on this podcast and frankly, it's impossible not to love him. This one is incredibly raw and honest. It's also full of surprises, many of which are fun surprises. So buckle up. Before we begin, I'd like to emphasize that this podcast is separate from my teaching and research roles at Stanford. It is however, part of my desire and effort to bring zero cost to consumer information about science and science related tools to the general public. In keeping with that theme, today's episode does include sponsors. And now for my discussion with David Cho. David Cho, welcome. Thank you for having me, man. And a huge longtime fan. Love your art. I've been super inspired by your YouTube channel. I watch it sometimes before I do my drawing or I prepare for a podcast. What are you drawing? I draw a lot of anatomy on top of some paintings. So I do neuroanatomy on top of some paintings that my friend Tim Armstrong has been doing. Musician at Leeds Center. Is it anatomically correct or is it like exaggerated or is it? This is a really good question. So in essence, it's anatomically correct. But around the turn of the last century, two guys, Cajal and Golgi won the Nobel Prize for drawing the nervous system and showing these things no one had seen before. And they stripped away everything except for the essential piece. I'm going to come paint with you. I don't like what's happening in your painting studio. Just from what you said so far, it's not good. But it's good because you did that. And then now we have to strip that away. We have to get at the core of it. Because painting is, wait, weren't you in the middle of complimenting me? Keep going. I mean, I love your YouTube channel. I watch it before I prepare podcasts. And before I paint or draw, and I'm back to drawing a lot now. And I live, I converted an art gallery into the living space. And somehow I thought that that would make me more inspired. But it turns out it does. A lot of things do. But I think the key with anatomy and trying to teach science with drawings is it can't be too much detail, can't be too little detail. Otherwise, people are overwhelmed. It's the best thing for, I think, everyone. But for someone like you who spends a lot of time in your head, I always say the longest journey you'll ever take in your life is from your head to your heart. And to be an intellectual person, you just live a lot. You try to rationalize and apply logic to everything. So painting is not that. Music is not that. Creating is not that. It's just to get to this. But it sounds just in the little that you've explained that your painting is very methodical. Super meticulous. I want to include every cell type. What's your threshold for positive affirmations? Can I go now? Like you? I mean, I like to think I have a thick skin. But who knows? No, it's all love. OK, for anyone who's watching or listening, this is my first time meeting Adam. Andrew. All good. Yeah, all good. All good. You knew my last name, man. You know what? I was thinking about my friend Adam. All good. That you know, that I used to skate with, I think. Adam Cron. Yeah. Yeah, that's I was just thinking. Up for playground. Yeah, up for playground. Yeah, he worked at his dad owns Cron shoes in Palo Alto. He wants to reconnect with you. Man, Adam Cron and I grew up together. He had a mini ramp in his backyard. We hung out. We skateboarded. And then he started Up for Playground in the Walrus. That's it. He's your homie? I used to work for it. I did tons of graphics for Up for Playground. So does anyone call you Andy? My skateboard friends call me Andy. So yeah. But that's it. Like no one in the medical science world. Not anymore, no. Not really. That would have like, you start your podcast and you do your, you're like, I'm Andrew Huberman. Like I'm going to be all over the place, because I'm nervous being here right now. I hardly do podcasts anymore. So I'm going to be all over the place. If that, it's going to be sloppy. This is your canvas, man. Have fun. Well, I'm just meeting you. I already called you the wrong name, which is horrible. I hate the black. I hate it. The studio? This you with the black t-shirt, the black mugs, the black, like I don't like it for you. Because I used to only wear black because I was like, I'm a painter. I'm always dirty. I don't want to like, you know, you could see the ketchup stains on my sweater and it's like, OK, that's fine. But I just, colors are very important in not just painting, but like the palette for your house or, you know, like most people talk about in the modern age, that modern man is, you know, and I just make shit up so you could correct. You're like the facts guy. But I feel like most people, human beings alive today, are going to die a very, it's mean to say boring, but just the same death, right? You'll most likely die laying down in a bed or hospice or in a hospital. You know, it's just like no one's dying. Like I know there's other countries where there's war and famine, but I'm saying modern city, you know, like there's not like a hero's death, right? So it's just, it's all the same. And then you just, you know, the drive here in traffic, it's like everyone either has a black car or a white car or a gray car. And then you get to their house and their house is a beige or a white and you're just like, we only got one of these. You know, whatever your views on the afterlife are, but this is it. This is it. Like this is it. And it's just like people get mad of like, oh, I spilled paint on the floor. Like I got a scratch. I'm like, paint everything. Paint your fucking car. Paint and make your. Like my kids drew my sweater. It's my favorites. You know, like I like that sweater. Paint, you know, so I walk in here and I go, fuck dude. Like, and I'm projecting on you now. Like when I wore all black, it said a lot about where I was at in my life and I don't know where you're at because I'm just meeting you. But it's like everything is black on black, like black on the black t-shirt, black mug back. And it's like white t-shirt for my dream. My, my selfishly, my dream is like this podcast would start. Instead of saying, Hey, I'm Andrew Huberman, like Stanford scientist that is just. Hi, I'm Andy. And then like you, can you Photoshop like a white t-shirt on? I'd wear a white t-shirt. I don't know. I don't like black. For me, I have hardly ever black clothes anymore. I want to add as much color because I just, maybe that's the season I am in my life or the time I'm in. But yeah, I appreciate you saying the nice stuff. I never thought I would be a YouTuber, but that's providing a lot of joy in my life. And so I want to say to you, I'm meeting you for the first time. I've never seen you clean shaven, but I imagine, I mean, your beard and facial hair to me look very cute. You're very handsome. Your voice, when I hear your voice immediately is soothing. And I feel like this is a very kind person. Like once again, without having, like now I've met you for like five minutes. I'm like, oh, this guy's super awesome. But, you know, like these kind of parasocial relationships where I could go even, I don't know how hard you want to go today, but like it's like, I meet people all the time and then I meet them. And it's like, I've already met you. Like we've already talked. I don't know what your views on telepathy and spirituality. And it's like, it's just everyone will meet. Everything's going to happen the way it's going to happen and everyone's going to meet who they need to meet. It's like all energy, right? You put this like, what, you know, I could sit there and go, why does Andrew Huberin want to meet me right now? And it's like, well, what am I putting out in the universe? And what is he putting out in the universe? And our, do the souls connect in that way? You know, so I just want, I said, if I ever meet him, I just want to tell him how cute he is, how soothing and relaxing. And like, there's something very, this is the invisible ingredient in like everything in art is, did the person care? Right? Like, I don't care how skilled and crafted, whatever, like, did the person care? And like, when you do stuff in your voice, the tone, the frequency that's hitting my soul is like, oh, I don't know everything that guy's saying. He's using some big words, but I feel like he cares. And so I said, if I ever meet you, and I know a little bit from us talking on the phone, but I don't know your whole backstory, but I'm like, also, I project a lot and I make a lot of assumptions, which I'm, that's a defect that I'm working on. But I just wanted to say, like, even though you had a horrific traumatic childhood, like, the fact that you're here, you're alive, and that you're doing all this good stuff, it makes me emotional, because I'm like, I don't even know you. And I appreciate what you're doing. And you're still a little bit immature, but progress, not perfection, right? So I think that's it for now. But I just wanted to tell you all that because I feel that way about you. And I, you know, I like, I'm a big, sometimes you feel stuff and you're like, I'll text it to them or maybe, you know, and I just go, no, if I feel that I just want to, especially if it's love and positivity. I know I started by telling you how much I hate your decor and your interior decorating, but it's because I like you. Like, I wouldn't, if I do, if I like, if I'm like, I don't give a shit about this guy, I don't want a relationship with I would never say anything. But I'm like, this, I don't know what the signs behind it, but being surrounded by this much black cannot be good. Right. It can't like just you want, you were walking into a black hole right now. Like, I don't know. Anyways, that's, that's what I wanted to say. Oh man. Well, I'll take that in. Thank you. Uh, lot there. Thank you. We're able to take it in. Yeah. I was able to take in some of that. I didn't show you when you call me Andy, it's a different part of my persona just because that names carry a lot. Oh yeah. Thank you for that. I'm going to take that in and, um, you know, I got this little voice in my head that's saying, uh, I want to be very clear, you know, my, I had some rough, rough aspects of my childhood. I've made good amends with my parents. So we're good now. I say that too, uh, you know, uh, for all the reasons people can assume, but here's the thing. I knew somehow that we'd eventually cross paths. I just didn't know when. So you say the telepathy thing for me, I was a post-doc at Stanford that comes after PhD. You do like five years, it's kind of like a residency. And, uh, and I'm from the South Bay. And I didn't want to go back to the South Bay because as you know, no disrespect to the South Bay, a lot of interesting things come out of there, but it was pre-devoid of the things that I like, which normally are in cities like art, live music, it used to be like that. Grateful Dead were in Palo Alto. I saw Fugazi play at the, at the edge on California Avenue. There was a lot of interesting things about Palo Alto, but it became very, uh, right angles, uh, when the tech industry really exploded there. And in 2007, when I was a post-doc, was when you were mirrorling at Facebook, I learned that later. But that was a time when I was back there for my science career and I was pre-miserable, being close to home again. Honestly, I didn't want to ever go back there for a while. It was not healing. But when I learned your story about mirrorling at Facebook and some of that, I was like, Oh, there was at least one other person here who was like in the, in the kind of, uh, spiritual emotional fight with what the South Bay is. And then I realized that I heard an interview with Ian McKay from Myer Threat and turns out he had been in Palo Alto because his dad was an academic or something like that. Of course. And he had skated some of the same ditches we had. And so there's a history of people being really frustrated with being there. Um, really good Vietnamese food. And is there really? Yeah. Oh, in Palo Alto. So, or the South Bay. Yeah. South Bay. Oh yeah. I cast her a street, Mountain View. Yeah. And it's changed a lot, but, uh, take me back to 2007. I don't know how you feel about historical stuff, but we're definitely, I'm definitely down to time travel and time jump and all that, but because my, I'm older, I'm 49 and my attention span is just completely fried. I'm going to, I'll just say right now, I'm going to get a lot of dates wrong. Like I'm not like two things, you know, things people are like that. And you know, like 2007 was when the Facebook offices were what kids from the South Bay called the neck of university avenue, right? Before it goes under the train tracks, as soon as you're on the other side of the train tracks, Cal train, it becomes Palm drive and it's up to Stanford. And so that was offices now are Palantir, which catches a lot of heat for other reasons. But those offices rise, you go under the train tracks for us. There was a curb cut right there and there was a board slide thing. And so for the skateboarders, it was one thing, but then that was Facebook offices and years later, I heard David Cho was merely at Facebook. So how did that come to be? I'm going to be like very sloppy, like I said, and it's maybe some of the stuff. Cause sometimes it's the way I treat talking and journalism and podcasts is like, it's like a story in my own head. Someone else is like, just shut the fuck up and answer the question. Right. But like for me, when I paint, I don't sketch. I go straight to a finish and I, so sometimes I'm figuring out what I'm trying to tell you because you asked me a question that's very direct, but I, the way it went into my head was very abstract because I'm, so, um, if you let me do a little paint mixing, I hope I'll answer your question. But do you, um, do you know Pee Wee? Pee Wee, like I'm wearing it today. Do you know, uh, Pee Wee's playhouse? I knew, oh yeah. I mean, yeah, I met him actually. Paul Rubins. Yeah. At a, at a photo show of Mike Muller and Sage who draws butterflies on Mike Muller sharks and animals. Oh, and Pee Wee Herman in his thing, in his suit, the whole thing walked up. Laird Hamilton was there. Nice. And he walks up to Laird Hamilton. There are a bunch of people around. Everyone's trying to get to Laird, try to get to Laird. Laird's like a, this was 2017 and, uh, I was in West Hollywood and Pee Wee Herman walks up and he goes, I have to meet you. And Laird's like, and the best thing is Laird just goes, Oh, hello. What's your name? Like typical Laird. Like there's a real gentleman always, you know, and, uh, I couldn't tell if you knew or not. And he's like, I've really wanted to meet you. This kind of thing. And, uh, and I was like, no way. And you had the whole thing, like the shiny lips and the thing. And I was like, that's Pee Wee Herman. That's amazing. I love that. Yeah. All right. Well, I mean, I'm definitely going to have to tell you my Pee Wee Herman story at some point. I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge our sponsor, Eight Sleep. Eight Sleep makes smart mattress covers with cooling, heating and sleep tracking capacity. One of the best ways to ensure you get a great night's sleep is to make sure that the temperature of your sleeping environment is correct. And that's because in order to fall asleep and stay deeply asleep, your body temperature actually has to drop by about one to three degrees. And in order to wake up feeling refreshed and energized, your body temperature actually has to increase by about one to three degrees. Eight Sleep automatically regulates the temperature of your bed throughout the night, according to your unique needs. I've been sleeping on an Eight Sleep mattress cover for nearly five years now, and it has completely transformed and improved the quality of my sleep. The latest Eight Sleep model is the Pod Five. This is what I'm now sleeping on. And I absolutely love it. It has so many incredible features. For instance, the Pod Five has a feature called Autopilot, which is an AI engine that learns your sleep patterns and then adjusts the temperature of your sleeping environment across different sleep stages. It'll even elevate your head if you're snoring and it makes other shifts to optimize your sleep. If you would like to try Eight Sleep, go to eightsleep.com slash Huberman to get $450 off the Pod Five Ultra. This is part of Eight Sleep's extended holiday sale, which goes from now until December 31st, 2025. Eight Sleep ships to many countries worldwide, including Mexico and the UAE. Again, that's eightsleep.com slash Huberman to save up to $450 now through December 31st, 2025. Today's episode is also brought to us by Element. Element is an electrolyte drink that has everything you need and nothing you don't. That means the electrolytes, sodium, magnesium and potassium, all in the correct ratios, but no sugar. Proper hydration is critical for brain and body function. Even a slight degree of dehydration can diminish your cognitive and physical performance. It's also important that you get adequate electrolytes. The electrolytes, sodium, magnesium and potassium are vital for the functioning of all cells in your body, especially your neurons or your nerve cells. Drinking Element makes it very easy to ensure that you're getting adequate hydration and adequate electrolytes. My days tend to start really fast, meaning I have to jump right into work or right into exercise. So to make sure that I'm hydrated and I have sufficient electrolytes, when I first wake up in the morning, I drink 16 to 32 ounces of water with an element packet dissolved in it. I also drink Element dissolved in water during any kind of physical exercise that I'm doing, especially on hot days when I'm sweating a lot and losing water and electrolytes. Element has a bunch of great tasting flavors. In fact, I love them all. I love the watermelon, the raspberry, the citrus, and I really love the lemonade flavor. So if you'd like to try Element, you can go to drinkelement.com slash Huberman to claim a free Element sample pack with any purchase. Again, that's drinkelement.com slash Huberman to claim a free sample pack. For me, art as a kid growing up, like the trifecta, my holy trinity of children's education, art, entertainment is Mr. Rogers, Bob Ross, and then of course, Pee Wee Herman. I mean, Pee Wee Herman had Lawrence Fishburn, Gary Panter, Mark Mother's Ba, like Danny Elfman. Like he just, he was like the ringleader of all this creativity. And he had like Mecca, like a high Mecca, high knee, ho. And do you remember the, do you remember the secret word? Oh, the secret word was like, if anyone's our age that's watching Pee Wee for us. It was like today's secret word is, I don't know, what's our secret word today, Rob? Microphone. Microphone. And if, if someone says microphone, scream real loud. So can we do that today? Sure. All right. I'm counting on you. I want you to scream the loudest. And you don't take a P until we take a P. We got an agreement on that. Okay. All right. Um, I hated the South Bay. I hate, I hate, like I just, I'm, I have all the typical artist traits. I'm clinically depressed. I'm bipolar. I have all the process addictions, food, sex, gambling, shopping, workaholism. Like I don't have, thank God I don't have any of the chemical addictions because I'm allergic to everything, but, um, severe OCD, severe anti-social traits, um, you know, I just highly sensitive, you know, so I just coming here today, like you asked me and I kept text, like, I don't know, we did this, like dance for a few months and I, uh, if I'm just being honest with you, like, I don't, I don't know how to not be me, you know, and sometimes like I put a mask on and I, I'm like, I think this is what Andrew wants me to be today, but I, you know, I didn't even meet you yet. And so every time I've done Joe Rogan or any other podcasts, like, um, I don't know, I just feel comfortable doing my own YouTube or my own podcast, but anytime anyone else asks me, it's such a, I know who I am and sometimes I don't and sometimes I figure that out and it's, sometimes you meet people on the street, at pavilions or at the supermarket and they're like, I, and it's like this parasocial thing where it's like, I know you, I relate to you. I, and there's something about that where, you know, the intimacy of meeting another human being and then just showing them your heart and then telling them everything and my parents aren't going to listen to this. My brothers don't listen to it. Like, so in a weird way, like you're going to know more about me today than my own family. So the parasocial thing is even, it's real, right? Like placebo effect is real, like all these things. So I, you know, I got here early. I went for a walk down the, to those outstreet and then it's like just this beautiful view of the ocean and I, it happens every time. It's like, it, it, it, I know what it makes me sound like. It's like, oh, this guy's like very unstable and unhinged and I'm, I'm the first to admit it's like, I cry all the time now. Like, I don't know what it was just like, maybe just seeing all the burned houses on the way here, just knowing that I haven't talked in a long time. And there's no upside for me. And I told you that I was like, I go on these podcasts and I think, um, uh, Howard Stern, like 15, 20 years ago and Joe Rogan, the multiple, multiple times I've been on a show, I think are the only two radio shows podcasts that have ever just aired it without editing. Everyone else, every time you've ever heard me on any other podcast, it's either severely edited or they cut out huge chunks of it or they didn't even air it at all. So I know that, you know, and I know the world we live in today. And so there's something that went, you know, in the, the narcissistic traits where I'm like, I'm the fucking greatest artist in the world to like, oh my God, I'm a piece of shit. Like it just, you know, it's just like this thing. And before when I was younger, it was like, everyone has to see everything. Everyone has like, I think I'm so important that everyone has to see everything that I create, painting, podcast, book, like whatever it is. And then it went like my problem with my shit is it's all or nothing. So it's hard for me to find the middle. And so at this point now, I'm like 49, I live a very quiet dad life, you know, I'm a family guy and there's just thousands of paintings no one's ever seen. There's hundreds of hours, if not thousands of hours of podcasts I've never put out. There's books I've written, there's TV shows, movies that I've made that it's just, I don't, before the ego and the narcissist is like, you need to put this out because you're important and everyone needs to see how important you are. And now the flip side to that, and maybe it's not healthy either, is like, I know who I am, I'm comfortable with myself and I don't need, you know, I'm artificially blocked from everything. Like I don't have my own password to my social media. I don't, I have blocks on my phone so I can't access the internet. So it's like, I do put all these things in the place to like protect myself because I'm a sensitive person. So, you know, as an artist, there's certain isms and stories. It's like, oh, starving artists, you're not going to make any money. Like struggling artists, there's these stories that people say and then you buy into them. But I had, I had a few teachers along the way that influenced me that like, you know, there's like just certain moments happen in your life that live in your head rent free. And I have a lot of those. And so one of the stories is, you know, I'm 49. It's like, you have to live in New York City. If you make it in New York, you make it anywhere. What the fuck am I doing in the 408? Like this is, what am I doing in Cooper team? Like, like in my head, the story is written that you're a fucking, you know, and I hadn't done shit, right? But in my head, I'm like, you're a greatest artist ever in Gilroy. You know, like, what, you know what I mean? I know disrespect to Gilroy. Like the garlic capital of garlic fest, garlic ice cream, you know? So there's a story in my head that is like, I got to get to New York City, right? Like I got to like, I got to get to the city. I got to like, I couldn't, I couldn't get any like leeway in Los Angeles. I'm born and raised in LA and I just, I couldn't, you know, and, and so I, and now I look back, if I do a inventory of the most creative explosions and the most periods of creativity in my life, it's always found in the mundane. It's always found in cold temperatures. It's always found when there's no Wi-Fi. It's always found in a suburb of, it's, it's like this story like, anyone get to fucking New York and I'm going to be part of this move? It's never that. Like it's nice to romanticize that, but it's these moments of brilliance. Like someone who ever is listening right now, they're like, I got this and then I'm, there's like a, and then I'm going to get to this and then I'm going to meet this person and I'm going to do that. And it's like, bro, I was fucking living in San Jose for seven years. I met this wonderful lady. She was my girlfriend for seven years. But like at that prime, I was 23 and I was like, and, um, for me, the stakes are so high because I, so one of the teachers was my mother, right? My mother is hardcore born again, Christian. So science does not enter the picture, right? It's like blinders on and through her, I learned to blind faith, right? Jesus Christ. That's it. There's no, there's no. So wait, you're telling me there was an actual arc with two animals and all the, the two animals and then kill the other in the, you know, and there was an atom and there was a snake that talked and she's like, yeah, like no hesitation. So she gave me that gift of like, like, hey, science, like facts. No, blind, like just, holy shit. Like there's nothing could falter and you're like, you're fucking stupid. You're ignorant. Like, and she's, but she's not. She's a bright woman. And now I look back and like, I just met you, you're a brilliant guy. And I, I sit here and I go, I know some of the smartest people on the planet. You know, some of the smartest people on the planet and they're all done. They're all like idiots. You're like, wait, you're a genius. You have photographic memory. You created this company and you made some of the dumbest decisions ever. You know, it's like, it's like, yeah, you're really good at this, but you don't know.  and other relationships. So, my mom taught me through just not anything but just watching her of this absolute belief. One of her beliefs was, my son, this is some Jesus shit, like me, who was like how I explain this fucking neurotic mess, like growing up in an unstable family and all that, got fucking molested, every abuse, physical abuse, emotional abuse, like just chaotic because they were working and I was just like left out in the wild, abandoned, spiritual abuse, all this shit, and she's just like, in the same way she believed in God and Jesus, she's like, you're the one. You're the greatest artist, and I'm like five years old, I'm like, what the fuck are you talking about? She's like, no one's better than you. No one's better than you. You're the best, you're going to be the great, your name's David, like a lot of Koreans named after Bible, she's like, I named you after King David, you're going to be a king, and I go, but now in hindsight, I'm like, yes, King David beat Goliath, but he also was a sex addict and had a lot of mental illness and like failed a lot, she didn't tell me all that shit. So she's raising me, she's brainwashing me. She's like, you're the best, you're the greatest, and then I've met other artists where it's everyone has their own paths, some become great because the parents are like, you're nothing, you're a piece of shit, you're the worst, who the fuck do you think you are? I had the opposite, I had a mom just, it didn't matter, it didn't matter, but mom, look at how horrible, you're the greatest. And so it's like, at some point, I hate myself, I have such a low self opinion on myself, I'm just down on myself, just this kid, just constantly getting bullied and the world just using me and I'm like, of course she says that, she's my mom, you know, but she just brainwashed me into believing that I'm the best and I would, as a trickster and a shapeshifter, I would, you know, what most artists lack is like an ability to communicate with words, that's why they're such brilliant artists and that's why they make great music and all this because they can't, I can't, you know, like I'm gonna probably talk to you for a few hours today and I'm gonna leave your feeling misunderstood, I'm gonna be like, fuck, did I, because I'm not, in the same way I can like translate what I feel in a painting, it's like when people describe like ayahuasca or something, they're like, try to describe it and they're like, the words that you're trying to look for don't exist for what you just went through, so that's kind of why I get really self judgmental, but I'm like, I'm like, I'm not gonna be like this woman and then, you know, my dad, he loves me, but he's like, he's all right, he's okay, you know, and I'd watch my mom who's just like a brutal business woman, you know, and she would transform, you know, we, we, we, we, you know, I spent most of my life either poor or middle class, you know, like being wealthy came later, but so, you know, we're on welfare a lot, our businesses burned down in LA riots, we struggled a lot, you know, but then they would do good and they had the gamblers mentality, which a lot of Asians do and I have that too. Which is just, I don't know if this is true, but I heard that Asians have the gambling gene more than other races, especially the women, like most women don't have the gambling gene the same way men do. So my mom would gamble like flipping houses or like not in a casino, but like just huge, like huge swings, which you're like, I grew up with a fearless woman, you know, but so we wouldn't have stuff, but then I would watch my mom open the trunk of her car and put on like fake jewelry, cubic zirconium, because she's about to go into a meeting and ask for a lot of money and just, just insane lying and but hardcore Christian. So like the hypocrisy there, like I'm definitely, I'm trying to work on my own breaking out. So it's like, I'm going to be hypocritical in this interview. And at the end, hopefully I'll be able to correct any exaggerations that relies. But that's a new tool that I have. I used to just, you know, whatever for the story, you know, I lie to tell the truth, you know, all those things. So I'd watch my mom transform from like a poor woman. The mentality was, she's like, my son is the greatest artist in the world. And like, I'm, you know, I'm coming out of my Toyota hatchback with the broken window, you know, but when I go into this meeting right now, you're not going to see that. So she transformed herself into this rich, powerful woman and just like, get like, I'm just sitting there, a kid in the corner watching this woman get what she wants. I'm like, holy fuck, what the fuck was that performance? And just coming out and I'm like, but mom, that's not like those things you said, that wasn't real, that's not true. And she's like, yeah, they don't need to know that. And I'm like, but we just went to church and we learned the 10 commandments and you're not supposed to lie. And this is like, all this like confusion. And then I meet Sean Parker, who, you know, just the sweetest kid, you know, just he started emailing me right when he started Napster, he goes, I wish I have all the emails, I keep, I keep certain emails and voice messages. And I just, I just, that's my own nostalgia. But like, I have a, I have a voicemail and a handwritten letter from Howard Stern saying, thank you for getting me into watercolors. And I was like, dude, my fucking hero, like, yes, like, it's such a good feeling. I have a voice message from Pee Wee Herman, which I'll share later. And all my early emails with Sean Parker, I kept just because it was, he's such an interesting, like, wonderful. I know, like the image of him, but like, I, we don't talk like as like we used to, but I still consider him a friend and I'm over forever grateful to him. But so he I met him at a time when, like, I mean, I don't even know how to, I mean, like, just complete disgrace and shame to my family. You know, it's like the immigrant story, talk to any immigrant. Why the fuck did you leave your home to come to another country? Because it was shitty there. That's it. You're not born in a country and you're like, dude, let's leave. Right. The only reason why anyone's here is because it was shitty where you were at, right? So then they all, it doesn't matter if you're Asian or Mexican, whatever, you came here for a better life. And what does that mean? Work your ass off. So we're in a nation of workaholics, right? This is an entire country of workaholics. So my parents, you know, I didn't go through it, but they're like, Japanese tanks rolled down the street. And you know, they have the typical like fucking war famine, all that stuff. So they get over here. And like, born and raised in Los Angeles, you know, it's like, don't know who I am, don't know where I belong, just bullied, abandoned, abused over and over. And just, I didn't even really know the concept of suicide. But I hated myself. Like I couldn't live in my like, it felt like I was burning inside my own body. And so even made fun of like, like I listened to we have the same taste of music, I listened to Minutemen, Minor Threat, you know, I'm blasting down set inside out, Sound Guard and Slaves and Bull, I used to put on Sound Guard and Slaves and Bulldozers, punch myself as like just like I'm in my room, a teenager, just punching myself as hard as I can, just to like go into like a berserker rage. And I just back then, like I found pornography and it was just so soothing, like it was like getting high, like I would just masturbate like over and over again. So I'm, I'm like master, but I do like weird self harm, I guess the kids call it edging, but I get masturbate, but then not come and then beat myself up and I'm going through puberty. And I would go out on a shoplift spray cans, like just that, you know, hardware stores. And I'm listening to, you know, I'll get like a faith no more, like in living colors, just like some song and I would just like an OCD just repeat like some lyric in it. I am a patient boy, and I would just like go into like a trance and I would just go out and I would just fucking spray paint. And I'm living at home. So I'm not hiding this shit, I come home, my hands covered in black paint. This is what we fucking came to this country for. This is what why we we fucking left another country so you could come here and not be an art, but do gruff like you're a disgrace, you're a disgrace to our race, you're, you know, and my dad would just like fucking throw me against the wall. And I'm like, I don't care, dude. I don't care what you're like, do you understand like, I wasn't like actively trying to kill myself, but I didn't like, do you understand that everything you care about? I don't care. You get that? And like, you know, you start the show and I was laughing because it's like, Hey, I'm Andrew Huberman, Huberman, scientist, Stanford, this is I'm like, I don't care, like, I like, I like Andy, like I like that, you know, and then I was like, you know what, this is like a stolen valor. Sean Parker starting Facebook with Mark Zuckerberg, you know, I'm there at the beginning. And so he brings me in. And at the time, when I first this is years, the emails back and forth, he's like, I need because the energy I was putting out at the time was what I'm telling you right now, just I don't give a fuck. I don't care what you care about. Like I don't like it's just complete. I don't care if I go to jail. I don't like I'm just painting on everything. And it's like graffiti. graffiti is vandal. It's not art. It's not graffiti artist or street art. It's fucking vandalism. It's a crime. And people are telling me, anyone out there doing street art, like there's so many rules. There's so many like, what did you write? Did you use to tag or anything? No, but I did. If you skated, you definitely had like a there were some kids in our crew that cubes. What did you tag? Come on, because I had friends who were like graffers, and they were they like boxed us out, you know, the undershadows kids never did graffiti. No, but we can talk about this later. I want to hear I want to hear from you now. But later, we should talk about orphan in the under shadows crew, which is a which is a kind of a thing in the Bay Area. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, he was a good friend of mine. But anyway, I didn't graffiti. Okay, so I drew my grip tape. All right, that's good. But no, I wasn't a tag or wasn't graffiti guy. Yeah, so I'm out doing like that. And, you know, like, you know, we can have like a conversation about creativity and this and that. And it's like, I can't. It's, it's very hard to talk about it's because it's like, can you teach a craft? Can you teach a skill? Can I teach you to paint them on Lisa? Yeah, I know how to do all that. I know how to like, I went to school, like I taught myself, I watched videos, like, you could teach yourself how to paint something to make it look like something that's a teachable skill. But creativity, where does that come from? Are you just born with it? Is it from deprivation? It's like, it's like a, you know, I could I can only share what my path, my path is. And it's like, the embarrassment, like, you're Asian, you need to get a 4.0, you need to get into UCLA, you need to be a doctor or lawyer. And it's like me, my I'm on the middle child, me and my two brothers, like long hair, listening to heavy metal and punk. Why are you doing that white shit, you know, like, and then he's got Asian kids that are into heavy, you know, like, there was no identity, right? And then it's just like lost, just like what the fuck is, you know, like, we don't belong anywhere, just like the Asian depictions in media is like long duck dong Asians have small digs, they can't drive, they're good at math, it's just nothing's good, right? And I'm like, I, you know, I'm just trying to figure out my way in this world. And I remember Sean just was attracted to like, whatever whatever little art, I'd start getting some noticed in juxtapose, and I was starting to do graffiti everywhere. And, and he's like, I want that, whatever that is, I want that, like, I want to be part of that. And I said, and I forgot what my painting, it was, it was like, right when I couldn't sell a painting, and then all of a sudden, they were selling for a couple thousand. And he's like, and he was a teenager still. And he goes, my, my, I want your art. But the problem is I'm being sued right now for a trillion dollars, because every single song is a is a lawsuit, you know, I mean, whatever, he ended up the way it ended up. But I remember he goes, I'm getting he showed me a screenshot or whatever, he's like, I'm being sued for one trillion dollars right now. So I can't really afford your art. But like, I'm going to get it, you know, so we started this relationship. And he would send me these crazy, like abstract texts of emails of what he wanted me to paint. And then, and then he started another company called Plaxo. And he's like, no, no, and then finally, you're catching me in the South Bay, you know, I met this girl, we fell in love. And I moved to San Jose, just the most culturally dead place. And everyone's like, rollerblading, working at Apple or MySpace or eBay, or, you know, some some tech startup. And they're like, we're cool, because we have a trampoline and a, you know, we have a like a kitchen area where you can have all the Red Bull and snacks you want. And we have bunk beds. So we and like, that's also you could just keep working, you know. And so I meet Sean and he's like, dude, we're starting this company called Facebook. And like, we finally have some money. And like, dude, this is he's like, where are you at? And he didn't know all this, but I had just gotten out of prison. I was in jail in Japan, because I had beaten up undercover security guard was 27 when I got and I owed everyone money. I owed my girlfriend money out. And so I needed money bad. And I was in like a lot of trouble. I like was, I didn't know how how I was going to pay everyone back, because it's really hard to sell a painting, you know, but my paintings did sell once in a while. And they were starting to get pretty expensive. And then all the art that I did in jail, I used to work for Vice Magazine, I say work because but I never got paid. But you know, I, I didn't pay you. No, I think people, if anyone's listening is a little side tangent is, and it's going to definitely sound like OCD, like I'm keeping a list and maybe I am, because I don't think about it. But I was sitting the other day and I go, they all owe me money. Everyone I've ever worked for, like, like people like I got to get like someone develops a skill, like I'm good at songwriting or this or that. And then they go, well, I got like the young people's men, like, well, that's my craft, I got to get paid. I go, I never got paid. I worked for Nike, Levi's, Ruka, Giant Robot, Vice, fucking, even my friends Steve Aoki and like just all every like 88 rising. If I sit here, I'll name everyone. But like either they didn't pay me my what they said, or I had to threaten to kill them for them to send me or or they just never paid me. You know, and I met Gavin McInnes when he started Vice. And he had seen some of the art that I did in Giant Robot, he saw that I went to the Congo, he saw like, and he's like, Hey, and it was all punk rock advice when it was like the big format. And he's like, dude, and he just believed in me. I don't know what he saw. He's like, dude, send me a drawing of cops beating up this and I did it fast. I did he's like, I need it by tomorrow. And I was like, I can do it. And he's like, he just was like, Hey, write me a story about some shooting in LA Koreatown gangster shit. And I go, but I'm not he's like, just just do it. And at one point, that was another figure that was resonated my mom of like the rules, the reality doesn't apply. I'm sitting there going, wait, but I'm not a journalist. I didn't fact check anything. And there was some issues of vice, where I wrote five different articles under a woman's name, a black guy's name, you know, like just made up names, articles just to fill up pages. And I would have done the comic section, illustrations, music review, street, you know, fashion, you know, the do's and don'ts. And I'm just like, you can do that. And like, I had already been groomed for that because of my mom. It's like, no, reality doesn't apply. You just my mom thinks I'm the best artist. And now here's, you know, so Sean's like, Okay, and so I'm in what I feel is like purgatory, the 408 San Jose, Milpitas, you know, I'm just like, what the fuck is this? Like, and I'm telling myself, I gotta get that when I get to New York, it's like this Golden Gate, like, end of the Golden Road, like Wizard of Oz, like when I get there, then someone's I'm going to get discovered. And then someone's going to be like, and, and because what is it, you know, like what like people like what is created ago? I am like, I can be a hater, I can be a loving, sweet, selfless person, I could be like a very hard judgmental hater to myself. And so I take this so seriously, like what we're doing here today is talking, I mean, it's mostly me talking, I could see that. But it's like, we're having a conversation. But I think, without sounding, it's like, I think it's important. That's why I'm here, like I, like I said, like, I'm like, why? I feel like I trust you, even though I just met you, but like, yeah, I fucking puked down the street, because I get, I go, What's the upside? Like, I'm going to talk and then maybe I say something that I didn't mean, or I say it the wrong way, or it gets clipped weird or edited, and I go, I think it's important. I want to come, I want to talk to you. And I, and that's how I feel about my art. So what is that? What is art? What is creativity? And for me, it's like, I think sports are very gay, especially skateboarding. Like, I, if I never played sports, I would have never seen another man's penis, you know, like, and then in my time in sports, it was very rough, because I wasn't, I tell I told myself any athlete that I paint with, they always start saying the same thing. I suck at drawing. And I go, Why did you do that? Why did you immediately shoot yourself in like, who said that? Did someone else say that? Or did you say that? They start with saying something negative. And I go, And then I go, that's exactly what I say. If they try to teach me how to throw a free throw, I go, Oh, this is going to suck. And they go, Why did you do that? And so for me, growing up, I grew up with in a lot of black neighborhoods where the second, you know, I don't know how to play basketball, but the second I try and I fuck up, it's like, look at Chinese kid fucking try and I'm so I go, All right, you know what, I'm not even going to try it, you know? And it's like, well, you should have just come out like five in the morning when no one was there, you know, but like, I was so sensitive. I was like, I don't want to. So I did things in the, you know, it's, art is a solitary sport for the most part. You know, I'm not, there's no Rob there. There's it's just me. Like, like even in the thing, it's like this, like, don't look at my sketchbook. And but in here, I can fuck up and fix arrays, whatever. But so like in sports, you know, it's like, you're slapping guys asses, you're taking showers with them, you're, you're doing all this, like, male bonding stuff, you're just spending a lot of time with other men, right? Like, and I'm like, Oh, God, like, what is the feeling I'm trying to isolate the feeling wouldn't like what? And I remember, because I don't like I tell this stuff not to be like, feel sorry for me, I'm a victim, I don't feel like that. I mean, this I'm just telling you, I'm telling you what happened. And part of it is you do like, what would you rather, would you rather someone beat you up for five minutes or have the whole world read your diary, you know, like these kind of, and luckily, I had both of you know, I've been beaten to an inch of my life. I've had, like, I've had broken bones, I've been stabbed, I've been burned, I've been like everything physically you can think of. And, and I'm still here. Right. So there's not much like I in like, because I have my mom's delusion, like when I talk to Joe, and he's shorter than me. But I know he could probably like logically, I know he could probably kick my ass. I've no fighting background. But in my head, I'm like, I'm pretty sure I could kick his ass. And he would fucking and I that's just the way I walk through life. Like, I can still believe in Santa Claus. People go, I can't believe I just said that I don't. I think that's the first time publicly I've ever said that we're coming up on. No, I know, Christmas. By now, I'm sure that many of you have heard me say that I've been taking a g one for more than a decade. And indeed, that's true. The reason I started taking a g one way back in 2012. And the reason why I still continue to take it every single day is because a g one is to my knowledge, the highest quality and most comprehensive of the foundational nutritional supplements on the market. What that means is that it contains not just vitamins and minerals, but also probiotics, prebiotics and adaptogens to cover any gaps that you might have in your diet, while also providing support for a demanding life. Given the probiotics and prebiotics and a g one, it also helps support a healthy gut microbiome. The gut microbiome consists of trillions of little microorganisms that line your digestive tract and impact things such as your immune status, your metabolic health, your hormone health and much more. Taking a g one consistently helps my digestion, keeps my immune system strong, and it ensures that my mood and mental focus are always at their best. A g one is now available in three new flavors, berry, citrus and tropical. And while I've always loved the age one original flavor, especially with a bit of lemon juice added, I'm really enjoying the new berry flavor in particular. It tastes great. But then again, I do love all the flavors. If you'd like to try a g one and try these new flavors, you can go to drink age one dot com slash Huberman to claim a special offer. Just go to drink age one dot com slash Huberman to get started. I just remember there's I don't know it's changed now, but I remember when I was a kid, it was around six or seven when they start going, there's no fucking Santa, but I was eight. And I was like, and they're like, how dumb are you? And I understand this reflects back to my mom and Jesus. I go, and they go, but you've literally never got any presence from Santa. How and I'd go to shame. I go because I'm a bad kid. I cussed. I was like, I stole stuff from the supermarket, you know, like, and they're like, Hey, fuckface, Santa's not real. And I just was like, but he is, I believe that he is. And I believe I go, there's, there's him not giving me a present is like, because I put him in this God category, maybe he's not God, but maybe he's a God, like a demigod or something. And they go, how is he, how does he know if you're naughty or nice? I go telepath. How does he, how does he get every fucking present to every kid? In that time, I'm like, Oh, he's immune, he can multiply, he can make copies of himself. How does he get through that tiny chimney and go teleport? Like, I just, it's not even a question. I just know I believe it. And I don't care how stupid you think, like, I guess this is me coming out with my Santa Claus, but it's just like, I just believe that. And you can't say anything to make me not believe that. That's my blind faith that I got from my mom. So like every Christmas, I'm 50, I'm almost 50. I'm a fucking middle age man that, and I go, maybe, maybe this is the year I'm going to. But now I look back and I go, the gift he gave me of giving me nothing gave me everything. Right. So I, I'm, I'm sitting there and I'm drawing. But I have that story in my head too, like I suck. Oh, fuck, that doesn't look like Batman. Oh, his arm looks weird, you know. And then at some point, to this day, all the physical and emotional pain, sorry, just the physical pain, like, it passes. I've broken bones. I've had my face just pummeled, I'm like, just where you wouldn't reckon disfigured. And but it passes. And if I think back, I don't remember it. But the pain that stays is like heartbreak, you know, betrayal, abandonment. And I just remember my dad would make us keep a journal. Because he just wanted us to start learning how to write. And it started with, if I take you guys to the movies, you have to write a movie review. And it was like, we were eight years old, seven years old, just, you know, today we saw karate kid. Johnny got chased by skeletons. The end, you know, it was like that, like a little kid, you know, but he's like, you have to do it. Goonies was cool. You know, so we kept the thing. But then he never asked to read it, he just wanted us to do it. And I was like, Oh, so I started like getting more brave. I was like, I really like this girl at school. And like, and I would just start getting really vulnerable and open and just knowing because my brothers don't give a shit, like, but then the thought of like, what if someone ever read this? So I was like, opening myself up and just letting and I was like, Oh, my God, like, it felt so good. Like, like, I can't tell anyone like, I'm having these kind of feelings or like, you know, like, I fucking hate dad, you know, like, something, you know, whatever. And I would take the bottom drawer out of my desk out and I would hide it under there. And I shared a room with my brother. So I always did it when he, you know, I thought I was being secretive. And I was somewhere between seven, eight, nine, I just, you know, as you get better at writing, and I got more, once I got more comfortable knowing that no one I just started writing everything, like, my brother's luck and fart smell, like I wish, you know, just like everything I would write just just completely. And I came one day, and I saw both of my brothers on the bed reading it. And it, I remember my face just like it felt so hot, like, like, I felt like someone had just like ultimate betrayal. And it was like being naked. That's why I bring up the like, I felt more naked than being in a room full of naked guys showering, like slapping, like it was the most vulnerable, like, they were being so more so, you like her, and you did that, I can't believe you, you know, because I wrote everything in that journal. And I thought I was going to die from shame and embarrassment. And they're, you know, like the way kids are brothers can be it was merciless. And they made fun of me for years for that. And in the same way my face was disfigured. And I've had physical abuse and all that. I lived through it. And I was like, I'm still here. And so why the fuck am I going to be a pussy when I draw? When I draw, no more like I'm going to draw Batman like this artist or that artist. Oh, I'm going to draw like, you know, like, okay, that's fine, you're like trying to figure out how to work with tools. And but and that's fine. Skill craft great. But like this, like showing you, like, so there's, I had been trained now for heartbreak, right, like a lot of artists spend their whole life being not validated, bullied, rejected. And then finally they figure out how to draw something where people are like, yes, we like that. And so they never grow. They do that same verse, that same flow forever. And then you got people like Andre 3000, they're like, I don't care. I'm gonna, I don't care what you know, I'm gonna do flute shit. It's like, well, we don't like that. And it's like, I don't care. I'm an artist. I'm gonna, you got someone like Flea, who's like, I'm gonna just do performance art. And I'm like, I don't even like half that shit. But I just love them because they're and I go, how fucking brave is that? How brave is that? But I remember just to this day, right, I am a very successful established artist. And yet today, there's people like, that's the fucking worst art I've ever seen. That's the, that's and I and I go, cool. Like, but, if you don't have that background of just having your heart  ripped out. It is the most painful thing to put yourself out on a camp, like to pour your, that's you, that's your soul, and someone's like, and then especially if you're trying to sell it, like, no thanks, you know. So to have a guy like Sean Parker who's younger than me, but just, not even the art, he's just like, I like you, like whatever that is, and then I want to change the world with this kid that I met, Mark Zuckerberg, and so I meet him with his flip flops, and then, you know, I meet the whole crew, and I go, what do you want me to do? And he's like, I want you to fucking paint everything. I want people to be scared. I want investors to be scared when I want everyone to just be like, we're not MySpace, we're not eBay, we're not, I want them to be horrified when they come in here. I want you to just fucking paint the microwave, like everything, and I go indoors, right? And he goes, yeah, and I go, all right, so just like cover up your computers, and then they're like, no, we're gonna, we're gonna be working here. And I'm like, you know how toxic these chemicals, like I work in spray paint, like, I have brain damage because of this shit, like I have like memory issues, they're like, we don't care, we're, you know, they were like young, they're like, fuck the world, hack the world, like all that shit. They'd love to say, you know, so I was there and they would be like, let's fucking blast Daft Punk. Like I don't, this is a world I'm not, you know, I like going into different worlds and they're like, we're gonna blast Daft Punk, because I guess it's like something with the repetitiveness and the Cody, and we're gonna do these hackathons, where we just fucking hack into shit and fucking, it was punk rock, it was like a very nerdy punk rock, but they're like, we don't give a fuck, like, and I like that spirit, but they were such nerds, and they were so earnest, there was a, you've never heard people talk like that, where they're talking about like, and we're gonna change the world. And I'm like, I'm into that, whatever that is. And they thought they were so cool when they thought they were giving me a Stanford email. I go, I, because I'm not on social media, like I never, I'm a Luddite, I don't, I'm the last to whatever new technology I'm like, all right, like I've never touched AI, any of that. And, and so I was like, you guys are trying to be like, MySpace, but MySpace is, it's already here, like for the young people listening, like there was no Facebook, there was no Instagram, it was MySpace, it was just dominated. And they're like, yeah, but we're, we're fucking MySpace for Ivy League, you know, Harvard. Well, that's right, in 2007, that's right, because I was a postdoc, in order to get Facebook, you had to have an Ivy League or a Stanford email. Yeah, so you're not the only one, motherfucker, stolen valor. So, I love it. So I forgot what it was, it was like, Joey at Stanford EDU. And, but like, I remember he gave it. I still exist. I don't know. He's, he, I remember him giving it to me, like it's something I wanted. I was just painting, he's like, Dave, you don't have to go, I'll get you a Stanford email, and then you could be part of Facebook. I'm like, I don't want to be, I don't, I don't care. I don't care what you like, you want to be you and market all these guys want to be in this like, and they're like, he was like confused, because he's like, you don't want the whatever, like, respect and whatever comes with having a Stanford, I go, no, I hate education. I hate learning, I hate teachers, I hate, like, what the fuck are you talking about? And he, he was like, I go, why don't you just make it for everybody? And he's like, oh, like, you know, the thing is, like, it was so funny when the David Fincher movie came out, because it's just an awesome movie, but it's just, I was there for all of it and just did not, like some of the facts are right, but it, it just didn't go down that way, you know? But so, so Mark is like a genius. And, and, and Sean, I mean, similar to my mother, it's like, I think Naomi's still there. It was like Naomi, Mark, Sean, Dustin, and me just like gassing them out. They're just trying to code of like, and I'm like listening to all their conversations and I'm like telling them how nerdy they are. I'm like, bro, make it for everybody. Don't, you know, like, and they're like, and I would listen in on all their conversations, like, so fucking cool, Dave chose painting our office. And I was like, Oh, they like me, you know, like, I'm being validated, not just by my mother, you know? And so, you know, I do everything backwards and we start to discuss payment, you know, and at that time, I had once in my life, sold a painting for like 10 grand, and it was like a fluke. And that's another story that I could tell about rejection and all that. But so I just, I just did some dumb ignorant math. I was like, well, that painting was this big. And I'm like, 60 grand, you know, and I needed that that I needed that to pay off everyone. And then at the time, up until going to jail, like I had been a thief, I was doing a lot of stealing to support my like, I was like, I'm graffiti doesn't pay the bills, you know, stealing your paint, stealing everything, what's Facebook office painted with stolen cans? Probably, probably. Yes. Yes. My my graph friends, graph graffiti for those that are like graffiti, they were like world class crooks. Yeah, yeah, because they were always stealing pens and paint. And you know, I mean, I mean, it's like you like it doesn't pay the bills, you know. Yeah. So what had transferred, you know, you know, the nature of addiction is if you don't get to the root of it, it just keeps jumping, right? Like whack them all. So whack them all into my background, which is watching my parents take huge. So I got into gambling. So I was just like it there was every paycheck, anything. It was always I got to figure out a way because gambling feels like stealing. And it's, you know, and I sat there and and people were just like, you work at Facebook, like that's, you know, my friends that aren't in that academia, they're just like, that's like the, the, the shitty my space, you know, like, look at the font, look at the, you know, all the artsy credit, like look at the designs, the fucking, you know, what is that the name Facebook? Come on, like, that's the most creative, you know. And I said, I think I'm going to ask them if I could get shares in the company, you know, you understood, did you understand that? No, I don't understand anything. And it's like, I have shares in other companies that are all worthless. Right. Like it was just, it was growing up with my mom, watching her that if I didn't have that, like I just, and I don't even understand that shit. I just, I remember being with having lunch with Zuck's parents and like, you know, he doesn't, he comes from a nice family. And I think Yahoo or Micro someone had offered him right in the beginning of billion dollars for it. He's like, no, thanks. And he's still sleeping on the fucking mattress on the ground eating Doritos. And I'm like, like, you know, I'm trying to like pay my fucking all my friends back. And I'm like, Oh, he doesn't give a shit. You don't care about money. Like he cares about like what he cares about. It's like such a singular focus. He's like, I want to fucking disrupt the, I want to bring the whole world together. It was, you know, youthful idealism. And I remember going to work one day. I just loved working there because I don't get jobs like that where they're like paint everything. Like, like you're you're here like doing this and I'm painting around like I'm painting on everything. And the best part is that they didn't even like what I was painting. Like Mark would come in like, what is that dude? Like Sean's like, Dave, you know, that other thing you did, I sought the art show. Can you and I was like, you didn't ask for that. You said fucking destroy like you said scare people when they walk, you know, as I recall, there's like, oh, there was like a big primate like monkey with jagged teeth and so. Yeah, I was I was, you know, and I was gassing myself out, you know, like, I'm like doing all that shit without a mask on. It's all going right into my brain. I'm like, whoever, whatever, spray toxic spray, pain fumes those your brain, and there's no fresh air coming in. And I remember Sean Parker just bronze, this bronze skin like $200 haircut, custom suit. And I go, who are you man? And he was doing what my mom was doing. So he was just fucking doing pushups and like, and I was like this skinny little nerd like just is like handsome. And I go, oh, this is what my mom used to do before she went into a bit. She used to fucking, and he's like, oh, we're going to get we're going to fucking raise some money. Like he was, and I go, holy fuck, this guy's so sick, you know, and he transformed his physical appearance, because he was about to go into like serious fundraising. And that's when I met the PayPal guy and Peter Thiel, like just I was like, this guy's fucking, you know, like people give all the credit to Mark, but I'm like, Sean, guy was he was an artist in, you know, and also like out of control, which like that attracted each other. And then he was there when they got when he got fired and all that stuff. But I remember like the impact to that had on me, like just, wow, like, you heard you've heard the fake it till you make it, right? It's like, I know I'm not the best artist in the world. But my mom thinks so. But Sean Parker, like other people think so. And I'm but I'm like, that's whatever, they're just kissing my ass or whatever. And then there can be a switch. And I think it's like, sick and tired of being sick and tired or enough is enough, like I just can't take it anymore. It's like, well, I can't live like this anymore. I feel like I'm trapped, I feel like. And so then it's like, Oh, you can't travel, you need money for that. Well, I'm going to hitch like that. I'm going to hop on a freight train. I saw the entire world with nothing, no money. Like, well, it must be nice to be rich. I go, I'm rich now. I've had nothing my whole life. And I just had to fucking fight for it. And like, what I recommended, like a lot of it was illegal. I spent a lot of time in jail, but also jail didn't hurt me. I lived and I spent some time that I got to learn who I am. And, and so it's just the peace out the skills you learn for what's creativity, what's business, what, what aided me and helped me at this time in my life that which no longer aids me now and how to like, because my, the other thing I learned from my mom is just adapts. Oh, our business just burned down in the LA riots. And instead of like sitting there was like, Okay, now we're doing this. Now we're doing this. Now we're doing this. And I'm like, I remember getting a job in Beverly Hills right after high school. I was 18 1994. And it was at this weird comic book, like a high end comic book store called comics top hits. I'm a comic book guy. I love comics. And I remember I beg the guy for a job. I'm like, please, please. And he's like, All right, find the customer. Because I would just hang out there and talk to the customers anyways. And I remember one day Stanley showed up and I'm like, fuck Stanley, like my hero, you know, and he and he sat there. And people were bringing him Darkwing duck Batman Archie, like all the things he didn't work on. Hey, Marvel fans, and he just signed everything. I'm like, I was like the guy managing the line that day. And I'm looking at his hair plugs. And I go, you fucking like you didn't fucking invent Batman, you're, you know, and at the end of the day, I built up enough confidence to, you know, as everyone left him or packing up, I'm like, Stan, dude, you didn't invent Batman. Why the fuck you signed like I's book. And you're like, Did you see their faces? Did you see like they were so happy? Like, why would I, why would I get in the way of their happiness? And I'm like, Holy shit, dude. It's like, yeah, don't correct people. And I thought about that, like everywhere I go in the world and there's like, Qing Chong, China, this, I remember being in Africa and these kids were just chasing us everywhere on Qing Chong. And our translator was a French Vietnamese guy. And he was like, Dave's Korean, I'm Vietnamese. It's like, you're just, they don't give a shit, dude. They don't give a fuck. And I remember just the things I'm talking about is like watching Sean Parker shape shift, watching my mom shape shift, watching, act as if you belong, act as if you have a seat at the table is like, I know that's part of being artists is being like shy, nerdy, self conscious. It's like, just pretend like you're the best artist in the world. Like you just show up and you're like, put like, this is the journey from their head to heart. You're, this is a, I like when you talk because you make sense. But there's that and that's why the smartest people in the world are the dumbest fucking idiots I've met because they try to apply logic to everything. And you're playing logic to spiritual problems. You're applying logic to emotional problems. And it's like, how's that working out for you? It's not. It's not, you're never going to outthink a feeling. You're never going to outsmart a feeling like, you're like, wait, these people are like, why, who would do that? Why would you do that? And I'm like, because it's not logical. It's an emotional thing. It's a, it's a, it's a mentally ill, whatever it is. It's a, it's not logic based. It's emotion based. It's mentally ill based. It's spiritual based. Like you can't fuck with people's religion or what they have faith in or and all this stuff. So I'm watching, I remember going, Stefan correcting the black kids that he's Vietnamese is making them feel stupid and they're getting angrier. The kids that think I'm Bruce Lee and I just confirmed that I'm Bruce Lee are getting happy. Right? It's like, people are dumb out there. That's fine. I don't care. I'm dumb. I'm stupid. It's like when someone corrects me, it makes me feel shame and dumber. But then if no one corrects me, it's like, then it's my own shit to figure that out or not. Right? So watching these people, like very successful people in my life, my mom, she's like unstoppable, right? Anything the world throws at her, she just goes, okay, I guess we're doing this now. Like she doesn't hang on. She's like, hang on tightly, let go lightly. Right? So it's like, okay, we were real estate people. Now we're doing herbal life. Oh, the that happened. Mark Hughes died. Okay, now we're doing this. Like she just goes like that, like, like adapts to any situation. And like right now, I get a call a week from all artists, creative types that there, it's our, you know, we don't have to have a AI talk, I don't I would rather not have an AI talk, but it's Armageddon, right? Everyone's like, I spent my life doing sound engineering. And now it's gone, just like the guy who would do the like hand letter this and then Photoshop boom, your job's gone, the Carl Zeiss lens going to iPhone and now photographer, like it's just it's gone, like, you could sit there and start complaining, or you could just keep adapting. And so I think true creativity, you can't contain if you're, if you're open, and you're ready to get naked, and you're ready to, you know, people like, Oh, do you have to suffer to be a great artist? Absolutely. But you've already suffered enough. It's already done, like whatever happened to you and your childhood, that's enough fuel for the rest of you don't have to continually. But I see myself and others at times, like, I hopefully am better now, but I see people continually putting themselves in a situation to like suffer more and more and more. And I just, I just remember the shame of my, my, like, it's just these things there. They're, they're, you know, decades ago, but they're still like, my dad just like throwing me across like, we left another country. So you could be a criminal event, like just, he was like, I'll just kill us all now. We were in the car leaving the police station. He's like, I'm going to crash the car. And I was like, I was in the back, like kind of disassociating, numb, crying, like feeling mixed emotions, going from like victim to sorry to like, well, fuck you then. And you know, all everything in between. And then this going, I accept now. Oops, I accept. Sorry, am I close enough to the microphone? You're good. Am I close to the microphone? Just going, I, I'm going to choose to believe what my mom believes in me. I'm the greatest artist on the planet. I was in my 20s. I was like, fuck it. Like, going into galleries, looking at comic books and can I tell you one quick fuck you, Sean Parker story. So at the, at the time I was doing Facebook, like things were happening, like I had a vice show selling my jail art, which gave me a little bit of cash. I was starting to work for Heidi Fleiss to do a erotic mural for her sex shop in Hollywood. And I had just gotten a job to do Jay-Z Lincoln Park's mashup album cover. And it's like, I needed the money. And I need, and it was just like, it things, I was like, it's starting to happen. Like things are, you know, and, and this is while I was doing the Facebook thing. So they hadn't blown up yet, you know, and they gave me the job. And I'm like, the biggest rock band in the world, and the biggest rapper in the world are doing an album together. And they want me little me to do the, I got felt so odd. I mean, they fucking put your the art, the, I gave him the art and they just made it look shitty. They put a shitty font on it. They put a, like they did fake graffiti spray. I was like, what the fuck did you, whatever? Anyways, that's the whole other thing. But I, you know, I'm like, cool, like, what's that going to pay? Like, you know, like, and they're like, two grand. I'm like, wait, you know, it's like this, one day I'm going to make it and my name is going to be in lights. And, and I knew other artists. So like, Meir did the Limp Bizkit cover, Shepard Ferry did. So I knew them well enough where I was like, Hey guys, am I getting fucked right now? Or, and they're like, no, that's typical. I go, that's what they pay artists for. I mean, because back in the day when I was doing art paintings, whatever galleries, or illustrations, that was the range 200 to like, 2000 at the most if you're doing like a cover or something. But I'm like an album cover for, and they're like, no, that's what they pay. And I was like, Damn, dude, I thought this was this is big time, you know, and so I negotiated for that at the same time I'm working at Facebook and I drew this crazy cover. And they're like, yeah, that's for the rights for the album cover. Right. So then, I don't know, the album comes out. And then they use the art everywhere. They use it on billboards, like friends reading comic books, and it's like, Oh, they did a full page ad and I go like for illustration, that's a separate fee, right? It's like, here's the rights to use on the album cover. Here's for advertising, right. And so I'm talking to, I don't know anything, right? I'm a fucking horrible street artist, right? Oh, I call myself a street artist. Delete that from the microphone. Sorry. So I'm, you know, and you could like, bleep the names or whatever, because I clearly remember. So I call Warner Brothers and I go, Hey, can I talk to whoever's in legal or whatever? And I go, Yeah, I talked to my friends who are also artists that are more successful. And they said, there's a separate fee I should be getting for billboards, you know, bus bench usage, magazine editorial, you know, you know, magazines used to be big, you know, Tower Records, Virgin Reggae, and I remember the arrogance on this guy Chip, he was like their head legal, he doesn't work there anymore. And he's like, and I remember the way he talked to me felt like my child, like just made me feel so he's like, you're some shitty graffiti, like who the fuck are you, you know, like, why am I wasting my time talking to you? And I go, Well, and he started like just hitting me with legalese. And I go, Hey, I'm raising my hand right now, you can't say I'm raising my hand saying, I don't understand what you're saying. Can you please talk to me and like, can you dumb down like you're trying, you're like trying to beat me up with words right now. I'm just saying, you know, it should be an additional 10 grand 15 grand for what you guys did. I'll be happy with another five or you know, just like trying to talk and he's like, I don't know who the fuck you think you are. And it was like very condescending. And I remember the arrogance of how I was like, I could be recording this caller, you know, but he was just, and I was like, for a guy named Chip, that's such a weird, you know, you could come at us with lawyers, you could like, and you may be even right. But guess what, you're fucking with Warner, like you'll never win. Like you will never get another dime out of us. I was like, Holy fuck that what a fucking. And like I said, like, if you're going to be like people are like, Oh, I love painting, then just paint. Like, Oh, I want to be like, you know, fucking hard it is to make money as a creator. It's like, you got to fight, you got to get a thick skin and you better be ready to like, I had to threaten Nike with blowing up their entire parking lot before they paid me. I was like, you asked me for these drawings, I did them, I delivered them on time and you're giving me the checks in the mail. And I called like, why didn't in Kent, you know, whatever the Oregon and I was like, I live in LA, it's going to take me this many hours to drive and I'm going to I don't know which car is yours. I'm going to blow up every car check was in the mail the next day. I'm like, why did I have to do that? Why did I have to turn into my mom to get the but most artists go and then just get fucked over, right? So that's part of being an artist is getting fucked over not getting paid what you deserve, blah, blah, blah. So I'm like, obviously sensitive and painting like in a bad mood and Sean's like, what dude, what's up, Dave? Why are you and I told him what I just told you and he's like, you know, on Facebook has like, big money behind it now it's growing. He's like, Oh, we got a multimillion dollar deal with Warner Brothers tomorrow in the meeting. And I was like, he goes, check this out. So he has the meeting with Warner Brothers and they're like, full like, you know, everyone's at the long table and they're like, Oh, we want to advertise with Facebook and this is the new, this is the new world and they're like, okay, cool. And it's like, you know, it's like millions of dollars or whatever hundreds of thousands of dollars. And he's like, yeah, but that guy chip fucked with my friend Dave Cho. So we're not doing shit with you guys. And he just and I was like, this guy's my dog forever. Like, like, what how like, like just does no fucks given right? I was like, I cried, I gave him a hug. I was like, don't fuck with me. Don't fuck with me. Like, it felt so good. It felt so fucking good. I was like, and then I found out he got fired and all that shit's like, I was like, yes, sometimes the little guy wins, you know, like, it felt so good. I'd like to take a quick break and acknowledge one of our sponsors function. Last year, I became a function member after searching for the most comprehensive approach to lab testing. Function provides over 100 advanced lab tests that give you a key snapshot of your entire bodily health. This snapshot offers you with insights on your heart health, hormone health, immune functioning, nutrient levels, and much more. They've also recently added tests for toxins such as BPA exposure from harmful plastics and tests for PFASs or forever chemicals. Function not only provides testing of over 100 biomarkers, key to your physical and mental health, but it also analyzes these results and provides insights from top doctors who are expert in the relevant areas. For example, in one of my first tests with function, I learned that I had elevated levels of mercury in my blood function not only helped me detect that, but offered insights into how best to reduce my mercury levels, which included limiting my tuna consumption. I've been eating a lot of tuna while also making an effort to eat more leafy greens and supplementing with NAC and acetyl cysteine, both of which can support glutathione production and detoxification. And I should say by taking a second function test, that approach worked. Comprehensive blood testing is vitally important. There's so many things related to your mental and physical health that can only be detected in a blood test. The problem is blood testing has always been very expensive and complicated. In contrast, I've been super impressed by function simplicity and at the level of cost. It is very affordable. As a consequence, I decided to join their scientific advisory board and I'm thrilled that they're sponsoring the podcast. If you'd like to try function, you can go to functionhealth.com slash huberman. Function currently has a waitlist of over 250,000 people, but they're offering early access to huberman podcast listeners. Again, that's functionhealth.com slash huberman to get early access to function. So I got all the typical shame and all that and to be fair, if you're my dad and you fucking escaped the war and famine to raise your family in America and you see your kid stealing pain at Home Depot to graffiti dicks on walls, like you're gonna, you're not gonna, so I give them that, you know, but I just, I was, I felt, I didn't know where I belonged, you know, I'm like, I, I couldn't process, maybe I have dyslexia. I was in school and it just, I couldn't, none of the information, I was like, this is so hard, like people, like I would try really hard to get a C, right, where other people were like, oh, okay, you know, X, I was like, why is there X in math? And they were like, Dave, and they dumb it down and dumb it down. I'm like, I'm retarded. I think I need to go to that class. Like, I'm, like, I felt, like I felt, because both of my brothers have like really high IQs and I'm like, I'm, I'm stupid. Like, I, you know, so I felt really small in that area. And I, and I, and I, and I made up the story, like, I suck at sports. I go, so this, this is it. This is all I'll ever be good at. So I, and now I'm gonna fully buy in to what my mom's saying. And because I grew up with the Asian work ethic, like, I'm like, it's not a fit. I am good. I, it wasn't like I am gonna be the best. I was like, I just adopted, I am the best artist in the world. And to that power of thought, like, I sat down, and I'd go to music, I studied everything. I studied comic book art, cereal boxes, museums, fine art, why does this, I just got into the business side of art, the creativity, fucking loose watercolors, like tiny detailed pen draw, like everything. And I was like, and I was like, overcome, I'm like, I'm gonna be good at all of it. Oil painting, like there, so people go, what, what kind of artists I'm gonna get? I'm an artist, everything. When I talk, when I make music, like, I am going from I'm a piece of shit, I suck to like, like, you know, not healthy, but you know, it's like, I am our God, you know, like, and so I was like, in my 20s, just like brainwashed, like waking up, and then like, that's not how I naturally woke up, I woke up like, oh, you know, and I'd wake up and I'd have to put that on, like, you're the greatest, you know, like, hypnotizing myself, you're the best, you're the fucking best, you're the greatest, you know, were you doing any like reading books? Because at the time, when you and I are basically the same age, yeah, back then, it wasn't a lot about like neuroscience and this and that and like, actualization, it was all kind of, you know, hidden away, but there was this, there were, you know, there was like the Tony Robbins type stuff, and there was that, there was this idea and infomercials and stuff, like, that you could program your mind, sound like you just basically took all that on, without any of that. Yeah, I didn't read any of that stuff. I stole lots of books, and I would read a lot of pornography. I guess this kind of, I could fit my Pee Wee Herman story, if we're talking about publishing. It's hard to talk about this, because kids ask me all the time, like, how'd you make it in art? And like, nothing I did applies to today. You know, it's like, I went to Kinko's, I would have to spend my money, or figure out how to do that copy thing, that trick to make more copies, because color copies are 99 cents, it's like who has, so I'd have to pick which one of my paintings were the best, make these like mini color copy packets, so that's $10. And then I would go to the newsstand and write the address, like Rolling Stone, like all the magazines that had prestige, and like CFPain, Kent Williams, Barron Story, like all these amazing illustrators that would work for a time magazine, Rolling Stone, Playboy, like they would all use. So I would open the front page, where it had the heading of Art Direct, and I would write it down, and the newsstand guys, like, I sound like a boomer right now, like, you know, it's like who the fuck, like, there's kids listening right now, there's magazine, what's that, you know, but that's what I had to do, and I would be like, which magazine do I want to send this $10 packet that I just, and then I have to mail it to them, hopefully like they get that letter and not some other department, you know, and then you just rejection letter after, you know, like, sorry, sorry, sorry. And so I'm, I'm sitting down, and I'm, I'm like, I'm ingesting all this, and I have the, I have the fire, and I'm like sitting down, I would go,  that, like, what, why is that drawing successful? Why do, you know, and of course there's tons of insider trading and corruption in the art world, but I didn't know that at the time, right? It's like, oh, that guy's dad owns fucking water, like, that guy, you know, so I would just sit there and I would be like, that guy drew this much, I'm gonna draw 10, like, that guy did this and I'm gonna draw, you know, and I just, some of my paintings, all my paintings back then had, like, at least seven layers, if not more, just layering and layering and dancing, it was me, it's like a musician that's like, I have to, like, I saw a thing with Rick Rubin and Flea doing Give It Away Now and he was just like, you know what he can do, but he was like, just do, they're, they're, they're, like, just play less, and back then it wasn't, it was like, I need to show everyone what I'm capable of, which is, I can draw better than you, I can paint, I have to show you that, now I don't care, but back then it was, and it isn't that, art is a, it's not who can put the most lines down or, you know, and so I'm, I'm, I'm trying to, I'm trying to, like, and it was just, everyone has their own path, but I remember year 2000, I'm doing graffiti, I'm getting some gigs to do murals, you know, it's just slowly starting and someone contacted me at Marvel Comics and I was like, man, I didn't even try and like, this is, this is it, this is my dream and then we want you to draw the X-Men, but like a cool, cool X-Men, I'm like, fuck, I didn't even have to go to portfolio day, I didn't have to, you know, and I go, oh, I knew if I just kept putting my shit out there, you know, but I'm, you know, I'm, what, 23 at the time, you know, and I start drawing it and I guess they fired me or they didn't fire me, they just decided to use a different artist, but they never told me, so I'm still drawing it and I'm, you know, I'm a passive aggressive, angry kid already and I didn't email, some people had emails, but a lot, like a lot of artists hadn't, this is the beginning of the internet, like people weren't using it the way they do now and I remember it was like the first message board where my friends were like, hey, Dave, you got fired off the X-Men book and I go, what, how did you know? And they go, you don't use the internet and I go, what is that? And they showed us and I felt shame again. I was like, oh my God, like I was so excited to, like there's little things in my head, like if I do a comic book, that means I made it and I wrote the most scathing homophobic, racist, like just, I was mad. I thought it was funny. I was 23 at the time and it was like 10 pages long, but I didn't know the editor of Marvel. It's probably not even him. It was just, and I didn't know how to get it to him. So I just went to Marvel's website and I just sent it to every single person that works at Marvel, like copy, paste. And the next day it was my first experience in the year, you know, Y2K 1999 2000 of going viral. They're like, every artist I look up to every writer I look up to in comics was like, we don't know who the fuck this kid is, but he just committed career suicide. And then once again, shame. And so like, if I go back to all my shame stories, I go, what's what's the through line? And we should have made the secret word shame, but oh, I'm a shame chaser. Like I get high off shame. Like, what's my drug? Oh, workaholic. It's like my drug that I've chased my whole life is shame and anger, like a fucking powerful drug, you know. And so I couldn't believe it. I was like, I'm never going to get to draw the Hulk, Spider-Man Wolverine. And I have, and I have at this point, and I went through the back door, which I always do, it's true, true vandal. But I just remember going, holy fuck, this is the worst day of my life, like people that I look up to, they're like, they were there was like, a whole thing of like, I don't know who this Dave show I've never heard of him. But he's a horrible human being listen, you know, and I was like, but there was context that like, you should have heard how I saw her in my head, like, you know, I'm like, Oh, it looks different. And I was like, holy fuck. And that was my first experience of like, of just feeling like me following a pattern of trying to replicate hatred towards me, like, like, if it's, but not knowing it, I'm just like, Oh, I don't know what the fuck I'm doing. And like, some ignorance, some playing dumb, some, like, repeating patterns like a monkey without knowing. And, and so I had a friend in comics at the time, because I was just like, I don't, I was just making art. I was going out doing graffiti every fucking night, just doing that OCD playing music in my head and just tagging up everything, like the kind of graffiti you're not supposed to do people's cars, houses, like I wanted someone to kill me. Like I didn't care. Like I wanted someone to be like, dude, I worked hard for that car, and you just ruined it. And in my head, I'm like, but I'm a famous artist, which I wasn't I'm 23. And they're like, I just made your car more value. That's how I'm thinking. But I was out of my mind. You probably did make their car more value on retrospect. Can I see a question about the shame? Absolutely. I have a friend. He's a addiction trauma counselor guy, amazing guy. He's been on this podcast named Ryan Swauff. He he has a gift for helping people understand trauma and addiction and this kind of thing. We haven't talked a lot about addiction yet today. But you said you got addicted to the shame. And do you think who knows here, I'm using my intellectual brain. But do you think that the that these oscillations of like your your mindset, like I'm a great artist, I'm the greatest artist sets it up. So the shame is that much deeper, like it's like loading a spring. Because he told me once, Ryan once told me he's worked with addict heroin addicts, drug addicts of all kinds, sex addiction, everything. And he just said, you know, he goes gambling addiction is the worst, because the next time really could change it all. And he said, but there's something really interesting. And that happens to gambling addicts. He goes, eventually, they get tired of winning, and they get addicted to losing happens really quick. So I have my own feelings about this subject. I'm a severe gambling addict. Like, I told you, I'm going to time jump. So I'm at the creed, you know, I'm at that point, but I'll jump to current, which is, which is a very shameful thing for me to admit or talk about. But, you know, I'm here. So I'll just go there. Shame is so powerful, because at this point, I've been to all the 12 step meetings. I've been to debtors, anonymous business owner, Dennis debtors, anonymous, overeaters, anonymous, workaholics, and, you know, sex and love addicts, sex addicts, gambling, like every single and so what's the through line? Every single one is gambling. Every single addiction is gambling addiction. If you drink and drive, you're gambling. Your life could be over. And you know, if you overeat and you're diabetic, it's just every fucking addiction is so it's addiction is one of those things you can't apply logic to. And your your scientist friend nailed it. It's as I explore my feelings, you know, because the people, what are you running from Dave? I'm like, I'm fucking running for myself, dude. I don't want to look in the mirror. I don't want to see myself. I hate myself. So I'm just running. So as long as I'm like doing graffiti, running from the police, you know, just just just hopping on a train like, like, literal running, like literally running to make sure I'm never sit still for one second, like, what are you doing, Dave? I'm playing drums in a band. I'm fucking, you know, at a casino, I'm traveling doing the news revise, I'm painting at this, like, I can't, I can't sit still because that means I have to sit with myself and I can't do that. I can't do that. I couldn't do that. I couldn't do that. I can now. So, you know, it feels good winning a lot of money, not working for it and sitting down at a casino and them knowing who you are and upping the limits and you literally making enough money off Bakarot or Blackjack, what people don't make in a lifetime. That's a fucking, that's an insane feeling. How many shits do you think I took today before I came here? Rob, how many? Two. Two. One big one and one little one. Like, scientists don't know what causes IBS. I do. It's stress. When I was gambling, when I was at the height of any of my addictions, seven shits a day at least. Just like, okay, like just like and you would never see it on my face or maybe you would, but I felt like I could gamble with a fortune in front of me and lose it and win it and like nothing, nothing. Like I was, you know, disassociated, dead inside, whatever you want to say. I didn't feel anymore, right? Like the highs were so high. I'd already been chased by the cops. I'd already been beaten the shit out of. I've already been molested before. I already, whatever you could do to me, you've already done to me and I'm still here. What can you do to me that I, like I'm my worst enemy? Like I beat myself up, right? When the gambling stopped, when I got into recovery, when I like, I take one shit a day now. When this fucking asshole asked me to do the podcast, I start stressing. I've taken, when was that? Like a few weeks ago? It's it, oh, shit, dude. I just took three shit that started again because I don't have stress in my life anymore or like I have whatever, normal family stress, but I don't have, oh, you're going to say something on some guy's show and then your life's going to be ruined again. You know, like that's, I've done that so many times. It's like, so I'm like, fuck, I just woke up. I just already took a shit. Why don't I take another one? I'm like, oh, the IBS is coming back because there's a part of me that's like, I hope I say something horrible today because then I could feel that again. And so what people, when they're listening to this and I don't know if I'm making, when I talk, sometimes I make sense to myself and sometimes I don't, but if you're an addict, it will make sense to you. If you're, like everyone listening to this is either an addict or, or someone in their life is like their family member or their friend. But at this point with social media and their phones, everyone's an addict, right? You can't, you can't stop. It's just impossible. You will never, you will never find anything more addictive than a phone, right? So in the time that like, I haven't been in an actual casino in 10 years, I've banned from all these casinos, the whole world became a casino. You can't go anywhere without gambling. No fucking lottery. You can go on your phone. You could bet on anything, right? So, so at first in every addiction, you want to win. Oh fuck that. I can't, I can relate to drugs and alcohol even though I don't do that. But like, that must feel good to like, get a little drunk and then be the funniest guy at the party or, so eating the most delicious foods that I ever ate that I never thought I would eat in my life. And then, okay, that's good. Your body feels good. Why do you need to eat until you're puking and you become like, binging and purging? Like what, because what you don't understand because you're applying logic to it is, I want to fucking hurt. I want the like, winning a million dollars feels fucking great. Losing 10 million dollars feels even better. Well, that doesn't make any sense. Like, getting married feels awesome. I mean, I'm just making shit up. But like, put like, greatest day of my life, right? Like, greatest day of my life. And I could get dark. I'll try not to use dark examples, but when something awesome, marriage, having a child, winning a lot of money, doing drugs and having one of the best days of your life, like just when it's on the good side, it feels, that's why you do it. Heroine fucking feels good. I've never done it, but the description of it is like, that sounds awesome. Why would you not do it again? But then when you're fucking scratching your skin and sucking dick for fucking crack, like, that's another high where you're at the bottom. And that's a repetition of the pattern of whatever your childhood was. And so I don't fucking know Andrew besides his online persona, right? Like where this is our first time meeting in person. It's like, I, this is not me being a no, no, at all. Like humans are not that difficult to understand. We're very simple. Like, I called him immature a little bit before not to be insulting. It's just like, part of me is like, this is me being a hater, like I love everybody. But I'm just like, what fucking adult gets tattoos? Like, what kind of fucking adult gets and I know you got fucking tattoos. I'm like, who fucking just like throws their shit away to become a skater? And then like, are you okay with me asking you question? Like, were you sexually abused? Were you? No, no, I was, I mean, I knew I had friends that were I looked out. I had one guy come at me that I worked at a skateboard shop in Palo Alto. Maybe you saw Palo Alto Twain Sport. It was like, not Waverly Street guy that worked there did that. I responded differently. I flipped the desk over on him. I made him apologize to me in front of everybody. And my biggest fear at that point was my mom, even though we had our tensions, my mom's from New Jersey. Yeah, she's old school. She knew something happened. And my fear was that if I told her that she would actually kill him, like actually kill him. Like, and, you know, because despite, you know, whatever challenges she and I have had over the year, she like that maternal aggression, that protectiveness, yeah, she would have killed him. So I remember being like, not worried about me worried that she was going to kill him. You know, and then, but no, I lucked out there. I perceive you as a brilliant man. And this is this is me gathering data and facts in my life. Not I don't know what the but you know, you know, very smart. I know geniuses, you know, geniuses, the smarter the person, the more intellectual they are, the more on the spectrum they are, the greater the trauma they experienced. Because whether that was always in them, and the trauma unlocked it, or you learn that as mental jujitsu to like, these people I know in my life that are just brilliant, like they're just they can comprehend things that most people can they could create their childhood was so fucking unsafe, abandonment, you know, and usually that's why I asked you about this usually sexual trauma because that's that has carries the most shame that they're like, oh, small, I can defend myself that unless I become like, like a jujitsu master or fighter, how can I protect myself and it's with this so then something gets unlocked here and they become the smartest person in the room, and they can just destroy you verbally, they can destroy you in a courtroom, they can just they can just and and and so yeah, to answer the you become a shame chaser, you get high off shame, and it's like, it's even shameful to admit out loud. And so like, I could sit here and like, if I'm being present with current with up to date, like, I have a great life, like, I'm telling you a lot of stories from the past feelings that I felt in the past. And I have, you know, I tell on myself all the time, when old patterns come up, I, you know, I have a therapist, I got a men's group, I got friends who love me, I, I, I raised my hand, I go, I need help, which I never did before, my group would shut the fuck up and figure it out, that's my whole, my whole childhood was a question mark. Where are we going? What are we doing? Nothing was explained to me. And so there was a lot of violent, a lot of abandonment, just like, and so I just everything. And that's probably why I'm really curious and ask a lot of questions, because I didn't know what was happening. And my parents were just like working all the time to like, I don't know, stay at this house or this and I was like, who are these people? Like, what's happening? What's why is this guy baptizing me for the 10th? You know, like, why am I getting on a plane? It was like, it was just like, just shut up, just, just go along to get along. And so part of, part of my story is, if I'm a nice boy, if I'm a nice Asian boy, and I do, then, then the world shits on me, then everything horrible. The second I fucking speak up, scream, get the fuck out, like, just do graffiti, break the law, then I get to do the Lincoln Park album cover, then I get Sean Parker. It's like, and you know, I talked to all the jackass guys about this, it's like, you're rewarded for bad behavior, you get to be the president, you get to, you know, like, the morack and it's so in one way, okay, that's for career, right? But like, what about it just runs hell on your personal life? And that's why when I when I'm in my addiction, and I'm chasing shame, I drag everyone who loves me down with them. So I go, I need to, and I don't need my wife or anyone to be my mom, like, I'm like, I, I'll handle it. That's how I grow myself up. And it doesn't need to be like, like I said, brilliance is found in Milpitas and Palo Alto and Gilroy, brilliance is found in the mundane, sitting in the waiting room, brilliance is found in these like quiet moments. And so it's like, I don't need to go to rehab and have like this fucking movie role kind of, it's just like, it's a phone call. It's like, let me do this. And so the feelings, the chemistry that it's like, when, when you lose all the money you've ever made in your life in a coin flip, and you're just sitting there like, No worries. Hopefully, I didn't get any on the microphone. Oh, what's that line from that 80s movie? It's not a party till something's broken. I always like that line because it excuses it immediately. Some breaks, folks, you just say, yeah, in this case, it was my soul, you know, so I was very reckless with with my heart. I treated myself very poorly. I didn't care for, I didn't care what happened to me. And so, as I jump from addiction to addiction, it's like, well, what, which is the one I can hide in plain sight? The one that you're in right now, workaholism, as long as you work all the time, as long as you're providing people like as long as you're helping people and being of service, then that's good, right? But what is being neglected in that? This, like, I mean, I don't tell this to everyone, but like someone in your situation that, you know, you have life changes coming up. And I already know your answer, but I would, I would ask, why not take one year off? Like, why is that? Well, I got my this and I'm an important Stanford guy. And I got, yeah, but that will like, like, you only got one life. And, you know, there's something about it that feels like when I'm in my workaholism, like, that's the one where I get in this society a pat on the back. Good job, Dave. And you know, the Sean Parker story with the with the Warner Brothers, that was a win. I was like, fuck you, you know, but it was, it was so much. Can you tell my pee wee Herman story? There's some shame in that I'll bring it around. I'm, I just don't, you know, part of my character defects is entitlement and impatience. Like, I just once I accepted what my mom is saying true, I am the greatest artist in the world, according to Jane Cho. And now I'm going to start, you know, not at first, but like, I'll start to believe that too. Because you got to it's so scary doing graffiti, you know, not in a crew, not in a game to just go out. And it's like, it's something so comforting to draw in a tiny sketchbook, and no one's going to see it. Right. You fuck up whatever. But to draw something big on a wall, and everyone going down the one on three ways, like thousands of people will see it before eight o'clock. Like that sucks. That guy has no can control. I got in there's like, you're, you're naked. You're like, this is what's inside me. And I did it 40 feet long. And here it is. And I'm like, it sucks. Shame. I'm chasing shame. Like it's like, what would it feel like if everyone's like, dude, that's the fucking masterpiece. Not as cool. Not as cool. So I, I'm just, I'm doing the thing. I'm sending my art out. And La Brea used to have a lot of galleries. And I, and I, and in my head, I thought my art was better than every artist that was in those, I would be like, and I'd go down the street and I'm like, Oh, they show that I would keep a record of what kind of art they show that I'd skate back to my house and paint like that style, but better in my mind, better. And then I make a new portfolio and I'd go down like, and they're like, who the fuck? Like, like it's like a doubt. They're like, you have to be shown first before they'll even take and I go, but, you know, so just anger, more frustration coming out sideways, coming out, doing more graffiti. Shoplifting food to like, you know, so then I finally get to La Brea and Melrose where there was a ice cream shop called Double Rainbow. And there's this wonderful lady named Candace there. And I was saying how I'm talking now first, like out loud in my artists right here. And she's like, let me see. And I show it to her. And she's like, this is amazing. I go, I fucking know, dude, I'm the best. And she's like, all right, shut the fuck out. All right. She's like, put it up on the wall. And then my ego goes in a fucking ice cream shop. And I go, well, I guess no one else is offering. Okay. So it was like, not this. It wasn't like minimalist. It was Florida ceiling. Hundreds of paintings. Some that I spent months on like this is singular, just I'm the best and I need to show you it wasn't like tasteful. Like here's one painting and let that breathe and it was just like, here's, you know, and people are coming in there buying like mint chocolate chip. That's pretty cool. You know, and so every day I would get a call. Love your art. Want to buy it. I'm like, fuck yeah, here we go. Like $2. I'm like, you know how long I spent on that art? And you know, and I just was like, 50 bucks. You know, I'm 23. This is like early 2000s. I'm like, that's, that's less than the art supplies that I stole to be fair. But still I'm like, can you cover the cost of materials and they're like, yeah, that's good. But you know, can you just like haggling like five, 10, I'm like, that's what a fucking print or sticker costs. Like this is original painting, you know, and I remember I got a call one day and it's this these things that I keep the stories that I keep editing in my mind to make me the hero, you know, and the guy's like, I'll trade you a car for like that giant painting, the one that I spent months on. And of course, it's like 1972 Plymouth Fury, no brakes, like cracked with, you know, just the complete fucking beater, like piece of shit. But then the story in my head that I go around telling, you know, part of my PR marketing is like, I traded my art for car for, you know, oh yeah, and like, you don't need to know the details of the car, you know, and the guy in the, you know, recycler was trying to sell it for like $2, $300, you know, he's like, just get this shit off my lawn, you know, and I remember this is how I drove it, I would drive it and there was no brakes, it was like fuel and I had to pump it like a block before or and then I would always hit the car like ding, like that's what and the guy was hey, what the fuck and I'd be like, sorry. And I had no money to fix it. But I was just in my head, I did it. I fucking, I did it, I, you know, like small victories, little victories. And then my friends like, like in like, I knew all like the indie zine, like make your own fucking punk rock, like, and I would just get rejection letter after just just the continuation of you're not enough, your art's not that good, you suck, just maybe they wouldn't say that, but that's how I took everything, you know, not at this time, not for us. Rejection letter from Playboy from Rolling Stone and I just remember one of my friends, he just always had like nice sketchbooks and I go, what, where are you getting that money? Like you do, you're a full time artist. And he was like a dirty punk rock guy and he's like, you know, the skin rags pay just as much. It's like they have none of the prestige and like, you know, I went to the Tower Records warehouse once, where they distributed a calendar I made and it's like, here's, here's like this whole table is the warehouse. This is like, you know, sports illustrated Rolling Stone, this and all of this is porn, right? So, you know, you don't want to brag about that, but that's just they're like, they pay literally the same amount as Rolling Stone, but it's not Rolling Stone. So I go, okay, I guess I'm doing that. So then I go to the part of the magazine stand where you know, there's a curtain and I go back and I start, you know, butt hole fever, just start writing down the art director's name. And that was the thing is like, I cared. I cared so much about it was important to me. It saved me art saved me. So it didn't matter if I was doing a logo for Nike or Toyota, like, you know, I just was like, this is you're still looking at me, even though if I'm doing a corporate job, like I'm, I'm in there, and I need you to see me and I'm even though if I hate the job, and you're not even paying me, I'm still going to do my best, no matter what, like it's I have pride in my work, you know, and I get that from my parents also. And I love that I'll go to restaurants where I don't even like the food because I know the waiter is like running to bring me water and he cares like anytime that's the secret ingredient to anything. Anytime I feel like the person cares, it just it's such a warm feeling, you know, and I cared, I care and I still do I care a lot like I sit here go I don't give a fuck I do I care maybe too much. So I write the number for, you know, I try the legit ones for his penthouse and playboy and they're like, Nope, Nope. I'm like, I guess I go to a hustler and Buttman and, you know, Asian fever and I get a call from Buttman, you know, they're like, these butthole paintings you did, they're just they're so good. And I'm like, I worked really hard on it, you know, it's not like what I want to be doing. But and they're like, can you can you come in? And it's just true to their title. That's all it is. It's just all anal. There's no stories about anal, page after page. And they go, Can you do like this? But like, every week, I'm like, what do you need? They're like, you know, Superman fucking Lois Lane, anal, spider man, fuck, you know, midgets, like whatever, like just all anal. And I go, I can do that. I would, I would love to do that. And like, we pay, you know, a couple hundred bucks. I was like, and I took it serious. I wasn't like, I was like, this is my and a lot of actually famous artists would do that. But under fake names and they didn't want to be associated their real art with that was like, and so I did, I did all this art for But Man. Once again, if you want to cut out any names, I remember everyone's name was art director was Heidi, she was so sweet. She's like, it's just like, I was only used to my mom saying she likes my art. So anytime someone not in my family said they liked it, it was, Oh, it's not just my mom, like other people like it, you know, but in the also this massive narcissist, like, I'm the best and look at now I'm not that good, you know, but like it's like both, you know, and I don't know why this always kept happening. But all these places I always worked at, they would always go, you got such funny story, like, do you got any, you know, and I was like, I think I'd been with one girl, they're like, you have any like, butthole stories and, and I, and I had been trained by, you know, black belt and lying, my mom, you know, she's like, yeah, of course, like I don't even, it was so easy for me. They're like, Oh, because these, these depictions  anal sex, they're so graphic and fantastic. Every time you come in, you have some weird story. Do you know any women in your life that have experiences like this? I go, oh yeah, super racist against Asians. I go, oh yeah, Susie Suzuki, just making up fake names. They're like, you know someone named Susie Suzuki? I go, oh yeah, yeah. She goes, do you think she would write about her experiences? And I'm like, how dumb is this lady? I don't fucking know anyone names. What the fuck? And she goes, it's 40 bucks a story. And I'm like, cool, they're paying me 150, 200 bucks for this. So I go home and I would just write the most ridiculous, hi, don't speak English. This is the voice I hear in my head. I come to America, need a job, and just writing every ridiculous male fantasy. And then he put in the wrong hole. And pornography, I became a pornographer. Like I'm not, it's not like the proudest moment of my life, but I'm like, oh God, you know, if God's looking down on me, probably, you know, but once again, shame, I'm cool with it. I've made myself at home, like most people, they changed their name, but I was like, this is what I do. I'm a fucking, you know, so here we go again, my fucking poor parents, you know, so I'm living at home, right? So I can't hide, I could have done a better job hiding the graffiti. I didn't, they see the spray paint, they see the fucking paint on all my clothes. Was it good? Were you happy with the graffiti? No, I hated it. Okay, I just, it's, I have so much respect for that. Like it's, it's everything. It's physicality. You're, you're climbing your, you're ninja. It's like fucking Navy SEAL. Like it's crazy. Like you need to do a detail of a nose while you're balancing on barbed wire. I mean, it's, yeah, those kids are crazy. It's insane. I'm like, fuck, dude, these people, if they had a little bit of guidance, they could have been like Navy SEALs, Green Berets, whatever. So my dad, of course, find, you know, my parents once again, and then I sit here now as I tell the story and I'm just coming, why didn't I hide it better? Oh, like maybe I wanted to get caught, you know, my dad fucking throws, he's like, sex, sex, you know, just like once again, it's like this, like think about my dad. It's like his friends are like going, you know, his friends, kids are like getting the highest SAT scores. They're getting accepted into Stanford and, and they're like, my son has hair covering his eyes. You know, and I think I was starting to get into like shitty 80s like warrant and winger and cherry pot, you know, like that kind of like, I listened to everything. And just shame. Like literally like not feeling it, but like having another human, your father tell you, I'm so embarrassed of my son. I'm so embarrassed, like, like, anger tears, like, just breaking, like why, why, why did I come to this country? Why did it, you know, just like, and I, I, like, I just, it's like now I could feel more when I tell it, but like before I just like, like, I just pretended like it was happening to someone else, you know, I just disassociated. I'm like, whatever, bro, like, but it wasn't whatever. It was like my dad disappointed at me, my mom disappointed at me. And I'm like, fuck, man, it's not really working out for me. Like just rejection after rejection. And I just I remember the shipping, like it was in the Larry Flint building, Wilshire and Los Yenega. And I was like, fuck, I live like a, like, I could skate there. Like I'd rather, and I was scared to like send. Oh, so this is what happened. So I got busted. The lady, I don't know if she was a lesbian or something. She's like, like, I need to meet Susie Suzuki. It wasn't Suzuki. It was a name like that. It was like Trisha Toyota or something. And I go, Heidi, are you serious right now? It's like, like, that's, I wrote that story. That story is ridiculous. Like in my head, I'm like, it's so obvious a guy wrote that, you know, and she's like, Hey, we might be Buttman magazine, but we print the truth. And I was like, what the fuck are you telling me the penthouse letters are like, shut the fuck up. And she's like, she's like, took all my art through it on me. It's like, you will never be publishing Buttman anymore. Like she just, you're done here. And I was like, I spent a long time on those paintings. Like I, all the folds of the butthole. And like, I, like, I really tried hard, like, you know, it's like rejection, reject, like I, I had gone so used to my parents being disappointed in me gallery, after like, it was just, it was like, cool. I don't all right. Didn't feel I mean, I'm sure it didn't feel good, but I had figured out a way to internalize it and just, all right. And then and then do my mom's delusional thing. But but I'm still the best, even though the world's telling me like, you're you're a loser. And I go, Okay, who's the art director at hustler WT Nelson? Okay, I'm gonna. So I call them, I go, Hey, I live, you know, I can skate there, you know, take me like an hour to get there. But I have these paintings, and I don't want to send them in the mail. I never sent pale paintings in the mail before. And I'd rather save on the shipping. And he's like, I don't know you dude. And I don't really, but I had already sent the color copies and the pages that they had printed. But man, and he's like, But all right, I guess you could come. And I'm like, Yes, I'm gonna go to the Larry Flint building. This is gonna be so cool. You know, and I, and I go there. And he's just like, Yeah, if you just tweak all these paintings, you already did, we'll use those in Asian fever, we'll use these in, you know, like different, you know, there was hustler had like 20 different other magazines. And he's like, Yeah, like that story is awesome. We'll print that story. I was like, Okay, cool. So I'm like, am I am I a writer? You know, part of me was like, I'm a writer, I'm a published writer, technically, you're a professional writer at this point. And at the time, I was also writing for Vice, I was writing for giant robot also not getting paid. Like this was the first time I got paid. So it felt like, Oh, did Batman pay you? No, they didn't. Because they we had that fight and they never sent the, you know, apparently they quote only print the truth. They also don't pay their bills. So yeah, the truth only goes so far for them. So I, it was me, it was like, I can see a lot of my mom in that now of how the reality is, I'm not successful. I'm a pornographer. But in my head, I'm like, I'm published, I'm a real artist, like, and I'm a writer, I'm a scholar, you know, like I, and then he, I remember WT Nelson paid me and then it wasn't that much money. And like, and now it's just like that awkward, like, yeah, we usually don't have the artist come to the, it's all like through mail. And I don't know, you, you want some porn? This was before Facebook. Yes. Yes. Because the reason I ask is, and I don't want to take you off track, because I was wondering when Facebook eventually paid out when the equity popped, basically, I'll get to all of it. And I'm going to time jump. But like, it's just, I want to stay in the feeling. Please. I'm trying to, because these are all stories I've told before, but like, I've never told them from like, an emotional perspective, it's always just been like, almost bragging, like, I go, like, I'm trying to, for the first time, like, sit, sit in it. And because I want to focus a little bit on the shame part, you know, and, and part of, you know, part of being an artist is just constant rejection. It's like asking a girl out like over and over again. It's like, you're fat, you're ugly, no thanks, you're not, you know, it's like, and for art, it's art is different, you know, like, when you think is cool, I might think it's cheesy. And it's like, now I can see that. But before, I was like, you're in the presence of greatness. And you're saying no to me, like, I'm like, okay, okay, all right, I guess it's not good, you know, so it's what I present and what I feel inside. I'm excited to share that Matina, the yerba mate drink I helped create is now available at Whole Food stores nationwide. Long time listeners of this podcast know that yerba mate is my preferred caffeine source. It provides smooth energy without giving you the jitters. And it has a lot of other potential benefits, including helping to regulate your blood sugar, improving digestion, mild appetite, suppression, and much more. Matina is my absolute favorite of all the yerba mate brands out there. And I've tried them all. Given my love for Matina, I decided to become a part owner in the business. And I helped them create their new line of products, which are all entirely zero sugar. These zero sugar cold brew Matina flavors are fantastic. I drink at least three cans of them every single day. You'll often see them on the table during my podcast recordings. I absolutely love the product. And I'm proud to now have it sold at Whole Foods. So check out Matina at Whole Food stores nationwide. It's cold brewed with the absolute best ingredients. It has zero sugar. And it tastes amazing. And if you don't have Whole Foods near you, you can also buy it online at drinkmatina.com. So I mean, part of it is they just started sending me boxes and porn porn was expensive. Now these spoiled kids today, it's, you know, you could see anything, right? It's just free internet. But back in the day, if you wanted to buy a video cassette or a DVD or or magazine, those things were like $20, like it was expensive. And now I'm getting these care packages from hustler, just shit that I'm not even into like bodybuilder chicks with clit, you know, like just just a lot of shit. And I'm like, it looked crazy at my at my apartment, like it was just I'd finally moved out of the house. I was dating this girl, this crazy actress. And I just it was floridus, like every room in the house had some kind of it was like kind of my identity. They're like Dave, the, you know, and she was starting to get disgusted. She's like, who am I, who am I dating? You know, and I've always like at the core of all my addictions is codependence. It's, I don't know what's happening. The world is scary. I don't feel safe. And I need to go along to get along. And I need to do I need to make myself small so that everyone around me feels okay and at the cost of me. That's what I need. And so oh, you like that kind of art, then I'll I'm a chameleon, I'll switch to that. Oh, you like, oh, you like Fugazi? Okay, I'll listen to Fuga, you know, and there's like, it's not black and white, some of it's true. And some of it's like a mask. And I'm sitting there just, just really struggling, like stealing fish down my pants, so I could eat dinner. Like, I'm not getting paid, like, there's no money coming in. It's like graffiti doesn't pay like the pornography like getting paid in porn is cool, but it's not money, you know, they're like, hey, you want and I have a, you know, I have a sickness, I've I've sex addiction. So it's like, hey, do you want 200 bucks, or do you want $1,000 in porn, which is nothing to them? It's just, you know, so I'm having AI'm just having a hard time and I get to my 72 Plymouth Fury who like every time I get in, I could kill myself or something, you know, and there's a note on the door, and it says, doing a period piece movie in Los Angeles, your car 1970 fits the time. Can we dress it up to make it look like an undercover, you know, pays something ridiculous like 1000 bucks a day or something like, like, help like, these small victories, you know, oh, fuck, yeah, show up the next day, it's on the street, everything in the street, they made it look like 1970s. There's all these other 1972, they made it, they put the sirens on the top, they took the license plate off. And the guy that's like dressing my car, one of the, you know, the union guys looks in the back and he's like, yo, this guy has so much porn in the back of his car. And I was like, yes, you know, like, and I go, what's this movie? And I see Johnny Depp come out of the house and he's got a blonde hair in a ponytail. And it's blow that movie blow with Pee Wee Herman. Right. But he wasn't in that scene. And I'm like, holy fuck, I love Johnny Depp. I'm like, oh, fuck, that's Johnny Depp. And this guy's being really loud. He's like, this guy has a lot of porn, not just like, and I'm like, oh, yeah, it worked for hustler. You work for hustler. So I remember just that was the first time I saw like a celebrity on that level in real life. And I'm like, oh, he's kind of short. But like, he was like signing autographs and talking to everyone. I'm like, this guy looks, he seems very friendly, you know, like he had that, whatever charisma, Riz, the kids say, and star quality. So then it's, you know, craft service lunch, you know, I'm I'm I've never been on a movie set before. I'm just like, I'm getting paid to do nothing. And just, and I was like between all the the background guys, I was the man because I had so much porn, you know, so I just had, I grabbed the sampling of it, I had some of the some of the ones that I had drawings in and I put some like bookmark like, I, you know, I don't know, it's like, maybe Johnny Depp's going to see my butthole paintings and be like, hey, paint me, you know, like, I don't know. That's my delusion, right? So I'm like, is he going to eat in his own trailer? Or is he going to be down with the crew? And he was down with the crew. So it's like lunch. And it was just a scene like with, I think, Ray Liotta and like all this, and I'm just sitting there and I'm like, I want Johnny Depp to see like I want to like, I don't know. And I'm like, who the fuck I have, I'm like 23. I've, you know, I'm like, I do graffiti, like I got a car that doesn't work for, you know, it's like, but I was like, it's going to happen. So he's sitting down with the crew. He's like telling stories. And I didn't have to do it. Another guy was like, Hey, Johnny, this guy has all this porn in this guy's like, Oh, really? I can't do a Johnny Depp impression. And I go, and I was like, my cue, I was like, Hey, Johnny, like, see, this is, this is my arm. And, you know, I had some Buttman in there. I had a hust, I grabbed the sampling of my, you know, maybe had some color copies of my, my art and any, any flips through it. He's in his wig. And he's like, like, it's, it's a lot of butts, you know, it's like, it's pretty singular vision. I go, yeah, I can do other stuff. And, you know, he just hands it back to me. I'm like, oh, fuck. And I was like, Oh, thanks, Johnny, you know. And I was like, Oh, that was cool. And then I'm trying to spin that in my head of like, immediately goes to he fucking hates you. Like, what's stupid? Like, why did you, you know, like, why did you do that? And then, yeah, I don't know the movie, like, you know, when they do a Hollywood movie, they change the name. I didn't know it was going to be blown. Like that movie's awesome. And I feel like defeated. And they're like, Hey, you know, we were going to pay you for two days, but we finished the scene. So you're only going to get paid for one day. And I'm like, I'm going to get as much chicken as possible. So I started getting the Tupperware and, you know, like, I'm going to eat for like a week off this craft service food. And I'm walking out and I see all the star wagons and I see on the door, Paul Rubins. Malekka, like a high Macahine Ho, I'm like, here we go, like fucking my childhood. I'm like, and he had gotten cotton jerking off in a movie theater or something. I didn't give it. Like, I always, maybe I can verbalize it better with the shame, but like when we know on a writer, got caught shoplifting or like all of that always made sense to me. And it endeared me to, it made me, it made them look human. Like, I was like, that's weird. My hero, my childhood hero that did Peewee's big adventure, Peewee's Playhouse, getting caught jerking off. And why did he do that? Why didn't he do it at home? But I, even those things I didn't understand, I was like, now I'm like, I love that guy. Like, I, like I have nothing but compassion for like, and that's like a lot of stuff that I had to work out with myself because a lot of things I do now is I work with, you know, murderers and at risk youth and chill, like I'll work with anybody. Because my old self is like, fuck this dude, fuck this person, fuck you, you hurt me, revenge, revenge, very Korean, you know. And now I go, if you know, and I work with people in prisons, I go, if you're willing to be a better version of yourself, I can, I'm not a scientist, I don't, but I can use art and creativity to work with you to be a better person or try at least if you're willing, only if you're willing, if you're not willing, then I don't want to waste my time and, you know, you know, great. So, you know, fuck it, I'm going to do it. So Johnny didn't want the porn here. I read a little, I don't remember exactly what I wrote, and I was like, biggest fan, love you. I think I wrote like, I don't care what they say about you, like I'm still love you and I can draw other stuff, but here's stuff I've done for, and I left it on his thing, knocked, and I was too embarrassed to like, and I ran away. And I mean, it just, there was so many, there was so many moments, I remember, you know, and then so like it's, it's gradual, right? Like, it's like, okay, and then this little thing happens in this, but, and, you know, it was like, I don't know, a decade before the Facebook, and also I don't pay attention to that stuff. So as the Facebook stuff was rising, Sean with text means like, hey, you know, those shares are worth a quarter million now, or, but then at the time I was gambling, and I was making that much, and I was making that much gambling. So I was like, whatever, I don't care. And he's like, oh, you know, they're worth a million now. And I had quietly become a millionaire. By the time I was 30, I had a huge art show with Steve Lazaridis, who's Banksy's art guy. And I was like, I hit at the right time that shit, you know, like, Oh, fuck you, dad, look, I fucking made, you know, like the art that he hated me for, I was like, look, there it is, you know. And there was always a lot of anger at that. It's like, you fucking live in a house that was paid for by like spray painted digs, motherfucker, fuck you, who it, you know, like, you know, it's like, I love my parents. It's a love hate relationship. It's complicated. Or maybe it's not that complicated. But it's like, you know, hearing, I know how proud of, even though it's not very Asian for a parent from another country to say, I'm proud of you, like, he, he tells, you know, he's, he's like, we like kiss on the lips. He's like, and he rubs my face and like, I fucking love you, dude. He doesn't cuss, but he's like, I love you. I'm proud of you. And it's like, all that shit, I just said, it's like, you know, so I have a lot of compassion for, for my, my family. So like, I remember I remember and then things like, I started working for vice, you know, I had this relationship with Gavin McInnis and Shane Smith and they just, they're like, Hey, you're, you went to Africa to look for a dinosaur you hitchhike like, and this was as print is dying and things are, they were the first early adopters of tech and, you know, they're like, vice is going to move to online. I'm like, who I'm always the guy that's like, who the fuck? You know, it's like, I'm like Korean force gone from like, just in the room with like the most important things in life happening. And I go, all right, cool. And they're like, what can you film for nothing? You know, because it was like, Spike Jones was there in the beginning, Johnny Knoxville, like, you know, it was like the beginning of, of that advice, you know, ended all fucked up because of greed and all that shit. But I was like, every time I hitchhike, something crazy happens, they're like, okay, cool, film that. So then I started filming thumbs up. I think the first thing I was saying with time, I think it was 20 years ago. And I do all that shit. And then it's like, all the things like I was saying that I was arrested for, I got shamed for and best for now people are giving me money and jobs and they're like, yeah, all that fucked up shit can do it on camera. Can you, you know, and I was like, oh, they like me. My mother was right. You know, and so one day, my friend Dave Chang, who also is, you know, severe gambling issues, you know, I didn't want to meet that guy because that was like looking in a mirror. He was like, everyone's like, he's you but of cooking. And I was like, I don't need to meet like, I need to meet with people that lift me out of my shit. Not that's why I hate meeting other addicts. Because then it's like, you know, like you never know how it like right now I'm sitting here telling if I'm getting if I'm being if I started this show telling you what I least want to share. It's like, now I'm addicted to Pokemon, right? Like, you go, oh, you haven't gambled in a casino in 10 years, you haven't, you know, and then you pat yourself on the back. And then the worst thing happens, my kid gets into Pokemon, I go to a shop, I had no idea that packs cost $20. I open a pack, and the worst possible thing could happen. I get the hit card. It's like, you got the Sunbury on the $1,000 and I'm like, wait, wait, wait, hold on, wait, what? And I go, oh, this is gambling. And in six months, I've gone from like, maybe I'll spend 100 bucks, which which at the time I was like, for fucking cards, and now I spend thousands of dollars a day on it. And it's and now and I always I always turn my addictions, which I'm always open about into my job, but it's for work. The buttholes, that was for work, you know, everything's for work is like, oh, now I'm drawing on the I got one for you, I'll give it to you later. I drew on Mike Tyson for you, because I know you like my good job. I should get context that Dave sent me a text yesterday said, what's your favorite Pokemon? And I don't know because I don't all Pokemon that goes, what's your favorite athlete? And I said, Mike Tyson, that's a Pikachu painted on top of my Tyson for you. So so I mean, it's it's like, you're welcome, you know, the addictions, the things they say about addiction is it's it's baffling, cunning, seductive. And so I'm like, Oh, I'm not. The gambling comes up in other ways, you know, it's like trading cards, you know, like little things. And it's like, I don't I'm not as a middle aged man. And I'm shaming myself. It doesn't feel good to be you know, like, like, I'm friends with guys that are like, like moneymark, who's in the Beastie Boys, like he's 65. And my friend Bill Poon, who I used to do a podcast, he's 62. So like, I'm, I'm a middle aged man hanging out with other middle aged men in the middle of night, talking about predator badlands, talking about like childish, arrested development type of shit, I go. And then the thing is, like, I've been to cult countries and cultures where they're like, even being a Mormon, and like, when you turn 18, there there is a, a ritual that happens that says now you're a man. And we don't have that in our culture. So that's why you have grown men. wearing Pokemon t shirts and talking about fantasy, it's all the same fantasy football, it's all fantasy, it's all immature shit. And you just have grown men collecting toys and comic books and talking about cards and, and it's like, okay, if it makes you happy, cool, I guess, but there's always there's always a part of me that's like dissatisfied. Like, like, I do like my daily affirmations of like, I don't, I don't need to do anything today for Andrew to like me, like I'm enough, like, I just, I have to sit in that and I'm like, no, I gotta, and then I got it from you, you know, it's like, we talked once on the phone before I showed up today. And you've sent me a mountain of this year, but my day this delicious, my Tina and I'm like, that's, I fucking like this is like crack to me now. And I'm like, Oh, this guy, I don't know, is this setting, hey, can I get some more of that? And I told you, I was starting to get sick and you're like, Oh, I'm going to send you some peptides and I go, what a sweetie and cute and like awesome and very handsome and like, your shirts, the way they fit every time. I'm like, dude, and you got some guns and like clothes look good. I'm jealous of your posture. And I just go, Oh, this guy's a caretaker. Like, I haven't, I don't even fucking know the guy and he's sending me like, I don't know if peptides are drug, but he's like, Oh, I'll help you, Dave, I'll send you these experimental medicines and this and I go, thank you. But also you don't need to do any of that. Yeah, like, I just wanted to meet you and to be clear, I know I don't have to it's in my nature to want to care for people that I, I feel loved towards. I know, but like, we just met and I'm like, those things take time. And then you're like, no, I got people to do that or whatever. And I go, the cost, I'll speak for myself. The cost of that at some point is you, right? When you spend so much time thinking of others, you know, and so, and it feels like against how I was raised, I go, Oh, fuck, this feels selfish for me to, you know, like I never took a, you know, at the height of my workaholism, I was touring with my band. My podcast was DVD, I say was, you know, which I did with Asakira porn star and Bobby Lee and Steve Lee, it was becoming like the biggest, you know, it was, there was no one doing podcasts back then it was Joe, Adam Corolla, trying to remember, it wasn't that it wasn't what it is now, you know, and so it was, it was insane, like, because I grew up on Howard Stern, and I'm like, just hearing him fight, like you couldn't say a certain thing. And, and then he'd get punished by the FCC, and then someone was like, Hey, Dave, you know what a podcast? I go, sounds weird. What's a podcast? And then I go, and talking about terrestrial radio and the FCC and rules and I was like, it's a new canvas. You could, you can say anything. You can fucking say like, you could fucking cost until like, the worst story, like, and I just, I couldn't believe that it existed. I couldn't believe and so, you know, and I didn't like come in with a mission statement and I know intention has huge been part of it was I was just running and running, but now in hindsight, I go, what was that? And I was, oh, shame chasing. I was like, how can I be as, how can I record the downfall of me? Like, like, like, how, how much can I go over the edge? How much can I push up against this boundary? And see it because let me see if you care. Right. And first of all, I was like, no one's listening. Turns out it was a lot of people listening, but I didn't know that at the, you know, we started, I was like, let's just, let's just go. Let's record our downfall. Let's record our bottom. Like as an addict, like being, being how like, I'm chasing shame. Like I'm like, in a way, it's like this, like someone who's like a flasher, they're like, what kind of person gets off on like running down the street? I was like, that's what I'm doing. I'm trying to, I'm not a mentally well person that I'm dealing with demons inside me that I don't know how to articulate. So I'm going to work a holism. I'm going, and I'm trying to find myself and find out what I'm trying, like, I don't, and it's just so painful. And I, I, I feel misunderstood. And I go, let's just fucking say the worst possible things every episode. And make fun of it like a joke. And just like, I mean, once again, if I look back and I go, what's the worst things that ever happened to me? Jail, like getting canceled multiple times. It's like, all of it led to the best moments of my life. So I don't sit here and judge, oh, this was good. This was bad. Cause good moments lead to, it's just life, right? It's fluid and it's, there's a spectrum of good and bad. So I remember just, there was so many, I'm like doing this podcast and in my mind I was like, like, and, and like having Howard Stern write me that going on his show and him telling me afterwards in private, dude, you're out of control was the greatest compliment. You know, Howard Stern, the, the, this spy, you know, the king of all media telling me, and I asked him on the show if you can adopt me and I'm like, I'm the prince of all media. I fucking do comics and I do fine art. I do graffiti. I can do anything, you know, and to have that validation and, you know, we don't talk regularly, but, you know, I started sending him watercolor stuff and then he got into water and he's fucking really good. Like he, like everything, he went into it. And so that was, and then at one point I was talking to his producers about being on, on the serious, like right after him and I was like, there's like Jane Cho was right. I am the greatest, like I can do anything. And then, you know, people started listening and they're like, these people are saying the worst shit ever.  emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions Words like in the spectrum of entertainment and art Everyone watches movies and video like that's up here So that's the most eyeballs on it then you go all the way down to at the time podcast Art gallery nobody you do whatever you want no one cares and so that's how was I was approaching it and People go when you paint the most fucking vile obscene disgusting shit. It's still a painting, right? But when you say stuff people take it literally like you're coming at a microphone like like it's Shit I scared myself. Oh So good. I love that. Oh my god. That was so good That was a good scream. That was like your punk rock someone sampled that turned that into punk rock song But I I treated it like it was just another you know, I was it was Sean Parker I'm not blaming those these people in my life that I witnessed as successful. They didn't take reality seriously Right. I'm like, I don't care what I'm gonna say I'm gonna push it as far as I can because I don't care because I don't respect reality. I've never have Like Yes Yes, I believe look into my eyes. I believe in Santa Claus 100% there's no part of me that doubts that that's who you're talking to a mentally ill person working on himself trying to express himself as you know, like a Perfectly imperfect unrepeatable miracle of the universe. That's how I I'm trying my best. That's it. That's it, you know So I meet David Chang I become friends with him. He's like, let's go to dinner I'm gonna bring my friend and his friend happens to be Anthony boarding immediately like I've met my My brother like I mean he's older than me, but it was just you know ex heroin addict got through it through workaholism and I Could see that he was tired, you know, and he had a he had a thing that he kept saying he's like What what's your life you just fucking Watch TV and watch the Simpsons and you know, he had this story like I have to live an interesting life And he's like, oh, I'm doing You know, so I I developed a friendship with him because it was just organic like It wasn't like oh, I want to he was in a way grooming either Chang or me or Roy Troy I don't know he liked Asians, but he was grooming us to take over basically and And that that that once again fed my ego of like oh, he's He can see what my mom he thinks I'm special like the guy that is the most interesting person on the planet Wants me to take over like oh my god. This is great, you know, so he's like my you know, it's like you're doing You know, he's his show changes names. No reservations. It's it's kept changing and so You know every time I ate with him it was insane I mean, I don't know if he had eating disorders or what but it's Anthony Bourdain So you go in a restaurant and they bring out every fucking food right like everything and I go I'm watching him. He takes a sip of water Thank you, can you wrap this up? I'm like you're not gonna eat, you know because everywhere he went every chef wanted to he's like Dave If I eat all this shit like I'd be like 300 pounds, you know So I'm like can I can I take it home? He's like, yeah, you could have it and then as I got to know him a little better Every time he came to LA today at Chateau Marmont and be like Is your life just eating at restaurants and he's like, yeah, I go hey from now on just come to my house My mom's like, I know he's like I Would fucking love that, you know, he closes eyes like So whenever you come to LA you go to my mom's house My mom would my mom loved him like Tony and my mom were she I don't know what his Relationship with his mom was like but he loved my mom and he'd always He knew culture so you'd always bring the Asian pairs, you know, he knew like oh, I'm going to a Korean's house and then after a while like when I meet people that I love and I respect I value the friendship so I don't go and That doesn't mean I don't value you. I was like I would love to be friends with you first before doing your podcast Well, I was like fuck it like let's just jump into it, but do it reverse. Yeah, we'll do it in reverse and same thing like I Never asked to be on a show. I never but after a while. He just was like Dave I'm doing LA and I go, but haven't you done LA? He goes. Yeah, but this is specifically Korea town and I go, okay. I mean I grew up in Korea. I was born and raised in Korea town But so then his producer his production company 0.0. I loved it because when I did thumbs up I'm everything. I'm the director. I'm the production. It's just like thumbs up is me my friend Harry a camera guy and like a chase van That's it. It's four people, but you know, I was like, oh, this is like what a real TV show is like He had guys setting up shots and it was like a lot of people and I go fuck this seems cool like you don't have to So He goes so his producer calls me and goes, okay, we're gonna set this show up for like two months from now and It's Korea town centric like and I go Okay, but do you want to do fake like I'm down like what what do you guys need? Like you like I know every all the restaurants and stuff in Korea town now, but I Koreans don't eat Korean like from my era. We didn't have any money. So when we go out we eat at Sizzler We eat at Denny's we don't eat we get Korean food at home, you know, like so If he's trying to do an authentic story about where I eat in Korea, it's in Korea town It's Sizzler and like everyone every Korean American. I know eats at Sizzler and so she's like so you're telling me We're gonna bring Anthony Bourdain to You know spend all this money to take him to sit. I go, hey, I just told you like I'll fake it Like I'll I know all the new spots. I know all the chefs like we couldn't but I didn't eat that shit growing up He goes no Tony loves authenticity. I'm like, we're gonna fucking Sizzler then so we do this whole episode He comes to my warehouse and he's I mean it's like I Mean pitfall after pitfall like it I remember at the time Channing Tatum came to my like he's like his agent this guy Bill Korean guy his Channing Tatum's agents Korean and he calls me he goes My client Channing Tatum loves you and like it's like after all these things and getting canceled over and over again in comics And whatever field I went in there was always You're not supposed to do that. You're not supposed to paint on a Mike Tyson card You're not supposed to paint over this graffiti You're not supposed to there's rules that you're not following and I'm like it was this my whole life So I remember Channing Tatum was also attracted to that and he showed up with with his agent and he's like he had just done He was a pretty boy. He's one of the handsome most handsome guys, but he's so talented and I'm like, I don't fucking want to meet I don't care about Channing Tatum and then he came To the warehouse and he's like don't think of me as just like the pretty boy dancing step up from the streets guy like I'm about to do GI Joe, but like I'm like and I'd I'd put out zines and like Self-published books and I write the way I talk right now and he'd read that and I was Channing Tatum read, you know He goes you're a great writer And I'm like there it is again. I'm like I write porn. He's like no no no You have a way of talking and writing that I need to be a part of that like whatever I go But I've never written this guy. He goes whatever you write I'm gonna produce it and I go holy shit, dude. This is amazing and then like I Know I'm time-jumping, but at some at some point I Got a little cocky and he put out 21 Jump Street, which Johnny Depp again, you know and I said There's a ice cubes talking to Korean Jesus during that movie You guys still have that Korean Jesus. It's like, oh, yeah, we made that for the I go if you guys want to work with me I need that Korean Jesus So they sent me the Korean Jesus and I put it in my warehouse and I pray I prayed to it every night I prayed to Korean Jesus and What else I mean Because of all the canceling it's like if I get canceled at Marvel then DC wants to work with me So it's like once again being rewarded rewarded for the bad behavior. So there's this editor at DC Comics. Oh cool I can't draw Hulk and Wolverine, but Batman Superman and he this guy Axel Alonso who worked at Vertigo, which was like the more adult My dude Sandman and stuff like that. He contacts me and he's like I've been reading your fucking fucked up articles and vice He's like You're a writer That's the thing that I have the most respect for is writing like I have a book in me I've never I haven't sat down, but it's like it's in here I'm too scared to get it out, but he's like He's like, yeah, your art's okay. Oh, okay, and he goes I want you to write a book about You know, I it was like Korea Town gangsters or something It was shit that I didn't know about I was like fuck it. I'll make it up And I was like, yeah, I'm gonna write it like this and now he's like no you're gonna write it and someone else is gonna draw it I was like, oh, okay, but he was like and then I started writing it and I start writing him emails like it's it's it's done and you know email bounce back He quit and like moved to Marvel and I'm like, oh Fuck it was almost about to happen again, you know and then and then my podcast starts getting bigger and bigger and I'm so I'm in my full workaholic I'm I I've I'm aware that I'm an addict. I'm like I'm in my full addiction I'm gambling with my life and life savings every single day while touring with my band Monty doing the news for vice Doing art shows like legally around the world and doing illegal like just and people are you on coke? I'm like, I don't have chemo. I don't do I get high off Like I and each thing is like I have to do that. I I'm not enough That's what I believe about that's what I did believe about myself and still sometimes today is I was Everything the world had shown me is that besides from my mother is that you're not and that was also Confusing because she sent me away and abandoned me. So it was like you're telling me I'm the best But then you threw me out like trash. So a lot of mixed messages and And and and the messaging that I heard Growing up that I received was you're not enough your women don't date Asians Your art looks like shit It's you're not following the graffiti rules your arts a little too aggressive to be refined for it's just everything is just So everything had to be I need to be It's not it's not like I can kind of be in this field Like I have to have the best podcast and in my mind that was Howard Stern So I was like however extreme he is I have to go like how is the ringleader, but I need to be the guy that's the You know, and I don't care what happens to me Because I've had third-degrees burns all over my foot like my brother's read my diary I've been stabbed in my like I don't care what you do to me because it'll never be what I can do to myself. I've hurt myself so So then uh, I'm in Russia or the North Pole interviewing it's my first time doing the serious news and I remember at the time Shane and Eddie and everyone at vice we sat down and they're like Dave Your podcast is out of control It's like and they and like they all know me they're like you can't say those things I go and say what the fuck I want. I'm like this is vice baby. Like we did they're like Dave and and it was like second season of vice news on HBO the first season was Dennis Rodman in North Korea Getting a lot of attention. We start getting Emmy nominations and the year that we did it I won the Emmy for the news. I'm like, you know, my ego is like, oh the first time doing the news Fucking nailed it. You know, like I'm god, dude I can do serious news and I could do weird butthole talk on this show and I could do serious Fucking delicate watercolors that could be in a museum and I could do the most craziest like You can't fucking put me in a box. And if you try to oh, I'm like, I am better than you I'm better than you as a human being. I'm better than you as an art and it was like My friends just like because it's easier when you're an alcoholic or drug addict You're like, bro, you're unhinged. You're out of control. But it was just Narcissism hating myself self-destructive behavior just and the people would come up to come with me I'd bring them to because I controlled my addiction Like I would I knew that I had a problem and I know the nature of addiction is you can't stop So I did something that I've never heard another addict do which is I would hire people close friends Being like I'm an addict. I cannot be trusted. I'm a liar I'm a thief and so when I'm in my gambling because gambling state, I don't hold my money So as soon as I'm win the number I told you I'm win Need you to punch me in the face I need you to drag me away from the table because now I'm going to say anything to keep going So I can never touch my own money If I if I if you see me falling in love with the girl and going into my love addiction I need you to come and punch me in my face and like I gave permission For people to hurt me physically and to physically remove me It's like like if I was an if I was an alcoholic it would be I'm at a bar and after two drinks If you see me take a third boom and drag me out of the bar. So in that way very Saddle masochistic but successful like I never Because I had someone and I and they would only get paid if I they got me to stop Right, but then I pay these people stop me and then try to figure out ways to you know So at the height of my workaholism is the height of my addiction like I got every I don't sleep. There's days and then I had a Heart attack when I was 35 an angina attack. I collapsed. I went blind I collapsed and of course like a lot of stories as soon as I didn't go to the hospital as soon as I woke up I was like, what the fuck was that like I woke up 30 hours later another day And I just went back to gambling but it was like You know, I could go into euphoric recall and just start telling like but I don't want to like glamour because it's like I figured out how to how to be in the world If I have sex with lots of women and win lots of money and work really hard at all these jobs, then I will be Validated and and congratulated and held up high in this culture even though if I'm dying inside If I'm dying inside I need to I've spent so much time in shame I need to go I want to see what it feels like to be like A winner, you know, but then that's when I got there. I go What do you do when you get to the heavy is the crown? It's lonely at the like I got to the top and I was like kind of boring Let's The kid in the village with the match. Let's burn it down. We got here. It's like and that was my childhood Literally, I would spend a lot of time building giant Legos with all the loot like we had like all mismatched Legos that was like, you know Hand me downs and I would build a giant starship and my brother coming cool When just smashing it. I was like I worked so long on that but that was me Doing My brother is somewhere around about to destroy my career. Let me just do it myself. Let me self-sabotage myself self-sabotage. It was like mini suicides, you know and so It's all I'm like here. Here I am. It's all it's fine. I'm finally gonna be You know validated as a human being, you know And then I get You know, I get vice telling me. Hey, you get you can't do your podcast and the news I go then go fuck yourself, you know, and then we win the emmy but I'm not part of that anymore and then And then I can't keep track because I keep they're like, did you know this artist got caught on Saying I go it's on my podcast. It was my podcast. You don't fucking It's not like I I did it on purpose You know anyways It just kept happening and I I'm at the sickest I've been mentally And I'm trying to make sense of my situation while the world is also has its own issues and I and I I just I like I hit my bottom. I just went so off the deep end And my friends were all like you're gonna die Like it's not like a normal od with drugs, but You you like literally had a heart attack from like not sleeping and gambling for like a week straight Like masturbating non-stop to pornography Just like Video games like I couldn't stop playing Angry Birds Which like everything's like so I can make a joke out of it and they're like that's your safety thing is to like make a joke out of it and so I walk in to You know a meeting and and uh chanting Tatum's dude is like Channing ain't fucking working with you and it was it wasn't him. It was like hey I've spent all it was the agency is like we've spent all this time building up a heartthrob Teen idol thing. He's not gonna be fucking seen with a scumbag like you I go Oh, shit. It's happening again shame I walk into 0.0 boardings like When I'm done, it's you you're gonna here's a book deal with my publishing company It your show is gonna be on cnn. It's gonna be exactly like mine But with art like you're gonna travel around the art and it's like authentic to you because you already do that Um I'm just like holy shit, dude. This is It paid off all the bad behavior like I met my kindred spirit and And I knew he wasn't happy. That's one of my I can't Watch like it's been years since Since all that happened and I still I can't I can't Like I felt I felt like I met someone who finally understood me So I know it wasn't him but You know, I don't remember the guy's name. I remember them and they could have told me over the phone They're like Dave it was like getting caught at the principal's office It's like and I'm I'm pumped. I'm like My mom was right. Jane. Joe was right like The the most interesting man on the planet like my friend Tony is like Handing, you know handing me the baton like and I'm I'm gonna do like I'm gonna go for it. Like I wasn't married. I didn't have kids I'm like, I'm gonna fucking really really like I took it so seriously went to Nat Geo and like took all the meetings and um You know, I remember sitting at a table just like this and the Whole 0.0 production team is like we love Tony like he goes but we are not working with you I go you couldn't fucking send an email like like what are you shaming and And all of this is fuel for me like they don't know this. I'm like the more you fucking Do this to me the more I you're giving me my drug which I'm chasing which is anger and shame. It's a fucking powerful drug, right? And I go, oh, okay. Just another on the list that I got to prove wrong Like I will make you regret the same way chip regrets fucking talking like I will make you feel You come at me You better fucking kill me because I'm going to fucking destroy you now Like I am gonna make the most awesome show ever And you know, Tony called me in a policy. He's like dude. I don't like they're their own company like we work together But they you know, they the optics aren't good and I go, all right, you know And I was like, I missed it by that much like So it and and and that I had grown accustomed to it like this was it's not a new it's if I if I could just keep telling them another's Like oh and then marvel rejected me then DC then The episode I did with Tony I take him to sizzler I show him how I fucking did a fusion with a meatball in a taco It was true to me, right? You know, I hammed it up a little bit for the camera I wrote my wore my like shiny red sizzler suit But that was me that was how my family and it resonated It was the most watched episode like I introduced him to esthe von orio and mr. Cartoon he loved all the lowrider cars It was a fucking la episode and it was like my friends and it was like It was awesome. I felt so good and I just started getting like sizzler asked me to be their spokesperson Like and the episode is me talking shit about how horrible their food is, but it has this must I'll do it guys. I'll do it and so They're there, you know, they're like it's the most watched episode of that and then we want to Emmy for that season and I'm just like And then that happens and I'm like, holy shit Like and then you go on Netflix or whatever it was on and that episode just missing I mean, it's back now, but they took it off and I was like Just keep striking, you know, and I'm like, what did I do? You know, like me playing big like, what did I do? Did I do that? Like I'm urkel. I'm like Like you're a fucking idiot, dude. You do dumb shit that you shouldn't do you should shut the fuck up and just and um When I meet uh the most powerful intellectually like just these powerhouse humans Once again, it doesn't always have to be sexual abuse, but it usually is with men, right? I mean women I don't know that experience because I'm not a woman but For a man to take your humanity like that then I see Because it's uh PTSD. It's right post-traumatic stress disorder, but then Every now and then like I don't know what the exact stats are you get PT. I'm making this up PT gd post-traumatic growth Disorder it's like that should have turned me into a Drug addict homeless person, but instead I took all that pain and I was like K rage. I'll show you. I'll fucking show you. You should have never done that to me You should have never You should have never minimized me And put me down and disregard and now I have to teach you a lesson and I have to show you And it's such a horrible It's such a fucking it's such a painful way to live life and I I can't live with that pain. So I have to just keep Doing more it's never enough. I have to just keep showing you That I'm enough So then I'm just I I'm living in like a very I know I'm telling a very name-droppy like Do she la story but You know, I have Anthony Bourdain who's I consider a friend and my hero and my idol Like I was in a gang called Koreans God that that was two people me and my friend Harry Kim But we wrote it everywhere kgb everywhere and then I remember the episode came out and he wrote kgb forever or something like that Korean's god. I'm like fucking my gang is Harry Kim and Anthony Bourdain like I just I was like it just it made me so happy that it's like Tony Bourdain is repping my set, you know, like like I'm a fucking game, you know, it's like It was two fucking dumbasses just writing drawing dumb bucktooth whales and I mean, I miss that guy so much The people that were close to him like you and Joe. Yeah, it's the same response always So then I I'm you know, I'm like Lost I'm I'm I'm getting closer and closer to hitting my version of a bottom and I get uh I get a call from David Arquette like the actor, you know, and I I love all the Arquettes, you know, but David, you know, this is la shit, right? He just reaches out and he's like, hey, I'm watching tv right now with my I think fiance at the time And we just saw your Anthony Bourdain. He's like that's the most fucking la shit. He's like I wrote I was in a Crew called kgb kids gone bad and I was like no, kareen's gone bad, you know And he goes it's crazy like I'm I used to do graffiti and tag I used to write kgb And I grew up eating at sizzler with my family and he goes and I'm turning I forgot he was like I'm turning 45 or 50 I forgot how old he was But it was like a big one like 40 And I'm having it at like the you know, sizzler is almost out of business I think there's like three left in la and he's like and it's at the sizzler that I grew up and I would love for you to be here and uh All all that stuff always all like weird celebrity stuff always makes me nervous because I'm like I don't know if they're gonna be fake or you know, and I'm a sensitive person like If I'm meeting new people and they don't like me. I'm like, oh, I'm a piece of you know, I I'm sensitive I'm a sensitive artist So I go to sizzler with my friend critter I was like, hey, can you come with me and and we get to sizzler and it's packed and it's there's the buffet bar with the cheese toast and He's like Dave Dave. I want I want you to meet some friends here Come sit at this table and I sit down and it's Sasha Baron Cohen like my fucking hero and p.b. Herman and I'm like holy fuck dude and You know both of them are just huge art fans. So like they don't know my art But you know David Arquette talked me like this guy's an awesome artist. And they're like, oh cool. We want to check it out and Um, so you know Sasha Baron Cohen like collects a lot of Banksy and this and he's like fuck dude I got to come to your studio. I got it, you know, so then I'm like, oh cool like once again like this Oh people like me and if people like me then maybe I like myself, you know like And it's it's nice. It's nice to be Liked it feels good to be validated and liked by people that you look up to right? So especially p.b. Herman's my art god. Like I said, Bob Ross. Mr. Rogers dope, but for me, that's what I grew up on That fucking care the full commitment to that character the voice the king of cartoon penny the stop motion animation I just he's it spoke to me, you know, uh all the Gary Panter art So, um I go fuck. I don't know when I'm gonna meet this guy again. I go. Hey, uh I don't know 20 years ago 15 years ago. You did a movie called blow And he's like, oh, yeah blow, you know I go. Hey, uh, did you ever remember like getting a porn package on your step? And he's like And like I'm trying to read his eyes. He's like, no, I don't remember that I was like, ah, you know But I did get his number that night and then um You know as I get I hit like like I wouldn't be here today without my friends just all Who love me came and they're like Dave You're not like it it went too far this way, you know, you used to be this sweet nice humble guy and just You just you need a lot of help. So I Like everything else. I just did it. I thought I obviously it was the hardest thing I ever did in my life but Including plant medicine therapy rehabs Men's groups 12 step meetings just I whatever if someone said it was gonna help you. I'm like you're just breaking like generations of Oh, oh fucking Asians hit their kids all, you know, everyone got sent the way ever, you know, just like I know but I wanted to stop It's either I fucking kill myself or I need I needed to stop And enough people caring about me made me care about myself enough And I and I did I'm what I got at the podcast the band Like the people and they go they'll be fine Everyone's gonna figure it out And I and I got help and um You know as soon as I was Out of the first rehab like 45 days, I was gonna do podcasts about this and they're like Matt out there. He's like, hey, uh, why don't you live this life before you start telling him? He's like, but I learned so  emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions emotions I want to call it the like whatever that is, whatever that thing that controls telepathy and Santa and connection and all this. He doesn't care if I believe in him. He's still there. Right? It's like such an ego thing. I don't care. Who cares what you the thing is like saying you don't believe in the ocean. The ocean is still there. So I want to thank that guy. And so as I live this life and then I start to be like, what is my purpose? Why am I here? Before your art was about like disgusting this and offending people. And it was just to fuck you just showing people, hey, Asian people aren't all quiet. Like you're a rebel. Like you're supposed to shut the fuck up and become a lawyer or doctor. And then just like. I always tell people they are how do I make it? I want to be I go. I'm an expert in disappointing my parents. You must disappoint your parents. Like my dad is so disappointed in me over and over again until he's not. But I'm like, what would have happened if I didn't disappoint him? I would have got a pretty high SAT. I would have, you know, probably been on my second marriage lawyer golf. Like, and he'd be like, I don't know. I don't know. But I know that he's proud of me now. And it was like a long, hard path to get there. And so I go, I and part of me, you know, if you can't tell by now goes like this. The pendulum swings very hard. So I said to myself, I'm going to. Like everything up until now has been about look at me. Let me show you. And it's like, and I go, it's I got to take some space for me now. And and and, you know, I work with all these youth groups and stuff. And people go, hey, you know, you did a lot of media and you did a lot of shit where you put yourself out there showing the worst part of yourself and like trying to prove to people that you're not a good person's like, you know, it would it would like touch people and help people to see like your journey and your path. And I go, fuck that. I'm not going to put myself through that. Like I'm taking space. And they're like, yeah, but like at some point, are you going to share your story? And I go, no, that's too literal. I hate words. Words can be confused. Words can be misconstrued. I'm not doing that. I'm just I'm just doing this. And this is enough. Like your ego goes, oh, I'm working with 12 kids today. But if it was filmed, it could reach millions of people. And it's like, no, you're working with 12 kids today. And that's it. And that's enough. Right. But then at some point after years, this is years, a decade of recovery. I thought, well, part of the reason why I hate working with not like Netflix, Hulu, it doesn't matter. Like they're all corporations. They could be cool or whatever. But and even podcasts, which was that's the conversation we had. I'm like, it's all gets edited. It's like, as soon as anything gets a little. And so I go, I'll just make my own show because I have money to do that. And it's not going to cost that much. And then if someone wants to buy it, they will or they won't. So I started making my version of Pee Wee's Playhouse, which was the show show. And it came out on FX on Hulu. And and I got to learn what taking notes and having, you know, corporate feedback and whatever, I'm grateful that it happened. But they killed a lot of the episodes and and then everyone's like, what's your, who's your dream guest? And I was like, it doesn't matter. I'll talk to anybody. I'll talk to like the garbage man. I'll talk, you know, but they're like, it's for TV. So you should try to get some celebrities or well-known people. And I was like, I want Pee Wee Herman, you know. And I had his number still from Sizzler. So I called him and I, you know, and Pee Wee Herman's like, I don't know if he's just one of those people that once he gets your contact info, you get a birthday message from him every year or a Christmas card. And I was like, it just every time I got it, I would send show all my friends. I'm like, it just made me feel so good. So yeah, I have those emails that Sean Parker said about like what he wanted from my art to disrupt the world. I have the nice message from Howard Stern and I have the voice. So I called Pee Wee and he's like, Dave, I got some stuff, some health stuff going on. And and he's like, I feel honored. Thank you. Like, you know, I love your art. You know, now he got to learn a little bit about me and he's like, and I would love to be on your show, but I just, I don't know, I don't want to be on camera anymore. And and he's like, you could send the episodes and I'll, I'll give you some like, if you open to it. I was like, of course. You know, and and it was just, it just like, I couldn't, I couldn't believe that I was talking to him and he like was talking back to me as an equal. And then, I mean, but I got it right away. He's not going to do it, you know. And then at the end, right before I hung up, he goes, you paint butts really good. Oh man. He got it. He got it. And I, you know, he's like, I'm old. I don't want to talk on the microphone. So I don't know if that answered your question about the South Bay. I know that was a long answer for the one question you asked me, but I don't know. Like when people, like, I feel like you're an open person. So if you ask me something, I'm like, and you're ready to go into my head space and, and we can go there together. Then I feel like cared for, listened to, and like, I'm like, because, you know, you listen and they're not present. They're looking at their phone and like, okay, this shows two hours. And I'm like, I got a lot, you know, and that's also how I write very long run on sentences, no punctuation. Um, so there's no like, creativity is such a hard thing to have a conversation about because it's not like my, my path is not someone else's path. And, um, and today it's just every day I wake up, which with what I didn't have before, which is gratitude. I just wake up and it's like, I had a horrible day today. Like it was not good. Like the fucking like flat tire appointment canceled, move back, fucking crazy family shit happening with my dad. And I was just like, I, I wasn't going to cancel, but the feeling was like, it has not this, the not the right headspace to go. And then I said, you know what? Every, like I could sit there and like self, uh, and I'll, oh, you have depression, you have this and it's like almost some weird OCD, like, and you're a horrible person and you, and you, you have anti-social traits and then go, okay, and then what are you going to do about it? You know, and so I, I sit back now. And if I examine my life like a scientist, I go, Hey, uh, what was, what was all that shit about on your part? Why did you say that stuff on your podcast? Why, why did you like do that thing that's against your value system? Why did you, what was about the fucking, like all the suicidal ideation, all the times you try to kill, like, what was that about? You know, and not just like I said, like logically, I know, if I sound hypocritical, not just trying to like analyze it, like, but just an examination of my, my own heart, like doing an X-ray of my heart is like, what, what were you feeling then? And what, and why, like, what is the shame hitting? And why did you do that? And like, so I sit there and I go, we live in a, I'll use I statements. I live in the way the culture I was growing was when someone asked you how you're doing, it's just good. Okay. Which aren't emotions. That's all you say. You don't go, Oh, let me tell you, like, I'm feeling shame today. And I, you know, so we live. I live in, I lived, I was raised in a culture of everything's fine. Everything's okay. Get along to go along. You know, I was a lot of like Asian, only Asian family and like a white neighborhood or black neighborhoods was like, don't, it's a lot of immigrant story, right? Like don't rock the boat. Don't do anything to stand out. We're guests in this country. We're lucky to be here. Don't do basically everything I did, you know, like, you know, keep clear up the campground, leave it nice. And so I sit here. And if I'm being introspective, um, this is all this stuff is like, this is why I say this would be intimate because it's just private stuff that I don't, like I'm trying to just, you know, know my own heart. So it's like, what, why, what is the insane opening Pokemon packs about? Like, right? You could turn that into a joke or like, what is, what is the unmet need? Like, what is your depression telling you right now? What is your anger? Tell, like, if your anger is like unmatched with like, oh, there was like a little flare up at school, some kids said something to your kid. And then like your response is like, yeah, like, what's that about? So instead of shaming myself and going, I'm a piece of shit. Oh, I did all this work and I, and I'm still this, it's just, and I think if I can get quiet and right sized in that moment instead of, oh, I need to like make a story in my head to be like, and just, just sit in that ugliness and uncomfortable. Like if I can do that, I couldn't do that before. I can't. Like you have to either look at me like I'm nothing or I'm the greatest. I can't just, oh, Dave's kind of boring today or he's kind of not making sense. Or he feels like I couldn't have to be all or nothing. It's very black and white, very Christian the way I was raised. OCD like God's way or Satan's way. And so now I just go, that's, that's Palo Alto. If I could find the Palo Alto in my heart, just like the mundane, culturally, like if I could sit in the boring mundane space and I dare to be mediocre, dare to be moderate and, and just like, like I'm, like I said, the feeling is like, oh, what's, what's the sensations? And I could, then that's where the brilliance is. Then I could find my inner spark. I could find and, and, and then in that is when I feel the closest to you and other like if I'm with another person who's closed, this is like, just like banging my head against the wall. But if I can meet another spirit or soul and you're, it doesn't have to, I don't have to agree with you, but it's like you're, I don't, like, I've been talking my ass off. I understand that. Like we could, we could go all night, right? And if you share with me your heart, then it's a shared brokenness. You don't get to where Andrew Huberman doesn't get to this with a smooths, like shit went down. I don't know, but it's on your face. And it's like a vibrational thing, right? Like you don't, you don't fucking tattoo your whole body if everything was cool, right? You don't just become as smart as you are without, like, if you want to destroy me intellectually, you can, like I wouldn't, I wouldn't, I would be like, like, right? So if I can sit in and be vulnerable and sit like, Hey, I'm not perfect, but I'm not a piece of shit. I'm enough. Like I don't need to do anything today. And, and that's for me, that was like, like these cultural moments of watching outcast be inducted into the hall of fame and Andre 3000. I'm going, I'm not going to rap, but everyone wants you to. That's not where I'm at right now. I'm just going to say, I was like, fucking amazing, you know, or, uh, Tarantino's saying Paul Dano, this is like the worst part of there will be blood. I was like, wow, that's the best thing that ever happened. You saw like everyone come out to say how brilliant he is. I mean, what if Tarantino just said, Paul Dano's amazing? Then that would just. So I just, I just find these. Like what is, um, without trying to like psychoanalyze or overanalyze every moment of my life, just go the space, right? Cause I've done the brain mapping and they're like, the way it was explained to me, they dumbed it down. They're like, you're not a psychopath because you do psych, you do psychopathic things, but you actually care about people. You're not a psychopath. And they say the, the space in your brain, there's like a bridge. Like here's reality. You know, it's like, it's like, should I jump off this cliff? And like most people will. The executive function, like, okay, maybe I'm going to get hurt. And like that, that bridge is smaller for people like you. They saw like a little, they go, so you don't really think you just do. And then that's how you, you're like, how did I end up in jail? How did I fucking that? Like, and, and, and that makes for a great story. That makes for a great fucking life or like a story book, crazy life that makes for, and then that's a, a story that's just told, like, you need to be a fucking psychotic, insane, crazy person to be the greatest artist. Right. If you're just like a, you know, boring person living at home with like air conditioning and wifi and your warm cup of Earl gray and you could do good art. You could even do great art, but you won't ever be the best because you're not, you're not facing your shadow. You're not looking at yourself. You're just, that's just technique. That's just craft. That's just skill. Like I'm ripping my fucking heart out and showing it to you. I'm like, what do you think? I'm not saying what do you think? I'm like, fucking what do you think? You know, I feel it. I mean, I feel it. Okay. You know, I mean, I, I, um, sorry, there's like spit all over the table. Please don't apologize. Don't apologize. I know, please don't. I'm slobbering right into your microphone. No apology. Guys almost got me there. No apology. I feel it. I mean, I, I, um, I feel it and, and everybody feels it. And, um, if they don't, they should take a look inside. Like we're, we're, we're, it's going to sound like I'm name dropping now, but go ahead and go for it. I'm very, I feel very blessed to have Rick Rubin as my close friend. Right. Not because he's Rick Rubin, who produced all this music. That's super cool too. Yeah. But because he has antennae and he can feel shit. Yeah. And he can feel it, but he doesn't get absorbed in it. It's very interesting. I don't have that. Yeah. I feel stuff and it, it like the, the, it just, yeah. And, um, I, I am certain people feel your heart in what you do. The self-sacrifice part is hard to hear about. I can relate. Well, I, I talked to Rob a little bit because he's like a PR dude before. Was a PR. He's like a producer. I mean, he's out of it. That smile hides a lot of pain right there. Look at that smile. But, um, yeah, I. Yeah, it's hard. It like, you know, they say these, all these like dumb quote, like no is a complete sentence and it is. Right. I go, no, and then I have to make up some fake like, oh, but like I got, you know, I, I, my car did get a flat tire, but that was a, that used to be a thing I would make up and then people would be like, let me see the metadata, metadata on your phone and make sure that's not a screenshot from like two years. You know, like, um, so I would lie and, and make up excuses, but the, the ability to, it goes against how I was raised. It goes against my culture to just say no to my parents, no to. Jobs, no to think like leaving money on the table saying so that I could put myself first for the first time and, and nurture my own heart and take care of myself is like, it just sounded like that's, I had already written my story. I'm like, you know, and then you, when you have heroes like boarding, like, I think a lot of people also killed themselves after boarding did that. Cause they're like, if the most interesting man on the planet, the guy that's a role model, a guy I look up to, like he's not, he can't fucking figure it out. Then fuck what's there. And, and then almost validates it. Like it's, so you can do it too. Like anyone like, uh, so I, it was just, it just, I had it written out like everyone I looked to look up to and it's so fucking boring and cliche when I think about it. It makes me so angry. It's like, you know, live fast, die young, and then just have people say nice shit about you. And it's like, or just be a little bit more boring and have wonderful relationships. Like I, you, you call me and you go, you're probably busy. I'm like, I'm not that busy dude. I'm not a busy person. I make a lot of space for myself now. I don't like, I, I, and I deserve it. Like I, I owe that to myself. Yeah. I was about to say you've earned it, but you never needed to earn it. You know, I'm glad to hear it because, um, will you commit to taking a year off? I could use some time off. All right. So that sounds like I'll start the negotiations at a year and then if I can get you anywhere close to that, because people will be like, oh shit. You know, like the American vacation is like a week or two weeks, right? That's nothing. That's like barely enough time to. Yeah. I have all these war stories. I don't want to make this about me, but I have all these war stories. Like, you know, my girlfriend at the time, she'll validate these as, you know, being, you know, diarrhea and vomiting while writing a grant back when, you know, I mean, if I, I've had so many wonderful opportunities, but I've been going pretty hard into the paint since I was 19. Like that means nonstop. That means like 50 to a hundred hour a week since then. Like what's the longest vacation you've ever taken in your life? Four days. I mean, this isn't me deflecting. It's just like, I just met you and like, I'm so happy that, like, I was like, if I can, if he gives me the space to speak what you did and you can. Feel what I like, what I was trying to say. And like to me, like that's all I want is connection, right? Like that's, I want to be seen now before I was hiding and wearing masks. But in that, I felt you and I go, I didn't know what you were going to say, but I was like, it's going to be less than a week because you don't want to. You don't get, because I know you don't get to where nobody does. Everyone pays the price. You don't get to where you are right now by taking time off. You just don't. But like you just said to me, I'll say it back to you. You deserve it. And I, and to speak to the workaholic part of you, and I say this to people that are like you and me, you will have more ideas, more inspiration, more like you can't think now, because you're thinking about how's Rob going to get paid? How's the, because you take care of a lot of people, right? But in that time, I could come, I could get rid of all this black. I could make that some color here. I could get you some white t-shirts. You could spend time with your family, just the shit that you're running from, you know, and I feel like, okay, a year is unrealistic. You're like, I'm running out, you know, but it's, it will like people, oh, go to plant medicine. I was like, just taking a year off and first weeks or months will just be you unlearning the workaholic of just, I got to do something to have value. And it's just, um, and I feel like it will, when you come back, you'll be like, like a thousand, you know, like, and sometimes in our culture, we get knocked down, not by our choice. And then, but I'm like, this would be by your choice. You go, I, I taking care of Andy today. Love you, Rob. Love you all you guys out there, but, you know, you know what? I'll run your podcast while you're gone. I'll do all the science. I'll, you could feed me some big words to use, but, um, and I'll go paint. Oh my God. I'm going to, yeah, I'm, I feel more comfortable with you now. But it's like, like, I think I would lie to you, like whatever, whatever you showed me, I'd be like, Oh, that's cool. But like, I think it's cool that anyone who's a egghead who spends time up here, I think every thinker needs to spend time playing music or painting because it's just, it's the opposite of that, right? You're using the other side of your brain, but it sounds like the way you're painting is very in your head. And I would just rip you out of that. And I, it would be very uncomfortable, but then you could see the kind of like life, right? You just see, throw shit at the wall and see what sticks and, and, and through that, it's about control, right? I had, I had to, you know, and part of being in 12 step in recovery is like, and, you know, and, and the wisdom to know the difference, you know, the thing, the serenity prayer is I had to, like, you can't control mother nature. You can't control a fire. You can't control what other people are going to think about you or say about you. You just can't. You could try to, let me write a paper and fit like so that, and, and, and yeah, you could do that for a little bit, but it's tiring and it's exhausting to try to get all these people to believe what, you know, like, and, and, and so I, yeah, I just, it, it, it's, it's, it goes, it's anti, it goes against the word winning and the win surrender, right? Like I win every day because I surrender constantly now. And part of that, I got to still fight because it's like, you sound like a loser while you're giving up, right? It's going to fucking shut the fuck up, pick yourself up by your bootstraps and get back in. And you know, like, that's how you become the best. Like all the other artists, they're like dealing with it. Like you don't have kids. You don't get married. You fucking paint. You go to the art store, you buy all the paint up, you fucking keep painting. You steal all the paints. Like just keep painting, never stop. And it's all going to be worth it because one day you're going to die and then legacy, but now we see legacy is nothing. Right. I get, I get in an Uber, get in the car fucking smells like teen spirit. Right. One of the greatest anthems ever guy in the car, 27 years. What's this? Well, I'll tell you, you don't know fucking Nirvana. Okay. You ever seen Goodfell, like whatever, whatever who's the Godfather, like go down the list, the greatest, nobody cares. Right. The great over the greatest science. So it's just this, it's just this, this is all you have. So you've done enough. People fucking love you. They, you've helped so many people and I want you to take one year off. And I don't care if people are like, fuck that guy, that guy helps me every day. I want to use soothing voice every night. But I'm like, AI bro, just use it. No, I'm kidding. I'm just saying, I would love. Whatever you've been running from, whatever you've been doing to, like you help a lot of people, but do you help yourself on that level? And it's like, yeah, um, starting painting, that's taking care of it. Like it's not complete all or nothing, but someone like you and other people like you are not going to outsmart the feeling, right? You're not going to outrun the pain. And it's like, uh, like, I don't know what your father was like. I don't know what your mom was like, but they're proud of you. Like you don't need to do more. Like they're proud of you. And, and like, if you go to what I said, the only way to really make them proud is to disappoint them. You just got to fucking Andrew. I'm really disappointed in you. Then you know, you're doing something right. You know, um, sorry for talking over you. No, I was interrupted. What, what, what, like your face says a lot. So I just want to know what you're trying to, um, well, the part about legacy is where I was interrupted, but it's not, let's let it pass. Cause it, it, yes and yes, the legacy thing. It, it's nothing. It's nothing. Um, I've done, I feel like I've done so much in acting. Like I've done all these things and people are like, who's that Chinese kid? I'm like, it doesn't matter. Like, well, they don't say it doesn't matter. Like you do all this stuff so that you have something to leave behind. And I go, you just have this. You just have like right now today. And that's it. And like we're going to, we did this today and then, and then it's off to the universe. I can't control what people are going to think about me. And it's like, I came here today with my intention of meeting you, telling you how you make me feel and how like, how much I appreciate you. And I did that. So that's it. And that, like, I have no ill will. I'm not trying to like, yeah, I probably talk shit about a lot of people right now, but it's like, fine. Okay. That's, that's my, right. And I should probably just let all that stuff go. But to tell someone who's used to winning, who's fought like tooth and nail for everything they had to fight and like prove people wrong over and over again. To tell someone like that, Hey, just surrender. It's like, fuck you, dude. You don't like, you don't tell me that like, um, so yeah, that journey from head to heart is, it's a big one. And that's why the, like, you can't say that to everyone, right? Because they're like, I got to fucking, but I'm like, I, I don't know your financial situation, but I'm like, I think you could take a year off. Like, um, it's not for, but, but that's the other thing, right? Like, it must be nice day from your perspective. And I go, I was homeless. Like I've lived the worst, like, like people for like, I know I sound defensive, but like I've, I wasn't born rich. Like I worked for this. So it's like, it must sound nice from a rich guy's perspective. And I go, if, if I think back to my happiest moments or even just my most creative moments, it was always less, it was never more. Right. So when I lived in a tiny house, that means less doors to open, less walls to we're living together in a, you know, and it's fucking cold, but at least we got body, you know, I'm making it sound like, uh, you know, like we're, we were okay, but I'm like, we didn't have that much. And it was, it was great cause we had each other. And, and I think back and I go, okay, creative output. Let's go to work. You know, let's go back into my head. And I go, Oh, every time I had like a Renaissance level, creative explosion, there was no wifi and there was no heater. It was always freezing. There was cold, like you're talking about deprivation. Yeah. Like, and then now. Like it's just, it would be with my, uh, attention. It would be impossible for me to get anything done. If I didn't go out of my way to block all my electronic devices. I couldn't do it. My social media is on a separate phone. It goes into a lockbox that can't be coded out to get work done. I mean, would I hear, well, first of all, I want to be clear that, um, I don't need an answer from you. I'm just throwing the, the challenge of the gauntlet down. I would love for you to take one year off as someone who I just met, who I care about and I like, um, we're humans, right? Can't just run forever. Like there needs to be a recharge, a refresh. Like there's just things that I, that you get offered. I guess you're like, I'm never going to do that. I'm not saying I don't need to. Why don't you go to this retreat and just work on this part of your heart or this part of your, uh, journey for a month. You're like, pfft, I'm not going to fucking do that. And it's like, but why not? You deserve it. And it's going to be hard. It's not like a bit fun vacation. And like for me, the way I think about it is part of, part of like what, because I take podcasting. So like I'm, I try to manicure how I look and sound and I do a lot of recent people and I try to make it look like I didn't, right? Like before I go on Joe Rogan or Howard Stern, I like, I, I call up people and I fucking do like, I talk for 12, I go, is this work? Is like, and then I come on and I try and that's fake. And it's been years since I did a podcast. I was like, I, I, I'm getting like a very genuine feeling from you. And so I don't want to do that today. And I was fucking, that's why I was puking. I was scared. I was like, I'm just going to come in and I might see something that like fucks me up because it has so many times, but I'm just going to.  the truest version of, I guess I could, that was scary to me, that was like really being naked, like I, I like to be prepared and I, like last night it was late, I couldn't sleep, and I was like, oh fuck, I can't believe, because it's like I live a quiet, like I don't, and I was like, oh man, like, it was like, let me, like, like, not like you're the enemy, I was like, oh I'm going into enemy territory, what if he has like, I got you a question, like, I have to have a, you know, like, it was, it was like I was at VICE again, you know, VICE was so much riffing and witty comebacks, and I was like, this is exhausting, and I was like, but can you just go and just, you know, and I, and I realized it took me like two hours to answer like one question, but that's, I also accept that about myself, you know, but yeah, I started like, I started, I, Andrew, Hugh, and then it was like, it finishes your name, and I was like, I'm not going to do this, I don't want to do this, I don't want to just fucking read about you all night, and then like have come in, like prepared, and great, great, I was like, I'm so glad, I'm so glad you abandoned that, I did, I did, I said just fucking told, dude, yeah, man, I'm so grateful you showed up here that in that frame, that no frame frame, yeah, I know as soon as I start talking, if I say anything kind about you, you're going to get that thing, but I'm just going to tell you, it, I'll tell you, there are a couple reasons you're here, some of them I touched on earlier, you're amazing artist, you're amazing person, but the main reason you're here is because a long time ago, I saw you at a meeting, and I learned from you there, and I was like, you know, I would like to be his friend, and I know I can learn a lot from him. Oh my God. So without getting into any details about that, I mean, you can, I don't care. Well, maybe another time. I told you, you know, you've helped me a ton, I also, like, I have this model in my head, maybe this is the scientist in me where, but I feel like you've made yourself like the anvil, the hammer, and the metal, like, and it's like this cycle of the opportunity to do something, to feel something, and then, you know, I guess my friend Ryan Swab was right, he said, you know, people get addicted to shame, but to me, it's the whole cycle, right? But the thing that I really want you to take in is that people learn from what comes out of your mouth. They don't, like, yes, the stories are interesting, infinitely interesting, and entertaining also, and yes, you have a gift for storytelling, just like you have a gift for art, but it's, you know, people learn, and, you know, we touch on Bourdain who I didn't know, I know you and Joe were both close to him, I know a couple other people were close to him, and, you know, I'm not a hero on a public service campaign, that's not how I do this podcast, I'm only here with you right now, but, you know, there are a lot of people off in themselves, close friend of that recently, a very famous scientist that appeared to have everything, this kind of thing, and it's happening more and more, and I think that when people hear you, when I hear you, I know what people hear, they feel you, and they hear the extent to which, yeah, there are a lot of hard stuff and great stuff happening, but you're still here, and you're still going, and that example is really, really important. Well, I don't want to, I don't want to be a survivor, you know, it's like I'm a survivor because I survived all this stuff, but so did everybody, and I'm not trying to, like, Yeah, and you're, but you're still going. But I don't want to survive, I want to thrive. Right, you're a thriver. That's why I think of, like, Korean Jesus or Pee Wee Herman, and I go, it was like, I try to keep things light and entertaining. It was a lot. It was really painful, right? If you get it, it wasn't easy, and it wasn't easy for everyone, but so then you go, well, will you work on yourself? Will you do this work? Will you go to a meeting? It's like, are we having fun yet? Right, it's like, it's a lot of fucking pain and work to just be, you know, and the question is like, I want to put it, is like, are we having fun yet? Like, isn't, are we supposed to have fun? Like, you know, my son wakes up every morning laughing. I go, what the fuck is happening up there? What is like, I can't remember the last time I woke up smiling. It's like, and I'm like, Oh, if we can remember, like, I, like it was dumb doing the secret word, but I, I loved it. Like, are you guys scared the shit? Like, I, you know, and it's people, you know, trigger warning, they do like, there's a lot of people killing themselves, like on an epidemic, men, like I don't know that many women, but a lot of men. And so powerful tool. Because, because I've done so much reckless, I am, I'm a miracle that I'm here right now, and I'm not saying that to be like, Oh, I just, I could have been dead a lot of time. No, I think God's been looking out for you. So I say to myself without aggrandizing myself or being on like some guru Messiah type shit, like, so I made it through that. I am having fun, despite how much I cry and stuff. But even that, like I wouldn't, I would be called a pussy and all that if I did that. And I go, I just allowing myself to feel everything. And, and, and so I, I, I learned this tool called just play the tape out. Right. So you go, if you're an idiot, you're an idiot, but if you have any level of intelligence, you go, well, how do you think this ends for you? How do you think this drug problem ends for you? How do you think cheating on your wife ends for you? How do you think nonstop, like it doesn't end well. Right. That's one of my favorite things to tell my friend, that's okay right now. That's mad. I go, but addiction and it just, it just escalates. It doesn't stay. You don't just kind of like, and then someone like me, it escalates very quickly. So it's dangerous and, and an addiction loves novelty. Right. So if, if someone's sucking dick for crack in an alley right now, that little boy, he never, he wasn't a little boy when they go, I hope I do that one day. What happened? It started with weed, then it went to coke and just escalated. Right. He wasn't like, I want to do degrading acts that I don't want to do for drugs, but it escalated and that's on the addict side. But I just found myself having a lot of, I swear, like weird broken problem. I swear I'll never do that. But then I'm like, here I am in this weird place doing weird shit that it's going against my value system. Here I am. Oh, I'm chasing the shame again. So I know this is kind of hypocritical because I'm, I'm applying logic again, but if you just talk to someone and you use this tool of, Hey, you're not an idiot, play the tape out your, your behavior that's like chasing a bottom or destructive or not that destructive yet, but it's on the path and you're like, yeah, I'll be all right. It's like, just play it out. Like how do you think this ends for you? Right. I go, I need to go back to podcasting. Right. And then I go on these podcasts and I go, are we having fun yet? Or is it like, you seem like you got the weight of the world on your shoulders. You seem miserable. You seem like you can find, like I'm not, it's just like in general, I don't find podcasters like happy people. It's just, it's just like, I go, so when are like, when like, you know, oh, look, cut. It's going, it's like, oh, shit, sponsors. I got to fucking, the numbers are going down this. And I'm like, can we have fun? Like, is it only about making money and just it's enough? Like if, and it's, it's, it's because we live in a society, especially if you live in a city where the messaging from billboards to social, everything is telling you from the second you wake up, it's not hundreds, it's thousands of messages telling you you're not enough. Right. And then I go through the brain mapping. I do it and it's like, wow, Dave, you're really hard on yourself. You say so much. It's, it's, it's like, if someone said that to my friend, I would, I would do something. So it's like a lot of punishing like self-talk. And then it feels gay to say, I'm enough. And you know, it's like, that's that again. Why, why do you have to say it like that? It's like, oh, I'm worthy. I am a good person. I am a good father. I am a good friend. I am a good brother. You know, it's like, this sounds like just self-help, but I'm, I was able to brainwash myself into believing I was the best artist in the world till. So why can't I brainwash myself into thinking I'm a good person? So then I, I go, when I meet people, I want to say nice stuff, like real stuff, not like, that's how I feel. And he's like, that's weird. I don't want to just tell someone his shirt fits good on him, but it does. I mean, even for black, it does. So the tools is like, you know, writing with deodorant, like a thick, white, chunky deodorant. So I see it. So it's in my psyche because it's every day it's billboards of good looking people and I don't look like that. And so the messaging is all fucked up. And unless I'm just going to say fuck all internet and just move to the African wilderness, which I might do, I just write on the wall. I am worthy. I'm enough. And I see it every morning when I wash my face. And it's just like, I'm starting to brainwash myself. It's like, that's one tool is like telling people I love and I care about how I feel about them, not till they're dead, not till it's like they're in their bottom. And I'm like, hey, it's like, I tell them every day because that's, that's, that's all we have. And then I say that about myself. And then I can catch myself like that bridge that was like, basically like a suicide bridge, just like reckless behavior, reckless, irresponsible behavior, immature behavior. But all of this shit is hard because I'm coming at it with generations of a story that says, you need to stay sick. Like when you hear Kanye say bipolar is my superpower, like there's a part of me that's like, of course, and I like my artist fucked up. The more fucked up you are, that's true genius. That's, you know, and I go, you know, I have friends close to me that go, as someone who's as creative as you is, so you're so like boring and small thinking when you just buy into those things. And it's like, like, is there anyone who lives a moderate life? Just the regular, does everything doesn't have to be jumping on a train and like that is doing great art. And I go, show me an example. There's an ago, but couldn't you be the first? Well, there's ego and narcissists. And it's just like, just, and then, okay, fine, let's just go, let's go with, let's play that tape out. Let's just say for you to make the choice to be a normal person, you're never going to have the best podcast or the best art. You're just going to be kind of like right there, 70%. What's wrong with that? You know, but that's not, that's going against everything, right? So I have to, it's hard, you know, and especially something with art where it's in, there's just people that are like, you're literally doing the worst art I've ever seen in my life. You know, I wish, you know, it's like, oh, the first album was good type shit, you know, and there's part of me that's like, yeah, the earlier stuff had more angst and way more detail and more labored over, and the stuff now is way more looser. And, but I love it now. Like I like, I like myself how I feel. And it's, it's very rare that you have, it's, you know, the whole lonely at the top that you have these champions, people that are like the best at what they do, the top 1% of the world champion of this, is that you meet them and they're just like a content satisfied happy. It's miserable and you're like, what was the point? What why? And it's either you, you have the courage through yourself and friends to, to make that change. Like, I'll, if you take a year off, like, we're going to hang out a lot. Like we're going to paint, we're going to do all that, but it's like, like, it's always like, you got to do it alone. That was my message. Like shut, like shut the fuck up. Don't complain. Like very Asian, very Korean, like don't say anything. Like someone fucking treat you like shit. Keep your head down and just, it's all revenge is a dish best serve cold. You know, just fucking shut, don't ever let them know. See what you coming, see how you feel and just your, your, your revenge is success. Like just like that guy treated you shit at work, then just become the guy that owns that business and then fire him, you know, like, um, oh, I'm so fucking. Glad that guy chip got fired. That felt so good. Chip sounds like an asshole. He was such an asshole, but I, so you just, I have in those things, all these tools are like, okay, cool. They're all simple. Okay. Wake up every day and say I'm a good person. Yeah. It's simple, but it's hard. It's not easy. You have to like work at it. Like, yeah, like, oh, get up every day and do a hundred pushups. I could do that, but I don't, but you could. It's like, but you care about your physical health, but why wouldn't you do that for your mental health, your spiritual health? You know, oh, I'm not religious is like spirituality is the ocean. It's the universe. It's, it's a power greater than you. Right. So, um, so I, yeah, that, that playing the tape out is a very valuable, powerful, like I, I need to take action in this way. And sometimes the action is to do less and it's to do nothing where everything growing up was do more. And I was going to say, am I making any sense? But through your face, I could see that I, I feel like I feel heard and I feel understood in this moment, which is very special to me. So thank you. Thank you. You are absolutely heard and you're absolutely understood and I'm very grateful to you. And, um, I know everyone listening is to the, um, permission to tell oneself and feel that they are enough is, that's oddly the hardest thing, but the encouragement is, is heard. It lands. I think also, because I've talked so much about shame and I'll, I'll end it with this. It feels like a, is a hope and faith is also a very powerful drug. And sometimes, like, like I said, with my mom or me believing in Santa, like there's no logic in that, but, um, you know, entire wars and nations are fought over faith and you know, and, um, I, I feel like because I'm sensitive and I'm empathetic to everybody that I meet, that it feels like a really hopeless time. And I feel like that's why there's a lot of self harm and depression. And, um, so it's like weird. It's like, how would you be hopeful in a city like LA where there's like 70,000 homeless people, like natural disasters, drug epidemics, you know, just all this shit. And it's like, then to, to, you know, to, to, to brainwash yourself. Like if, because it's that, that's what the connection is. Like if I don't believe it to find, to go out there and meet someone in real life and say, Hey, I'm having, it was like the hardest thing to do. It's like, I need help right now. I can't. It's like weird to admit to someone that I can't do like, I can't, I can't even come up with one nice thing to say about myself. Can you say something nice about me? What, that sounds very egotistical, but I need that right now. I really don't like myself right now. And to have someone say something nice and you go, okay, maybe tomorrow I'll be able to say something nice about myself. And then you're building something called hope and faith. And so I don't know. I'm, I told a long Pee Wee Herman story, but at the end of that, I was like, what was that? It's like, okay, that's resilience. That's taking chance. That's believing in yourself, but I never gave up hope. You know, it's like, and it's just, and that's delusional in a way, but that's like how, like if you take facts and numbers and it's like, this is the end of the world. This is like, may I, it's going to kill like all this fucking doomsday post-apocalyptic is like, I don't need that shit, dude. I don't watch horror movies. I don't surround myself with like, that's fine. Like that's everyone do your own thing. And like I said, you know, we were both like, we like punk, but we don't like hardcore. Like I used to love hardcore because it's, I needed that. I needed to hear that message. Vibrationally and spiritually and sonically to go like, oh, that guy's singing at a frequency that's resonating with me. It doesn't know. And I fucking hated Ray game my whole life because those people were happy. And now I listened to Ray gay, you know, I go Ray gay on the river or whatever, you know, like, and I'm just like, they are like immediately judge me. What if I can't believe you're fucking listening to Ray gay? This is like stoner music, but it's, it's the frequency is hitting me now. So I can be appreciative of hardcore music. But, um, yeah, I, I, if I look back and I go, what, what, what was that? What the fuck was that? It was just screaming for help. Lost and hopeless. And I just go, hope is a hard thing to have it in a time like this, but not if you ask for help, not if you reach out, not if you connect with other people. And that is going to be impossible to do. If you don't, you need to, you know, now it sounds like I'm going to fucking know it all, but it's like, you need to deprive yourself. Of electronics, like it has to happen. Like you can't have real emotion. If you're watching TV or your phone, like it's the only way, like any time, it's like a secret language. Anytime I'm out and someone has a clamshell phone or flip phone, a dumb phone, whatever, a brick phone, they have whatever you call it. I give a wink. Yeah. Cause I know I'm like, this guy, he's, he cares about himself cause you can't. Oh, I go to fuck with it. Like, no, you don't. You don't need to know who's being murdered on every country and what are you going to do about it? Nothing. So I believe I have faith that we're all here for a reason and, and, uh, and to anyone listening, and I don't, I don't know when this is coming out and I didn't know, I honestly didn't know I was going to publicly come out about my belief in Santa Claus, but it is the season. Is this going to come out soon or after Christmas? Okay. Just try it on. Just, just like, I know it's stupid, but just believe in Santa. Like all the, I know kids already do, but any grownups, bitter jaded adults listening, just, just try it on this, this year. Just, and if you need, you know, he can teleport. He's a mutant. He has special abilities and he knows if you've been naughty or nice. So yeah, I don't, I don't know. We could, I could like, this is the problem because where we're at now is when I would start. Like I'm, this was like the pre, like when I used to do my podcast, DVD, I say, we, this be like, Oh, it wasn't a podcast because it wasn't a conversation. It was you talking the whole time and we're three hours in and, and be like, okay, now let's, now let's start. Let's get ugly and real and be like, nobody likes to talk for nine hours, dude. I'm like, I do. So I'm going to, I feel like you'd be down if we wanted to go six more hours. Easy. And we could maybe do that one day. We should. But I feel like, I don't know. Am I, am I, you know what? I'm surrendering. I feel like, unless you have more shit to ask me, then I'm down. Oh man, I've, in the language of meetings and other things, I think for now, yeah, we're complete. Thank you so much, man. Thank you. Thank you. That was so, I mean, I, I feel good. I feel good too. Very grateful. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you for joining me for today's discussion with David Cho. To learn more about him and his work, please see the links in the show note captions. If you're learning from and or enjoying this podcast, please subscribe to our YouTube channel. That's a terrific zero cost way to support us. In addition, please follow the podcast by clicking the follow button on both Spotify and Apple. And on both Spotify and Apple, you can leave us up to a five star review and you can now leave us comments at both Spotify and Apple. Please also check out the sponsors mentioned at the beginning and throughout today's episode. That's the best way to support this podcast. If you have questions for me or comments about the podcast or guests or topics that you'd like me to consider for the Huberman Lab podcast, please put those in the comments section on YouTube. I do read all the comments. For those of you that haven't heard, I have a new book coming out. It's my very first book. It's entitled protocols and operating manual for the human body. This is a book that I've been working on for more than five years and that's based on more than 30 years of research and experience. And it covers protocols for everything from sleep to exercise, to stress control protocols related to focus and motivation. And of course I provide the scientific substantiation for the protocols that are included. The book is now available by presale at protocolsbook.com. There you can find links to various vendors. You can pick the one that you like best. Again, the book is called protocols and operating manual for the human body. And if you're not already following me on social media, I am Huberman Lab on all social media platforms. So that's Instagram, X, Threads, Facebook and LinkedIn. And on all those platforms, I discuss science and science related tools, some of which overlaps with the content of the Huberman Lab podcast, but much of which is distinct from the information on the Huberman Lab podcast. Again, it's Huberman Lab on all social media platforms. And if you haven't already subscribed to our neural network newsletter, the neural network newsletter is a zero cost monthly newsletter that includes podcasts summaries as well as what we call protocols in the form of one to three page PDFs that cover everything from how to optimize your sleep, how to optimize dopamine, deliberate cold exposure. We have a foundational fitness protocol that covers cardiovascular training and resistance training. All of that is available completely zero cost. You simply go to Huberman Lab.com, go to the menu tab in the top right corner, scroll down to newsletter and enter your email. And I should emphasize that we do not share your email with anybody. Thank you once again for joining me for today's discussion with David Cho. And last, but certainly not least, thank you for your interest in science.