 bi pongizzoar, naringi,adic, naringi,adic, naringi,adic, naringi,adic, naringi,adic, naringi,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic,adic Depression is common in both types. You may lose interest in things you enjoy, feel hopeless, or struggle to get out of bed. For those with Bipolar II, depressive episodes often last longer, sometimes more than two weeks, and may feel more intense than Bipolar I. The key difference lies in mania. Only people with Bipolar I experience mania. Periods of high energy, racing thoughts, or a sense of invincibility. This can lead to risky behaviors like overspending, gambling, and reckless driving. Some may even experience psychosis, which can include delusions or hallucinations. People with Bipolar II experience hypomania instead. These periods aren't as extreme as manic episodes. You may feel unusually happy or energetic, but not experience the delusions or hallucinations that are common with mania. Between mood episodes, many people experience euthymia, a return to their baseline mood. These periods of normalcy can happen in both Bipolar I and Bipolar II. While both types of Bipolar disorder can significantly disrupt someone's life, people with Bipolar I tend to have a hard time maintaining relationships or remaining employed. It can be more difficult to treat Bipolar I and may require hospitalization, since manic symptoms can be dangerous. In Bipolar II, hypomania episodes may not impact someone's life as much. But that means Bipolar II is often misdiagnosed as depression. Treatment for both Bipolar I and Bipolar II is often a combination of medication and therapy. But it's common for people with either type of Bipolar II to have trouble sticking with their treatment program. Bipolar II is lifelong, but it's also manageable. With the right care and support, many people lead healthy, fulfilling lives.