 blood cancer is one of the most common cancers in the world, with 1.2 million people getting diagnosed every year. That might seem dire, but survival rates have steadily increased over the last 20 years, thanks to innovative treatments and ongoing research. There are more than 120 different kinds of blood cancers. The three most common are leukemia, lymphoma, and myeloma, and they directly affect your blood, bone marrow, and lymphatic system. We don't always know the direct cause of blood cancers, but they often occur as a result of having too many abnormal blood cells. These abnormal cells tend to grow at increasing rates, crowding out healthier ones over time. As a result, your bone marrow has a hard time producing the healthy cells needed to perform essential tasks. Different blood cancers have different risk factors, but things like smoking, exposure to chemicals, autoimmune diseases, genetic disorders, and a family history of blood cancers can all increase your risk as you get older. Symptoms vary depending on the kind of blood cancer you have, but some of the more common symptoms include shortness of breath, fatigue, swollen lymph nodes, and frequent infections, night sweats, joint and bone pain, and unexpected weight loss are also possible. You might even experience unexplained bruising, bleeding, or rashes. These symptoms can occur on their own for a variety of other conditions too. So make sure you speak with a healthcare provider who can run blood tests, imaging tests, and other exams to figure out what's causing them. The good news is there are more treatment options today than ever before. Depending on the kind of blood cancer you have, your care team could suggest chemotherapy, radiation therapy, immunotherapy, targeted therapy, stem cell transplants, or even some combination of these. In many cases, these treatments could help manage your blood cancer for years, or even put it into long-term remission. If you are experiencing unusual symptoms, or have a family history of blood cancer, talk with your doctor. Early testing and diagnosis can make a major difference.