 prediabetes is reversible and you can really take ownership to reverse it. So it may seem daunting, but small, gradual lifestyle changes will make a huge impact. So starting to plan what foods you want available to you in the home and being able to put meals together that are equally balanced. And I know that can be difficult or daunting, but most of the time I see my patients starting their day off with carbohydrates. So they might be eating cereal or toast or bagels, waffles or something very carbohydrate laden and that's only going to cause your blood sugar to spike and then drop and then you're feeling hungry again, your blood sugar is dropping, you need energy. So it only leads to you grabbing those carbs again and it's this vicious cycle throughout the day. If you're not consuming enough protein and healthy fat with your meals, you're going to get into that blood sugar trap of the elevation and then decline and then consistently trying to feed that energy with carbohydrate based foods because carbs are our body's main source of energy and we certainly need them, but it's just the balance. So I educate a lot on providing enough protein with each meal. Starting off your day with protein is ideal because it really kind of starts that blood sugar off in the right level. So protein and healthy fats are essential. That could look like a veggie omelet with some avocado, some fainting Greek yogurt with some berries and nuts on top. So something that is more protein lead in and then you know, kind of continuing that same trend throughout the day. Fiber is essential for slowing down the rate of glucose. So if you are going to eat carbs, you want to choose ones that have high fiber carbohydrates that have fiber tend to have protein. More protein when compared to a simple carbohydrate that does not have fiber. So that is going to be the ideal to balance blood sugars and balance appetite. So I think that the key is that meal timing and the macro nutrient composition of your meals. There is no one size fits all diet and I think that's really important to understand. Yes, I think the Mediterranean diet is great, but really we really need to understand how food affects us, what we're eating and how it's affecting our bodies and how we can change what we're eating to better improve our health outcome. So it can be very specific to you. If there are food choices that you really like and you don't want to give up, we can certainly build those in. It's just a matter of understanding how to build them in, what time to build them in, what to combine them with and how much to eat of them. So utilize your health care team if you need any health or support. The Cleveland Clinic website has a ton of great resources and articles, but really you are in the driver's seat here.