 phrases phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases, phrases phrases, phrases phrases, phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases phrases kind of at the end of a long medical journey. They've seen a lot of specialists, they've gotten a lot of tests, and people are looking for answers. So really what I try to do at first is summarize the data, get an idea of what has brought someone to this point, and kind of feel them out and see what are they looking for and what's important for them. Does this person need an operation? That's the first question. And then the second question is, is surgery safe for them? Will they tolerate the operation? Even though they have an indication, some patients may be too sick or may not be the best candidates for surgery. And then the third question is, are they confident to proceed forward? Or do they have the reassurance and the confidence that they need that they're making the right choice? I like my patients to really feel like they have a good understanding of what's going on with their health, and I try to get a great feeling from them about what their values are and what they're looking for out of the whole process. My goal when developing a treatment plan with a patient is to not only fix their heart, but to do it in a way where they have the quickest possible recovery and the lowest risk for any complication. A lot of people carry a lot of anxiety and a lot of emotions into heart surgery, and that's 100% understandable. It is a big event. For me to come back and say, we got a great result, your loved one is going to do just fine, and they're going to live a long, healthy life from this point on, I think that's the most rewarding part for me.