 I was rotating in Augusta, Georgia, and a young mother came in and told me that the physician I was following was her physician, her mother's physician, it was going to be her newborn's physician and seeing one physician take care of three generations was the aha moment for me. A specialty is executive medicine and my training is in family medicine. Executive Health is a comprehensive visit where we try to create as much efficiency without minimizing the quality. Concierge medicine and executive medicine are often confused. Concierge medicine is when a patient pays a membership and they have 24-7 access to their provider all year round. Executive medicine on the other hand is an annual visit where the patient comes in and for an entire day sometimes too, depending on how much the patient wants to get done, we do a lot of testing and we try to be as thorough as possible to help the patient have a very good sense of what exactly is going on with their health. I want to know about who you are, what you enjoy doing, who's around you at home, who's around you away from home. I want to know more about how you think your health is going, what changes you think you would like to make. Stress management is incredibly important, which is why we offer executive coaching. Nutrition is incredibly important, which is why we have a nutritionist working with us. For those who have cancer in the family, we have a geneticist who will test for mutations that the patient may have inherited and potentially passed on. In-body scans to see how much muscle mass or body fat the patient actually has. We have a fitness coach who has the patient do a fitness assessment to get a sense of where they are and where they could be. We have a phlebotomist who will draw blood at the time of the check-in so that we can check basic labs as well as advanced labs. We also set the patient up with a gynecologist if they're due for their pap smear, mammogram, or women's health issues. We also do bone density, lung screening, heart screening. We check circulation. We screen for aneurysms. We check for cancer. A week later, I will send you, the patient, and your doctor a very long summary of everything we found. And if there's anything relevant to the executive health visit, I will help coordinate that care. I just want you to know that I'm going to go out of my way to ensure the best quality care I can deliver. And I want you to be confident in knowing that I have dedicated time to your care before I have even met you. So that by the time you leave, you have a very clear plan of what's next. To me, health is wealth. I think prevention is key. And if you can catch things as early as possible, then you can change the trajectory that you're on. But when I'm not working, I'm usually swimming. I was a swimmer for a long time, and I love being in the pool.