 tfonding, The first question I get asked, what's the secret for this young, not so young anymore, but back then it used to be young immigrant who managed to achieve sustained NIH funding and transition from grants to administration, etc. So the rule number one is passion. For me, I'm passionate about newborn brain health and every baby to thrive and have the best possible outcomes. So that helps fuel. a lot of the research, clinical and new fellowship program that we've created. And the fact that all those programs are interrelated helps a lot. And I love working with people and collaborating with people to share the same passion. My journey started with the neonatal piglets. You know, this is me, Abbott Laptic and Myra. In the 1990s, before hypothermia made it to the bedside, we were doing piglet asphyxia and resuscitation, cooling the piglets, doing CPR on them. And that work, and among other pioneers in the field, that showed that if you intervene within six hours of time zero, you could mitigate the reperfusion injury. And then being able to participate in the clinical trials, of course, was something wonderful and a unique opportunity that kind of changed the way I saw my career unfold. And bridging those translational piglets to trials with the hypothermia standard of care was fundamental. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr. Dr.!!!!! I will not afraid to use philanthropy to expand the Neuronic U program. And I recommend everybody to dabble into this. It helps you to serve better. And I leverage now my administrative title across 20,000 deliveries, multiple hospitals, so that brain care is the focus, not a secondary side effect or a secondary issue. I have the most amazing Neuronic U teammates. Interdisciplinary is another key for success. So passion, putting in the hard work, aligned programs, and interdisciplinary teams that work together to serve the babies. And with that little introduction about how I was able to navigate my own journey, and in the hope it inspires others navigating their own journeys, I want to take it now to the scientific content of can we do better with our neuroprotections? So with the early trials that I was lucky to be part of, we moved the mountains. And now with the recent trials, we're trying to move the needle into a better direction so that more babies with asphyxia can thrive and have a better outcome. We all know that asphyxia is a complicated, dynamic process. And the encephalopathy that results after birth is not static. It changes. The event could be prenatal, acute on chronic, postnatal. And Sarnet and Sarnet classification was meant to reflect persistence of encephalopathy over the first week of life. It was not designed for the first six hours because in the 70s, there was no time zero to worry about. It was really to prognosticate. And the best prognostic is time to tell us how the babies are doing. When the early trials tackled the issue, they had to simplify the Sarnet into a modified score and to really look at three out of six categories as moderate or severe as the first babies for those trials, knowing that if we show evidence of benefit, infants with lesser symptoms would be undetected under this iceberg and need to be addressed in future trials. The first hassle with this concept now 20 years or over since those trials is that the forms universally failed to capture mild. Mild and normal were checked into one box. So there is no way to tell if retrospectively what were those babies with lesser abnormalities doing and how were they thriving. So 20 years worth of data, not helpful. One of my earlier work when I was getting out of fellowship was actually, and that's 20 years ago or more, was looking into those early stages of the modified Sarnet and dissecting normal versus mild, moderate, and severe and showing that infants oscillated between features and some of them had persistence of the encephalopathy. Okay. And this led to, I'm sorry, can you guys still see my screen? No, we cannot. One second. I mean, technical problems, which we shall fix. No, yeah, no worries. Don't worry. It's, it's, if anybody has a question, now is the time to bring it up. Here we go. Can you see it again? Yeah, we can. Yes. Okay. So that led to the prime study first, which is we do not know what it looks like in the first six hours that modified Sarnet stage. And we had six sites agree that we're going to look at short and long-term outcome. And the prime study was well published. I don't want to drag too much about it, except that it was the first time we look prospectively and validate an early definition of mild in the first six hours and link it to short and long-term outcomes. More important, we validated this total Sarnet score. So if you look at each one of the categories and give it a score of zero to three, you could have babies with a lower score or up to 10 score in mild. And we showed that a score of right at four, for example, you see right here, half of the babies who had disability at two years of age, here, actually all the babies with disability at two years of age had a score of four. But some of them with a score of four could also end up not having disabilities. Still, this particular score around four or five had the best discriminative capacity when it comes to cognitive developmental delays at two years of age. And this and multiple other studies continue to show that the longer we follow up the babies, the more we see behavior, function, attention, deficit, et cetera. You might not see disability or death immediately, but you're going to see a different spectrum and a longer follow up for those babies. Some of them even did not have encephalopathy. They just have need of resuscitation and fetal acidosis. So the landscape of how we look at those conditions supported also by animal data showing that mild responds well to HIE. And the fact that our assessment and examination in the first six hours is not that sensitive as far as are we really that good seeing what's mild and what's moderate within six hours when the exam changes all the time, led to seeing in practice registries reporting a significant number of infants with so-called mild HIE receiving hypothermia. It ranges from a quarter of old-cooled infants in the Australian registry all the way to 75% in a UK survey in London that was done about five years ago. So this and the fact that it was so difficult to determine if the mild is going to stay mild or mild become moderate and the fear of litigations led to this creep in practice in babies receiving hypothermia because people were concerned. What if we miss this time zero? What if we miss this time zero? We want to give them every single chance. And the issue is the people that were calling were not comparing to the people were not calling and were not necessarily reporting the two year outcomes of those infants with mild HIE. This led to the randomized controlled trials pilots that were being implemented in the last few years to not be able to succeed in their enrollment. So those pilot studies had about 10 to 20 infants with mild HIE in each arm. The parents were not consenting. And that was because of even the stakeholders were conflicted. So we reported in seminars of fetal neonatal medicine and pediatric research, we and others about this controversy about what best to do and how to handle babies with mild HIE. And this is the exact background that led to the COOL PRIME trial. And I'm excited that we are working diligently, diligently, diligently, diligently now to add Cleveland as our 20th and last site to this trial. I'm leading this trial through 19 centers across the U.S. and Ireland. And it's a comparative effectiveness trial where PCORI gives us funding to do effectiveness research. And I'm going to talk a little bit about effectiveness. But just so that you are aware, since your site is going to be participating, this is the first HIE trial that actually took into advice what the parent focus group thought about what's an important that matters to you. What's the study design that matters to you? And we published on this. So 400 participants were queried from Hope for HIE, NCP Foundation and their websites and their dissemination network. And less than 27 percent said that they would agree to a randomized controlled trial. They want to be part of research, but they're not comfortable with tossing a coin since the literature itself is so conflicted when it comes to the outcomes of interest. The longer the follow up, the better the parents were interested and they loved MRI for prognostication, but not as a primary outcome. The primary outcome had to be functionally relevant and the closest to school age, the closest the effect on, you know, that how those infants were functioning into growing up. Parents were not worried at all about within the hospital, NICU admission, separation, not feeding for three days. They if if there was a one percent probability of benefit, they thought that that was less than 30 percent would consider this an important outcome to look for in the side effects. They're more interested in bleeding, clotting, bonding and breastfeeding post hospital discharge at three to four months. We took all of this into account and. We got the cold prime trial going on again, started as 15 sites, increased to 19 and now with Cleveland cross finger for IRB to finish by the end of the month, we would be at 20 sites. So let's talk about effectiveness. Let's talk about effectiveness. Now, what does it mean to have an effectiveness study? It means that we want real life. We want to include all those people in real life in the first six hours with a definition that is broad, that's applicable. That is exactly the kind of babies that we're going to manage following the completion of the trial. And that's exactly what we're doing. We are leveraging different sites practice. So the normothermia sites, the one that apply normothermia as their routine for babies with mild, compare them to the sites that practice hypothermia for those for the same definition. Rigor in the definition, rigor in the trajectory of outcomes. But compare those sites for their different practices. Rule number one, you cannot decide that my practice is hypothermia, but I today I'm not feeling like doing it. If you commit to a practice, the whole practice has to be consistent. We cannot have the practice vary by who's the attending on call and how they're feeling. So all those sites had to commit to that. So Cleveland, FYI team members, if you disagree, now is the time to say, I don't want to. My site to be providing hypothermia because hypothermia is your assigned site practice. This is what you're currently doing. You need to be consistent doing it so that we remove any bias. Your site is randomized to hypothermia because that's your existing practice. And now we compare those different hospitals with different sites randomized to different practices to their two year outcomes. Their safety within composite within the hospital stay and that three to four month bonding and parental surveys that the parents felt very strongly about. We have a lot of information on clinicaltrials.gov for any of you that want to look at the study design. I want to make sure that you know that we have a trajectory into school age outcome. We have built in ancillary studies that includes if your site practices, EEG, NEARS, MRI for those babies that we want to collect this information. And we're also doing ancillary studies for economic, social factors, determinants of health and genetics subgroup component that can be done even, you know, with a heel stick, even after the babies are discharged. So the sites that participate in the ancillaries indicate their interest and we have applied for funding for school as school, pun intended, follow up of those infants. So rigor is key in cool prime is again a pragmatic effectiveness designed. We are to have 327 participants 80% power for each of the primary outcomes at two years, three and a half years to complete enrollment and two years for follow up. And 19 centers so far are enrolling actively two years into it. And we're adding one last site because we have a little shortage on a therapeutic hypothermia site. I'm going to refresh everybody on the enrollment criteria who is eligible babies that are more than 35 weeks. We initially thought that we could include more or equal than 35 weeks, but the late preterm controversies and the small numbers like we would have one infant every two years qualify would not allow us to answer that subject of mild and late preterm at the same time. So we're removing any controversy more than 35 weeks only. Okay. Term babies, acute perinatal events, use your judgment for acute perinatal event, fetal D cells, you know, cord around the neck, C-section stat, anything that basically does not imply that the baby was not moving a week before because those babies are not going to benefit from hypothermia. Acute on chronic does count as long as there is an acute issue. If you have a cord gas, we would love to have the evidence of fetal acidosis as defined in the prior trials. If you don't have a cord gas or a first gas in the unit, then the acute perinatal event qualified. But if you have it, we want that cord gas to meet the criteria. And then mild is the way we defined it in prime. If you remember in prime, we said any baby who have more than one abnormal category being abnormal. And by abnormal, it could be mild, moderate or severe, as long as it's not three or more that are moderate or severe, because we don't need a trial for those babies. They've already been included in the prior trials. So you could have a baby with all my features. You could have the baby with few mild and two moderate. You could technically even have a baby that's intubated like a three and have a few other mild features as long as it's not three categories that are moderate or severe. And the exam is done in the first six hours. Anybody who has reviewed the videos, who has been who understands the inclusion criteria, their exam counts because it's pragmatic and it's real life. We are preferring the attending physicians to be involved in the decision to say this exam is within the inclusion criteria. But if the APP or the fellow have done the exam and the exam has been attested or reviewed by an attending physician or Jada, for example, who is the site PI for Cleveland, that would count. We are not interested in babies that are premature or have small birth weight or head circumference because obviously that would include and confound the primary outcome. And we are not interested in babies who have seizures in the first six hours. And it's not because we're rude or that we don't care about them. It's because they've been studied extensively in the early trials. So we know that babies who have seizures in the first six hours with an acute pernatal event qualify for therapeutic hypothermia. So they're not the subject of inclusion in cold prime. Another common question that we get asked often is what if the baby exam progresses between six and 24 hours? Yes, that baby counts because remember the whole point of what's your intention in the first six hours based on the exam in the first six hours. So if the baby was mild and then either had a seizure between six and 24 hours or got worse between six and 24 hours, those babies continue to be in cold prime and will have a separate subgroup propensity analysis. And those babies were studied with the late cooling study with the neonatal research network, although technically in the other study, we didn't know that they started all as mild. We just knew what they ended up with. So new information will be gathered on those babies. But again, you are even if you're on the normothermia arm, if a baby progresses between six and 24 hours and your side practice is to cool, you're allowed to do that. We adjust for all those things that we know are going to contribute to affecting the outcomes like infection, like the babies that progress beyond six hours. And we look into this in the propensity analysis along with sex and other socioeconomic variables that are known to influence outcomes. We also look into a trajectory of outcomes. So we have a lot of in blue. In blue, you see the parental survey scores at three to four months. We also have the hammered mess neonatal and infant examination to be done at three to four months and serially. And we also the primary outcome is the Bailey, the CBCL and the parent report in case there is a new pandemic. This has been validated with the Bailey scores. Of the Horthos mouse updates, we have a central IRB. We have all those sites that are enrolling. So far, we have 2000 participants screened. This is the first HIE mild trial that succeeded in its recruitment goals. This is actually from last month. We have over 260 participants enrolled. We have sites that were not willing to stay true to their committed enrollment practice. So for example, two sites said that they want to enroll in cool babies with therapeutic hypothermia, but then they had problems with, well, I'm cooling this one. I'm not cooling that one or I'm cooling them, but I'm cooling them moderate. Well, that is not bound well with prospective research. So we agreed with those sites to deactivate and then we activated other sites instead that are willing to stay true to the committed course of practice. We are hoping that Cleveland would be the last site to join. But just so that we're clear again, this is from last month. We're already at 260. This is the target in blue, and this is where we are in red. And we're already exceeding target goal of enrollment. We are a little bit behind on the hypothermia arm, which is why we're allowing one last site activation. But the study is completed, projected to complete enrollment a less than a year from now. So by Halloween, somewhere between Halloween and New Year, the study would be stopping its enrollment because it's met all its criteria and it would be only doing its follow up. And it's a long trajectory of follow up. You see here the patients, some of them, half of the group is already nine months to 22 months and a quarter are already getting their primary outcome done. So happy to report that we have succeeded in screening, consenting, enrolling, maxing up on the enrollment and projected. We don't have any infant loss to follow up. We are we have about one a month, nine a month. So one per site for recruitment. We have a few where the parents felt the surveys were getting a little too much. So we're working on decreasing the surveys and we have some deportation problems that we you know, there's nothing to do about that. But it's just pragmatic effectiveness is real life trials. We're trying to make sure that the PARCA are or the ability to have a PI travel to do the two year outcome continues. It's important to not lose babies primary outcome because that's what the literature is defective on is comparing practices of normothermia and hypothermia and seeing how it influences the primary outcome. So I get asked a lot about what's the incidence, how many of babies that you're screening are mild versus moderate versus normal exam. And it actually it's a good point to review just to validate that when you screen at your site, you want to enter data about the babies who do not qualify because either they have a normal exam or one abnormal category. So too good. That's about a third of the babies or too bad, meaning they have three out of six or they're having seizures in the first six hours. So we know we need to call them without a study. So about a third of the babies are moderate severe about a third of the babies are either a normal exam or one abnormal category, as you see here. And about a third or so have the proper definition of mild using the prime definition and they're divided into normothermia and hypothermia practice two to one ratio. So the key to the success of cool prime has been involving the family support and the stakeholders again for HIE trials. It's the was the first one that did that. And now we're becoming better with seizure registries with other trials ongoing in neonatology to involve the family foundations. They can give us real time information about what's changing, what's a result that's unanticipated, how to optimize the consent rate. Our consent rate, by the way, is ranging about 60 to 70 percent. And it started right at 50 percent. We worked with the family foundations about what are we saying to the parents? How are we saying it? And it turns out that when we're consenting, the parents want to know that being in the study doesn't cost them any money. It allows them a trajectory of outcome, you know, a discharge at three to four months, at two years where anything that we could detect as abnormal could qualify them for early intervention. So more attention to their baby's personalized trajectory is important and helping the research in general. These were key in getting a proper consent, again, because the determination of whether baby receives hypothermia or normothermia is based on the site existing practice. So we don't have to worry about I can only get I can only call you if I get a consent. You determine that you're a cooling site, you're calling those babies and even into their three to four month assessment, the trajectory can get started there. We just need to follow rigor in the assessment and the eligibility. And we actually do training for HINE, for HNNE, for Bailey to ensure that we're all using the same definitions. We are going to be meeting in Boston Friday from 10 to 12 for the people that are involved in the research study. It's a closed meeting. We talk about confidential results, data, consent and things like that. And the normothermia arm is actually about to finish its enrollment goals very soon. So we're going to be discussing that. I'm grateful to all my research sites and my research PIs and the research coordinators who are amazing at each sites. I'm excited that and hopeful that Jada and the Cleveland sites will be our last addition so that we could finish the hypothermia arm enrollment on time. I'm grateful for the parents and the stakeholders, the data coordinating centers and the clinical coordinating centers listed. Natalie, Steve and my program manager, Pollyanna, that you all will get to know very well as we go about this. I'm going to take a minute and answer questions about CoolPrime before we move to the rethinking the into better biomarkers, which is the second and the last part of the talk. I have the options of showing you a video for a baby with mild HIE and we can score it together using the CoolPrime scoring sheet. And I have the option of answering questions. So I'm going to take a minute to see how the group is feeling with that first part. And if there's any questions that want to be raised before we move into the biomarker section of the talk. Thank you, Lena. Great presentation. Generally, the audience, they write their question on chat box. So let me see if we have any questions. So we don't have any questions yet. So my question actually regarding this are not scoring. I think the mild HIE, the problem is actually that everybody using also the different scoring system. So there is no actually the one scoring everybody is using. So for example, there is a numeric Sarnot scoring and also to this one. I know actually you publish a study comparing the two rights are not scoring and numerical Sarnot scoring. So can you actually comment about the staging? Yes. Yes. Good question, because if your site is going to be enrolling, we want to make sure we're enrolling on the same criteria. So look at this examination sheet. This is the prime. It's the only prospectively validated exam for mild in the first six hours. So you have six categories. Each category can be scored from zero normal exam to irritable, lethargy, stupor. So from zero to three. If you have a primitive reflex, suck and morrow count as a one category. OK, so you score the worst on that category. Same for autonomic. All of them count as one. So you count the worst. If the baby is intubated, even if they have normal heart rate and normal pupil, you score the autonomic system as three. So this allows you for each one of the six category to have either a score of zero, one, two or three. A max score of 18 is a baby with severe encephalopathy. A score of more than one abnormal category is included in cool prime. So if your baby has one abnormality, like a little irritable, that's it. You cannot include your baby. If your baby has, again, one abnormal category that intubated. What if they're intubated for something else? We want to have more than one abnormal category. So the score needs to be two and more. So three, four, five, six, seven. We're going to do propensity adjustments for all of those. I'm going to show you some videos here. I think it would help. If in doubt, you call me and Polly and we could walk you through whether this baby should be included or not. I would like each one of you to. I'm going to show you a baby and then we're going to use the form to score that baby. I need a volunteer. So. Here we go. Look at this baby's assessment level of consciousness first. I'm sorry. I wanted to show you the form. So make a snapshot with your phone of that form because I'm going to ask you to comment on it. And now let's go back to the video. Can you hear the narration on the video or do you want me to narrate it louder? I don't know if my computer is translating that. Cannot hear it. Cannot hear it. Okay. The baby is moving as you see, and I want you to score the posture. You got to look if the baby's three dimensional or two dimensional. This baby's two hours old, has an acute perinatal event. You want to check their tone and this baby is trying to resist the examiner. And then you want to look both central and peripheral tone. And you see here the peripheral, the central tone. There is some head lag that you can notice. And then the examiners try to see if the baby will have a ventral suspension. Slipping a little bit. Crying though. Definitely alert and awake here. Look at the fingers also. Notice that there is some distal flexion on the fingers. Baby has a good sag. And heart rate is good. Pupils are good. And this is the moral. Open. Close. Not cry. I think they're going to redo the moral because that baby kind of did a little. Open but without the full close cry. Again, his return is a little sluggish. Okay. Let's score. Can you see this? Yes, we can. Okay. Do you think this baby meets criteria for cool prime? Who thinks this baby meets criteria for cool prime exam and why? Okay. I think the level of consciousness. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Actually, I'll go. I think the level of consciousness. So baby was awake alert, right? Yes. And fixes on visual stimuli. I think the level of consciousness. Zero, right? Okay. So first, no exclusion criteria and what I'm hearing you say, Jada, is more than one abnormal category, correct? Right, yeah. Right, yeah. Right, yeah. Right, yeah. Right, yeah. fixes on visual stimuli. I think the level of consciousness, zero, right? Okay, so first no exclusion criteria and what I'm hearing you say, Jada, is more than one abnormal category, correct? Correct, yeah. Okay, so let's go through the details of that. What did you think was off on his exam? I think the posture was abnormal, so I was, yeah, I was seeing mild distal, exactly. Exactly, see that mild distal arm flexion, the posture, just a tiny little thing. I mean, the rest of his posture was good. A lot of people are not familiar to look for that mild finding, so it's okay, don't get frustrated. That's why I highlighted it. We do the difficult cases, we don't do the easy ones. But I say to mention the level of consciousness and spontaneous activity, that baby was doing a good job, right? Yeah. Okay, and then what did you think of his tone, Jada? Yeah, the tone, baby had head lack, and also the examination-wise, the tone assessment was a little bit abnormal. The central tone, agree. And you rate the worst, right? So central or peripheral. In this case, the central tone was low, so you get a two scored for moderate. And remember, for qualification, you don't have to worry about calculating the score. All what you have to worry about is more than one abnormal category. So this baby has the posture abnormal and the tone abnormal, and the moral actually also. So under primitive reflexes, that incomplete moral, because the abduction was slow and he didn't cry at the end. So he had actually three abnormal categories. Two of them were moderate, one of them was mild. So more than one abnormal category qualifies for inclusion in CORD-Prime study. So this is the kind of baby that we want to include in the trial. And we calculate the score. If you see here, the data coordinating centers will calculate the score. So at the bedside, I don't want you worrying about let me calculate the score and things like that. It makes it too complicated. So to answer your question, Jada, we want to be aware of the scores. It's my job, our job as data collecting sites to worry about the score. All what I need you to think about is the baby has more than one abnormal category. So the score is going to be two or more. Okay. Two categories. Even if it's two onto one item, like the baby is just intubated, it doesn't meet criteria. I want evidence that this baby has two of the six categories impaired. That's what a prime study showed. Does it make any sense on this one? Do we want to see another video? If there isn't. Yeah. Or do you think it's great? Oh, one more. Okay. Yeah, I think the one more might be helpful. Let's do one more. And I want another brave volunteer. Huh? Okay. Hold on. Let me exit this. I'm not very savvy. Okay. Let's do another good one for you guys. Okay. Let's do a difficult one. 3a and 3b. This baby's exam changed. So I'm going to highlight the two and then we could open up for more questions. So this is the first exam. Acute perinatal event. Babies on oxygen for respiratory. So it doesn't count if you're on a nasal Canada for respiratory. You know, you don't get dinged. AFCAR scores are good, a little low. But again, we have an acute perinatal event. Baby's recovered. Moving. You know, see how you move the blanket under him and he moves with stress trying to make sure we waking him up without saying that we're waking him up. Always take time for the exam. Okay. Nice three dimension of the of the mat. The peripheral tone we want to check out. Okay. Look at that headlock. That one is even worse than the other one. So definitely a category right there. Right? I don't see the screen moving. Are you guys seeing the screen moving? No, it's not moving. Oh, your skin is not moving? No, it's frozen. Okay. Okay. It's moving now. Yeah. Okay. Oh, and yeah, moving now. Let me get you back. Okay. Is it still moving? Yes. It's still moving. So head, leg again, ventral suspension, you're trying to suspend that baby. This one is even more slippery than the other one. Don't you think? So the central tone is not perfect, but we can hear him cry. I don't know if you can hear the sound of the baby crying. You see the reviewer is trying to elicit suck reflex. The first time, not so much. There is an NG there, but the NG is to suck air because the baby has a nasal cannula. So she's trying with a pacifier. So how do you score a bite or a fraction of a bite? You get a two. So if you bite, you don't get a good grade. FYI. So then the moral not to complete. Okay. Right. Respiration is good. Like I said, all respiration, most the least sensitive part is the heart rate, respiration and pupil. So don't don't lose lots of sleep over those in the mild category, at least with prime, we didn't find any abnormalities. OK, so we already pointed to some of the abnormalities on the exam. Before we go to the progression of this case, anybody wants to comment on the features, the categories that were abnormal? Anybody from fellows, they want to actually talk about the exam? Yeah, because the inclusion criteria, no exclusion, good inclusion criteria. The exam was done at five hours. Do we have a fellow? Yeah, I can try. Yes, do it. Thank you. In regards to the level of consciousness, I'm not sure like if the baby was irritable at the beginning. I think he was crying. Yes. In the part that you couldn't see. I'm sorry. Before somebody warned me that the screen was not moving, he was crying and he was irritable and responsive. Yeah. So I would say it would be a one. Yes. And for the spontaneous activity, I think it was like increased or exaggerated. I think, yeah, I think they passed him as normal on this one. But yeah. Yeah. And for the posture, like he was like flex extremities for sure. Yeah. I mean, the biggest ones that you think for are the tone and the reflexes, right? Yes. And the trick here is don't count the reflexes twice. Meaning you could be tempted if you see the screen that I'm sharing that to say, okay, three categories. No, it's two categories because suck and moral count as a score of two for one category. So not score twice. I think that's the key. So in this case, he would still qualify for being in cool prime as mild because he has two categories scored as moderate, not three. People sometimes that that's a common mistake. That's why I included this. They count the suck and the moral as two separate items. It still gets you one category. It's the primitive reflexes. Okay. I see. I see. Yeah. So baby would still be enrolled in cool prime. Yeah. Yeah. Now, now the reason why I included this baby is because he's tricky. You could tell that he's a little, his score is a little bit more than the prior one, but his exam changed. And I'm going to show you his repeat exam. So we kept him in the study, but his exam evolved after six hours. And that's why it's good to do serial exam. He still is in the study, but it will be analyzed as the baby that progresses on their exam. So we can. Can you see the screen move on this one? Yes, we can. Yes. Yes, we can. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. So the baby, look at how the baby moved from three dimension to uni dimension, flat on the mat now, on that mat. And more extensions throughout the arms and the legs. Just flatter overall. I think that the fact that this baby is worse is even on a video that is not real time and with the delayed and sound, etc. I think you get the fact that this baby exam is worse. And most of the time the nurse will call you back to say, hey, this baby is worse. The baby was not cooled. He was at the site that was not providing cooling. And I am going to show you the examination. Now the new exam, the same person. Can you remind me your name? I am Mohammed. Mohammed, can you describe to me? Here. Hold on. Let me go back to the score. Yes, Mohammed. What did you think of the exam on this one? To start with the baby wasn't like awake, you know. Yes. Now lethargic. Yes. The baby was lethargic, but not in coma or stupor, you know. No. Lethargic. Absolutely. So you got a two for that. The tone. What do you think? Still a two, right? Yes. The posture. Posture. Posture. Posture. He was like, not decelebrate. I would say not distal flexion. Two also. Yeah, two. Yeah. For continuous activity decreased. Yeah. So two of it, like, would give two on this as well. Yeah. So now he's got two on everything pretty much, right? If we go back to that score. So posture now is distal flexion, right? Hypotonia. You get a two, right, Mohammed? Decreased activity. You gave him a two. Lethargic and decreased activity. So he's became everything is in the two, correct? Mm-hmm. So this is an interesting baby. By the way, there's about 25% of them that progress. Just FYI, at least at my side, I'm blinded to all the other sides. But that's why it's important to continue doing the examination. And it's important to know how to record your exam properly on those babies. Do you guys want to do a third case or should we go to the wrap up? There is a question actually from Dr. Tayal Asuddin. What age was the baby at second exam? Eight hours. Eight hours. Okay. So initially this baby was categorized as a mild. But after actually the waiting that progressed to moderate. And the side was not the cooling side. They didn't call this baby. Am I right? Correct. Okay. So that's why serial exams very, very important. Exactly. Very good. I think I'm going to wrap up. I'm happy to share more exercises later, but just kind of like we did good for that first round. The other part of my research is dynamic biomarkers. Separating mild and moderate with the human eye is not easy task. That's why all the trials are complicated. We're very good at what's severe, what's normal. Between mild and moderate, even the typical EEG, amplitude EEG, and NEARS or blood biomarker, they are the best at detecting the very severe. The definition of mild and moderate is so fine that what we need is dynamic progression of biomarkers. Whether it's the way the cerebral blood flow responds to changes in EEG, like the same way we do functional network connectivity in adults, babies don't respond to stimuli. We need to think of other dynamic biomarkers of energy failure and clinical assessments. All those systems have complicated math behind them. They're not steady systems. I worked with bioengineers and we worked on the resolution of time and frequency and we used the wavelet. And I don't have lots of time. This is a whole separate talk, but we look at autoregulation and neurovascular coupling in semi-real time. And now we're looking into data stored for EEG and for NEARS and others within this trial to validate some of this into real-time application. Rigor is important, whether in the assessment, the replicability of the exam, or the follow-up tools, or which device you use. And the good thing is with those wavelet algorithms, it doesn't matter which device you use or where you put your probe on. And we're trying to use it for mild, where you see, even if the regular EEG and NEARS signal, I mean, between the two babies on the top and in the bottom on that first day of life, they look pretty similar. But when you go into the resolution, into the low frequency resolution, you see this baby between EEG and NEARS, you have here high coupling between the two signals on baby on the top and lower couplings with baby on the bottom. We are actively working on with NIH funding that I have right now to look into transforming the data now that is calculated after the event and after the completion of the recording into being available in real-time at the bedside. Quantitative EEG power is important. The ability to identify those babies that progress, that baby that I showed you in the video number three. We're looking to, with the Saeed and other people from Helsinki to look into cloud-based tools for this data interpretation and to really not replace the clinical assessment, but complement it with dynamic real-mark assessment of the neonatal encephalopathy severity. Last but not least, validating the telemedicine examinations so that you could do several serial exams before deciding to transport the baby. Dr. Jawahir Jarrapahou from our group just published this paper in pediatrics continues to be important. The future is a combination of physiological biomarkers and machine learning to help us decipher in real-time the signals and the combination of multiple trials from COOL-Prime to COMET to others for evidence-based medicine and meta-analysis so that we can very fast solve the problem of the loss of equipoise and how to manage babies with mild HIE. I'm blessed to work with the nicest of all the teams possible. And if you'd like to hang with us, whether Zoom or virtually or in person, our neonatal symposium, it's a shameless plug, but I love people and I love connecting. So April 17th, we are going to have a post-conference in-person workshop. April 16th, we have the actual symposium. You can use the scan code or just go on Children's Health to register. We have our international amazing speakers, Head Ultrasound at the bedside with Horsheed, and Gabrielle and Mjönich are going to talk to us about more of those teleapplications and QI applications. I just want to say I'm fortunate and blessed with the collaborations and connections throughout my journey, and I'm hopeful that we can find some answers for mild HIE and work together towards that collaboratively. You know, Lebanese, so Gibran, Khalil Gibran made a perfect quote for me to end this. And I'm grateful for your attention and for my Shalak Lab small group, as well as each and every site that is helping us in our PCORI trial and helping with all the other international collaborations across. Thank you for your attention.