 srandip parasite, parasite parasite, parasite parasite, parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite parasite we're talking about what to check, when to check it, and why prevention is one of the most powerful tools we have in medicine. Joining me today are three expert guests, Dr. Simon Hodes, General Practitioner at Cleveland Clinic London, with a particular interest in men's health, preventative medicine, and health screening. Dr. John Whitaker, Consultant Cardiologist and Cardiac Electrophysiologist who specializes in heart rhythm disorders, atrial fibrillation, and cardiac risk assessment. And Dr. Sri, Consultant Physician in Endocrinology and Diabetes, with expertise in diabetes, thyroid, and hormonal health. Across this episode, we'll cover the health checks people should know about, which conditions are commonly missed, when screening becomes important, and how small actions now can prevent major problems later. Simon, let's start broadly. Why are health checks important? Well, I think, as you said, prevention is better than cure. So if you can find diseases at an early stage, first of all, you may be able to prevent the developing assault, which is the ideal. So it's like the tip of the iceberg often. Or if you catch things at an early stage that are treatable, outcomes are better if you catch things earlier, so you don't get complications. And that can be any condition from cancer through to high blood pressure. If you get things early, get under control, better outcomes, better treatments, you know, good for your health. And Sri, a lot of people think, I feel fine, so I must be fine. Why can that be such a risky assumption? We know that there's lots of diseases which patients can have actually for a long period of time before they actually present. So we know that, for instance, six million people in the UK have pre-diabetes. Quite the vast majority of them don't know they've got that. Even with diabetes, we know that about six million people have got diabetes. About 1.34 million actually don't know they've actually got diabetes. And all the time they're getting the complications. And we know, for instance, diabetes is a good example. You can get the complications with small vessels and big vessels. So people can, it can affect their vision, affect their kidneys, affect their nerves. And that's all the time, losing time by not identifying early and treating those. So do you think we move too far into this model where people only seek help when something's gone wrong? Yeah, I think the problem certainly with hormonal diseases is a lot of the symptoms are very nonspecific. And so people can fob them off and say, oh, it's just life. You know, we talk about brain fog, fatigue, weight gain. You know, lots of people will come along and say, well, that's just it. But actually, there's a lot of overlay with hormonal diseases. So thyroid disease, lots of those symptoms you can get. And it may be a simple thing, which is actually relatively easy to diagnose and easy to treat. Yeah. And stepping in earlier can really make a difference. John, what are the silent conditions that you worry about as a cardiologist? Yeah. Well, we've just been chatting about the key one, I think, is blood pressure. And I think this is something which we're increasingly appreciating can come on earlier and can do its damage before anyone even thinks to check it. Whereas we've got a huge amount of data now, which says if we do identify and we treat it and we treat it properly, the outcomes can be really dramatically better. Very much, you know, in the same vein as the diabetes. If you identify and you can get some medication, which are also extremely well tolerated, you can actually change the later part of people's lives hugely. And listen, as a cardiologist, what are the important numbers that people should know about themselves? So blood pressure, the thresholds we're sort of thinking of, anything above 140 millimeters of mercury. And that's sort of, that's been revised somewhat recently. So now we even sort of start to pay attention when it's above 135, which represents a shift to a more aggressive point at which we might offer intervention. But again, that's really reflective of what we now recognize for the benefits of having a blood pressure below that. So these are the sort of numbers that we should, that we should be paying attention to with regard to blood pressure. And is there an ideal blood pressure? Is there a model number? It's a good question. And I think that the, as far as we understand from a cardiovascular perspective, the lower is the better. Now that doesn't mean that we should all be pushing our blood pressure to levels, which if we push it too low, it's going to make us start falling over or give us other symptoms. But the threshold that will give us the best cardiovascular outcomes is going to be as low as is tolerated. Now what that means in practice, it means usually when someone's at 120 over 80, we're pretty happy. But if it drifts down to 110 over 70 and they're fine, then there's no, there's no problems. There's no concerns with that. And when it comes to pulse heart rate, is there an optimal number for that? Not really. I think that's something that I guess we suddenly have access to sort of vast amounts of data about our heart rate. And I guess that if we've got either a device or a pulse check or something else, which is telling us that the heart rate suddenly shot up much higher than what, what, what, what it has been before, then that's an indication say, all right, well, has something changed in the heart rhythm? Has something changed in your physiology that's driven that heart rate up? But, you know, people, people do have naturally different heart rates and people will live with those their life. And so we frequently meet people who say, look, I've always had a slow pulse. People equally who say I've always had a slightly higher pulse. So that in itself, and it's an absolute number, isn't something that we're going to say, this is immediately a cause for concern, unless it falls, I say, above 100 when someone's at rest or say below 50 when they're, when we're taking it as well. But those trends are important. I think those are things that we should really be paying attention to. I don't mean to put you on the spot, but the thing is the wearables that we have, I mean, you've got a couple on there. I have. The wearables are really quite cardiac intensive. They are. And they give us a whole load of numbers, don't they? So that are meant to estimate our maximum exercise capacity, our overall cardiovascular fitness. And, you know, I think for those of us who, who really want to pay attention, this can be super interesting. But I think what's really important is we acknowledge the limitations of those data. For instance, if we take something like heart rate or heart irregularity, most of the devices that are sort of monitoring those things are doing it via very simple algorithms. Now, this can be incredibly helpful. And it has a tremendous value as both a screening tool and a monitoring tool for people who have conditions. But at that level, they're not necessarily diagnostic. Rather, I think when the devices are giving you an alert for, say, an irregular heartbeat, which is the most common one that people get, it should be a prompt to say, right, I need to get a diagnostic test. Now, that can actually be a single EDCG on an Apple watch, or it can be a 12 EDCG in primary care or even, you know, with a cardiologist. And the key thing about that data is that there needs to be interpreted by the right person. Things like heart rate variability, some people find it incredibly helpful, and they will monitor their fitness, and they will watch those trends. But we have to be absolutely clear that those numbers are all derived by proprietary algorithms. They're actually all different between different vendors. So whilst they can be very, very helpful for monitoring trends, and they are absolutely useful for certain people for doing that, I'm always a little bit cautious about looking at someone's watch and saying, oh, well, you must be fit, you must be physically active, because actually, it doesn't always work quite as clearly as that. And just to give people who are listening or watching an idea, heart rate variability, is it better if it's smaller or bigger? It's better if it's bigger. It's meant to indicate more flexible autonomic system, which is meant to reflect your level of cardiovascular fitness. Okay, thank you. Can I ask a quick supplementary question? So people do focus on their resting heart rate. We know that athletes have a lower heart rate. And I mean, lots of patients will trigger the alerts in hospital because they do a lot of running or cardiovascular fitness. So there is probably an association. And what's the evidence about that? And the second question was as well, people often get focused on their exercise heart rate, what their max is going to, and also how quickly they recover. And some people use these funny formulas about their age times two plus something. I mean, do you have advice on that for patients? Yeah, absolutely. So there's no question that particularly people who are elite athletes or strong endurance athletes tend to have a lower resting heart rate. And that represents cardiovascular adaptation to the training that they've done. But there's interperson variability as well. And we always need to bear in mind of the impact of any drugs that they're prescribed as well. But absolutely fit young people in hospitals, particularly overnight, their heart rate drops to 30, alarms start going off and they get woken up and this is of no concern at all. So in the absence of any symptoms, and importantly, if we're satisfied with the ECG, in a young person who is asymptomatic, very little concern about low heart rates. I think the exercise capacity remains at the peak heart rate that people can achieve when they're exercising is a very helpful measure. And that's what we test when we do a Bruce protocol exercise test, for instance. I find that very helpful for assessing someone's functional capacity in an objective way that can be compared a little bit more broadly. And by the same token, recovery after exercises is also helpful. I personally pay a little bit less attention to that because fewer people give me that data. But I think it's a very good metric. And certainly people tell me, and it's very clear that when they do recover more quickly, or when they have been training more, they recover more quickly. It's very clearly sort of, you know, something that people can have insight into themselves. And it's interesting you mentioned that I operated a couple of weeks ago on a triathlete whose wrestling heart rate was 24. Yeah, absolutely. And so all the alarms kept going off. And eventually I had to say to the nieces, I can't hear the music, just turn it off. Yeah. Just watch it. I don't want to hear it. Yeah. And we've had the same things on wards when people, you know, when the alarms, it's very difficult to program to stop and these poor people don't get any rest when they're in hospital. So this, and this does represent, I mean, this is an extreme of physiologic adaptation, but that's what it is. So yeah, a very interesting sort of observation. Simon, you do a lot of health screening. At what age should people start thinking seriously about regular screening or health assessments? Yeah. So if you look at what the NHS offers, the NHS has something called an NHS check, and I would plug that to anyone listening. You know, it's aged 40 to 74 is the parameters. You're not meant to have any sort of pre-existing heart or stroke disease. And it's a check of your blood pressure, height and weight, cholesterol, HbA1, which is a diabetes screen, and usually a kidney function. So that's a really useful test. So I think that's reasonable, I think, to think age 40 as a cut off. And anyone can ask their GP for that, can they? Yeah. So that's really important. It's really not very well known. And it's actually quite a good check. You can have it every few years in the NHS. They often throw up really useful data for patients. For example, as Sri was saying at the beginning, there's a huge number of patients that have what's called pre-diabetes, which is where their blood sugars are drifting towards the diabetes range, but they're not there yet. That's a good area to prevent and target through sort of, you know, healthy lifestyle, low GI diet, low carb diet, you know, exercising, weight loss, you can prevent that shift. So that age is great. In the private sector, patients tend to bubble up from around the age of 40 to 45 as well. And a lot of patients increasingly come in every year, the way you go to a dentist. And I often say to patients, you know, treat it like your car. I mean, one of my friends said to me, I've got a car that I spend thousands on a year and I don't spend anything on my health. I'm like, well, that is just crazy. Like go and get a health check for a few hundred pounds. You can get a set of blood stunts. You can know what your, you know, your numbers, I talk about know your numbers, which is basically, you know, your, your, your heart rate, I think it's useful. Your blood pressure is super important. That's the leading preventable cause of death globally. I think you, you're nodding you up. So, you know, lots of patients walk around with a high blood pressure they don't know about. We know the data's out there. Um, your cholesterol is really important, particularly the LDL and your ratio. People often fix on the total number, but actually again, well, I'm glad there's nods around, but I think the ratio is much more important. It compares your good, which is the, the HDL to the total cholesterol really important. There's a test called a lipoprotein, which is becoming more widely known, useful to know once in your lifetime, at least. Um, so those numbers are good. And then again, it depends on your situation. You know, if everyone in your family is getting heart disease from age 30 or 40, get your checks done earlier. You know, if you've got familial hypercholesterolemia, you'd actually be checking the kids. So it's a bit of an open-ended question. I think for the average person, I think age 40 is good. And, you know, we are machines at the end of the day and our bodies wear out and actually things like your thyroid can go or your, you know, you can build a plaque in your heart, et cetera. So it depends what level you want to take it. But I think, can I, can I ask something then? Cause I think this sort of the, the, the, um, incipient pre-diabetes is really interesting because it's, we sort of sometimes think it's one of these asymptomatic conditions. Is, is that your experience or do you find that sometimes you make this diagnosis and actually when people are treated, they feel better? I can talk from a primary care, maybe Shree from secondary. So what's interesting is there's a test called an HbA1, which is very different from a sugar. So a blood sugar is a dynamic test. It's literally like, I always say to pay, it's a photo. It's what your sugar's doing there. And then HbA1 is looking over your shoulder for three months saying, what's my blood sugar been averaging out pretty much. And that cutoff in the UK is 6.0 to cause somebody pre-diabetic, uh, goes up to sort of 6.5. In America, they have 5.7. And again, no, no, no. HbA1 is, uh, this is a non-fasting three month average. And this is different to HbA1c? That is the HbA1c. Yeah. So in America, they're kind of capturing more people, the same as they've actually got lower blood pressure thresholds. They want to get hold of them. But those patients are largely asymptomatic. Um, but there is evidence that if you leave them, they're going to have a higher chance of progressing to diabetes. So if you can get hold of those patients and say, come on, we can do, we can help you with this. And there is a national program for the, the PPD, the prevention of diabetes. So anyone you pick up in NHS would instantly get referred into the national prevention program, which is all about education and food choices and exercise, et cetera, to try and reverse that process or prevent it happening. And as Sri was saying, the higher you're in a glycemic state, the longer you're exposed to that, it's like having the wrong fuel in your car. It's going to clog the engine up. So you want to get it reversed. And, um, uh, yeah, I would, I would agree with that, uh, Simon. And I think the other important thing to think about is, um, if you can pick these patients up, there's some very nice work, um, in Newcastle, there's a guy called, uh, Professor Roy Taylor, uh, where they did a trial called the direct trial where they took patients who had diabetes, um, within six years of diagnosis, obese or overweight. Um, they calorie restricted them quite significantly. So about 800, 850 calories for 12 weeks. And what they showed was very beautifully, um, you know, about 45% of patients, um, diabetes disappears. By losing weight. Yeah. Yeah. By just losing weight. Uh, so after a year, 45% or so, um, diabetes reversed and at two years it was a bit lower, but about 36%. So, I mean, these are patients with type two diabetes, which historically we would have said, there's a slippery slope. Yeah. This is, this is for life. So for six years, they showed after, if you restrict calorie significantly, you can totally reverse that diagnosis. So that's the power of that, you know, that, you know, yeah. And I guess that's one of the, would be one of the intended and unintended effects of GLP-1 agonists. You're, you know, Manjaro. Correct. So, you know, um, I think if, if you go according to guidelines, we, guidelines are a bit slightly reactive, aren't they? You, there's this always this discussion about metformin and I've always thought, you know, if someone's insulin resistant, but they don't have diabetes, for me, it's like metformin, why would you not go on metformin? And it's the same argument with GLP-1s now. I mean, and I think obviously the, there are the guidelines and, and, and, and, but I think if we think about benefit, uh, yeah, patients who've got pre-diabetes, if, if the weight comes down, it will reverse. So it's the same process, but with, with medication. And someone mentioned HPA1, um, what number, what, what should it be below? Just so I think people listening can have a reference. Yeah. So remember, um, there's a slight change in the, in the units over time. So people will be, there used to be a percentage. Because I'm using 20, 30, 40, 41 to 47 or something. Correct. So, so we've now got millimoles per mole. Uh, and the two numbers to remember are under 42 is normal, above 42 is pre-diabetes, and then above 48 is diabetes. We used to have a percentage. So the percentage of, um, hemoglobin, which was glycosylated. So that was the, the, the 6% and 6.5%. So you'll see them interchangeably. I mean, it's actually, I had a patient who actually had an HPA1 of whatever, it was 42 and then came back and it was six. Like, oh my God, I've done 12. My dad's like, no, no, no, no, it's different units because you've got to compare. And it's actually really confusing for patients. I'll have some of that. Yeah. And some, when you talk about screening, who should think about doing it earlier because of family history or ethnicity or weight, lifestyle, medical issues? Yeah. So I think you could use the term smart screening, uh, which is, you know, you need to look around you and say, well, what's your family history? So you talk about, people talk about soil and seed or, you know, genetics and epigenetics, but obviously you can do what you want with your body. It depends what you put in it and how it's going to, how it's going to go and how much movement you have in your sleep and all these simple things. Um, but you would want to get screened younger if you've got a family history of a certain problem, for example, you know, there's a, I'm talking about prostate screening for a minute because it's hugely topic at the moment. There's a massive national debate about should we be screening all men? Um, and there is something called a national screening committee who are the experts on this and they've currently said no, but they're talking about screening men who've got a BRCA gene, for example, um, or perhaps from a, an Afro-Caribbean background with a higher risk. I think most GPs and certainly most urologists, if somebody has got a first degree relative with prostate cancer or they're from a black African background or Ashkenazi Jewish or certainly BRCA gene, you would screen them earlier, probably from 40, 45 and offer them an annual PSA. You know, why wouldn't you? Because it's a very simple blood test to do. Um, and also within the NHS, you've got, you know, breast cancer screening and cervical screening. People know the terms, but I think the term screening is very confusing actually, because there is a, there is a national screening, which is really goes on this sort of Wilson and younger criteria of, you know, is, is this a common enough disease? Is there a good enough test? Do you know lots of false negatives, false positives where you, can you intervene in an early stage? Is there an approved treatment path? Is there a cost benefit ratio? And for the screening programs we have, clearly they've made that decision. Um, but with prostate cancer, I think they've said it's not, it's not quite there yet, but prostate cancer UK would argue otherwise. So it's a really interesting debate. And it's that sort of difference between what you're going to say you should do for the population versus an individual in front of you who you would clearly have a motivation to make a more informed choice because you can show those bases. And then with the wearables you're talking about, or the ease of having a home blood pressure kit or putting on a flash monitor for your sugar. Now there's so much data you can get at home on such an easy level, but you can't necessarily. And it's not, it can't be mandated at a, at a, um, uh, uh, policy level, can it? Because it's happening anyway. It's like with heart rhythm, this is, you know, the, the, the wearables are screening everybody, whether they know it, whether they want it or not. Um, and because it's such a low burden intervention that probably, well, it's inescapable. It's, it's, it's happening anyway. And we are identifying people who've got arrhythmias. Um, but it does, it, you know, it's, um, it, this, this is the reality of the, of what these devices have done. But I think the thing we're going to be mindful of is that a lot of these people are people who are generally health aware and health conscious and financially can afford to buy these devices, not everyone can. And I thought, and you know, you could argue that the people, uh, of, uh, you know, um, more financially challenged, actually the ones that probably need the health interventions the most. I would completely agree with that. And I think that, you know, the, the health inequality, health access inequality is, is a, is a huge issue and this is just one dimension of it. So I think that's a completely fair point. I think there's, there's really interesting data. And if you saw about 10 days ago, the office of national statistics brought out their data and it was talking about health span and lifespan within the UK. It's fascinating. And they do this every number of years. And we saw, um, a dip during COVID of expected life because obviously the, you know, people were dying earlier, but what they found now we've kind of come through COVID is that for most areas, but not all lifespan is now going up again or projected lifespan, which is great, but there's huge discrepancies of like 20 years within postcodes in the UK. Huge. Uh, you know, they say, as you get the kind of line across London East, you probably drop a year of life expenses. Each, each line you go towards Stratford. But what's interesting is they're saying that we are getting chronic disease earlier. Now, whether that's because we're better at diagnosing it because people are coming forward or because we're living in a more sessile, you know, people are sitting around more people, doing less exercise. We're in an obesogenic society. There is a obesity epidemic going on, which drives a lot of chronic disease, uh, whether those facts there, but, but the, your, your years of healthy life in the UK are going down. And again, this would lead us again to say, we should be screening because if we can catch people early and say, okay, we can do something about your blood pressure. We can do something about your, your HbA1, or you can catch a cancer early. Uh, you know, you can pick up some atheroma on your heart by doing a simple CT scan from age 40, 45 every couple of years. That's good medicine. That's really, that's like, you know, where we should be. Because if people are living longer, but having lower health span, then actually that means they're living longer with health. But again, from, from a governmental point of view in society, you know, we don't want the, the NHS or the, the country to be overloaded with people relying on medicines and hospitals. You want, we want to be a healthier nation. Healthy years benefits everyone. Everyone. You want to be helped, you want to watch your grandchildren, you want to contribute. So those people in that kind of silver generation, although they're often kind of bashed, people talking about old people, you know, drained, but actually they're the ones with the most disposable income in society. Yeah. Those silver people, they're helping the grandchildren on the housing ladder. They're paying university fees. They're helping with school fees. They're buying cars for people, paying for weddings. They're the ones who've kind of come through the, this huge mortgage thing. So you want to be healthy in your old age. You need to start planning now in your twenties and thirties and forties. Protecting those years later on. Absolutely. Yeah. And it's, and it, you do, although we have, I think, access to many more tools to do that now, when you do meet the people who were both fortunate enough to enjoy good health, but also who made good choices, you can really see the benefits of that in their, in their late years, don't you? Yeah. So the big message already is that prevention isn't about fear. It's about catching problems early enough to do something about them. John, let's move into heart health because cardiovascular disease remains one of the biggest causes of serious illness and death. I know you touched them earlier, but if you just recap for us the key heart health checks that people should know about. So, um, I think the things we think about first of all, and earliest in life are blood pressure. And, you know, we, we talked about when we might look at blood pressure, actually in early adulthood, blood pressure can be checked and should be checked. So 18 onwards, doesn't need to be checked every year, but, um, at 18 and then every five years or so, I think with regard to the lipids and the other vascular risk factors, um, then I, mine seems exactly as, um, as Simon's is the 40s, that sort of that, that key threshold, um, when these risk factors start to emerge. And I guess that's the real key about the cardiovascular, um, space is that the greatest benefit for screening and for intervention is in risk factors rather than diseases themselves. So, um, whilst there may well be a role in certain cases for screening for cardiac conditions themselves, actually, it's the hypertension, it's the diabetes, it's the hyperlipidemia that really, um, that has the greatest impact in terms of early catching and intervention. From the specific cardiac conditions perspective, then atherosclerosis is the, um, is the, is the biggest coronary artery plaques that predispose to, to heart attacks. Um, and, you know, uh, and, and I think to, to, to, to borrow your phrase, Simon, smart screening there is, is the key. Um, we don't yet, I don't think, um, have the knowledge, the understanding to be able to say if, and when we should do blanket screening, but there's clearly people in whom it's the right thing to do. And that's a judgment that I think is made in primary care, is made in cardiology clinics in the right second set of circumstances, the right set of, um, uh, family background, um, and, and, and other factors. And these are even formalized into sort of certain scores, you know, that, that, that have a lot of data behind them that we can use. My own area, heart rhythm, you know, the, the, the, the benefit of screening, um, uh, in, in, in that population is a little bit later. It's sort of when we reach 65. So where do ECGs fit in? Who should have one? So, um, the key thing with ECG is anyone who has symptoms should have ECGs, um, and symptoms, such as? Symptoms, the most common one is going to be palpitations. Um, and you know, this is such a common symptom that people experience that that does actually mean there's quite a wide range of people who have intrusive, um, palpitations for whom an ECG is helpful. ECG contains a vast amount of information about your overall cardiac state, which can be tremendously helpful for sort of, again, placing your overall picture in, in, in context that can be understood by someone who can then interpret your symptoms in the context of that. Um, and, uh, and it's a, it's a, it's a, an easy non-invasive and vastly valuable test to do. Now, aside from people who are having, um, regular symptoms of palpitations, the ECG is going to be more helpful when you sort of reach that threshold of 40 and you're sort of coming to the point of assessing your overall cardiac status, um, at the time when it might be, um, there might be some early signs that it's, um, going to be causing you problems. Thank you. And you mentioned scoring. What is cardiac risk scoring and how does it help personalised prevention? There's a, there's a range of scores which have been developed with large amounts of data, which take lots of patient factors, lots of test results and aim to make some kind of prediction of your individualised risk of bad cardiac outcome over the course of the next period, whether that's one year, five years or 10 years. Um, and the most common one we use is the Q risk score. And that's going to give you a percentage chance of you suffering a heart attack or stroke in 10 years time. And this is, this is really helpful because if you, your overall status identifies you as someone is at high risk, well, this would lower our threshold for intervening. And there are various sort of thresholds that have been set down as appropriate to intervene. But, and I'll be really interested to hear what, what your perspectives are on this, because those thresholds are arbitrary and they're entirely arbitrary. Um, and people's own interpretation of them is I think the key point when we're using these. And so to, to sort of, to, to take the, the idea of maximisers and minimisers, some people will say, well, if I've got a 1% chance of a heart attack or stroke in the next 10 years, I want to intervene. I want to improve or modify my risk factors. 1% sounds pretty good. Yeah. 1% sound pretty good. Absolutely. But some people will go for that and they will want to bring it right down. But the actual threshold that's, that's, that's dictated is 7.5%. Yeah. Um, which is much higher. Clearly some people would want to intervene before then. And there was a study just out last week, which showed that actually lots of people would expect for the, purely for the intervention of taking a statin would want to be at a 20% risk before they would even consider taking a statin, which I thought was fascinating in terms of people's own personal perspective. But I think that's why maybe our role is to equip people to make that decision and say, this is what your risk is. These are the things we could modify. This would be the burden of modifying them. Where do you stand? But one would assume that a statin, a statin. Cholesterol would be probably an impactful, but relatively easy way to impact that. Absolutely. Yeah. So a sort of, um, a low burden intervention, which could make a very significant difference. Yeah. That would be a, um, a straightforward one to do. Of course, modifying things like BMI, exercise habits, alcohol intake, blood pressure, again, coming back to that one. And those are a little bit more challenging, you know, for some people. Yeah. Um, but that, you know, I think that we can, we can very effectively treat blood pressure very often, uh, particularly if it's caught early. Um, and, um, and, and the intervention is, is, is systematically, um, introduced and up titrated as necessary. So I think these are things that are relatively straightforward to modify, you know, in, in many cases. And Simon, when you do health screening, does Q-Risk, is that one of the things? Yeah, it's one of the tools. I mean, when we, when I talk cholesterol to patients, and this is a conversation I have multiple times every day, I can assure you. Yeah. I mean, the human condition is amazing because some patients just don't want to be on tablets. You, you know, you can look at them, do all the blood tests. They've got a really high cholesterol, high Q-Risk, which is a 10 year predicted score. And they're like, I just don't want to be on tablets. You can explain that that's it. And other people might have a much lower Q-Risk and they're desperate to go on tablets. Now explaining risk to patients, I think is one of the hardest things in medicine. Absolutely agree. Because don't forget, you know, we're all going to die of probably cancer, heart disease, metabolic disease, or dementia. Those are the four horsemen that everyone talk about, right? So as you get to- And now we add AI to that as well. AI, yeah, of course. But once you get to your sort of 50s, you're going to have a good few percent Q-Risk score, because in the next 10 years from 50, 60, there's a good chance you're going to die of that. And now your statin may cut your risk of cardiovascular disease down by about a third. So if your Q-Risk is 1%, you know, you'd have to give an awful lot of patients that statin to stop the one or two heart attacks. Whereas if somebody's got a Q-Risk over 10%, which is generally where GPs are, well, 10% is sort of moderate risk, 20% is high risk, that's kind of how we sell it, then that's useful. But the Q-Risk is a bit of a crude tool. And interestingly, it includes some conditions like, for example, arthritis, rheumatoid arthritis, includes whether you smoke or not. And I will often on the screen click and say, okay, well, here you are now. But it's like, you know, it's like Bruce's bonus. This is what you could have won. You know, if you stop smoking, your Q-Risk has gone by a third, and then you can click down, let's push your cholesterol down to four. Oh, wait a second, by losing weight, that's much better for you than going on a satin. Why don't you go and lose some weight and come back? So I'm very into lifestyle as a GP and say, well, actually, you know, medicines are a part of the jigsaw. But actually, we really need to talk about the foundation pillars of health, which is really your movement, your exercise, your sleep pattern, your stress levels, your nutrition, you know, everything going in the top. Which are essentially the important things for everything in life, cancer, heart disease. Correct. It's what it all circles back to. And I had an amazing consultation with a guy the other day, and he came in for a health check. He basically works in the city, came for a health check. His BMI was pretty much, you know, higher end of normal towards obese, but he's exercising regularly. He actually eats really carefully. And when we got into his diet, he has like a big breakfast every day, a very small lunch, and then a decent dinner. I was like, well, do you need breakfast? He goes, well, yeah. I said, well, why? You know, what are you doing all day? You know, you're sitting at a desk. How many steps should you do a day? Well, not a lot. So he's actually already started cutting breakfast down. He's lost weight. I'm not saying that's right for everyone. Yeah. But these conversations are interesting, but we actually went on to do a cardiac scan for him, and he's got a bit of furring on his heart. So actually, that's a game changer. And that information is not in the, you know, they're not in Q-risk. Absolutely, yeah. The amount of exercise you do is not in Q-risk three, but I think there's a Q-risk four coming out. Yeah. And that will actually, that will include factors like do exercise and also have you got inflammatory conditions like, you know, psoriasis and other forms of arthritis. So we know that people that have inflammatory conditions, that also is a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. So there's nuances in there. Yeah. So the other thing is that I, the other day, you mentioned it earlier, I just heard about lipoprotein A. You've got to understand that I'm an orthopedic surgeon surrounded by physicians here. What is lipoprotein A? What does it do? Shree, can you tell us? Yeah. So lipoprotein A is independent of your cholesterol. So it's an independent cardiovascular risk factor. And so if you've got a raised lipoprotein A along with a high cholesterol, that increases your risk of cardiovascular disease. Historically, the issue was, we would see it, but actually there was no way historically to treat it. It was a predominantly genetic factor, whereas cholesterol, we can put someone on a statin. We would historically say, ah, your lipoprotein A is raised, you're at an increased risk of cardiovascular disease, but we can't actually do anything about it historically. Now, some of the newer agents that they've got, so the PCSK9s, et cetera, can actually lower lipoprotein A. Specifically? Yeah. Well, they lower cholesterol, but they also lower that. The PCSK9 inhibitors are given as injections, but they're trialing, so oral PCSK9 agents. So there's going to be a tablet version of that. And there are some newer agents, again, which we're involved in some trials with, which, you know, it's going to revolutionize the lipid world and how we target patients. And are these now going to replace statins for some people? No, look, you've got to remember, old is not always bad. You know, metformin, very old drug, but still, you know, one of the best. And that's still the first line agent, despite all these other medications. So same, look, statins have got the... I think when you've got an old drug, you've got lots of data, you've got lots of patient years of experience, and you can show that it, you know, reduces risk of cardiovascular disease. So statin will always be there. And usually the data is add-on. So we've got ezetimibe, and then you've got PCSK9 inhibitors. There's something called benpedoic acid, which for people who are not tolerant of statins, works in a very similar way to statins, but without the theoretical risk of some of the side effects. So there's lots of agents now coming in. Okay. And let's say, and I don't mean to labour this point, and I'm not doing it for personal reasons, honest, but let's say there's someone who's... Your lipoprotein is a problem. Yeah. So let's say you've got someone who's got a raised cholesterol that's refractory to weight loss, to everything else, and they've got a raised lipoprotein as well. Yeah. What would you treat them with? So... Would that be a statin and a PS... So the guidelines are very precise. So, you know, we start with the statin, then there's data saying that if you add in ezetimibe to a statin, you get better lowering than if you just increase the statin. And then the agents come, so the PCSK9 inhibitors are the next group of drugs. The guidelines are all trying to work out where some of these newer agents fit in, but that would be the line of play. Well, that's great because it's just been statins, you know, since I was a lad, and now all of a sudden there's options. Correct. And I think what I see frequently in primary care is patients with diabetes where they're on one agent, you know, I do perioperative diabetes medicine and see some referrals and I'll see patients coming up who are before surgery and their HbA1c is 100 and it will say diet controlled, you know. So... That's not controlling anything. Correct. So I think there's this, there's not only do you have to identify disease and treat it, but you have to optimize it. We've got so many agents now on the diabetes side, there's no excuse for having a patient who's not controlled. Of course, you occasionally get patients where they're on multiple agents and you can't, but the vast majority of people now with the agents that we've got, you should be able to flatten a cholesterol, flatten HbA1c. So, so most patients it's treatable. John, going back to cardiology, atrial fibrillation, it's a phrase that a lot of people may have heard and they don't necessarily know what it means. And it's a thing that can often be in the background for years. Why is it so important? So, um, atrial fibrillation is the most common heart rhythm disturbance that exists in adults. Um, and it represents an irregularity in the top chains of the heart. So the way I sort of think of it is that rather than having a nice organized pattern of electrical activation in those top chains of the heart, which are responsible for governing the heart rhythm, you've got completely chaotic activity. So kind of like a bag of worms, thousands and thousands of electrical signals all whizzing around, interacting with each other and causing chaos. We don't understand the patterns of activation, um, uh, enough to really be able to define them properly, but it's complete chaos. Um, and it has sort of two main consequences. The first is that the, the atria, those top chains of the heart, they don't contract anymore. So they don't form any muscular squeeze, which means that in particular places in the heart, the blood can pool. And if it pools, because it's not flowing so much, it can clot. And this is really leads us to the most important consequence of atrial fibrillation, because if a blood clot forms in the heart and then it moves, it goes into the circulation, it can fly out of the heart and block a blood vessel distal to it. Now, the most serious consequence of that is a stroke. And this is really the most important consequence of atrial fibrillation. It's why we are so focused on, on finding it. Um, strokes associated with atrial fibrillation are a huge problem. About 10% strokes in the UK are because of, um, AF. Um, and as a result, predominantly of the strokes that AF causes, AF as a single condition is responsible for about 1% of the NHS's budget. So this is a vast public health problem. Um, the second consequence of AF is that the heart, because of those chaotic electrical signals arriving, um, at the main pumping chains of the heart, the heart typically goes rapidly and irregularly. And that can cause symptoms of palpitations that can cause heart failure if it's untreated, um, and a whole range of other symptoms that can be really quite impactful, um, for patients. Dr. Breathlessness? Dr. Breathlessness, exercise intolerance, um, chest pains, collapse, um, uh, really quite, really quite intrusive sort of problems for people. So, um, so that's why there's a tremendous motivation to actually identify and screening can be helpful in the, in the appropriate age group. And that's probably around 60, 65 for atrial fibrillation. Um, and because the key thing about it is if we do identify, we can bring that risk of stroke right down with a blood thinner, with an anticoagulant, which again is a simple, um, intervention to do. And, uh, and the health benefits for patients with atrial fibrillation can be dramatic because if we think of an otherwise fit and well 65 year old person, um, who's active, who's playing sport, who's working, who's, um, living a completely full life, a stroke for that person can be devastating, utterly devastating, if not fatal. So tremendous value in identifying and bringing that risk of stroke down. Dr. And the advantage of identifying is that you can treat it. You can treat it exactly. And so you can, you can bring that risk of stroke down, you can protect them from, from that, um, from, from that consequence. Now, also happily, um, the treatments for the rhythm itself and those symptoms of a rapid and irregular heartbeat, the palpitations of difficulty breathing, the exercise intolerance, even the heart failure is also, um, in many cases amenable to, um, uh, interventions, both medications, but increasingly procedures to actually, um, reverse the atrial fibrillation and maintain sinus rhythm. Dr. Dr. Dr. Trey in cardiac electrophysiology and they can have a really beneficial effect for people. Thank you. Simon, how important and significant is family history in cardiovascular screening? Hugely. I mean in any screening to be honest if you've got a family history of something you need to take extra care. If you're asking particularly about cardiovascular wise, I mean huge, huge determinants of health really. Although lifestyle has a huge impact as well. And so for the family history that would be one time where you would suggest someone maybe get screened earlier? Yes, it depends on the age of the family. I mean if somebody had a heart attack in their 80s, that's not going to be as concerning as somebody that's had a heart attack under the age of 50 for example. You know certainly people having heart attacks or strokes below the age of 50, I'd always really take as a red flag in a family history. And they're people you'd be really encouraging to get screened regularly back to knowing your numbers. What's your blood pressure doing? What's your heart rate? What's your heart rhythm if you've got the ability to check it? Yeah. What's your BMI? What's your height to weight ratio? BMI is quite a crude tool, but height to weight ratio is great. Yeah. I'd love to get a program actually, they send everyone a piece of string from the NHS. An NHS piece of string once a year that is your height. Right. It should go around your abdomen twice, right? And if it doesn't go around twice, then you basically, your height to weight ratio is out. Yeah. It's a very simple test. So a piece of string could save your life. That's where we need to go. Sounds good. Yeah. That's the most useful tool we've got. But it's funny when you talk about all these tests, because obviously, the Apple Watch is very proactive at picking up atrial fibrillation, isn't it? Yeah. So it has two sort of ways of looking for atrial fibrillation. And first of all, it looks at the heartbeat regularity by looking at the blood flow through the capillaries in the skin. And it just does that by shining a light onto the blood vessels and capturing the waveform of blood through the skin. And very crudely and simply, it's going to make a judgment as to whether or not it's regular or irregular. So that represents a screening tool that can be turned on in various different ways. But it's just sort of going to say whether or not it thinks the heart is regular or not. And if it's not regular, it's going to say, I think there may be atrial fibrillation. Now that does have benefit as a screening tool. But the benefit is that it can prompt you to undertake a diagnostic test. Like an ECG. Like an ECG. And the Apple Watch itself will record a single lead ECG. So it can be diagnostic in that regard. But that's something that's a little bit more involved to do with the Apple Watch. And so it can also just be a prompt to see your GP and have your pulse taken and then an ECG with them. So I think in that regard, it's again in the right age group, this is a tremendously valuable intervention. And I guess it can also get it wrong at times. Yeah, absolutely. And that's a key thing because it can say, well, I think that when it says an atrial fibrillation alert, all it's really saying is that it thinks it's irregular. And there are many less common, but very important irregularities in the heartbeat that are not due to AF. So that's why that diagnostic test is so critically important as part of that journey. All I remember at fibrillation from my days, many years ago is irregularly irregular heartbeat. Yeah, exactly. And that remains actually one of the key diagnostic features. And what we mean is, we mean, there is no way to predict what the interval between the subsequent heart rate, heart beats will be. Yeah. Patient one described this to me as like jazz music. I don't know if you've heard that before. Yeah, I have actually. And the musically inclined ones always tap out, you know, tap it out. And sometimes that can be super helpful in terms of making that distinction as to whether it is going to be truly AF or one of these other. And the other one is somebody once said, it's like falling down a long flight of stairs. I've not heard that one, but I like that one. Yeah. But yeah, you may have. That's your AF. So when you're screening someone, at what point do you think, okay, this now needs to be seen by a cardiologist? Yeah, I mean, good question. So again, with the cardiac screen that we're doing in the private sector, again, it's all the basic stuff, the blood pressure, the cholesterol, particularly LDL, the lipoprotein, we're talking about your HbA1. In terms of the cardiac, we tend to do a resting ECG and also a stress ECG of some sort, which could be a treadmill test or the higher end medicals have what's called a cardiopulmonary exercise test where you're on a- The CPET? Is that the one? Yeah, CPET, CPET, which is where you're on an exercise bike and you're wearing an oxygen mask gives you a VO2 max. So it's checking your lung function. It's really high end information. It's great, particularly for athletic patients. The cardiac screen is normally a CT and there's a choice of either a plain CT scan, which is a very quick sort of slice of the heart, which is useful at quite basic or something called a CTCA, which is a coronary angiogram, which is the same CT and then they pop a little dye in and that flashes all the blood flow because the heart's quite selfish, right? The first thing it does is gives it its own blood supply. Absolutely. What a lovely organ, right? So it supplies itself. But the minute that's getting clogged up, then that's the beginning of cardiovascular disease. So the CT plane scans are actually may miss information, be seen on a CTCA. Absolutely, yeah. Particularly in younger people. Yeah. So we tend to encourage our patients to have a CTCA. And the other important thing to say is I understand is that if you're on a statin, which so many patients are, that hardens the plaques and actually gives you a false reading on the calcium score. So our kind of cardioradiologists have told us to do CTCA on those patients as well. But they are just game changing scans, because if you know the inside of your cardiac vessels is clear, particularly if you've got a family history, that's hugely reassuring. But the minute there's a focus then it's really hard to explain to patients. But the best knowledge I've had is like, if you're trying to throw snow at the wall to get a snowball to stick on the wall, the first few bits go. But the minute you've got a bit of snow on the wall, it's going to accumulate. And that's what plaque does. It's a kind of snowball effect in the blood vessels. So the minute you've got that there, you want to push your LDL down. And the lipoprotein that we're talking about, which is really coming into the fore now, they call it LP little a, it's little a in brackets, is very important. It is one of the many risk factors. It's about 80% genetic, so we're told. So it's not, you know, it's not your fault of it. It's high per se. Same with cholesterol is often a genetic thing. But you can mitigate that. So some of the risk calculators, if you go online, if your lipoprotein was a bit high, say for example yours was, if you look at your risk factors. Let's not run the point. Okay. You know, by reducing your LDL, you mitigate the fact that your LPA is a bit high. And the cut off for that is about 75. But once you're getting up to two or 300, you probably increase your cure risk by, you know, I don't know, two or three times what it would be otherwise. So it really is worth, you know, trying to treat that. And there are specialist medications we're talking on stream. So it's really important to catch these patients. Can I ask a question? In fact, when we're talking about prevention and getting all of these tests, sometimes we might argue, and with all the various devices, the point where we have too much information. And I think the traditional view of the CTCA from a cardiologist, or I heard one cardiologist saying, but I want to know if the person's symptomatic, because if I see a plaque there, but they're asymptomatic. So is there a danger that you get that information, but actually there isn't a symptom attached with it? And then what do you do with that information? Yeah, no, and I think it's a really good question. But the way I would see this is that the benefits of imaging to identify coronary atherosclerosis is in identifying what your future risk of vascular events is. So that distinction about symptoms in the context of atherosclerosis is really whether you're going to use any medications to treat anti-angina, for instance. But I guess historically, this is much less commonly done these days, but would you be doing an intervention? And if you're thinking about doing an intervention, say putting a stent in or something, then symptoms are absolutely critical. And whether that stenosis is significant in terms of structuring the blood supply. But that's not relevant when we're thinking about an intervention, for instance, a statin to try to suppress that atherosclerosis process. So I think in that regard, as a marker of your overall vascular risk, the demonstration of plaque is regardless of whether or not someone's having symptoms. Dr. David Pagano They tend to grade them, as we see these reports all the time. And before I worked in the private sector, it's not something I was familiar with at all. But their grade is either clear, sort of, you know, 0 to 25%, 25 to 50, 50 to 75. But I had a patient last week who had a CTC and has got quite a significant burden. And I referred him to one of your colleagues, one of the cardiologists, because he needs to be further assessed. Other patients obviously are clear. There's a patient last year who had a pretty much critical stenosis, and he was told that if it wasn't, you know, fixed within a number of months, or we didn't know how long, he probably had a heart attack. And he went, he ended up having a bypass, was the multi, the MDT advice. So these are life-saving things. Actually, you know, we live in an era with medicine where you can get this information you would never have had 100 years ago, 50 years ago that will prolong and save your life. Dr. David Pagano And to your, it made me think, actually, of, there was a patient I looked after, something completely different. He was in his early 50s, and no risk factors at all that we were aware of. I was managing for a heart rhythm disturbance. It's functionally extremely good. And his twin brother, unfortunately, died suddenly. And that was the first, completely asymptomatic, first indication that I had that he perhaps did need a coronary assessment. So I did a CT, 99% stenosis. And, unfortunately, one of my colleagues stented it about 48 hours later. But, you know, and I think that's to the point that... Dr. David Pagano And that was without symptoms again. Dr. David Pagano That was completely without symptoms. Dr. David Pagano And with a heart rhythm disturbance, which took his heart rate up to 200 beats a minute. So he was having a stress test reasonably regularly. Dr. David Pagano And it, you know, I think it speaks to the, first of all, the importance of family history, but also what we don't capture, what we don't know. And sometimes actually finding, looking at the patient in front of us and something that doesn't, isn't captured by any of the tests that we have prompts us to do something that can be super helpful. Dr. David Pagano Yeah. Dr. David Pagano Yeah. Dr. David Pagano Yeah. Dr. David Pagano So to summarize, heart health is a really good example where a few simple checks can identify serious risk long before a crisis happens. Dr. David Pagano Absolutely agreed. Dr. David Pagano Yes. Dr. David Pagano