 romaiz primarily non-malignant hematology. So anemia is, I do a lot of work with platelets, low platelet counts, high platelet counts, bleeding disorders, clotting disorders. My goal is to try to determine why the abnormality is there, whether it needs treatment, and how to treat it. Obviously, I enjoy figuring out what's wrong with a patient when no one else could figure it out. A lot of times the referring doctors don't know what it is, and I'm able to sort of get the right answer. I certainly enjoy making discoveries that help to better understand their disease. There's a lot of diseases we treat in hematology that don't have an established treatment. So we're always trying to learn more about these and find better treatments. There's a lot of these that are emerging. I do a lot of cycling. We have a bike ride in the summer called Velosano, and I was sort of the captain of our cancer center team, which was the biggest team. We recruited 103 people on our team, and we've raised $140,000. And I did the 200-mile ride in two days, so that was good. Go to boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat boat