 endala. I had my first interest in medicine, probably from my dad, who was a pharmacist. And then my best friends dad growing up was also a doctor. So I got to see similar things that a medical system would do in his office. So that gave me a great exposure to the medical community. And really fostered my interest in what I already thought I wanted to do. Multiple myeloma can involve your bones. It can damage your kidneys. And it can effects your blood counts. the many ways which could affect the body appealed to me as an internal medicine doctor. So when patients come to us, it could be that they simply had an elevated protein level in their blood that was detected and not really having much in the way of symptoms. To contrast that, patients that may be hospitalized with severe bone damage, kidney failure, or confusion from high calcium levels, it is usually a visit that we're trying to figure out just how their disease is impacting their body. It involves, generally speaking, several blood tests, urine tests, and bone x-rays that give us an idea regarding the extent of their disease. What we're able to do is generally let people lead their lives in a relatively normal fashion. There are people that can sometimes go on back to their jobs, full-time work, full-time family. Whatever it may be that they were doing, you know, two or three years before the diagnosis, we would hope that they could do shortly after they're started on their treatment and their condition improves. I have two small kids that are six and four, and they occupy a lot of my time, which is very fair. I have a very understanding wife who's also in medicine. I always say there's one place that I can go outside of work where I don't think about work, and strangely enough, it's usually a golf course. It's the one place where I generally find an outlet to not being able to think about plasma cell disorders every day. I just think about hitting the ball in the hole. top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top top