 Ownersioner, Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners Owners whole person, not just one particular organ, but not only just the physical being, but certainly the spiritual being as well. When we talk to people initially, they may hear 10% or remember 10% of what you said. So I think it's a tremendous opportunity to just sometimes be silent and listen, to let them tell the story. But then as we give them the chance to talk, then you want to let them know the different options that are potentially available. And as we talk to patients, we sort of reassure them that it is a multidisciplinary approach and not always just with people in the cancer center. Sometimes if people need to see a cardiologist here or a pulmonologist or other disciplines to get them in shape, if you will, or to evaluate them, make sure they're an appropriate candidate for the therapy or the procedure that we're going to plan for them. I think with the breadth of the different healthcare providers, the wonderful nursing staff and social workers and other support kids, it is that multidisciplinary approach. And I think that really enriches each of our groups within the Toss of Cancer Institute to help us to deliver that kind of care. I do like to travel with my wife and my son's off in college now, so maybe not as much as before. I like to read, I like to play some sports. I don't have as much time as I used to for that, but it's certainly swimming particularly. And for me particularly, my faith life is a big part of my life with, you know, spiritual things with my church and other people in the community.