 aromasin, aromasin, löstin, aromasin, löstin, aromasin, löstin, aromasin, löstin, aromasin, löstin, aromasin, löstin, aromasin, löstin, aromasin löstin. I'm always as a people person. I love to be around people, talk to people. I like to be there for friends, family, anyone. And also I was passionate for science. So when I was going to decide about which career to pursue, for me it was like I like different type of science but medicine was the science that could get together. When I was in medical school and I saw when rotating through hematology, oncology, I could tell from the beginning the strong relationship that's built between the hematologist causing the patients and the patient's family. And that really felt motivating and it got me passionate to be able to have that role in such a challenge moment in patient's life. And beyond the relationship that we, this partner relationship that we build with the patients through these tough times, I see mainly patients with lymphoma and chronic lymphocytic leukemia. And some of the patients are already being diagnosed for a different doctor and they come to us to get treatment or have like a second opinion. I love to teach. So I feel that my main role as a like in teaching is teach the patient the family. So I like to try explain their diagnosis and I try to use some tools like even sometimes a piece of paper to write down and explain where the cancer is coming from, how we're going to treat that. Each patient has a different story and that's what's most fascinating in medicine. And my role is like to try decide with the patient, share the data that we have that is and try to this together follow the best treatment pathway for that particular patient. The oncologist is a type of doctor no one wants to meet it, but some we some patients are going to have to. And when they come to that visit, I think it's very rewarding to try show the light in the end of the tunnel that things most likely going to get better and have very plenty of reasons to be hopeful.