 avovastatin, sintetins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins, avasins avasins avasins avasins avasins avasins avasins avasins peripheral interventions. So we see adult patients in general. Very often, there are symptoms manifested by shortness of breath, sometimes fatigue, decreased energy level. Sometimes, actually, it's insidious onset, and it happens over time, and they accept that it's part of aging process, even though it's not. They have chest pain, classically angina, which we don't see it as often as you expect. So there's a host of procedures we can do from the cardiac point of view. From the peripheral point of view, of course, peripheral interventions as well. Technically, anything involved vasculature, the heart-wise, we do angioplasty to the coronary arteries, PFO closure devices. We do TAVR as far as for the aortic valve, mitral clip for the mitral valve, and also tricuspid valve, triclip. I can promise you one thing. I'll do my best to take care of you. I treat patients the way I want to be treated. Really, that's simple. I look at them like families and friends. I really want to know as much about them as possible, not just medical point of view, but also social and family. And I always call it a team work. The family support is very important. And patients really have to understand what's going on with them because when they do so, they tend to participate in their care better than if they're really just being treated in the dark. I always tell patients, call us when you need us with any question. When you hear patients feeling the difference that we make in their life, it's all about that. It makes it wonderful. Actually, that's really the most rewarding thing. Honestly, I'd like to spend as much time as possible with my family. I try to read. We try to go out hiking, biking, things like that.