 naringin, Hello and welcome to another Health Essentials Podcast. I'm John Horton, your host. Have you ever been hiking in the woods, seeing some berries and mushrooms and wondered, can I eat that? Or maybe it's hours later and all of a sudden you start feeling a little itchy. That's when you discover a rash on your arms or legs or someplace worse. What you wonder caused that? That nature is full of surprises, which is why it's important to be armed with some knowledge before you start wandering around. There's beauty in the natural world, but there are also plenty of dangers. To help guide us safely through, we're joined today by Chris Pozzoli, an ER doc and wilderness medicine specialist. He's one of the many experts at Cleveland Clinic who stop by the podcast every week to share their wisdom. So with that, let's lace up those hiking boots and go exploring with Dr. Pozzoli. Welcome back to the podcast, Dr. Pozzoli. I always look forward to our chats. Thanks, John. Me too. Thanks for having me back. I appreciate it. Before we jump into our topic, Dr. Pozzoli, I'd like to talk about you for a minute. The last time you were on and we were talking about ticks, we didn't really have time to get into this, but I didn't want to miss this opportunity again. And that's just talking about kind of your background. And I know your resume includes listings as a fellow of the Academy of Wilderness Medicine. and a diplomat in mountain medicine. Those are like next level, cool titles. And I'm guessing you kind of have some stories to tell from your work in that. And if you could just share a little bit about what you do in that role. Yeah. Thanks so much. You know, my gateway into medicine was actually a wilderness EMT course just outside of Yosemite during the summer in college, because one of my friends who was a few years older had really spoken so highly of it. And I wasn't really sure at the time, kind of what I wanted to do. That opened the doors. I worked as an EMT, decided to pursue medicine, and especially emergency medicine. Super grateful and lucky to have awesome mentors along the way. You know, especially out of Rich Ingerbretson out of the University of Utah, a tip of the hat to him for bringing me in as a young undergraduate and then medical student, beginning my career in wilderness medicine, and teaching, developing curricula, and then training, a lot, a lot of training. Yeah. Trained in- You go on rescue stuff too, right? Yeah. Yeah. So I trained as emergency medicine physician, and then pursued my fellowship in the Academy of Wilderness Medicine. My diploma in mountain medicine training was building up, working with search and rescue teams, kind of in the mountain setting, and coming back to Ohio after spending a brief stint in Colorado, becoming more involved here with our search and rescue teams, our technical rescue teams. I'm really grateful that the guys and gals allow me to join them out in the field, and I have the great joy of and responsibility of helping keep them healthy and performing at the top of their game, and then providing really great medical care to patients in really bad places. So we, kind of our tagline is always, you know, providing great medicine in wild places and bad spaces. That stuff is just so cool, and it sounds just like an adventure in medicine, I guess. And, you know, all of that excitement stuff, exciting stuff we just talked about, and I have to say, our topics today, not going to be that dramatic, but they are very important. So let's kind of start with eating things that you might find while you're just kind of out in the woods. And, you know, kind of this concept of foraging for fun kind of caught fire during the pandemic, and it really hasn't cooled down. But as we've learned, or as we see from headlines, this kind of natural way of eating isn't always safe. What kind of worries do we have if we just start nibbling as we're walking through the woods? Absolutely. And I, you know, I really appreciate people trying to reconnect with, you know, our land and reconnect with our food sources and their health. And so I absolutely commend that. And we're learning a lot more about this aspect of environmental overlap with health. And as we bring climate into it, and, you know, our food, we are essentially what we eat, right? It sounds cliche, but it is true. I feel like there's a big butt coming up here. We're letting it, leaving us in gently. Yes, yes. But we got to do this safely, please. Trust me, I grew up in a very rural area, right? I mean, we picked, you know, wild blackberries from alongside the railroad track, you know, probably with what I know now, probably wouldn't have eaten those berries as much, right? We have to think about a lot of factors, right? So next to a railroad track or next to a highway or roadway, all of the dust and the exhaust and fumes settle on, you know, anything that we may pick. So even our foods that we pick out of the garden, really important to wash them and rinse them off before eating them to reduce soil that may contain some amount of lead. So long story short, there's just a lot of considerations. And when we talk about foraging, you know, going out into nature, you know, mushroom picking, you know, it's really important that this is a skill that requires mentorship. This isn't something that we should learn off TikTok. That's what a lot of people, I think, do when they start on that. Right. And the internet and TikTok and social media is really a cool way to get curious and learn new things. But then when we're talking about taking a skill and applying actual, you know, to our lives, we should really do that with mentorship. And the internet is also great for that, right? You can Google meetups and there are musher hunting groups and foraging groups that get together and then go out and we'll teach you for your region and the time of year, what is safe, what is not safe and what you absolutely need to avoid. You know, there's a saying among the mushroom hunters, there are old mushroom hunters and there are bold mushroom hunters, but there are no old, old mushroom hunters. That's a great saying. So, you know, we can, we can certainly do this safely. But if you are ever questioning, you know, I'm not sure if I can eat this. Let me look it up. The answer to that is no, you should not eat that. Yeah. And I know you've talked before, when you look at a mushroom, I mean, it can look, it can look very, two mushrooms can look very similar. So if you're just going off of an app, it's a little tough sometimes to make that call. You do need that like field experience. Like you said, with somebody who's a mentor, who's done it before, who knows how to do it safely, who can really break down what you need to look for. Yeah. What you need to look for in that season, in that region. I mean, you know, I don't know if you saw in the news, you know, just early this year, kind of the West has had a much milder winter. And so a lot of good conditions for mushroom growth, kind of being cool and wet, as opposed to like a lot of really cold snow. And a lot of mushroom poisoning, because travelers and people, maybe not native to that area, recognize a mushroom and say, oh, that's exactly like, you know, that mushroom from my home country or from my home region, just six, seven states away, right? Pick it. And unfortunately in that region, it's a different mushroom and it's not safe to eat and, and really causing a lot of, you know, could be potentially fatal. Right. Well, I was going to ask that, like, how serious can it be? I mean, we're not just talking, you're going to get a rumbly tummy, right? I mean, these could be pretty, pretty dire results that you got. Correct. And it's, it's really funny too. The, the mushroom pickers are like, well, if you do it smart, it's okay. But foraging that there's just too many plants that you could go wrong. And the foragers say like, oh no, you can do this safely, but there's too many mushrooms where you can really go wrong. You know, mushrooms, berries, um, leaves even, um, certainly can be toxic to causing, uh, liver failure. And especially we see in the mushroom, um, with a lot of the berries and, and eating plants can cause, uh, a lot of GI toxicity, GI tract toxicity, and even like renal failure. Um, so any of these, uh, edibles growing in the wild can, can have, uh, if, if eating the correct, incorrect, um, one, if eating a poisonous, uh, lookalike can have dire consequences and fatal consequences. Hey, I watched hunger games. I know you got to watch what you, uh, what you pick out there and, and, and, and, you know, what you grab. Um, is there like a surefire way to, to tell whether, whether something's safe or not, or is it really, it's just specific to each plant? It's really specific to, you know, each plant in that, in that season, in that region. Um, and this is, this is why it's so important to do that, you know, um, in a mentor, uh, and, and progressive way, um, with other humans, not a, not safe enough to do as a self-study. Yeah. Well, it sounds like if you're wrong, I mean, you could be really wrong and not get a chance to try again. And we really don't have great like antidotes, you know? Um, unfortunately we're, we haven't quite reached a Star Trek medicine level yet. Um, and, and so a lot of these cases are, are really difficult, um, for the medical community as well, because we're really just providing kind of supportive system care with no clear fix and, and watching the damage take its, take its toll. Now, now we've kind of been talking a little bit, like you're out kind of for fun, you're out for a hike and, and like I said, we've all been in that spot where you see some berries and you're like, you know, that looks like a blackberry. Yeah. I should be able to eat that. Um, if you're in an emergency situation, um, you know, out, out, out in, out in nature, you're somehow stranded or things like that. I think you start worrying like you've got to eat. Um, do you really, I mean, is it that dire that you got to start just foraging for food to kind of get you through? No, for a survival standpoint, um, you know, uh, food and calorie, uh, consumption is, is, you know, not certainly not one of the most immediate concerns, you know, shelter, warmth, water are the three main immediate, you know, kind of concerns over those first couple of days that are crucial. Um, you know, really not starting to worry about, um, starvation or, you know, week to many weeks. Yeah. Being hangry is not an emergency medical concern. Is that what I'm hearing? Yes. I would love to print that on the sign, but, uh, uh, yes. In a survival situation, you know, making sure that you can stay warm enough, that you're sheltered enough from the elements, uh, uh, uh, you know, and then water, we can't live without water very long. So, uh, you know, especially dependent on the environment, um, finding a fresh source of water or, or the, the least dangerous, uh, source of water that we can do like. Yeah. Well, speaking of water then, like what, what, what should you look for? Like if you are out and you are in one of these sort of emergency situations, um, where is it safe to maybe stick your canteen or, or, or take a sip and where should you really be a little leery? Yeah. And again, I should preface, uh, this is only in a, in a dire situation. Um, luckily a lot of the illnesses that we, uh, you know, can contract from contaminated water, modern medicine can more effectively treat on the back end. Um, uh, you know, so if you're stuck in the wilderness, uh, several days trying to make your way out, uh, and, and you're between like, Hey, you know, do I dive dehydration or do I drink some of this creek water? Uh, you know, drink some of the creek water, make it out alive and, and, and we can treat you on the back end. What you're looking for is, is really kind of most of it is, is good sense. You're looking for the cleanest, clearest thing you can find that is moving, right? Stagnant water is going to be much more dangerous. Uh, obviously if it has like a lot of, uh, sediment and contaminant, uh, you know, visibly that's going to be more, more dangerous. You gotta be thinking about what is, uh, um, you know, up Canyon or upstream, uh, from your water source, right? Uh, if, uh, if this Creek is draining from a pasture, probably not your best option, but also if you're next to a pasture, you should be by civilization to take your way out. Um, there's cows, follow the cows home, you know, springs, uh, uh, oftentimes are, are, you know, uh, a pretty good source because it's filtering through at least some amount of, you know, uh, a geological layer that is serving as a filter. And so usually coming out running and pretty clear, um, and, and less chance of, of pathogen there. Hey, I love that advice you gave me though. Like if you are stranded in one of those emergency situations, like the things you read about where people are stranded for a couple of days, um, focus on getting the water in, but the eating, it's something, if you eat the wrong thing, it can be game over right then. So you really want to minimize that, but just make sure you're, you're, you're staying hydrated as you know, you keep hoping for a rescue or finding your way out. Absolutely. Um, you know, you eat the wrong thing, start getting sick. That just accelerates the whole dehydration process. You know, it's taking mental energy. Uh, you know, it's sapping you kind of psychologically as well, which we know is so important in survival. And so, um, uh, you know, stick to the, stick to the basics. And then as always, we want to hopefully prevent anybody from getting into a, uh, dire or survival situation. Yeah. And ideally we don't, so that would be the, that would be the best thing. Um, but you know, we wanted, wanted to make sure we kind of touched on it a little bit as we're talking about kind of eating and in nature, because, you know, you could have different, different needs at different times, depending on the circumstances. Um, but, but if you're not munching your way, uh, through the forest, uh, I know there's still some reason for caution and that can even be with, with the sort of vegetation that you're brushing up against. Um, you know, just, it sounds like there's a lot out there we can kind of run into, uh, that, that can cause us problems. So, uh, poison ivy, especially in our area and throughout much of the U S stinging nettles, not fun. Poison sumac. Doesn't sound fun. Stinging nettles sounds like it delivers on exactly what it's going to promise. Exactly. Exactly. Cruise along in a t-shirt and shorts and all of a sudden, uh, uh, not, not so fun. Um, so again, you know, it comes back to, we, we've talked a little bit about the, mentioned this before to, you know, kind of know before you go, especially if you're traveling to a new area, planning your trip is so important and planning your activities, you know, speak with rangers, speak with people who are local, um, uh, their wealth of information and usually, you know, welcoming travel travelers and, and helping you have a fun and safe adventure in the woods. Yeah. With, with most of these plants that you kind of can, can run into issues with, if you come in contact with them, are we pretty much just talking kind of rashes and just kind of some discomfort? Yeah. For the vast majority, like, you know, singing nettles, uh, poison ivy, poison sumac, et cetera. Um, these are going to be, for the vast majority of people, um, you know, discomfort localized reactions. Um, you know, uh, the, um, poison ivy, uh, for instance, this is an, an arusio oil that is on the, the plant, uh, the leaf surface. And so, um, it's extremely sticky and easy to transmit and your, your body is then having an allergic reaction, a localized, uh, allergic reaction to that basically toxin. And so similar to like, we were talking about ticks, this is when you come inside, um, or if you're, you're staying outside, making sure to check areas and wash, right? So we can wash off these oils. Um, you know, if you're fresh against stinging needles, trying to see nettles, trying to remove those barbs, uh, you know, as soon as possible to help limit the contact time, um, to your skin and your, your body's immune system, that'll decrease then immune systems response and essentially localized allergic responses, giving us this really itchy rash, um, you know, et cetera. Yeah. Well, so much stuff I want to talk about, which is with everything you just mentioned, um, with, with, with the nettles, um, you said taking those out, is there, is there a trick to doing that or what's the best way then to, to remove those? Yeah. Uh, this is where tick tock does start to get helpful. Um, and, and the internet, um, there's lots of different techniques, uh, you know, essentially just, uh, best thing is something very sticky duct tape works great. Um, you know, you just had to be mindful of the way that the barbs are, uh, predominantly entering in, um, and, uh, you know, kind of pulling with them as opposed to, uh, to against them. You know, kind of almost like you ever run your hand against suede, you know, uh, you know, putting your hand across it one way is, is nice and smooth. The other way is really against a lot of friction. So try to get that adhesive down and then pull in the smooth direction. Good tips there. And then we'll make sure we get our phone, uh, our phone out and kind of look up those, uh, handy dandy videos. Um, with, with poison ivy, um, it seems like the biggest thing is just knowing when you see it. And luckily I think, you know, we probably all know that, that cool little rhyme, uh, that comes with that. Yeah. Leaves of three, let it be, right. It's kind of ingrained in our heads now. So is that, is that as easy as it is? Like if you see those kinds of leaves of three, um, and that, that could also be for, for poison oak too, right? Isn't that the same sort of setup? Yeah. Poison oak is, um, uh, a little bit different, uh, shape of a leaf and, and coloration. It, you know, almost looks like a bit of an oak leaf. Um, uh, but typically also in threes, the poison ivy is basically always in threes. Um, you know, poison sumac starts to get more, uh, complicated with varying numbers of foods. You know, this is where, um, uh, you know, an identification app, something like iNaturalist or, or another similar app can, can be helpful, right. Um, in identifying, uh, these because it's not life or death, uh, that we're eating. Yeah. Yeah. And with the, with poison, with poison ivy too, I always remember it's usually like a little bit shinier. And, um, so, you know, you kind of, those leaves are three, it's a little bit shinier and, you know, that's just kind of, uh, you stay away from it. If you, if you see that. Yeah. Typically green leaves, uh, a little bit of shine. Cause again, it's that oil. Um, and then you'll see a little bit of redness kind of coming into the stem and the stalk. Um, you know, just fake some practice and, and seeing it and looking for it and seeing it and looking for it. Um, I'd say I'm one of those lucky people, or at least I always was growing up. I never used to get poison ivy and I worked for a landscaper. I used to pick it, um, where other people would come across it cause they'd like, I'd get hives that are, you know, the rashes like crazy. Um, I, I, it never used to bug me for some reason. Yeah. There's about 15, uh, to 20% of the population who does not react, uh, to the urushiol oil, uh, you know, of, of these poisonous, uh, leaves, the vast majority of people, 50 to 70%, uh, you know, we do react and that's a delayed reaction. We call that like a delayed hypersensitivity reaction. Um, and so that's what makes it kind of difficult for us to learn as humans, uh, is because we come in contact with this leaf and then we really don't, uh, you know, get the effects for another day. And it's hard to do together. You know, that's why if, uh, you've been out in the woods and even at a portion you say like, Oh man, I was really close to some poison ivy or what I think might've been poison ivy. And you have exposed legs or, you know, arms. Gosh, when you get home, just take the time to wash, uh, wash off good soap. Uh, you know, um, uh, you know, any, any good, uh, soap, if you really want to get tricky with it, um, you know, gone dish soap is really good. Just washing all of that oil off. If you know that you've really come into contact or have a high suspicion or you're that 15 or so percent of the population that reacts more vigorously, then definitely washing with a stronger soap. There's a couple of soaps out there that like auto mechanics use, you know, if you may have heard of like a, uh, dupe or, or something like that. Right. And, and these are soaps, uh, that are, um, have resin binders to oil and they work really well for getting, uh, you know, grease off of a mechanic's hands or an industrial worker's hand, but they're also really great at finding this urushiol oil, um, to, to remove it, uh, as much of it as possible, um, after you come inside. If you do that right away, I mean, you're, are your odds of getting that rash, do they just drop significantly? Yeah, vastly. If we can wash this off with that within a matter of hours, you know, a couple of hours, um, your chances of actually getting poison ivy are very, very low. Now, if you know that you are somebody who does react more strongly, there are some barrier creams, which can provide, you know, perhaps four to six hours of, of protection. Um, you know, but really the best prevention is, you know, an actual barrier of clothing. The problem is, is if it's a hundred degrees out and you gotta be outside hard to wear long pants, long shirt, you know? Um, and so we recognize that you got to balance there, um, and try your best to do that safely. Yeah. Now, now you didn't follow that advice you just gave, which is washing as soon as you came in and then, you know, it is a couple hours later and you start getting that rash and you start itching. Um, what can you kind of do for treatment? What are, what are the best, uh, best things you can, you can try? Yeah. So if you start to develop the, the, what we call contact dermatitis, um, that rash, uh, you may start to notice some, um, kind of fluid filled bubbles forming, leave those alone, uh, please don't pop those. Um, they do, if they do open on their own, they do not contain anything, uh, any more of the oil, nothing in that fluid is contagious or, or transferrable. You don't have to worry about that. But as a rash develops, generally recommend that you go ahead and wash that area again, just to make sure that you did remove all of the oil, especially if this is like a, you know, an extended backpacking trip or, um, you know, you were working in the yard last night and you came inside and didn't have a chance to shower. And now it's the morning and you're starting to make sure you wash that again really well. Um, and then you're just trying to keep it protected and covered. There are some, uh, you know, products like I'm sure from when we were kids, right? Like calamine lotion, right? Can help reduce, uh, some of the itching. Aloe is actually really effective, um, both cooling. And so it feels good, but it's also a topical anti-inflammatory. And so it helps to reduce some of, uh, your body's reaction there. Um, systemic, uh, uh, uh, antihistamines can also help to reduce how much, uh, of a rash that you're going to develop and also how bad it itches. Okay. Well, there's basic, uh, the pills that we all know, um, uh, Allegra, uh, Clareton, uh, Zortec, right? Yep. Those are perfect. And those are actually better. Those are, you know, second generation antihistamines. Um, you know, a lot of people think Benadryl and like, oh, that was the original. So I'll take that. It makes you really drowsy. And, you know, a lot of people don't tolerate it. Well, um, the Zortec, Allegra, Clareton, you know, those are all, uh, uh, second generation, non-drowsy, and they're just as effective at reducing, you know, this, uh, itching and the reaction. Um, what about, uh, I think oatmeal baths are always a thing. Is that, is that still, does that work or was it just, you know, kind of a ploy by, uh, you know, the oatmeal industry to, to get some product out there? Yeah. I, I'm not aware of any data showing that, that the oatmeal bath is, is, uh, you know, more effective, but again, here we're doing symptomatic, you know, in the vast majority of cases, supportive care. So if that, that feels good, um, uh, that's fine, but you're certainly not reducing, um, or you're not removing any oils that may still be retained on the skin, you know, with, with oatmeal baths. And, um, it's certainly not as good of an anti-inflammatory as aloe. Is there a point where, where you should go in and see a doc, um, and maybe you can get a little something extra? So we try to avoid, um, you know, the easy answer say, well, I have a rash and this is annoying. Um, you know, so maybe the doc can put me on, on steroids. Unfortunately for the, the type of allergic reaction that, you know, uh, poison ivy, poison tumac, poison nose are, um, it requires really a three week steroid course. Wow. It's not, it's not insignificant. If we only give you five days of steroids, you're going to start to feel better. And then it's going to rebound potentially slightly worse than it, than it was initially. And so for the vast majority of people, we go, man, I'm really sorry, you know, take, uh, take the antihistamine, you know, use topical aloe or a lotion to feel better, keep this covered. And, you know, it's just going to be itchy for a few days. No, I was going to say, and it sounds like you just need to be more careful the next time you're outside. Yeah. Yeah. And, and, you know, and just really being good about, Hey, if I was potentially in a contact area, as soon as I come in, really wash, you know, exposed areas of skin, um, and wherever we may have touched, right. Cause we're touching, uh, or working with our hands and we touch and get the oil on our hands. And now we touch the back of our neck. We can, you know, uh, uh, deposit the oil there. They're being better about washing. Now there is 15% of the population or so who reacts much more vigorously, you know, potentially up to the point of anaphylaxis. So being like a severe systemic reaction. So those people, their, uh, immune system that is actually going into overdrive and they're not just reacting locally where the oil was, but it's setting off the whole body's immune system. And so they're, they're getting rash breaking out everywhere, potentially with difficulty breathing, um, you know, GI upset, either vomiting or diarrhea. Um, uh, you know, and those more disseminated signs and symptoms, absolutely a reason to, to see a doctor head to the emergency department, you know, oftentimes need things like fluids and, and those people were certainly putting on a, that long course of steroid. Yeah. I did not realize that it could get that bad. Um, so it sounds like, yeah, anytime you have trouble breathing, any of those issues, you definitely need to get in and see somebody. Absolutely. Um, so I think we've covered a lot of the, uh, plants you want to avoid out there. Um, but any, any big ones that we missed or, or, you know, um, I don't know what else is lurking out there. Um, no, I think, I think we've covered, um, most of the, most of the heavy hitters. Uh, uh, thanks so much for, yeah. Asking great questions on foraging. Um, and, and, you know, our poisonous plants out there, you know, I, I just always like to circle back and say that, you know, spending time outdoors is, is really important for us, uh, our physical health, our mental health and wellbeing. And again, with a little bit of thought and ahead of time, we can really do this safely. Uh, you know, I always reference my, my colleagues at the park service, they put together a lot of really great information, their whole know before you go, uh, uh, set up. And actually you can, um, you know, search on the internet, national park service trip planning. They have a really great guide, uh, even just for day trips, uh, to week long trips, traveling across the country or, or just your local state parks or, or a national park near you. A lot of really great things to think about, uh, ahead of time, you know, uh, safety, uh, and preparation, uh, doesn't always get the glory. It's a good way to go, man. You just got to plan a little bit in advance. And, uh, cause I'm guessing that you're not available to come with us on, on every hike. I I'm, I'm unfortunately not. Uh, I would love to come hiking with you. Uh, uh, but you can be the hero of your family with a little bit of playing and prevention and, and everybody coming back safe, happy, healthy, having had a great time as opposed to man dealing with a couple of kids with, with a rash and, uh, and illness. Uh, so know before you go and, and, and a little bit of prep can go a long way. Have a great time. All right. Well, you gave us some great advice and I think, uh, with that, we should all be able to get home safely. So, uh, thanks again for coming in and, uh, I can't wait to have you back on Dr. Bazzoli. Thanks, John. I appreciate you. Nature is filled with wonders, but it pays to be careful out there. Be extremely cautious if you're foraging for potential food and watch where you're walking to as some plants may leave a reminder of any encounters. Bottom line, enjoy the scenery with your eyes and maybe keep your hands to yourself. If you liked what you heard today, please hit the subscribe button and leave a comment to share your thoughts. Till next time, be well. Bye. You