 dwarf dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf, dwarf dwarf, dwarf, dwarf dwarf, dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf dwarf and biology and the technical and biological aspects important, but it's also a very scary diagnosis. It has a huge impact on people's lives and their emotional well-being, and so attending to the human story of the cancer is just as important as attending to the disease. Most patients know what they have when they come in. They've been told by someone else that they have cancer and that therefore they need to see a cancer doctor. So usually we're starting the conversation at that point with a shared understanding of what's going on. I think that's what draws most of us into oncology is the chance to form a strong relationship with the patient, that when you're going through a crisis like that, the people who are helping you get through it become important to you, and I think that's a sacred trust that we have as their doctor that it's important to honor and to realize that, and it's a chance to really get to know people, and I think that ultimately is what makes oncology really interesting is the people you get to meet and get to know and the connections you can form with them as you go through this journey. And obviously you're hoping that the journey is going to have a happy ending and everything's going to be fine, but it isn't always the case. And either way, accompanying them on that journey is what makes the work meaningful. One of the things I love about being at the Cleveland Clinic doing urological cancers is that we have actually an exceptionally deep team that both on the medical oncology side, people who do what I do, as well as the surgeons and the radiation oncologists, it's an area of strength for us, and I feel like we can really bring excellent care to our patients because we have all aspects of care covered very well. Surgery and chemotherapy or other drug therapies and often radiation therapy play an important role, so it's important to have those different pieces coordinated and provided at a high level, and I think that's something that distinguishes us from a lot of other places.