 I just found that I was fascinated, not only with the science of health and healing, but how we approach this. Are there ways that we can approach this to prevent disease? And what can we learn along the way about how we approach health? And so I've always kind of thought of that. That was my inspiration when I first came in to medicine. We may not have confirmation yet, but there's high suspicion of cancer. So usually that's when I start seeing a patient. It's just as important for the patient to be an active participant in their care, to have choice, but also do things that also help us, whether that's eating right, the right kind of physical activity, managing all sorts of things like stress, and telling us when things are going on. It takes both of us. It takes their part of the team. First is I want to know how they're feeling and how they're doing. I certainly want to know how their health is overall, because that's important for us as we start considering a plan. I think the next thing is it's really important to have a clear dialogue about what the diagnosis is and the full implications of that, and be really clear about the choices that we make. It is up to the patient to decide what he or she wants from a treatment standpoint. Our job is to give them the best options that are available and to educate them on why certain things might be recommended, but then ultimately the ball is in their court. We walk this walk together from that standpoint. So I want to be really clear about that. We lay out a plan and talk about the next steps. I think that's really, really important, is to first spend enough time listening, but also really explain things in a way that people can understand that is clear and that's honest. It's an exciting time in our field. There's more and more options for treatment. The first goal is to always get the best outcome possible from treating the cancer and use everything at your disposal. I really also care just as much about somebody's quality of life and also feeling empowered. The most rewarding part of my job is just helping somebody in a difficult time. I think that's the most rewarding part.