 amlodipine, and amlodipine. I've known for a long time that I wanted to try to help people who have cancer. I care for adults often coming to me with a diagnosis of lymphoma or chronic lymphocytic leukemia. They come to me and see me at various stages along their cancer journey. Sometimes I meet them at the time of diagnosis and talk to them about treatments. Sometimes I meet them after they've received many different types of treatments and are looking for what to do next. From the very few first minutes after we come into the exam room, I want to know what are some of the most important questions, concerns, things that you and your family want to get addressed today before walking out of the room and incorporate that into the treatment plan that I am trying to formulate with them. There have been many advances over the years and patients often have a plethora of different options that they might be able to receive, both for patients who have never been treated before as well as for patients whose disease may have come back after a previous therapy. By improving the standards and by incorporating new treatments, we are able to improve outcomes for patients and make them not only live longer but hopefully live better too. The type of care that you can expect is focused on you, not only who you are but what you're dealing with. You can also expect the best that Cleveland Clinic has to offer, whether that's collaboration with other individuals in the cancer center of various different specialties or if it's by incorporating one of the many unique aspects of care at the cancer center that we have to offer, like clinical trials that may not be available elsewhere. The relationship that I end up forming with my patients is one of the most rewarding aspects of the job. When patients come in worried or despondent and they can leave a little bit better off than they walked in, there's nothing better than that. Outside of work, I love to travel, so I've been to over a dozen different countries in Europe.