 When it comes to chronic immune, thrombocytopenia, or chronic ITP, there's a lot that people may misunderstand. The rare blood disorder affects how your blood clots. In addition to bruising and bleeding easily, you may notice tiny red or purple dots on your lower legs, known as petechia. And if petechia joined together, those dots may form red, purple, or brown spots on your skin, known as purpura. Let's set the story straight on ITP by busting five common myths. Myth number one, chronic ITP can always be cured. In some cases, ITP goes away on its own or with treatment. In other situations, ITP may become a chronic condition, which means symptoms can be treated but not cured. Myth number two, chronic ITP is a genetic condition. ITP can happen in both children and adults, but there's no genetic link associated with chronic ITP. Myth number three, chronic ITP is a type of cancer. Chronic ITP is a rare blood disorder and isn't considered cancer, though it's often confused with leukemia. Myth number four, chronic ITP is caused by bone marrow abnormalities. If you have chronic ITP, your immune system makes antibodies that incorrectly identify your cells as being invaders. It sends other immune cells to attack your platelets. Myth number five, women who have chronic ITP should avoid pregnancy. Your fetus won't be affected by ITP. Your baby may have fewer platelets at birth, but their platelet count will increase over time. If you do need treatment during pregnancy, your healthcare provider will recommend treatments that won't affect your fetus. If you have chronic ITP, you may need to take medication for the rest of your life. You'll also have to make lifestyle changes, like avoiding contact sports, to reduce your risk of getting hurt. A healthcare provider may also recommend other steps, such as treating the underlying infection, avoiding certain medications, having a platelet transfusion, or even having your spleen removed through surgery. While rare, chronic ITP can be a scary medical diagnosis, especially if you experience bleeding for no reason. But healthcare providers can help treat and manage the condition and offer advice on how to live with chronic ITP.