 I treat a whole variety of conditions, obviously all kidney related, whether it is chronic kidney disease, kidney stones, we see a lot of blood pressure, difficult to control, we see a lot of autoimmune disease orders like lupus, glomerulonephritis. My first visit, typically a lot of time is going to be spent taking all their medical history over the years and reviewing all the medications they've been on, because a lot of what we do is dependent on their medical history. We are very picky about getting details of all our medications, our supplements, our over the counter stuff, because that really tells us how intense the investigation process needs to be, because sometimes the answer is pretty straightforward. Because a lot of time when people come to us, they don't have any symptoms. That's the issue with kidney disease, a lot of times, most of the times it's completely asymptomatic, somebody checked the blood test or urine test, it was abnormal, so they get sent to us and they're like, we haven't noticed anything. Even if you have advanced kidney disease, you know you're heading towards kidney failure, doesn't mean we can't help you. Because the goal is to do what you can to try and get these folks to a kidney transplant, we don't want our patients to end up on dialysis. A lot of times, you know, they may not show how anxious they are, but when you start talking and they let the guard down, you realize, and then after they've been talking, then the real fears start coming out, that okay, this is affecting me. That's why we spend a lot of time first with talking and listening, and that usually ends up being a pretty good visit to start off with. We were trained old school that just listen to your patient talk and let him talk, and more likely than not, he will give you answers to what's going on. You just have to put the pieces of the puzzle together. So a lot of time is spent, that's why I spend a lot of time taking history and getting into details, because the answer then a lot of times falls into place.