 amlodipine, and reshapenouss. I always wanted to be involved in delivering babies or taking care of babies. My mom and I graduated with our BSNs together from OU, so that was a pretty myamentous. And then at OU, I was the first black woman to graduate from their on-campus program for BSNs. So I've had just, I just love everything about women's health, from surgery, to delivering the babies, to taking care of women across the country. I really focus on just overall wellness, so any age. Let's say they come for like an annual GYN visit, right? So you come in once a year, getting everything checked out. It's very conversational, right? I want to know who you are, I want to know what you do outside of coming to me, how many kids you have, what are your hobbies, what are your interests, and then what's going on in your life, you know, to make sure that I'm taking care of you adequately. And then if you need any other services, let's say you come in with like abdominal pain, I want to make sure that I'm getting the correct referrals to you. So we just talk and it's really laid back. I built lifetime relationships. I think it's very important to always establish and grow the relationship. I mean, we change. I see you for 15 minutes, but I want to make sure that you feel comfortable in those 15, maybe even 30 minutes. So that you feel like I really care because I do. You're a person just like me, and I try to treat everybody like a member of my family. I would hope that you would feel it would be exceptional care, and that you feel like you're well taken care of when you leave and all your needs are being addressed. When I have people that come back to me and say that I've made an impact in their lives, and I leave them feeling better than when they came in. To hear them say like, I made your day brighter or, you know, you made me feel so comfortable, that makes me feel phenomenal and it makes me keep wanting to do my job. When I'm not at work, seeing patients, I have a balloon business. So I do balloons for kids parties. I enjoy spending time with my children and my husband and my family, and I love to shop and I love shoes.