 amlodipine, subsequ 할 할 할 할 할 할 할 할 할 할 할 할 할 할 할 할 I grew up around medicine. My dad was a doctor, my mom was a nurse. And so I just grew up hearing their stories, their experiences from work a lot. And I really appreciated the impact that they seem to have on their patients and their patients' families. And I knew I wanted to do something where I could make a positive impact and help people. I kind of approach all patients the same way though. I want to hear from them why they're coming in. Of course, I'll always review the chart and see what previous providers have said. And you really have to take into account the whole systemic health of a person when you're assessing their eyes because a lot of things factor in and affect the eyes. I really like to hear from them why they're here, what concerns they have. And then from there, you do the formal exam, maybe order some specialized imaging depending on the specific concerns or specific findings that I see. And we go from there. My most common procedure is cataract surgery. And so if they're coming in for that, they will come in for a consultation in the clinic first. We'll do testing to ensure that the cataracts are not only there but visually and functionally significant. And if that's the case, then we'll talk about the procedure. We'll talk about what actually happens logistically during the procedure itself, risks and benefits, what to expect afterwards. With cataracts, depending on the degree of severity, a patient can become less independent. They can not be able to do the things that they like to do. It may be as simple as not being able to watch their TV shows or read as much as they used to or it could be that they've lost their ability to drive safely because of the cataracts. And with cataract surgery, potentially the next day after surgery, they could be back to doing those things. It's just nice to see people have that huge shift in their lives where they're able to do things that they like to do again. I am a comprehensive ophthalmologist with a specific focus or additional interest in medical retina. I'll see patients with retina problems like macular degeneration, diabetic retinopathy, retinal tears, those types of things. If you come in with a specific concern, I'm going to hear you out and I'm going to try to find a reason for that concern.