 netereteretereter, ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram ceram better, and one of which is being a doctor. Sometimes patient comes for a problem. Obviously, my initial goal is to address that problem, but I also do take into account the rest of the exam and, you know, make sure that I sort of check all the other parts, if you would, and address any issues. I do enjoy quite a bit establishing good rapport with patients and having a sort of a humane relationship with them. It's extremely rewarding. I have seen patients that have come the day one after their surgery, they couldn't see fingers, and now they can almost see the 20-20 line, and they're in tears, and that sort of gives me goosebumps, you know, to have the power of having such a big, you know, influence in somebody's life. I really like helping people. I really do, and I really want to, whoever's coming to my office, I want them to know that when they're sitting in that chair, they're my mom, or my dad, or my brother, or my family, you know, and I treat them as such, or myself, you know, because I see them and think about whatever is best for them as I would think about it for myself or for my family. That's the reason why I joined the Cleveland Clinic, because it's very important for me to feel that I work in a place that I believe in, and that holds the same values that I hold, and that the person in that chair is all of the doctors in Cleveland Clinic's mom, or dad, or sibling, or, you know, significant other. Thank you.