 Portland Portland-, Portland-, Portland-, Portland-, Portland-, Portland-, Portland-, Portland-, Portland-, Portland-, Portland-, Portland-, But it really wasn't until medical school that I narrowed it down to what kind of doctor did I want to be. And it came down to seeing sort of the ability to have both the relationship with the patients in clinic as well as to be a surgeon. And to be able to actually fix things in the way that we're able to in the operating room, but yet see patients on a regular basis and build those relationships as well. And that was really one of the attractive parts of ophthalmology and then subsequently retinal surgery. A lot of our treatments require anywhere from every four to six-week treatments, and they're potentially for the long term. And so it's really wonderful because you develop these long-term relationships with patients. I think it's something that I certainly treasure and really fits with one of the reasons why I really was drawn to ophthalmology as well as retina was the ability not only to go to surgery and be able to fix things like retinal detachments and other issues, but then to be able to connect with patients in the way that we are able to do on a regular basis in our clinics. Two days a week, I actually am in my research lab, and we're working on novel approaches to how we can change the way that we operate, for example, or the way we can deliver new drugs in ways that may be able to last longer in some of these patients that are challenged by needing treatments on a monthly basis. And so what we've been working to do is actually bring some of that technology to the operating room. And so we're able to do now image-guided or image-assisted surgery. And what we're finding is that it really seems to make a difference in terms of how surgeons are informed, how they're able to make those decisions during surgery. And we see that really changing the way that we operate. You know, my daughter does say that she wants to be essentially a children's eye doctor at the Cleveland Clinic when she grows up. So we'll see if that pans out. What I want for my children is to find a similar passion of whatever they do to what I have for what I do. And if that's in medicine, that's wonderful. And if it's in something else, that's wonderful, too, as long as they're able to find that drive. Thank you. Thank you.