 I always knew growing up that I wanted to help people. And when you think about helping people, I think the first thing you think about is medicine. I started as a bedside nurse at the main campus. I worked on G81, and I started on a med-surge, but at ENT Plastic Surgery Stepdown. So I knew when I went to school, I always wanted to practice to my highest ability. And I fell in love with plastic surgery when I was in the stepdown, because it's a lot more than people think it is. I think a lot of times when people hear plastic surgery, they always think cosmetics, but there's a lot of reconstruction cancer involved, and that's kind of where my heart lies. Primarily, so in our department, we kind of, I see my own patients, and then I also support our surgeons. So the surgeons that I work with specialize in skin cancers. So based off of that, it's reconstruction. Like we take off a large skin cancer, and then you have to reconstruct that. So it's a lot of microvascular flaps, skin grafts, and then also like face transplants. The visit, so it's just start with me doing a basic assessment, asking when did this start, what have you noticed, asking any like red flag concerning questions, which is like, is the lesion bleeding, crusting, or is it just growing rapidly? Then based on my assessment, I can determine if further imaging is needed. One of my biggest things is a lot of people are anxious about their health, and that's completely understandable. And I want patients to feel like they have somebody who's understanding how they're feeling, and I'm here to help you and get you the answers. I love talking to people. So besides the fact that every day I truly leave work feeling like I'm helping people, it's fun to get to know people and just hear people's stories and just be a part of their life in a scary time. And for me, just knowing what it's like to have anxiety and you know, to be worried about things to kind of give people answers, that like just really makes me feel good. So I leave work knowing every day like I am helping people, and I just like getting to know my patients.