 for my young age, I always wanted to be a nurse. When someone is at their weakest point, or they're leaning on you for their support and for their health and well-being, there's nothing more important, I think, than feeling well. So it's always driven me to do what I do. I see patients with chronic lung disease, primarily COPD or asthma. I also do tobacco cessation as well. Usually the first time they're seeing me, we're gonna go over their breathing test and kind of get an idea of how their lung function is doing. We'll discuss if they're on inhalers or maybe they need to be started on inhalers. Ultimately, my goal is to optimize their well-being and their quality of life. So most of my patients are on daily maintenance inhalers and those can look different depending upon their lung disease. And some of them are on extra therapies now, nebulizer treatments or newer therapies like biologics, which are injections. So every patient is pretty patient-specific depending upon their underlying lung disease. I'm very much individualized personal care. I wanna know what you do or what you did and what your goals are with your overall health. So whether it's we just need to stop smoking or we need to get you so you can go watch your grandkids play or getting you to work without missing work because of your breathing. So a lot of my patients come to me because they've been referred by their primary care or maybe another specialty that won't proceed with a surgery until they've quit smoking. And I try to meet the patient where they're at and we talk all about the psychological and physiological parts of quitting. And it's a process, it's not gonna happen overnight. So I work with them, I usually see them quick follow-up like within every four weeks to make sure we're on track. So it's very special when they finally can quit. Every day I leave and I feel like I've done a good job. Whether it's my patients just feeling better their quality of life is better. I know that I'm making a difference. When I'm not working, I am usually with my kids. I have two daughters and I spend a lot of time with their sports and extracurriculars and I love to run. I was a runner all my life, I've been and I started a youth running program in our community. So that's been really rewarding.