 naringin, I started my career as a sonographer, working in regional hospitals. I used to scan patients that came through ER or in patients and some of the cases were gynecological and obstetrical. So those two topics became of my top priority when I was looking into expanding my career. I am a physician assistant. I am a hybrid provider working for reproductive endocrinology and and infertility department as well as gynecology. I see both patients from all these two departments. For example, I work in collaboration with reproductive endocrinology physicians as well as doctors from gynecology. Sometimes patients mention about fertility problems and we discuss the problem, we do the testing and then I send the patients to follow up with the fertility physician. On the reproductive endocrinology side, what I do, I assist physicians in any way I can. I also make sure that the patients follow up with the plan accordingly. I also perform certain tests and procedures to help to get pregnant. It is hard to see other families having children and you don't. And that's why we are there. We are doing our best to help. There are so many ways now, modern ways to help create a family and I welcome anybody who is struggling and need attention. When I am not at work, I spend time with my family. I have two young children that occupy majority of my time when I am off work. We love to spend time outside exploring nature or cooking traditional Eastern European meals. there that there are there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there that there