 and alfalfa. Hey there and welcome to another Health Essentials Podcast. I'm John Horton, your host. If you've ever had a kidney stone, it's safe to say that one of your life goals moving forward is to prevent it from ever happening again. Trust me on this one. I speak from agonizing experience. The good news? There are simple things you can do to limit your risk of kidney stones. We're going to lay out a defense plan today with the help of Dr. Jorge Gutierrez, director of the Center for Endo-Urology and Stone Disease at Cleveland Clinic. Dr. Gutierrez is one of the many experts at Cleveland Clinic who pop into our weekly podcast to help us live a little healthier. So before it's too late, let's find out how you can avoid becoming a member of the Kidney Stone Club. Welcome to the podcast, Dr. Gutierrez. Thanks for taking some time for a little rock talk. Thank you for having me here. It's a big honor, a big pleasure. Well, I have to tell you, I'm really glad to see you here today, but I could have used this chat on preventing kidney stones about 10 years ago. It would have saved me some serious suffering. Those stones hurt. Yep, that's what everybody says. I mean, I've been practicing 36 years, 35 years so far, and I've treated more than 10,000, 12,000 cases. I never had one. You're a lucky guy, but then you know all the ways to prevent kidney stones. So that kind of makes sense that you could be able to avoid them. Yeah, I think it's important to explain to people that stone is not the disease itself. The disease comes from the kidney, and a stone is just like a symptom of the disease that the kidney has that's foreign stones. So I think what we need to work is what is the reason of this transformation. And I think this is the main goal of the treatment. I always tell the patients, I mean, by removing the stone is only part of the treatment that will resolve the acute symptom of the stone, if you will. But the end goal of the treatment is going to be to understand why the kidney forms stones and how can we prevent stones. Well, that was exactly going to be my question here. So you're right on. We're on the same page. So let's get into that. How exactly do your kidneys kind of turn into this rock pit? And I mean, why do these stones form in your body? So I think the simple answer will be the following. The kidney, screeds, minerals, and salts. If these minerals and salts are not washed out from a certain part of the kidney, they are going to get concentrated and they will form a crystal. The crystal is going to be the nitrous of a stone. What happens is more salts are going to adhere to this crystal until the crystal becomes real stone and move from the internal part of the kidney, from the tissue of the kidney to the drainage part of the kidney, which is where it can move them to the urinary tract and where that is when they block a little veering and this is when the vein comes. So you're saying this kind of, it almost sounds like it's kind of a sediment that builds up, these minerals or whatever that kind of accumulate down there. And you said it's kind of like crystals. And I know every time my kids had one of those little science experiments or you had to make crystals, those are not usually smooth formations that came out. They were usually pretty jagged. Is that part of what causes the pain that these are really kind of sharp? No, no, when the crystal, I need to explain that the crystal is forming the tissue of the kidney inside the tissue of the kidney. Anything that is happening inside the tissue of the kidney in terms of initiation of stone is not going to produce pain. The crystal embedded in the tissue of the kidney is going to grow, grow, grow with the deans of more salts until it literally jumps from the tissue of the kidney to the internal part of the kidney, which is a drainage system. A drainage system is where urine is draining from the kidney and the same urine produced by the kidney is going to push the stone to the urinary tract, which is a long tooth called ureter that connects the kidney with the bladder. Most of the stone in some segment of this ureter will get stuck, being stuck. The urine being produced by this kidney is not going to drain well, the kidney will get descended and this is a mechanism of pain. So it sounds like they don't necessarily, they're not necessarily jagged. They could be smooth, they can be whatever, but it hurts because it's kind of stuck in that little tooth. Because at the end of the urine, which is again this long tooth draining from the kidney to the bladder is around three millimeters and most of the stone that produces symptoms are bigger than that. I think we by definition think that stones that are less than five millimeters have more chances to pass and stones bigger than five millimeters are going to have less chances to pass. And you know this is just pure physics, so if the stone is bigger it's going to have more chances to get stuck in this tooth. Ureter is a tooth, literally a tooth that contracts. They have peristalsis that we call and this is the way urine drains from the kidney to the bladder. So again, the stone is just following urine in that segment. Now most of the time I take it, we always have this kind of this debris, this sediment that's in there. But most of the time it just doesn't form into a big enough stone to cause problems. Correct. So if you do some exercise and you don't drink enough liquids, you're not hydrated well, yes, urine is going to be more concentrated, but it doesn't mean that it's forming a stone. But in somebody who has a risk of forming stones, that this concentrated urine may have more salts, the salts and minerals that usually kiddies, crits. The main base of most of the stones is calcium. So the calcium that the kidnace is creating, if you don't drink enough liquids, you're going to have more chances to form a stone. And this is the main basic treatment that we recommend to the patient, drink liquids, get hydrated. And in order to get hydrated, what we suggest is to drink three and a half liters a day, which is equivalent to 96 to 110 ounces of liquids a day. Yeah, especially for those patients who have history or risk for stones. Well, now you're kind of getting into a little bit of what we want to talk about, which was ways to prevent kidney stones. And it does sound like the number one thing you can do then is just to hydrate. Like that's the big thing. That's true. I think there will be five things that I can discuss with you during the conversation, how to prevent stones. And this is what we do discuss with every single patient from the stones. So number one thing is get hydrated. And it's also important to understand how they get hydrated. So and I think it's important because there is some misconception of whether you can drink or they cannot drink. I will say that basically everything can be allowed to drink with exception of sweet drinks. Several old studies confirmed that sweet drinks, especially the ups sodas, especially black sodas, they increase the risk of stones. Anything else can be allowed. For example, coffee. There is no contraindication to drink coffee. That's good. I drink a lot of coffee. It's allowed that a green leaf of the tea, if you're drinking green tea, may have something called oxalade that we can discuss a little bit later. And that may increase the risk of stones. But I mean, generally speaking, if you don't drink a lot of tea, you can't drink tea. And you can't drink beer and wine, which is a good news for most of the patients. And the most important thing, of course, will be to drink liquids. I mean, clear liquids, like water. There are people who don't like to drink water. So we recommend to add some citrus to the water. So lemon, orange, diluted with water. This, two things, the citrus, increase something that you and me and everybody else have that can prevent stones. We have two natural things inside that can prevent stones. One is called citrate, and the other one is magnesium. And citrate is increased with citrus. Eat more citrus fruit in that one. How does citrus kind of break down or keep stones from forming? Because citrate is a natural thing that can prevent stones. What happens is the trade blocks somehow the calcium, which again is the base of most of the stones. So if you increase the level of citrate, you will decrease the chances of heart stones. And a natural way to increase the trade will be with citrus. And also, overall, with vegetables and fruits. Vegetables and fruits, for everybody who forms stones, this is one of the main recommendations that we do. Need to increase your diet, vegetables and fruits. Need to add to your liquids, citrus fruits, orange or lemon. So one hydrating a lot. And it sounds like that works because it pushes that much fluid through. All that sediment in there just gets washed through your system. It doesn't have time to kind of glom together and turn into those stones. That is the basic quality of that, yes. And then more citrus because that will kind of, it breaks down some of the calcium or it doesn't form as easily. Increases the citrate and citrate prevents this. Okay, very solid calcium. Correct. What about sodium? Because sodium always gets talked about. Is that something that you want to limit also? The second most important recommendation after liquids is going to be sodium. Sodium is salt. Salt is very bad for stones. And the reason why is sodium increases excretion of calcium in the kidney. So again, most of the stones are based on calcium with different combinations. But at the end the base is calcium. So sodium increases in a very confirmed proportion, the amount of excretion of calcium. So if you decrease the amount of salt, you will decrease the sodium inside and you will decrease the excretion of calcium. And there's a couple of more things that sodium does. And the most important thing is those people who need medication to decrease excretion of calcium, medication is not going to work if people still eat a lot of salt. So salt, again, is sodium. Sodium increases excretion of calcium. And this is why the second most important recommendation after the liquids is decrease the amount of sodium or salt in your diet. It's amazing the amount of chemistry that's going on in your body that we're not even aware of all the time. And talking about salt, it's very important because most frequent things that I hear from patients is I don't use salt for cooking, but remember 75 percent of the salt comes from outside. Comes from, you know, pre-packed meal or from the food that we buy outside. Yeah, it's hidden in so many processed foods, especially. It's so high in sodium. So this is where you need to be more careful in the intake of salt, not really in the amount of salt that you use for cooking, but the salt coming from the products that we buy. You know, I understand that people would say, well, I don't go, I cannot go home for lunch. So I need to eat whatever is available here at the stomach. But I mean, let's be sure that the amount of salt and the products that we buy at Sighome are not really salty. Yeah. Now you had mentioned kind of sweetened drinks before too. I'd imagine you also want to avoid foods that are high in sugars or... That's a good point. No, I think the concentration of sodium fruits and special fruits, it's susceptible. We know that there's will increase the portion of C-trade and again C-trade to the natural thing that God provides. I will say artificial sweetened things like the pops. This is a little bit different and this is what we need to avoid. Yeah. So natural sugars and fruit, you're fine. You want to avoid hitting the candy aisle at the store or those really sweetened drinks or sweetened products, artificially sweetened products. Exactly. What about, you know, we always talk about animal proteins, you know, it seems like beef, poultry, pork, eggs, all that sort of stuff comes up. Is that something that you want to kind of eat in moderation if you have, if you're prone to kidney stones? Yeah. You're truly driving me through the indication. So we've discussed with the patients. So again, the first thing is liquid, the second thing is salt. The third one, the most important one would be animal protein. Yeah. I mean, we can divide animal protein in three different categories. Well, red meat, which is steaks and pork and hamburgers and, you know, all the stuff that ends up on our plates. Yeah. Why need or poultry, which is, you know, a chicken or a turkey and fish and seafood. So the three of them are not good for stones. For years, we have thought that the red meat is worse, but there are some evidence that for some type of stone fish is not even good. So I will say the crazy amount of red meat, depending on the amount of the red meat that you eat, probably you don't want to eat more than once a week, twice a week, and eat more white meat, which is going to be a little bit less of a risk for some, and balance with some fish and seafood. This is fine. So I think the most important thing is to have a balance. But yeah, we see more incidence of stones in people who eat a lot of red meat. And also, the amount will depend on really how frequently you eat meat. If you eat more than once, twice a week, probably that should be fine. I always say you don't need to stop eating meat. You don't need to become vegetarian. But just consider that increasing vegetables will prevent stones because it will increase the trade. And increasing meat is going to increase the risk of stones. So the mechanism, the analysis that is going to increase is the creation of calcium also. So red meat has a lot of calcium. And I mentioned portion size is important there too. Because that is important. Yeah, it is important. Yeah, I know we talk all the time on our nutrition essentials episodes about that. And what we consider a serving is not what is usually a serving. So that is something to watch when you get that half pound burger. It is a little more than you probably need to put down. Yeah. So what other tips do you have maybe that we need to avoid? So the next recommendation is a little bit of a paradox. But this is what we understand now. Even when most of the stones are at base on calcium, calcium in the diet is good. It is a recommendation. In the past we used to say, well, you form stones that are made of calcium, then eat calcium. Now we do say the different, I am totally different thing. Why? Because the most frequent composition on the stone is calcium combined with something called oxalate. And the calcium in the diet will block the oxalate in the bowel. And it will be secreted in the bowel and will not be secreted in the kidney. So the reason of keeping dairy products in your diet and some other sources of calcium is because it will block the second most frequent component of the stone, which is called oxalate. So there is no contraindication to eat calcium. And there is no contraindication to have dairy products or any other sorts of calcium in the diet. In fact, there are some conditions that we do recommend calcium supplements to decrease the amount of oxalate. Then that will be particular conditions. But the bottom line here is the four recommendation in addition to the liquids, to the salt, to the animal protein is keep calcium in your diet. And then you mentioned oxalates. And I know I've read things where it says you should avoid foods that are high in oxalates. Oxalates are one of those things where I think we've all kind of heard the term. I don't know if I could actually say what it is. So can you give us just a brief rundown of kind of what oxalates are and where we might find them? Yes. And that's very important because as you say, many people have here about the oxalate diet. It's called oxalate diet. This is something that we don't use anymore. I need to spend very briefly that oxalate comes, as you say, in many fruits, vegetables. That we are suggesting as a recommendation because increase the C-trait. But with exception of few things, oxalates are something that we evaluate somehow. Some, I mean, one way or the other. And the good news, if you will, is only 10% of the oxalate is created in the kidney. Most is going to go in the stool. So really it's not a big issue. The few things that we do recommend to take care related to the amount of oxalate that they contain are basically spinach, very, very high content of oxalate. The second group will be that group formed from nuts, nuts, almonds, probably peanuts. That will be the second group, very high in oxalate. And then they come to three more frequent things like broccoli, like radish, which is a frequent in diet, and potato. Probably all these five things is what I recommend to people. Just take care if you are eating one of these things a lot. And there again, you find different diets and different customs, but very frequently people say, well, I have salad for lunch every day and most of my salad come with spinach, nuts, almonds. I will say, you can, just be sure that you don't have a lot of them. So this is what I do in terms of oxalate. The so-called oxalate diet, again, we rarely use and there would be very particular condition when people have higher risk to excrete oxalate. Just an example will be after bioreactic surgery or some sort of bowel surgery with the excretion of oxalate is higher. Why? Because it does not go through this tool. You know, so that will be a particular group. But for general patient population, I will say the oxalate diet is not needed. It's just these four or five things that we mentioned that have a lot of content of oxalate that you need to be sure that you decrease. Right. Eat those in moderation and you should be okay. It's not like you got to cut them all out. It's just you should be aware of them and kind of be cognizant of how much you're taking in. Correct. Yeah. All right. What about now you hear medications? Are those medications, could they drive the formation of stones? Yeah, they can do this formation of stones. So the guidance that we use, we're having use for quite a bit of time, says that state that we need to start in basically every patient with diet suggestions. So example, patient who comes first time, first stone, we don't do any further workup to understand what's going on there. We just get this recommendation that we have been discussing in terms of diet. But it's a totally different history in patients who have recurrent stone formation. Those patients need to be further evaluated with a study that we call metabolic test. That is simple. It's just collecting urine for 24 hours. And that study will let us know what is the kidney's credinine. What is the level of cancer? What is the level of C3? Well, there's a level of oxalate, et cetera. Sodium. And then based on this study, the metabolic test for stones, we can manage the patients in addition to the diet with some type of medication. And we use basically three or four medications, probably the most frequent one is something called potasin C-trade, which is a medicine that increases the level of C-trade and also helps decreasing the level of uric acid and something else. The second most frequent medication will be a water peel. Most frequently used is something called hydrochloricicide that will help to decrease in the excretion of calcium. This is the most frequent medicine that we use for high level of calcium. And then some other medications like alipyrinol, which is going to be for people who have high, high level of uric acid in you. So there are medications, yes, there are medications that we can use, and we usually use them in combination with the diet. And we usually use them just for people who have recurring storm disease. Okay. Now, those are all medications, they said, if you have stones that you can take. No, no, I mean, if you, let's say that you, we have removed surgical lead stones, but the excretion of the kidney confirms with this study that was telling you that there is a high level of calcium, high level. So that is when we use these medications to prevent all these medications, to prevent more stones. Okay. All right. Now, yeah, all right, that sounds great. And I was going to ask too, like once you get a kidney stone, is there a medication that can just kind of get rid of it? Is there an easy and painless way to make this thing go away? Or do you just have to wait for it to pass? The only type of stones that can be dissolved, and this happens only if it's a small stone, is those stones made of high-deficient uric acid. And this corresponds to 8% of one, 8% of the incidence of stones. Again, the rest may be related to calcium or some fewer, like 7% related to infection. Only 8% of the stones, those made of uric acid, can be dissolved with medicine called potency trade. So this is the medicine that we use most frequently for stones. Overall, the particular for those patients who have uric acid stones is the medicine that we use to dissolve the stones. And this is, it helps, it helps, but this is the only type of stone that can be dissolved. There is no other type of stone, there is no calcium-based stone that can be dissolved with many kids. Unfortunately, if you have a stone, either you pass it, or at some point, if you've got stocks and boring, the urinary tract, we need to remove. I will say that, I mean, this is probably part of the discussion that many people that we see, in these big centers with high concentration of stone patients, we see a lot of people who have recurrent stones, recurrent stones. Some of these stones are in the side of the kidney that this time is not producing anything, they're not producing any structures. So we can manage these patients with observation. But you're totally right. Observation means that at some point, the stone nemo, may start producing pain and symptoms. Yeah, and they do hurt. I do know that. So you had mentioned like surgery and things like that. Is that that common that they get that big and you've got to go in and get it out? Yeah, so let me just remind you that the incidence of stones right now in North America is almost one in every 11 patients. So it's 10 patients, so it's high. It's a little more than 10%. So and there are different factors that contribute to this. So yes, it is the main reason of curing perigine rooms and emergency rooms when the stone decide to move and blow the urinary tract. And unfortunately, it's not only the pain, the main risk of complication is infection, because one of the stones blocking the drainage of urine, that urine that is not draining well out, that urine has higher risk of complications. Well, that definitely, that would be why you'd have to do the surgery then. You want to make sure you unblock that tube and get it going. Correct, correct. So the main reason of, you know, carrying emergency rooms is when the stone decide to get, I mean, to pass the urine there and then the main treatment that we do in every single department of urology in the country is put a drainage to the kidneys, something that we call STAND. And this is just to drain the kidney, prevent the risk of infection or cure the infection in case that there is a brain infection. And then we need to plan the treatment for the stone. Yeah. And did I read right that you have done 10,000 surgeries to remove stones? Something like that. You can start your own quarry. That's a lot of rocks. And this, I'm very lucky. I've never had one. So. All right. So obviously we want to prevent kidney stones. It seems like that should be everyone's number one goal and what's the tip that you had mentioned. I also read where we're maintaining a healthy weight and exercising regularly can maybe help you keep those stones from forming. How does that actually do those two things? Factoring. So this is one of the diseases that we can consider multifactorial. And one of these factors, I think the main one and unfortunately there's something that we see more frequently, especially in young population is obesity. Yeah. I mean, we all need to recommend that decrease the weight. But this is because obesity produced, I mean, increased the risk of something different waste. So yes, that's a recommendation that we do, just like a general health recommendation, but especially for people who form stones. There's a lot of factors that can be some sort of erratatory factors. So it's very, very frequent that somebody who forms stones has some member in the family who has history of stones. And there are some other factors like, you know, genetic factors that we probably are not even well informed what exactly they are. But yeah, one of the things that we can really recommend is try to decrease weight and try to keep a healthy, you know, healthy diet and healthy lifestyle. Yeah. And I'd imagine a lot of that with the weight goes hand in hand with many of the diet things you were talking about. Because if you're eating more fruits and vegetables, eating less of the, you know, fattier meats, cutting back on those processed sweetened foods, it seems to go hand in hand that weight management kind of comes with that. Correct. Correct. What about exercising? Does exercising regularly, how does that contribute to maybe stones not forming as much? Yeah, I mean, I think exercise will, I will consider that more like in the root of general health, you know. Yeah. To decrease the risk of hypertension, decrease the risk of heart conditions. But really it's not something that we recommend itself to prevent strokes. All right. Decrease the risk. Yes, but I mean exercise is just a general health recommendation, but not really direct. Well, I have to say too, you got to watch, if you are exercising a lot, you got to make sure you hydrate, because that is how I got into trouble, because I was training for half marathon, sweating too much, not drinking enough, and it cost me. That is a very important point, because you're totally right. I mean, people need to do exercise for different health issues, as we say. But yes, if you exercise, you need to be sure that you get hydrated after doing exercise. This is very, very important. Well, Dr. Gutierrez, these have been some really helpful tips. And I'm thinking folks may be able to avoid seeing you in your office and adding to your 10,000 surgeries list, if they follow this advice. But before we say our goodbyes and you go back to your business of mining, do you have any final words of wisdom to share with people regarding how they can prevent kidney stones? I think we have discussed basically all the steps that we do. I think what is important is to recommend people who have some sort of family history of stones, or some earlier history of stones, that any doubt, any pain that comes, especially pain from the back of the body, right hitting the drum bar of the body, maybe another stone. And the reason why I say this is because somebody who has...  phenoliphyl-4-methrin, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, n-acetyl cysteine, It's worth the effort. If you liked what you heard today, please hit the subscribe button and leave a comment to share your thoughts. Until next time, be well.