 Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen Gen It does not represent the Cleveland Clinic. I'm Eduardo Mireles. There's my disclosures and Rob Chatburn, who you see on the screen too. And that's what we do. Remember, keep your microphone muted. You can unmute it whenever you want to give input. But in the meantime, just keep it so that we don't capture background noise. If you want to use the chat function, that's also we're taking a look at it constantly. And remember, there is CME and CRCE if you're a respiratory therapy and just complete your evaluation. All righty. This is a key SEBA knowledge. Actually, I would say this is a foundational level knowledge for SEBA and for anybody managing the ventilator. And it's the equation of motion, as many of you recognize. However, I think that what we want to highlight today is to start thinking, and you'll see today the example of what we talk about. What you will see is the equation of motion in action. And let me highlight a couple of items. Whenever we have somebody on mechanical ventilation, the equation of motion tells us that either we control the left side of the equation, so meaning we control the pressure on the ventilator, and so that would be pressure control, right? Or we control the left side, and we're controlling volume and flow, and we call that volume control. And that's relevant because we have repeated an agnoseum that when you're in volume control, you look at the pressure, and when you're in pressure control, you look at the flow and the volume. So important features to recognize. However, it's also important to know that changes either in flow, volume, or pressure are influenced by three things, essentially. So when you're looking at the ventilator, the changes are going to be because there's a change in elastase, a change in resistance, or the presence of PMOS. So whenever we look at the ventilator waveform, your brain activity should be, say, looking at what is changing our waveforms, what's the load. So now you know how to read if the load is elastic or the load is resistive, and or if there is presence of PMOS. So just keep this in mind as we look at the, so this will make sense in two seconds as we go into our waveform. But remember, the equation of motion is what tells us what side of the equation you're controlling. So you're controlling, if you're controlling the left side, it's pressure control. If you're controlling the right, it's volume control. And then the patient-determined variables, the elastase, the resistance, and the PMOS are the things that change and change the waveforms. Rob? Rob Lowe- That's great. I put in the chat a link to the brief paper that we wrote on the equation of motion. Rob Lowe- Excellent. And which is a foundation, that's a brief way of condensing everything that we just said into a nice infographic paper. And this has to do, and you will see point number two essentially talks about that. So let's start by what's the tag. And for our team online, if you want to write it on your chat, what is the tag? Again, this is a servo u ventilator from getting it. Again, we don't endorse anything. It's just so that if you're using the vent mode map app, you can find it. But we put everything here. Rob Lowe- So if you want to type it in your chat, Rob Lowe- Have no fear. There we go. The team starts pouring in. And yeah, this would fall into what we recommend as volume control, CMBS. But let's analyze a little bit about this, because this is not a common type of waveform. And there's little abnormalities that tell you that this is volume control, and things that take you a little bit off-kilt. And so let's go. The first one is obviously the ventilator says volume control. But as you have learned, the name of the ventilator gives means nothing. That's why we use the taxonomy. And if things would be perfect, there would be a little parenthesis here that would say BC, CMBS, like that. Actually, I'm going to start doing that to see if eventually somebody-it catches on, and the manufacturer started doing that, because then we know that this is truly volume control. And so, the other one that some of you may catch is that also there's a tidal volume set down here. But we recognize that that also is not trustworthy, because there's modes that you set a target tidal volume. So again, these two things on the screen don't guide you towards it. The third one, so then you have to rely on what you're seeing on the waveforms. And there's certain clues here. The first one is that you have the flow, and the flow is set in a descending pattern. And in this ventilator, it's different than many other ventilators. You can see here that it says flow pattern. And flow pattern stands-yeah, thank you, Zimran. I'm going to put a little asterisk down here for Zimran. Zimran has just pointed out why is the fourth breath, which actually I'm going to call this one the third breath, Zimran, why is the third breath volume lower? So we're going to get there. So the flow pattern is set at zero, and what that means is that the flow will decay to zero flow. And this system has set it arbitrarily to 100, all the way to the top, which is 100% of the peak flow, all the way to zero, which is zero percent of the peak flow. And that's a setting, and so the flow is going to decay linearly all the way to zero. Now, you will argue with me, and we have said that whenever you're controlling, controlling volume, you should have a geometric shape, and it should be perfectly shaped. And you can see irregularities here. And I have to be frank with you, the first time I saw that on this ventilator, I thought that I was being sabotaged, that there was absolute sabotage that the ventilator was selling me volume control for pressure control. And that happens, right, Rob? There's ventilators that tell you that they're controlling the flow, but in reality, they are just manipulating pressure to give you a way from to look like that. Am I correct or not, Rob? Absolutely. So we had a meeting with the engineers, and the engineers explained to us that, no, that actually the flow was being controlled perfectly. And if you turned up the, what they call, called, uh, circuit or two, uh, circuit compensation, that you could see the real waveform, but the, that this was a, a, because there was evidence of other things going on, that this was how it would look if a sensor was in the Y, in the Y of the, of the ventilator. And that was a, that's not on the manual that, to my knowledge and Rob, you can, or maybe it is, but it's hidden in there. But it was the first time that we heard it. And lo and behold, when we turn off the circuit compensation, uh, we saw it and it's truly that. And if you put it on a simulator, it's truly volume control. So this is relevant because sometimes you're going to see those kind of irregular. And so you have to rely on a couple of other features that will tell you that. One is that the volume is identical between these two. Uh, and I'll talk about the third one at the end of today. And then fourth is that if this was pressure control, the pressure should continue and it should not be dropping as much as it's dropping right here. Uh, so, uh, we'll come back to it, but, uh, lo and behold, that's the importance of having the taxonomy, because that helps you if you don't have that level of knowledge of the, of the circuit compensation X, Y, and C that this is definitely volume control. The other one, and this is a lateral secret is that in this ventilator, uh, the, the dual targeting or flow adaptation does not work when you modify the flow pattern. So if the flow pattern is not a hundred percent, this cannot be dual. It becomes definitely volume control. Uh, Rob comments. Just another way of saying that is it, the, uh, flow adaptation only happens with the constant instrument flow setting. And anytime you put the flow pattern, um, change that, then it's not constant anymore. It's some, some form of descending ramp. It could be any kind of thing that you want for reasons that I don't really understand. But another thing to point out is those red arrows on the flow waveform show distortions in the positive direction, right? Positive flow. And that's being caused by looking up on the pressure waveform. You see that there's some interference there from PMUS. So essentially what, what the graphic is showing you is what would happen, what you would see if you had a flow meter at the airway opening. The patient breathes in, they don't get any more flow from the ventilator, but they suck a little bit out of the circuit because it's compliant. There's a circuit. Excellent. So now that you know that. So, so, so Rob has, uh, helped us disclose that there was PMUS during the inspiration. So now that you know that, Simran, why do you think the, the, the volume is a little bit lower where the asterix is, or it's not only Simran, any hypothesis here from the team? Was there a change in like the circ, something in the circuit that affected the circuit? Yeah. So that's because there's no more PMUS. Now the, the, the, this is the actual volume that the ventilator was delivering. So then the other one, you're sucking a little bit and you have been at the bedside and you can see how the circuit distents and then it collapses. So in this case, it's collapsing more, uh, when there's PMUS, it's sucking out of, from the, the circuit more than you can. So this is a passive breath. Um, but even so I thought in volume control, even if there is PMUS, the ventilator will still cut off at that tidal volume. Well, it doesn't cut off. It just delivers that given flow. Uh, the, what you're seeing here, those changes are the result of the circuit, not from the ventilator giving it. Rob. Yeah. The ventilator will shut off at the ventilator after it delivers, let's say 300 MLS, you know, corrected for BTPS. But, um, when, when the flow, the patient can always get a little bit more flow and volume by sucking the, the gas that's stored in the compressible volume of the patient circuit. Right? So adult patient circuits have a compliance of something like, I don't know, two, three or four MLS per centimeter water pressure. And if the PMUS is, you know, 10, something big, then you multiply 10 by three and you get 30 MLS, you can suck out of the circuit. And that's about what we're seeing here. Something like that. Right. That's correct. Wonderful. Thank you, Rob. So I think a teaching point here is, uh, use the ventilator mode map to know exactly what your ventilator does, read your manuals. Uh, but these are key clues that will help you. I mean, nothing to do about these variances, uh, except the knowledge that there is PMUS. So, uh, that takes us to what is the load elastic, resistive or PMUS during inspiration. So, yeah, that now you've heard the whole discussion, but it's, it's PMUS, right? So, so during inspiration now, I'm gonna, I'm gonna flip it a little bit and, and ask you what, besides the fact that Rob said that this was PMUS, what, what key features tells you that this is PMUS? What items tell you that this is PMUS? Look at the waveforms and write down not a linear decay. I don't know what that means. Uh, Fernando, you want to, uh, explain a little bit more. The fact that you don't see a, like, uh, perfect geometric decay of the waveform. I mean, you see some, uh, uh, uh, deformity of the waveform. I mean, that's what, uh, that's what, kind of, you think that there's some activity there or something else. Yeah. So, so the, the, the way that I, I like to think about, about this. So, so this, this can help you. So always imagine how would this look if it was passive. So there's the initial straight, uh, the flow goes up so that you can see the, the, the way up. And then suddenly you see the drop in pressure. And, uh, if this was a passive breath, this probably would look something like that, right? Now, the, if you see breath number one, breath number two, and breath number three, are those similar? No, not at all. Right? So you can see that they are different. So remember what we said with the equation of motion, this is an important, uh, knowledge. So now, now you have here the, how it should look, and I'm, I'm gonna, for, for just humor me for a second. Okay. Uh, just as, as, uh, the fellows and team that are listening. So for a second, pause your brain activity and think about the following. The waveform in number one, the peak looks higher, and then the end pressure is lower. Okay? And right now we know that this is because of PMOS. But just for a second, imagine that there is no PMOS. What would be the cause of there being a higher peak at the beginning and lower at the end? What would be different? What, what, what would be high? What would be the load? Elastance, resistance? There you go. Resistance, right? So it would be, if I, if I only had the first waveform and I didn't know better, I would say, and I saw that this is a descending ramp, I would say, this patient has an increased resistance. If I don't know better. Okay? And I cannot see the patient. I would say this patient has increased resistance. Look at breadth number two. It would be elastic load or resistive, not knowing that the patient has PMOS. This would be, again, higher peak and lower baseline. So you see the peak is here. The next one is over here. Peak is here. This one is all the way down here. That would be resistive load. Correct? Alrighty. Now look at the third breath here and here. What's the load? Yeah. So it's more elastic, right? It's more. So So when you have, so it looks like resistive, worse resistive load and then suddenly elastic. So unless something is causing in this patient changes on the resistive load from breath to breath, the most common cause for that has to be There's only three options. There you go, Karsten. Perfect. So now, you know, when you're looking at waveforms, it can only be modi- the waveform, you're looking for the load, elastic, resistive, or PMOS. If the elastic load is changing from, from breadth to breadth, or the resistive load is changing from breadth to breadth, then there has to be some PMOS. There has to be some PMOS because that's the only thing that will change breath to breath, unless the patient is biting the tube, but that's a type of PMOS. It's the jaw PMOS biting on the tube and causing the, the resistance. I mean, and you can think about odd causes, like perhaps there's a mass that it's moving back and forth on the airway. That could happen. I could see, and that would be a cool case for bent rounds. But in general, if you see a difference between breadth one, breadth two, and breadth three, that has to be PMOS. Excellent. Rob? I want to refer back to your first slide where you show the equation of motion. And if you can think in your head on equation of motion, we have two terms on the right. The first is the elastic load, and the second is the resistive load. And when you have a descending ramp waveform, at the beginning of the breadth, you have zero volume, but you have a lot of flow. So all you have is resistive load, right, right there. At the end of the breadth, because it's set for zero, the flow to be zero at the end of the breath, then flow is zero. So R times zero is zero, but you have a full tidal volume. So all you have left is the elastic load. So the pressure waveform will start off with a high jump up, and then it'll be curvy in the middle. And at the end, it'll be some other pressure. So that is essentially plateau pressure at the end, and resistive pressure at the beginning, or elastic load and resistive load. So that is one sort of side benefit of setting the ventilator with the descending ramp flow, where it goes down to zero. I don't know how many other benefits there are, but that's one in terms of waveform interpretation. Excellent. My God, we're squeezing this orange so well. All right. Very good. So now you know that there's PMOS. Now, what's the load during exhalation? Okay. Fernando, you have to be more specific. Normal is a standard deviation that is huge. Is it elastic, resistive, or PMOS? I mean, it's difficult to say six or less of PMOS, but I'm not sure. Maybe. I don't know. That's like a particular person. So what's the normal load? I mean, in all of us humans, what's our normal load? Elastic or resistive? What's the main expiratory load? Yeah, elastic, my friends. So remember, we have very, so when you say normal, I presume that you referred to elastic, and it's the time, and you can see it's coming back to baseline from here, actually, it fell in one second all the way to here in around one and a half, more than one and a half seconds. So this is consistent with elastic load. Perfect. All righty. So now for the PV discordance. Let's start with the trigger. Is it normal, early, late, false or failed? Excellent. So this is a great, great. So remember, when there's some-so who triggered the-the-the-breads? Breaths one, two, and three. Is it triggered by the patient or the machine? The machine. Excellent. Machine, right? So the ventilator by time. We set the rate at 24, and the patient is breathing at 24. Every breath is triggered by the machine. And I know that that because there is no marker that this was triggered by the patient. And the ventilator is the-is the one that knows the truth. It says, oh, this was a patient signal. Or if it doesn't put any change in color, or every ventilator has different markers. Now, if it's machine and then there is evidence of PMOS as we discussed, then this becomes... Excellent, Megan. An early trigger. Yes. So this is a great example of a couple of early triggers occurring right here. Very good. Very good. Love it. All righty. So now that we're there, so we have an early trigger. That's the-the main item on this-the main discordance. And I would ask the team to see if anybody...is there anything else that's bothering you on this? And then we'll get to how we're going to treat it. But anybody has anything else that bothers you on this waveform? Anything that you want to comment? I remember-I think that it was Jorge that put something out there. Anybody? Anything else bothers you? Yeah. Thank you. Bumpy expiratory phase. So I want you to pay attention on to the expiratory phase. And you're going to see this-and I'm putting arrows right now. Actually, let me erase so that everybody can see it, because this is getting crowded. Okay? So let's erase. There you go. Much nicer. Okay? So now that you...that we have erased all this nonsense, let's...let's draw the things that I'm seeing for you. So...so you can see here, here, here, here, and here. There's one last one. So what...what are your thoughts there? What's causing that? And just so that you get excited about it, I'm going to show you...this is the next waveform. This is the same patient. You can see your early trigger. And now the early trigger is very evident, right? You see the varying heights of...but it's definitely an early trigger. But here are the little humpy dumps that you see. So what's causing this? Have no fear. Put the costs. All right. So we have Jorge with one hypothesis. So one of the hypotheses was cardiac. Two for cardiac. Okay. Keep going. Any other hypothesis for cause? Anybody else? Cardiac? Is that where we're staying? All right. It seems that everybody supports cardiac. So do...do think the following. Whenever we have oscillations on the airway, like this ones, it can be cardiac or it can be fluid in the circuit. Yeah, first inputs fluid in the circuit. Or it can be secretions. Sometimes in the AT tube or in the airway. It can also be excessive dynamic collapse of the airway. So excessive dynamic collapse. And we see that in tracheal Malaysia and whatnot. And each one of them has different behaviors. So let's try to dissect which one of these is. So I'm going to go to the first waveform. So you can see that at the beginning, they go one, two, three, and then there's a tiny one here. And then they disappear. One, two, three, four, and then it disappears. However, in the next one, we again see them one, two, three, and then four. But you see how they're going down in size? Like this one over here. High, lower, lower, disappears. High. Does that, does that, that's one of the features. So see the difference in height, as in how it goes down. The second, look at the frequency. And if you consider this to be a second, so from here it starts one second and here finishes a full second. One, two, three, four. Four in a second. So that means that in 10 seconds it's 40. In 10 seconds it's 40. And multiply that times six and it's a lot, 240. So it's going very fast, right, for this patient. So the frequency is high. So high frequency and it goes down with time. And this is relevant. So I want you to, to, it's, and this is not by any means a, a rule forever, but it's an important features to recognize. So as this goes down, the oscillations goes down, this is related to the decrease in flow. And as the flow goes down, these oscillations are going down. Does that inclines you to any of these four causes? One, two, three, or four? So now that I have told you high frequency, very high frequency, and they decrease, decrease with a decreasing flow, does that make you more inclined towards one, two, three, or four? So usually the, yeah, so, so as you start looking at this, the, the, if the flow goes down, imagine that you have just like waves in the sea, the higher the sea, the higher the waves. And then if there's no wind, there's no waves. So the same thing happens with, uh, fluid in the circuit or secretions. If there's no flow, there will be no waveforms. So, uh, that's highly relevant. So if you see that they're decreasing as the flow goes down, that makes you more, uh, suspicion for either two or three. Uh, four, which is excessive dynamic collapse, usually goes high frequency and then it disappears because their way completely collapses and they disappear. And cardiac, they maintain themselves. So in this case for this patient, it was fluid in the circuit in which we suctioned the, well, actually, this was not even suctioned. And, uh, I have to admit that I, uh, made an error and Sherry pointed out to me and she's going to tell us how to deal with this, but I inclined, uh, there was a puddle of water on the expiratory limb or the inspiratory limb, sorry, just after the humidifier. And I lifted up and the fluid fell into the chamber, which is a no, no. And Sherry, do you want to explain, uh, what I did wrong there, please? But you can see that they disappeared, uh, completely. So it was definitely fluid in the chamber. So go ahead, Sherry. Yes. The fluid that's in the circuit is contaminated because you don't know if it came from secretions from the AT2 back out down into the respiratory limb. So you're not supposed to drain it back down into the humidifier. Um, best way to take it to, to get it out of the circuit would be to disconnect the patient and put the, uh, tubing into like a chucks or something to catch that fluid. But the patient's on 17 of PEEP. So that's probably a bad idea. So I probably would have done the same thing. Thank you, Sherry. Uh, and, and so I thought that was, uh, very useful. I, I will, this is, I put this, this is not the same patient. This is a different patient, but just so that you can see the cardiac oscillations through time. And you can see how the frequency is lower. Uh, and this is amplified granted, but you can see how they persist through the cycle and the oscillations. Here, they decrease on the, uh, airway side because the flow goes to down, but there was also other reasons on this patient, which will present in another band rounds. So, uh, to recap, uh, we had a lot of learning on this, uh, uh, band rounds. Uh, we talked about the equation of motion, uh, and that helps you recognize that there's only three things that can affect your waveforms. It's either the resistance, the compliance or PMOS. And what you learned today is that if there is changes, changes between consecutive. Breadths. Uh, this is right, likely to be PMOS. So if it's one after the other, and there's changes on the waveform, this is likely to be PMOS. Uh, the other one we talked about was, uh, early trigger. I mean, we recognize again, early trigger on the, on the ventilator. Uh, the variant in this case is reverse trigger. And what we did for this patient was to decrease the respiratory rate just, uh, in the sake of time. And the last one is that remember that when you see, uh, aberrances in the expiratory phase that look like there's three, three, four potential etiologies. Probably there's more, but it's either cardiac oscillations, which tend to persist throughout, uh, and they are at a lower rate, unless the patient obviously is going at that fast rate. Cardiac oscillations. And these are very common to see. There's also fluid in the circuit, uh, which is the case that we saw here. And it, as well as secretions in the airway or in the AT2. And both of them, the oscillations disappear, disappear when you stop the flow, which is not what happens when you have cardiac oscillations. And finally, excessive airway collapse in which you usually have high frequency oscillations, and then they stop. And we'll put, I think that we've had a case here on Ben Browns, but we should put one more. Questions from the team or anger management? Eduardo, these fluid oscillations could possibly cause false triggering, right? Absolutely. Which was not the case, uh, here because there was nothing triggered by the ventilator. Uh, but sorry, by the patient, if that would be a false trigger, but absolutely. Uh, Rob, cardiac oscillations, all of these four that we put there are good causes of false trigger. Uh, here's the CME register, uh, watch the prior episodes. We're at 104. So this is episode 104. And remember, uh, Ben, uh, if you have not registered already, register for the SEVA Summit, uh, it's going to be fun. Rob, any other comments? No, that's great. Good to see you, Rob. All right. I hope that you learned as much. I know it's a lot, but this will be for you to dissect also on the webinar. If you have more questions, please send them to us. We're happy to interact. Have a great day, my friends. Bye-bye.