 where he's part of the core faculty for the Pulmonary Critical Care Fellowship. And so welcome, Arvind, to the bench rounds. Thanks for having me, Eduardo. Your hosts, Eduardo Mireles and Rob Chatburn. Say hello, Rob. Hello. Excellent. And just so that everybody is aware, none of us three have any endorsement of any mode, ventilator or manufacturer, whatever we say, it's our opinion. It does not represent Cleveland Clinic or MetroHealth for that matter. The ground rules is please keep your microphone muted, but you can unmute it if you want to make a comment. We love to hear what you're thinking or use the chat function. We are monitoring as we speak. There is CME at the end. So if you're a CCF employee, get CME. And if you're an RT anywhere in the world and you claim CRC, please go ahead. The key here is that you fill your evaluation at the end to receive the credit. We'll start just by highlighting before we dive in into the key seven knowledge. And I want to take a pause on this item of the three goals. There's only three, safety, comfort, and liberation. And the importance here is that there's one that predominates at any given time when we're caring for the patient, but it also serves as a goal setter of how are you going to deal with the patient, the interactions, the sedation, the settings. So just having the ability to think through, okay, my goal is safety, that will tell you some items that the type of mode that you want to use so that you can address safety on the patient, the same with comfort and liberation. Rob? No, that's great. The point is that the order might change. So for example, if it's safety and comfort, I might be safety first with comfort as a major consideration or comfort first with safety always in the background. So we, the ventilator mode map application gives you the tags for all of the mode brand names. But at the end of the day, it also tells you which of the goals that particular mode will serve. And you see them in those different orders. I love that. That's a great point. All right. Arvind, it's all yours. All right. So I guess we can start. Everyone can just take a minute to look at this ventilator waveform. And if you want to type in the chat, what is the tag here? Okay. I'm starting to see. Uh, yeah. Yes. Uh, peace. So, Trish, do you want to explain how you. Knew this was PCC MBA. Honestly, just from studying the modes, I remember the PRVC is PCC MBA. Not going to lie. Okay. Um, okay. Uh, I guess. Well, then why don't you just. Maybe break down sort of what that the tag means, like what each element of that is. And then we can see if we can find how we could figure it out from looking here. Um, all righty. So, you know, that it's pressure control. We're going to be taking a look then with our flow waveform. Um, the CMVA is going to be that it's the, um, let me think back to my SAVA terminology here, um, the explaining. Um, give me just a second. It's good. Mandatory. Um, it's mandatory with the CMV and then the A is the. Um, assist, right? So the A is for adaptive. Adaptive. Sorry. So, so the first part PC, uh, says that this is pressure control. So you're right. We look at, you can see that the flow waveform is variable and the pressure waveform is pretty consistent from breath to breath. So that tells you it's PCCMV or PC and CMV, as you said, is means that the breaths are mandatory, um, which means they can be patient or ventilator triggered and they're terminated by the ventilator. Um, I don't think you see anything on here that would exactly tell you that except that all the I times are the same. Um, and then the A is for adaptive, which is what makes this PRVC. So there's a target tidal volume you see in the bottom right there. And so the ventilator is adjusting the pressure to try and achieve that target tidal volume. Does everyone have anyone have questions about that or do they follow? Um, and then the other thing is, um, that's the pressure control. All right. So we'll go back. We'll go to the next question, which is, uh, what is the load? So we'll start with inspiration. And if you remember your choices are elastic, resistive or PMOS. Again, you can type in the chat. A lot of PMOS coming through. Yeah. I see a lot of PMOS. Uh, Arsul, since you jumped ahead and you said PMOS for both, do you want to start by explaining, uh, the PMOS for inspiration and why, why you're saying that? Can you hear me? Yes. Uh, yeah, sure. So, uh, as you look at the inspiratory waveform, you'll see that the patient's effort, uh, is leading to a, uh, usually it should be a rapid decelerate and acceleration and deceleration of the flow waveform. But as you're seeing here, that there's active patient effort going on in the flow waveform. That's leading to the kind of like a sinusoidal sort of waveform pattern that we're seeing as a result of active waveform. Yeah, that's perfect. So you can see Eduardo highlighted there that all that space above the normal exponential decay is signifies PMOS. Okay. And then what about for expiration? Uh, what do people think? Okay. Okay. And then what about for expiration? Is this okay? Sherry says resistive. Any other thoughts? And RSL already committed to PMOS. Rob says long time constant. Okay, Trish, do you want to, uh. I guess you explained that they're resistant to a longer time constantly explain how, you know, there is a longer time constant here. Just looking at each of these and knowing that generally we're looking for 3 at 3 for our time constant. Correct. Like, knowing that we've got the, um. Uh, how do I want to explain it? I'm just looking that that the person of the initial volume that's left in the lungs would be down to. 5 so when I kind of look down here at my actual time constants, generally, we're looking at. 3, if I remember correctly, and so we've got a pretty long. Right here, I don't know if you can see my cursor on the screen. You can't okay. Um, I don't know what's going on, but when I counted out, it takes a lot longer to return to baseline. And so that's what's telling me that we've got a resistive load. When it comes to it being a longer time constant. Yeah, I think I think that's exactly right. It has a relatively slow decay. Um, and yeah, Rob is pointing out the math there that, um. A normal time constant is about half a second. And so a normal passive expiration would be about a second and a half. And this patient, you can see it doesn't completely expire even in the. of two seconds and change of this, uh, expiratory time. Um, Arcel, you said PMUS. Um, do you want to talk about why you said PMUS? Yeah, I, I looked at the expiratory waveform. Like there wasn't a rapid, like sort of like, um, uh, deceleration. Uh, like flow back to waveform in the sense that I think there were some, I don't know if these are efforts that I'm seeing on the expiratory waveform. That could be the fact that the patient, uh, that there's active effort going on. So that's why I thought this is probably. PMUS going on there. PMUS going on there. Yeah, I think, um, does anyone have a guess about what those. Uh, little. What else those could be other than efforts. PMUS going on there. Yeah, I think that's right. I think those are probably cardiac oscillations. You can see they're pretty rhythmic. Uh, there. You see, I think there's even another one there probably buried in, uh, the very first part of expiration. Yeah, there. And what, so they're pretty evenly spaced out. So that's harder to see. Okay. Um, and then let's work through any discordances. So, uh, we'll start with, uh, trigger. Does anyone see it? Is it normal, early, late, false, failed. Okay. So. So. So. So. got one vote for normal and one vote for late do either of you guys want to defend your answer here sherry i suppose you could argue that it is late but there really is no she looks like i think i don't know exact definition of how long before from the start of the patient effort to the time that it but i mean it's to the patient gets the breath um there really is no identified time so yeah i mean you could argue because there is if you look at the pressure waveform um it does there is there is a little bit of a delay before the breath actually starts so yeah but it's not from where you start to see it yeah yeah so i guess you could argue that it was that it's late yeah it seems pretty quick uh well less than a quarter of a second but that big dip could also be the p moss too yeah uh and rob says depends on how much auto people in the effort starts do you want to explain that rob well i don't want to jump too far ahead but um as you can see here that the effort starts right where you're pointing there when you have an abrupt increase in the expiratory flow see the flow is going pretty much exponential all of a sudden it starts abruptly so right at the start of that change is where i would say where p must happen it started p must happen there and it takes a few milliseconds for that p must to force the flow to go to zero right and the reason for that is you know there's still flow wanting to come out of the patient and if you were to include at that moment that you would see that there was some auto p so the ventilator can't even begin to know that the patient did anything let's say you're on nava until flow crosses zero so that little bit of time delay uh as sherry says you can argue that you know if you strictly define um late trigger as the difference in time from the start of the p must to the start of the flow then it's probably you know delay but if there was no auto peep then there would be no delay and in fact the other the other breaths show that it's a pretty quick rise in the flow after the startup p must if you go to the right or to the left and that's because there was very little auto peep at the time the patient made the effort so that's why the difference in timing between the start of effort and the start of flow in this case depends on when it happens because of the auto peep yeah that's a that's a a great great great point so in this graph just i'm fitting it here but you you can you can see one that it's late and one that it's normal right so it crosses immediately as as it changes the path and and i i would highlight here even though we have asked you that when you're looking for uh the trigger look at the flow because you're controlling pressure but you can see the effect on the pressure how much it drops here compared to this one so so the the amount of the the the patient was not able to trigger because of the auto peep as rob rob said so i i really like that uh great example great read oh sorry all right um so then we can move on to inspiration uh is there assistance over assistance or under assistance the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the the So, I've seen 2 answers for under assistance. Yeah. I hate to call the same people every time, but, uh, or so I guess I called on Sherry last time. Do you want to explain the under assistance here? Sure. Yeah. So if you were to look at the waveform, you'll see that looking at there's active patient effort going on based on the flow waveform to get the pressure waveform. It's like a deflection that goes below the baseline and then it goes up above the baseline as well. That's showing that there's patients working hard. There's under assistance. Yeah. So, um, I agree that this is under assistance and in PRVC that the ventilator is trying to adjust the pressure to provide that by title volume that you're targeting. That's the A part of the mode tag. Um, and you can see in the, in the bottom, right. That the inspiratory volumes are actually larger than we've set. And so the ventilator has basically here gradually reduce the amount of inspiratory, uh, pressure until it is giving, uh, very little, little. It's basically giving the patient CPAP in this example. So. I agree this is under assistance. In fact, you can argue there's no assistance. Yes. Zero assistance. Yeah. Okay. Then the cycle normal, early or late. So, you have 33, early. Everyone's early. All right. Ryan, do you want to explain how, you know, there is an early cycle? Yeah. Can you hear me? Yeah. It looks to me, it depends on what I was actually, you know, the screen when we were talking about cardiac oscillation. On the pressure waveform, that deflection at the end of inspiration, to me, looks like it could potentially be further patient effort, especially given that we contributed most of the inspiration pressure waveform to PMAS. And so to me, it looks like, and yeah, thank you for Dr. Morell's pointing out on the flow waveform, that same deflection as well. To me, that looks like the patient's still trying to pull in another breath as the vent is cycling off the inspiratory cycle. Yeah. So, what Dr. Morell's is drawing there is what you'd expect to see in a normal passive expiration, that sharp drop in or increase in expiratory flow and then a gradual decay. As you can see that the maximal expiratory flow is delayed here and it doesn't reach that, you know, sharp peak. And that tells you that the patient's effort, like you said, continues into expiration. They're continuing to try and draw additional volume even once the ventilator ends the breath. All right, and then in expiration, is this normal or is there expiratory work? All right, so I guess, do you want to talk about what you would see if there was expiratory work here? How you know there isn't any? I don't see any deflections. I just see rhythmic oscillations, like you said, which are likely cardiac. So, I would see deflections in the expiratory form. Yeah, and so those deflections, like Dr. Morell's is drawing, should actually increase expiratory flow. If the patient is doing expiratory work, there should be sort of rounding of that, in the straightening out of that expiratory flow waveform rather than in a normal sort of exponential decay, like there is in this example. All right, good. Anyone have any other questions or thoughts here? Yeah, the key idea here is when you're looking at the expiratory flow waveform. Anything that shifts the flow waveform in a positive direction is inspiratory work. Anything that pushes it in a negative direction is expiratory. So, in fact, we have some inspiratory work during the expiratory time, but no expiratory work is evident here, right? That's wonderful. So, let me ask you a question, now that you have beautifully read this waveform, and I'm going to start from the bottom up. If the goal was liberation for this patient, what would you do for this patient? I have a question from Steve here. So, I was going to, he says, if PRVC on the maquette is similar to autoflow on a Draeger, then the inspiratory flow assistance stopped as soon as the set VT was reached while the patient was still actively inhaling. So, PRVC on the maquette is the same. They both have the same mode tag as autoflow on a Draeger, BC with autoflow on the Draeger. But the inspiratory period lasts as long as it is set. So, it lasts for the entire eye time. And it doesn't end just because they reach the set tidal volume, which is why this patient is receiving a larger tidal volume than the set one. Yeah, that's correct. And some engineers, one of them is this ventilator, the servo, the I and the U in which it's when they get a tidal volume, that is one and a half times the tidal volume. Yeah. Yeah. Very good. So, I, Steve wrote, was pressure support to allow patient to determine their own desired tidal inspiratory time? I just wanted to ask, is that if the goal was liberation, Steve? Yeah, there you go. This is, so, I presume, Arvind, why don't you talk to us? I mean, if your goal was liberation for this patient, what would you be thinking here in terms of therapy? SPT, yes. Well, so, if your goal is liberation here, you would want to favor something that would relatively under assist the patient, but also optimize comfort. So, I think you could choose pressure support if you were targeting liberation with a relatively low set inspiratory pressure. a little bit more. If you're, what if, what do people think if your goal was comfort here? Fresh support is one option. Are there other options for comfort? So, I think, Steve, are you saying that for, in terms of, you know, the option, in terms of getting the patient liberated or for comfort? Sorry, we have many questions happening at once. Yeah, okay. Yeah, okay. Okay. Yeah, so, Jorge votes for PCCSV either S or A. For comfort, you're saying, Jorge? Do you want to kind of explain how those, how that would optimize comfort in this patient? Well, I was thinking that he would be, he would work good with a, with a non-limited flow, mode, and that's, and also control the inspiratory time and everything by him. So, that's why I'm thinking of a spontaneous or, or maybe an A. Yeah, so I guess if you were going to put this patient on PCCSV A, so that would be, I got on the servo, this would be volume support, I believe, right? Yeah. Yes. Yeah, that, this would mean you would set a target title volume. So, what would happen in this patient if you set that target title volume, say, to 480 again? Yeah, so, I think that the work shift would be. Again, you would end up with under assistance. Yeah, go ahead. Sorry. Yeah. So, you would again end up with under assistance as it tried to achieve that target title volume. So, Rob suggests NAVA. So, I think the thing you could think about here for comfort is a servo mode. So, NAVA would be good because this would increase the support the ventilator provides in proportion to the patient's effort. Yeah. And then the last one is safety, Arvind, what are our thoughts there? Is there a mode that can help us here? Well, you could think about putting this patient on volume control or BC CMVS. But does anyone know what issues you might run into if you were to say put them again on 480 with BC CMVS? So, this patient would continue to work very hard and they would be even, I think, further under assisted because the ventilator would fix their volume. You would probably see negative deflections in that pressure waveform during inspiration below the peak. And you would probably run into worse cycle dyssynchrony that they may even trigger again as the breath cycles off. So, if you're prioritizing safety here, you need to decide, you know, am I really trying to tightly control their tidal volumes? And if so, you might need more sedation and or even paralysis in such a patient. That's great. That's wonderful. Oh, yeah. I love the comment from Rob. You want to highlight that, Rob? Yes. The answer was right, Marcel. But you kind of jumped over the thought process, which was why is this patient doing this? It's abnormally high inspiratory effort. Is there something that can be addressed? Is it pain? Is it anxiety? Is it is a low to, you know, there might be some reason for patient doing this that you can address before you just. Right. Yeah. Or it could be a metabolic acidosis, for example. Correct. That could be driving all of this inspiratory effort. Exactly right. So, yeah, this was fantastic. So, I think that the item, and that's why we wanted to talk about the goal, is how the goal, the solution is different according to your goal for this patient. So, since we're at the end of the time, do you want to send us with some key findings and take home messages, Arvin? Sure. I guess some of the key findings here are being able to recognize under assistance in PCC MBA or PRVC. And we recognize sort of a cycle dyssynchrony. So, a late cycle as another sign of that patient inspiratory effort. Yeah, that's good. It's. What was the second one? Sorry. That we recognize late cycling as that blunting of the exploratory flow wave waveform. Early cycle. Yeah. Sorry. Early cycle. Excellent. Good. And also that a late trigger can be called a late trigger. caused by auto-peep. And then I think the take home message on this one is that, you know, their selection of mode, as always, depends on your goals for your patient and the underlying cause of the synchrony. Very good. That's wonderful. Yeah. The goal, the goal drives the mode, drives the care, drives the sedation, drives the strategy. Well, I want to thank you, Arvin, outstanding job. Thank you for being our guest facilitator today to CEBA Ben Rounds. We love you being part of the CEBA family. I want to hi everybody. Here's the CME for CCF caregivers as well as the link for CRC for the RTs. And here is our emails for Rob and myself. Well, Rob, I think Rob, is your email working right now? Yeah. Yes. That's correct still. Excellent. And so if you want to come and learn more, come to the CEBA Summit or any of our courses that we're doing across the country and the world. We love to learn along with everybody. So thank you very much and have a great afternoon. Excellent job, man. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.