 wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast wast want to chat, just unmute yourself or put it on the chat function in WebEx. And remember, there is CME for those that work at the Cleveland Clinic, and there is CRCE for those that are respiratory therapists wherever you are. All right. If you're a respiratory therapist, remember to fill up the form. So, the first thing that we thought that we would highlight is a key piece of knowledge, and this has obviously become more central to the assessments that we do of patients now than it was before. And it was thanks to this work that Bertoni published regarding the measurement of both PO1 and the POC, describing this further work by the group in Toronto and now all around the world. This has become part of how we assess respiratory drive and patient effort. And just to highlight what these two measures that we use, the first one is the PO1, which you see highlighted here, and then the POC, or whole breath occlusion pressure, which we colloquially call PEOC, or occlusion pressure. But it's the whole breath occlusion pressure. And both of them can be measured in the same occlusion of the breath, but PO1 can be estimated, and most ventilators do that. They estimate it. And some actually do occlude the airway during the beginning of a breath to measure during the first 100 milliseconds or 0.1 seconds, how much does the pressure has dropped. And this is a measure or respiratory drive independent of the character, mechanical characteristics of the respiratory system. So, it's how strong is the signal that is coming from the brain, the drive. And then you have, so this one on this side is for drive. And then on the other side is the POC, or whole breath occlusion pressure, which measures the distance or the change in pressure after you occluded the airway. And how much does it change from baseline to all the way down here, which is this number here. And that's called the occlusion pressure. It's a negative number. Be clear about that. It's how much the pressure drops from here all the way to here. It's a negative number. And that's a manifestation of the respiratory muscles activity. So, not just the diaphragm, the respiratory muscles together. Rob? Yeah. Just to emphasize that both of these metrics are negative numbers. And the term whole breath might be confusing to people who have never heard this before, because it's not really a breath. There's no gas moving. It's more like a whole effort maneuver, right? Great point. Great point. And so, those are the two measurements that we have right here. Now, be careful not to confuse this POC with a NIF, a negative inspiratory force. And that is a different maneuver in which we actually maintain the airway occluded with an end expiratory hold for 20 seconds, at least. That's what Marini described. And so, it will drop the pressure for that amount of time. And it's the largest deflection. So, if there's another effort over here and it goes all the way down, that's the value that you report. In the occlusion pressure that we're talking about, is the first breath, and there's no coaching, no announcement to the patient. They don't know what's going to happen. You just press the button, didn't let them know, and boom, capture it. Rob? Rob Lowe- Yeah. And just to say, the NIF maneuver can result in multiple negative inspiratory efforts, and you pick the biggest one, right? It's not just a single one like we see with the PR. Rob Lowe- Exactly. Excellent. Very good. Just putting out there, I thought that this would be, not that this is an important part of knowledge that we should have. So, here's the image for you to come to terms. And this is, again, a servo U ventilator. And the mode is up here. For those of you that have not used this ventilator, I put every single value, and actually the screen is expanded to show the advanced measurements too. So, why don't we start by the team putting out what is the tag? And Rob Lowe- Again, don't hesitate to put in, release the beast. We love to see your input regarding this. And remember, you can use the, the, the band mode app or the, the tag example. So, this is definitely, pressure control very good. And, and we know that it's pressure control because the flow waveform doesn't look geometric in, in any way, shape or form. Although, you can easily recognize that at least the tidal volumes are not changing. So, be careful when you're using that as a manifestation that there is, that this is volume control. You can see here that the volumes are not changing. And the flows are pretty, actually, pretty darn close. Very, very identical. But you can see the waveform, the, the pressure is controlled during this. And this is CSB, which is continuous, spontaneous ventilation. And it's important for you to know that here, the eye time looks almost identical. It's hard for me to see any difference between them. And, and we're going to talk about why is that. But, again, if you were looking at these waveforms without being able to see the, the brand name, you, it would be hard for you to distinguish between, between CMB and CSB, at least by these waveforms, just because of the, the other features that we're going to talk in a second that make you think so. But it's a important thing for you to recognize that that's why you have the Ben mode app or your Rosetta card. And then set point as you all appropriately, because we set the pressure above peep. We set when the end inspiration is going to occur. So, we set all the values. Rob? No comment. Very good. And yeah, excellent. So, we always put in capitals, the pressure control, CSB, and then in, in lowercase, the targeting scheme. Thank you, Ariel, for highlighting that. All right. What's the load? Elastic, resistive, or PMOS? And I remember, we talked for inspiration first, if you want to share inspiration, and then expiration. All right. Thank you, Arcel. Anybody else that wants to put in their thoughts? So, this is an important one for, for us to, to, to recognize. If you see, the, the, the breath is definitely triggered by the patient. And we say definitely, I, I, I, there's some hints that tell you that the patient is triggering. The one is the changing color in the waveform. So, that's the, at least the ventilator is telling us that that's a patient signal. It may not be it. It may be something it. And then the second part is that you, you see that the, the flow is coming out here. And then there's a little, and I'm going to amplify it for your eyes. And, but you, you, you will see a change in slope. So, you see there was this slope, and then there's a change in slope. It's coming, and then a change in slope. That tells me that there was a effort there. So, that's another gentle marker of effort there. So, at least on phase value, that looks like effort that is being triggered by the patient. But if you see, there's a little bit of a hump on the first one, and a little bit of a hump. But then it looks like exponential decay on, on, on both of them. And so, I would say that the inspiration, it looks pretty passive. Actually, I don't see the PMOS much. And I see that some people talk, talk about it after triggering. So, perhaps there's a little bit of PMOS here, but then it becomes exponential decay after what, after that. So, I would, so then the question is, is this is elastic or, or resistive. And right now, I, I was pretty surprised by the, the markers. It's usually, each one of these markers is one second in duration. And here they look like a lot of those markers, but it looks like one and a half, and it's not reaching baseline. But then here you have how speedy it comes down. So, that, that's, remember that the, the flow waveform gets amplified in the volume waveform. And it's a way for us to, to see how, sometimes you cannot see completely what's happening there. And so, I would say that this looks elastic, perhaps, on that waveform, even though it's not reaching zero flow. But that's because of the ending inspiration. It's set at 30%. So, that's why it's not reaching there. And then expiration. So, I'll stop there. Rob, any disagreement with that? I mean, I was going to say… No, that, that seems adequate. You know, when, when they use that, the end inspiratory flow at, you know, pretty low at 30. Well, I guess that's mid-range. It's not, it's not inappropriate, but that's what's causing the cycling off, like you said, because this is a pressure support. And I wonder, I, I'm, if any of the RTS know here, if the, the markers for the, the, the time in the, in the graph change, so that it shows always at one second, or it can change to half a second, because it, it looks awfully close here and, and speedy. So, I, I don't know if that's the, the case. But I don't, I don't have that, that information with me right now. Alrighty. And then during expiration, you see… So, it's at one second… Thank you, Ariel. So, that would be one second. So, less than a second, probably. One, one, one and a half seconds, 1.2 seconds, perhaps. During, during exhalation, what I like to do is to try to draw how it would look. So, we obviously have a, an effort in between. And you have this effort here. And that sometimes affects how my eyes look at things. But if I draw it, then you can see that it looks exponential, perhaps, uh, still. So, I would say that this is the effort and the rest just looks like it's passive. So, I would say that, again, this is taking some time to come down one, two and a half seconds. So, perhaps resistive now that we know that from Ariel that this may be, uh, a one second marker. Is that correct, Ariel? Yes. All right. Thank you. So, perhaps resistive and you see that effort in there, which we're going to talk about there. Rob, any disagreements with that? Well, just depending on what the pathology is. Um, yes. Generally, the resistance is a little bit higher on expiration than inspiration. So, it's not unbelievable that we be setting up with these loads this way. Yeah, I, I'm, and I, I'm, I'm not, I mean, it's not a wholly dominant load. That's how I would put it. Right. Yeah. So, it's close, but not, not there. Alrighty. Very good. But that, that starts acting. And I love the fact that, and thank you, Megan, and many of the, the team members recognize the presence of PMOS without a doubt. Yeah, I, I agree with you. Yeah, very good. So, I, I love the way that, uh, that's why the, the, the markings, these markings become so important for you to outline how much is the expiratory time. That's, that's a key part, uh, Arcel. So, so you see it coming back to baseline, but if these markers are one second, it's taking around two and a half seconds to get to baseline. Yeah. Very good. Alrighty. So, what's, what's the PV discordant? So, so, so, and, and this is important. Let me, let me do a pause for a second. Whenever there's PMOS, it makes it harder for you to determine the load. And so, that may affect how the waveform looks because now there's something that is deforming it. And, and, uh, so you recognize the presence of PMOS here and the presence of PMOS here. So, that may affect how the waveform looks, but you try to look through it. And so, uh, I would say that that's, that's how it looks. Alrighty. Patient ventilator discordance. What's the, the trigger? Normal, early or late? Oh, sorry. Or false or failed. Yeah. Very good. So, uh, very, very high quality observations. There's several that are occurring right now. Uh, so if you focus on, and I'm going to put it, so that the breadth that got delivered, so these ones over here, the trigger seems to be normal. So, I'm, uh, without a doubt, this one, I'm going to call it A and B. The trigger, if there was not, nothing else, I would call the triggers for A and B normal as Arcel highlights. However, there's these efforts right here, the ones that I'm going to call C and D. And C and D as, uh, Megan and Karsten highlighted, are consistent with, uh, a failed trigger, C and D. Now, our friend, uh, uh, Ariel highlights that, well, that that's, that's true, but it could also be the presence of, uh, uh, a false trigger. So, meaning there's something else there that it's creating, uh, uh, patient effort. So, without a doubt. So, I, I would put that as an important marker, but the abnormal part here, I would say that this looks like a failed trigger. And obviously, this is cut and I'll show you more, more, uh, more information about it. So, now that you have seen that, remember, we treat the first one that we see, but I would ask you for a second, uh, yes, go ahead, Rob. Just real quick. If you could wave a magic wand and the mode would instantly change to Nava, what would happen to the respiratory rate, which is 14 right now? What do you guys think? There you go. Right answers. Double. Well, let's, let's take a look at this. Uh, thank you, Rob, for highlighting that. So, let me, let me, uh, put this into, uh, let's do a marker of, of items. So, uh, Arsall, we agree, uh, that there is a, they, they, that's, so let's, here, assume, here, assume, that this is patient effort. So, we, we agreed that this is a patient effort. We agreed that this is a patient effort, that this is a patient effort, that this is a patient effort, and this is a patient effort. So, either the patient is breathing in hops and then nothing and nothing and nothing, Nothing. Or there's one that is right here, right in the middle of those. And you probably can see a little bit of those deflections right there. You see that? So now you can see that the patient is, the rate of the patient looks a little bit higher. So this may be, so that's patient effort, patient effort. Now that you saw this patient effort, for this one over here, I would go look for it. And I can infer that this is probably the one that I am looking down here. And I will amplify it for you to see it. And now it becomes a little bit more evident. And remember, because the patient is exhaling a lot, that's an important thing. So this is a moment of reflection. I want you to, to, to, to have a couple of, of, uh, uh, a thought process right now of just highlighting, just highlighting what is, so these are failed triggers. If these are failed triggers, what are the two main causes of failed trigger? There you go. So we have one. It's auto PIP. That's a classic one. So auto PIP is, uh, a good etiology for that. What's the other one? Dr. And I see RSL, RSL high quality today, uh, over assistance. All right. So, so this is highly relevant because now you're recognizing this and you're saying, well, okay, this patient either has auto PIP or has over assistance. Uh, now I, I intentionally, intentionally there's other etiologies for failed trigger, but these are, I would say two of the, the main ones. Uh, and, and yes, of, of course, Rob, Rob highlights that sensitivity can be another one so that we put the sensitivity too high, but I will take your eyes right down here to two. And perhaps that's not too much, but I would say that as a RT, you usually set it at 1.62, depending. It's the minimum trigger effort for this patient. But for a second, let me ask you, let me ask you about this measuring down here. Okay. So I put out here the PO1. one. Thoughts from, from this, from the team. Does this guide you more towards one, the other, or the other? Well, this one, I'm going to put out because the trigger is not that high, but let's see. Does this point you more towards auto PIP or over assistance or any comments from our team? So auto PIP A, B over assistance. And this is a question, general thoughts, for you to think through about this number that your screen is showing. So an important feature for all of you is, yeah, so is, well, the PO1 seems to be on the, to be low. And so the first thing that you have to ask yourself is, is this value true or false? And in this ventilator, the PO1, the PO1 is a calculated measure, calculated measure. And actually in many of the ventilators, it's a calculated measure. However, when you set a flow trigger, this may cause the value to be lower than expected. And so that you may not, or, or actually inaccurate. I will, I will use this, this statement in general. So the recommended behavior is when you have that number is to, to actually change the trigger to a pressure trigger. And the number that, at least in the research center in Toronto has come to terms when they did that paper was three centimeters of water. And that will help you measure this better. Without a doubt, the presence of auto PIP can make you underestimate the value of your PO1. And so be careful about that. So if there, there's auto PIP. So I, I just for the viewing pleasure of you, what we did with this patient is we changed the trigger to minus three. So now you can see it here. And the PO1, you can see that's still under one. And this was consistent. We usually take, you have to take a look at several measurements, at least three, to be sure. But I want to point your eyes back to the graph. And this will, I think will help you eyeball the items a little bit better. So you can see the breaths still the same mode, same amount of support. And you can see that the breaths are still triggered by the patient. And now actually, you have other features that tell you that this is the patient. So you see the drop in pressure. And you can see clearly how the flow crossed over. You see that, how it crossed over. And it took a while. So now there's a degree of late trigger there. So it takes its time. It triggers. Now you see a very passive inspiration, very passive, because all the effort occurred here. You can see that effort down here. Then the effort over here that didn't trigger this effort here, the effort here, the effort here, the effort here. There's one hidden in between these and their effort here. So perhaps there's one there. So now you can see that this patient is going a little bit faster than expected. And it's very evident. You remember how I told you that this serves as an amplification of what's occurring. You can see it right there. So definitely the patient is triggered, but still the drive is low. Okay? All right. So then from there, so questions over here, Rob, any comments? Rob Lowe, No. No. It just looks like the deformation of the expiratory flow waveform got higher amplitude. Rob Lowe, Because we made it harder. Rob Lowe, Right. Rob Lowe, And so now that you saw this and you saw that the drive is low and the effort that this patient is generating, I would also want to highlight to you a couple of items that also go with over assistance. So now you know that the PO1 is low. Look at the tidal volume, how there is no variation in the tidal volume from breath to breath. That's a marker, a marker that the, that there's over assistance. Look at the flow with minimal PMOS, another marker of over assistance. Look at the fail triggers, another marker of over assistance. All of these high quality markers of over assistance. So the fail trigger is a manifestation of over assistance. So I'm going to show you now a couple of other measures that you should be doing. So in every patient, in every vent check, we should do two things on these patients. What are they? Anybody wants to voice to the team? Or the two things that we should do on every patient. Robert M. So we should do two holds. Excellent, Megan. An end inspiratory and an end expiratory. Yes, great. This, this has to be a driving mechanism. It's a cry, a sebum cry for us to really, this, if you don't do it, you don't see. And I, and so this is the, the patient's, uh, two maneuvers, uh, immediately when we saw it, before we changed the, the markers and, and the first one that I'm going to show you, you can see both maneuvers occurred right here. So the first one, uh, occurring over here is an end inspiratory hold. So, and inspiratory hold. And then over here, uh, from here to here is the end expiratory hold. All right. So those, those are the two maneuvers that you see. So in the first one, you see during inspiration, again, uh, this is the same patient. You can see the patient triggered the breaths, then very minimal effort. You can see the tidal volumes were the same on these three breaths. And then the flow didn't reach zero, uh, because the eye time was, uh, short for that patient, uh, for the, well, not the eye time, but the expiratory flow was set at 30, 30% of the peak flow. Then we do the hold, the end inspiratory hold, and you see the pressure go down, which is what you would expect because there was still, uh, flow occurring. Now that's a marker for us that the PMOS that occurred was very little. If there was high amount of effort or effort present here, we would expect the pressure to have gone up because the patient would have done effort, then the flow would have gone zero and you would have the pressure go up at the end. That's called the PMI or pressure muscle index, which in this case is actually a negative number, not even zero. He's lower. Rob comments there. No, that's a good illustration. And you can see that here, uh, the number is 15 and the plateau is 13. So that's what we were measuring. You can see that I moved the cursor over here. All right. And then the next measure, sorry, wrong way. This way is actually the, the P-O-Cup that period of time. We didn't tell any, anybody, the patient, anything. And here I'm measuring the basal, which is 4.7. So 5, which was the PEEP. And then the lowest effort for that patient when he was supposed to trigger the next breath. And you can see that it went to 2.7. So 2 centimeters. So minus 2 centimeters, which is also excessively low for this patient. So the tidal volume for this patient, uh, the support for this patient was too high. And this is a manifestation of over assistance. Rob comments. Yeah. Um, how is it that over assistance leads to failed triggers? You want to talk about that mechanism? Yeah. Do you want to comment? Well, in this case, we do see evidence of auto PEEP. So if you have over assistance, that means that you're giving more tidal volume than the patient needs. That's just a general definition of over assistance. Um, so you're doing more inspiratory work than the patient needs, but if you have a bigger tidal volume than the patient needs and it takes longer to exhale, well, uh, the next time he tries to make an inspiratory effort. So the auto PEEP will be higher. Correct. That's that's that's the mechanism. Uh, and so it's a marker of very large tidal volume and the, uh, and the patient is doing effort. So the, the action for this patient at least at that moment, and I, I, I have to grant for yourself because you may be like, well, what was the diagnosis and what did you do? Uh, I, I says the patient, then I let the, the team know. So I don't know what else they did, but I did drop the, the support at that period of time. Sorry. Uh, just to see the reality of what, what the patient was doing and you can rapidly see how the respiratory rate for the patient and now start tracking with the efforts that the patient was doing. Now, this is a trigger of two liters and the tidal volume became half of what it was. So the patient was pulling, uh, 500 of tidal volume, and now it was a tidal volume of 200, uh, and so forth, which was around 4 CC per kilo. You have to put this into context of what the theology and, and what you're, you're going to do, but, uh, you would agree with me that the, the rest, the true respiratory rate of the patient was way higher than what the ventilator was reporting here. Way higher than what the patient was, the ventilator was manifesting here. All right. Comments. Very good. Alrighty. So, uh, the, the teaching points for today, I think that a is, uh, uh, please, uh, just remember that failed, failed, failed triggers are caused by, uh, the main causes or the evil causes for this is auto PEEP. And in this case, over assistance for the given effort that the, the, the patient needed that in every patient, we should be doing two holds and end the inspiratory hold, and then end the expiratory hold. We talked about the PMI, which you can assess by doing the ending inspiratory hold and a PMI that is zero or negative is a bad sign. Uh, it's a sign of over assistance, especially on pressure support and the end expiratory hold is a manifestation. It's a manifestation. You can measure there. The PEOC. And, uh, we also highlighted that PO1, at least at this time with the ventilators that the recommendation is to assess at least three, uh, different PO1s to be sure that they are consistent and average them if you need to and use a, uh, pressure trigger of three centimeters of water. So if you remember PO1, three and three, three breaths and assess an average them and three centimeters of water pressure trigger would be an important one. Rob, any final comments? No, that's a wonderful summary. All right. Here are the, the CME for the CCF caregivers, the CRC for the RTS. Here's the code for the Cleveland Clinic team. And again, uh, actually, uh, good news. The, the CEPA course, the CEPA course for, uh, April is almost at capacity. I think that there's a couple of slots left. So, if you want to go to the CEPA summit, uh, this is the time for you to, uh, register to it. Send us your, your waveforms. That's really helpful for us. Uh, and I think that's it. Uh, any other comments for or questions from the audience? Um, Eduardo. Yes. Ariel. I'm gonna ask you a real bedside care scenario. We have this patient with a, we are over assisting with a high internal respiratory rate. We decrease the assistance. The respiratory rate gonna double. Yeah. So what's the real take on that? Yeah. So what do you do? That's the question. Yeah. I mean, what do you, well, what do you prefer to do? Cause it's going to be the key, make almost, uh, planting on the vent. Yeah. So, so that's a, that's a great, great item. Uh, and I think that there's, so I'll tell you what I'll do, what I would recommend to do, uh, but considering that the amount of evidence for how to manage this is still being generated. So, so this is, uh, how I would think of it. I think that probably the best risk mode for a patient with this amount in which it's very easy to under and over assist is perhaps a proportional mode in which you can set an amount and that will prevent over assistance on the patient and see where, where they end, uh, tolerating higher respiratory rates, uh, and measuring where the pathway of the patient is, uh, evidently on patients like these, you want to ensure that there's no other etiologies, uh, involved on it. So that you're not, uh, under assisting a patient that has severe neuromuscular weakness, but I don't want to over assist them. So, I think NAB or PAB makes sense on a patient like this. Otherwise close, uh, monitoring of the PO1 and the PO in a patient that is so susceptible to over assistance is important than either manual targeting or perhaps using uh, volume support and targeting of tidal volume to, to help us minimize on their assistance and over assistance. So, it's a good question. I, uh, there's no good evidence-based answer for that, good evidence-based answer for it that I know at this time. Yeah. The question I'm pointing, because sometimes at bedside, we think that some people, especially with decreased compliance, the way to spend less energy is by a high respiratory rate and low tidal volume. And we try to make everybody breathe of a low respiratory rate and high tidal volume. That's a great insight. Yeah, absolutely. I love that statement. And it's that either we try to put patients that breathe slower at a higher rate, like the COPD patients, or we try to put patients that should be breathing at a higher rate at a slower rate by over-assisting them. So that's a great insight. And the strategy to actually get them through is tricky. Close monitoring and coming to terms with how do we measure and prevent doing things that we don't want to do. And so that's the key of doing this process. Thank you, Ariel. Great point. All right, team. I hope that this was as a learning experience for you as it was for me. See you in a couple of weeks. And please join us in any of our SEVA forums. There's a lot to learn for all of us. Thank you. Bye-bye. Bye-bye.