哎ioio, mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayol mayo tap into our all-star lineup of sports doctors at Cleveland Clinic to help you perform your best. We're also lucky enough to have one of those sports health experts, Dr. Lauren Wickman, as a co-host of the podcast. She'll be with us every episode to share her expertise and coach us up a little bit. Dr. Wickman, glad to have you on the team. Thank you so much for having me, John. I think that this is the start of something that I think is going to be a fantastic, fantastic time for us and the listeners. I'm ready to get at it too, Dr. Wickman. So if you're someone who works out regularly, odds are you pay attention to your body and health. Dr. Wickman, I'm guessing that you get lots of questions from folks about achy body parts once they hear that you're a sports doc. No doubt about it, John. From, you know, a neighbor who was shoveling snow that curbsides me saying, hey, doc, you know, what could be going on with my shoulder to, you know, oh, a family friend that says, you know, I've been having knee pain for over a year now. It happens all the time. I'm guessing you didn't get into sports medicine just so you could have all these interesting conversations on the street and at parties about what hurts on people. So what really brought you into this field? I knew that I wanted to go into sports medicine when I was in high school. Um, I loved science and knew that I wanted to go into a STEM career. Um, my mom, she is a teacher. And so she kind of really inspired me to know that I really wanted to work with people. And then I love problem solving. So, you know, medicine was the perfect fit in terms of working with people to try to figure out injuries or things they have. And then you add in, you know, with my passion of sports, sports medicine is absolutely the perfect career for me. I mean, you had a pretty robust sports career coming into this. Absolutely. I think too, like the, my background with sports definitely lends to that passion in sports. I grew up playing a lot of different sports with my family members and then, um, ended up playing, you know, I played soccer and basketball in high school and then ended up playing soccer in college at Case Western here in Cleveland. That puts you high up on the list. If you're a collegiate athlete, I think, you know, being a student athlete, there's nothing better, you know, being able to represent your, your institution, playing the sport you love and making lifelong friends. Well, I'd imagine too, and being at that level of sports, I mean, you really have to focus on training and what you're doing with your body. Absolutely. I think at that high level, everybody is so talented. And so every little thing that you can do to be able to have that competitive advantage makes such a difference. When did you start seeing the connection between kind of sports medicine and what you were doing on the field? You, it really comes up more often than you think, because I think, you know, the concept of sports medicine is very broad. Um, it definitely came up, you know, when I faced injuries, um, whether knee surgery to concussions, you know, I definitely ran the gamut. Um, but it also came into play with the sports performance side of things, you know, making sure that I was doing cross training and making sure that I was doing strength training and all this other stuff that would lend to that competitive edge. Once I hit the field, you know, that that's such a great point, because I think when we talk about sports medicine, a lot of people just naturally go to this whole notion of fixing broken athletes, but so much of what we want to focus on with this podcast is using sports medicine to kind of improve your performance, uh, just to make yourself better. Uh, how does that, how does that fit into this scenario? You're exactly right, John. Many times when people think, oh, sports medicine doctor, you fix things that are broken. And I think that many times that is what we are doing, you know, on the sidelines, taking care of athletes, seeing them in the training room, we see them when there's a problem. But I think a big part of when I see somebody for a problem, the next step that I like to take is, well, not only how can we fix this problem, but also how can we prevent it from happening again? Because, you know, we don't want you to be sidelined if you don't have to be. I've had enough little injuries. And the first thing that you think of after you get it is how can I stop this from ever happening again? Once you've had it once, once you've had a certain injury one time, it does put you at an increased risk for it to happen again, unless we, unless we make a change, you know, and that's why in sports medicine, that problem solving piece that I was talking about, it's not only trying to figure out how did this happen or, you know, how do we fix this, but also taking it a step back and how did it happen? And then we can make a change in some sort of behavior to make sure it doesn't happen again. Now, you're obviously a pretty high achieving athlete back in your college days. But as you've entered this new phase of life, how has your personal approach to fitness changed from being that competitive college athlete to being a doctor and a mom and everything else you have to do in life? I think that is, you know, a really good question. And honestly, it's something that it's a journey that I am still going through because when you, you know, retire from your sport, right? Like I, I have from, from soccer, you know, trying to figure out, well, where am I going? What am I going to do now? Personally, I've channeled my energy into spin class. I'm a big spinning person. I love the team environment, but also, um, the competitive nature, you know, stats on the board and trying to fight my way to the top. Just got to edge that next person out. Yes. But I can empathize with, you know, a lot of other people who are trying to figure out the next step too, because my life has changed a lot since, um, having my one-year-old son now, you know, trying to be able to squeeze in a workout while working full time. And as a mom can be really challenging. And, you know, like I said before, I'm still trying to figure out what's the best way to do this day in day out. I mean, it's just about trying to do something right. John, how have you found, I mean, being a parent and everything, how have you found, um, workouts to work in your schedule? I went a long time where exercise was not a priority. Um, we have three kids and all adults now, and as they grew up and you're balancing, you know, parenting and a job and career and all that, taking care of a house, all that never had time for working out. And that finally hit me one day when, uh, my, my middle kid, uh, Brian decided to go out for middle school cross country and asked me to go for a run with him. And, um, funniest thing. So my wife was like, listen, you want him to feel good about what he's going to do. So don't go too fast. You don't want to make him feel bad about what he's doing. Take it easy. I can tell you, she had that discussion with the wrong person. It was a serious wake up call and, uh, you know, started running. And, um, 12, 13 years later, uh, I've done like 40 half marathons. Um, and, and, you know, feel good about my health and where I'm at. That's fantastic. Congratulations on all of those successful half. That's amazing. You know, eventually you just get to the point where I I've slowed up a little bit. I felt really good for a while. And, um, time is, uh, is taking a toll, man. Nobody, nobody beats father time is what I'm finding out. But that's one of those things you learn to kind of adjust, which I know is one of the things we'll try to address as this podcast goes on as to how you can kind of fit fitness in at different stages of your life and kind of look at it in different ways. Just like you mentioned, I think sometimes starting up a new exercise, um, a new form of exercise can be a little bit intimidating. You know, I watched my husband who played college baseball. So the farthest he was running was around the bases. And then he, you know, then transitioned to running his first half, not last year, but the year before. And, and I think that, you know, watching somebody go on that journey firsthand, you can see how hard and challenging it can be, but how rewarding it is and how good you feel after you succeed. People always ask like, what was the hardest part? Yeah. I always say it's that first step that you take. And once you take that, everything after that gets a little bit easier. And I think that's, you know, one goal that we have in sports medicine is to try to be, um, that teammate for whatever our patients that may come into the office are trying or experimenting with, or, you know, picking up a new hobby or, or trying to get to the next level in something that they've been doing for years. You know, that our goal is, you know, almost that doctor coach in a way of trying to help our athletes whenever they might be faced with a challenge, preventing them from performing the way they want to. Well, let's get into a little bit about what you do here at Clinic Clinic and kind of what the typical Dr. Wickman day is like. So, so as a sports medicine doctor, we, we wear a lot of hats. Um, I'd say, you know, most traditionally I see patients in the office Monday to Friday, whenever an injury or, you know, something might come up. Yeah. I'm guessing you've seen a few sprained ankles over. Yes, exactly. Sprained ankle. Very common, very common. Um, and you know, when anybody comes into the office, uh, usually we're sometimes getting an x-ray, taking a look at the bone or the joint, doing an evaluation and then collaborating together to come up with the best treatment plan for, for each person. Now, now you see a wide range of people too, right? Mm-hmm. Oh yeah, John. I it's, it's wild because, you know, we, as sports medicine doctors, we are, you know, team physicians and take care of, um, different high schools, um, local colleges, even professional teams. Like my, my group here at Cleveland Clinic, uh, we take care of the Cleveland Guardians and Cleveland Cavaliers. Um, but then, you know, we take care of the weekend warrior who's running races just like you and we'll take care of the retiree that's on the pickleball circuit. You know, we take care of a wide range. I think even just last week I had an 11 year old and a 100 year old back to back. The whole goal, if you can get to a hundred where you get to go to a sports stock, that, that seems like the goal all of us should have. She was rocking it. She drove herself. I was like, I want to be you when I am like, you know, anywhere near that age. Clearly she was in for some like serious, like a pole vaulting injury or something like that. Right. Oh man. But I mean, I think one of the things that, you know, when she was in the office and I was talking to her, one of the things that she emphasized was she's like, doc, I've just kept moving. She said, once you stop moving, I think it, you know, it'll really catch up to you. And I do think that she's exactly right. No, you can't stop. We have a, another on our health essentials podcast, uh, the chiropractor we have in Dr. Bang always says motion is lotion. Like you've got to keep moving and keep everything going and your body will just work better. Um, I take it. There's some truth to that. 100%. I say the similar thing. Like I say, like we use movement as medicine many, many times, whether, you know, it's something that I'm talking through or, you know, one of the best parts about, um, a career in sports medicine is I work with a really awesome sports medicine team. So, you know, whether I'm talking about movement or I'm collaborating with my colleagues in physical therapy or, um, my athletic training colleagues, you know, we all work together to come up with like individualized movement plans and use truly movement as medicine to help treat any sort of injury and get people back to the sports and the activities that they love. And, you know, one of the things I know we talked about earlier, um, was that the team approach goes beyond just, you know, working with the body and all the stuff with that. Like you do a lot of sports psychology stuff or work with people on that realm because that, that factors into how we're able to exercise and do all of these things too. Absolutely. The, you know, the sports medicine team is really, really big and we're really grateful to have so many fantastic, um, professionals on our team. So just like you said, we've got sports psychology, we've got, um, sports nutrition. We've got a lot of people that help our athletes truly excel at their sports. I'm glad you brought nutrition. Cause I know, um, Julia Zimpano, who I do the nutrition essentials podcast with would have been really disappointed if we never brought up the importance of registered dietitians in this process too. We actually here at Cleveland Clinic have our own specialized sports registered dietitian who works with a lot of, especially a lot of our college athletes, but we send a lot of our high school athletes her way as well to talk through, you know, how changing nutrition not only treats injuries, but prevents them. There's just so much we can cover on this podcast, which, which is what has both of us, I know, so excited. Yes. I'm going into this now. We were lucky enough to get you with our first round draft pick, um, to be co-host down here from that whole sports doctor team. Um, so in your mind, like, what do you want our listeners to get out of this podcast? That's a great question, John. And honestly, what I hope is that, um, this podcast is a place where listeners can come and learn from all of these different sports medicine professionals and get quality information from a place that they know is reliable and answer questions that they may have, but also answer questions that they didn't even know that they had and have conversations that I have in the office every single day, but be able to share with everyone here. Well, and I like how you often talk about coaching people and, and I know you said your, your mother was a teacher. I feel like you do a lot of that educating right here and through your practice. I take it. That's kind of one of the driving forces also. 100%. I think, you know, teachers are coaches and doctors are coaches too. In a way we are, you know, with our patients, every single step of the way, providing encouragement, providing a little tough love whenever you might need it. Um, but you know, all coming from a place of wanting people to be able to be their best. Well, with that in mind, let's start coaching people up right now and kind of give folks a little taste of what they're, they're going to hear on this podcast as we move ahead. So, you know, in your practice, you know, what are the biggest issues that you see, uh, that affect physical performance and how can folks address them? Three things that I think people don't necessarily always think of right away, but are huge factors in performance are, um, sleep, nutrition, and stress management. Now, those are things you think of with a whole host of other stuff. You don't necessarily tie it in to how fast you're running or how high you're jumping or anything like that. Exactly. And I think too, it's things that you don't even necessarily realize, but you know, life happens. For example, my, my, uh, student athletes, right. They're in the thick of finals, but in the middle of also having to, to compete in the classroom with finals, they're competing on the field too. And when they're pulling all nighters to study their performance on the court is going to, is going to hurt. I bet. I'm guessing too, that your injury risk just goes through the roof. If you're a little tired as you go into this sort of exertion activities. Absolutely. I think all three of those things that I had mentioned in terms of sleep, nutrition, as well as stress can increase your injury risk. And, um, that's why many times we focus on, you know, making sure that all of these factors are in check as well when we're treating somebody with an injury. So like when you're working with sleep, since you kind of brought that one up and we kind of hit that first, um, what do you tell your student athletes now when they come in? I mean, you can't just tell them, Hey, don't worry about that final. Uh, you know, you'll just, just wing it. Um, so what kind of things can they do to make sure that they're getting enough sleep to be at their absolute best? So normally when I am seeing a college athlete or, you know, an athlete that we know sleep is maybe not optimal. Obviously I tell them, you know, in an ideal world, seven to nine hours a night would be the sweet spot. Now we know that, you know, especially if you're cramming for a final or something like that, that might not happen every single night, but there are a few things that you can do to help maximize your sleep quality, which can be really beneficial. Limiting screen time before bed. I think it's super common for people to scroll on Tik TOK right before they're going to sleep. And that can really hurt your quality of sleep, having relatively consistent bedtimes. And then times that you wake up in the morning can set your body's clock and almost establish that schedule to help you fall asleep easier at night. Yeah. That makes a lot of sense. And the other thing that is super common with, um, my student athletes in particular is caffeine. And I think that's something that we use a lot. What, what too many monsters, huh? Yes, exactly. Or, you know, that coffee, that late night coffee to keep you up so you can study that can make it really, really challenging to fall asleep, but also, um, can impact your sleep quality. So, um, I usually recommend trying to limit as much caffeine as you can, even in the afternoon or evening, and that can help improve sleep quality as well. Yeah. You know, that was such a great point. Cause sometimes it's not just about the number of hours that, that, you know, your, your head's on the pillow, just about the quality of the sleep while you're there. And those, those little things can make it where you're getting more out of whatever limited time you might have on some of those days when you're going to be short. Definitely. Definitely. So, so now what about nutrition? Cause obviously we all know that eating healthy is, is better for you, but do you actually see, you know, eating a bunch of junk food kind of contributing to, you know, injuries or poor performance or things like that? We definitely do. Um, it's when I think about, you know, nutrition, it's not only quality, but it's also quantity too. I think one of the most common things I see in, especially a lot of my endurance athletes, like my runners is low. We're not eating enough to be able to fuel the, the workouts and the competitions and everything that are, we're putting our body through. You ask a lot of your body when you're doing these things, especially when you're pushing, like you said, endurance stuff or anything where you're really exerting, um, you have to have those reserves built up. Definitely. Like you need fuel to be able to put your body through that stress. And so if we don't have enough fuel, that's when we predispose our, our body to injury. And that's a lot of times what my athletes are talking to our sports registered dietitian about is they think they're, they're eating plenty. But if you're a swimmer, that's doing two a days constantly, you have to really work at making sure you have enough fuel. I remember what Michael Phelps used to eat when you saw that during the Olympics, like that was insane, but, but it kind of drives home the point that you have to put in a bunch of calories to just keep your body going. Definitely. And, and to your point too, the quality of ingredients definitely makes a difference. Um, that's what I think, you know, especially I think later this year, that would absolutely be something that we'll dive a little bit deeper into, but, you know, making sure that the food is high quality, you know, if it's, if we're trying to energize ourselves on, um, a sugary snack, that's not going to give us enough fuel to get through a two hour practice or, or a competition. Yeah. I'm guessing that the best meals don't come through a drive-through window. Correct. Absolutely. All right. So, so we're solving that problem. We're going to, we're going to hit that as this, as this podcast kind of evolves. Um, what about stress? Cause you know, we think of it in so many different ways. How does it affect our fitness and our ability to exercise? Stress can wear on the body. I think way more than we even realize because so many of us just kind of put our body through it day in and day out. I tell people, you know, I think trying to keep that in check and, and once we do get our stress in check, um, I think some people are really surprised by how much they realize how much it was affecting them because they feel so much better. Yeah. Well, and sometimes you do, you have to deal with that thing that that's kind of weighing you down and, you know, you don't realize how it affects just every little thing that you do when you have these stressors that just don't go away. And many times the nice thing about it is, is sports and exercise is actually a very, very common stress management tactic for many of us, including myself. So that works out great. I've logged more than a few stress miles at the end of the, at the end of a workday. And it does somehow make, make everything feel a little bit better. I guess it's all those kind of hormones that you release when you're out there working out. I totally agree. And I think many times that alone is a huge, huge benefit. I do always advocate for bringing in a lot of my sports psychology folks for doing different relaxation techniques, different, you know, mental skills, tactics, things that we found that it's not only important to make sure that your physical health is an optimal condition, but also your mental health isn't, is needs to be an optimal condition to be able to perform at the highest level. So Dr. Wickman, when you do see these sort of stressors that are affecting, you know, performance and, and, and, you know, how people can go about doing these fitness things, what kind of recommendations do you give them? The biggest thing that I find to be beneficial is like leaning on your support system. So parents, coaches, teammates, or your sports medicine staff, having those people that are in your corner can make such a big difference when you're mentally going through something and having them to have your back sometimes is enough confidence to kind of give you that feeling of, okay, yeah, you're right. I can do this and kind of get over that mental hump. Oh, lean on your team, man. That's what we've all been taught. I mean, from, from day one, if you're in any sort of sports. Absolutely. Now you just gave us three things that everybody can kind of look at and make little tweaks to, to, to try to, you know, improve how they can exercise and the amount of energy they bring into those activities and things like that. Let's kind of shift gears a little bit and talk about one other big thing that I know people deal with a lot and that's overuse injuries. I know you said you see that all the time, um, in your practice. What, what, what can people do about it to kind of avoid those sorts of pains? That is a really good question, John, because you're exactly right. I think just as often as I see somebody in the clinic for a sprained ankle, like we talked before, I see somebody also in the clinic because they've got a shoulder injury from throwing the ball back and forth too many times in the backyard or too much pickleball. Exactly. Exactly. You know, hitting, hitting the pickleball court for hours on end. And, um, I think, you know, we do a lot of talking about, you know, not only where those overuse injuries are from, how to treat them and then how to prevent them going forward. So, so how do you work with that? Cause you know, if you're an athlete and you're on a team, you're in any competitive sport, you're taught from day one that you just, you go at it. You go hard all the time. And, and you know, this whole notion of resting, it almost seems like a dirty word sometimes. It, it, it honestly, I think that mentality of that so many of our high level athletes have of, well, I'm just going to keep, I'm going to work as hard as I possibly can, which is a great mentality to have. But, you know, I think that sometimes, particularly if we're doing the same thing day in and day out, you know, putting so many miles into the same knees or playing so many soccer games over a weekend, you know, we're putting our body through this repetitive stress that over time, that load just exceeds the capacity that our tissues have. So, so how do you tell people that it's okay to rest, to take a day off, to go a little easier one day? I tell people that recovery is almost just as important as making sure that you're logging this many hours in the pool or taking these many free throws. I mean, truly recovery is absolutely essential for the tissues to bounce back after being put through a rigorous workout. Um, one of the things that I always emphasize too, is cross training. That makes sense. You work different muscles. Absolutely. Like for example, a lot of times, like for our college athletes, when they have a travel day, right. And you know, they're stuck on a plane, they're sitting there for a long time, you know, we'll, we'll implement some sort of like a, like a low intensity yoga type workout, some stretching that allows for recovery of the tissues while also isn't putting too much stress, um, before game day, the next day or the day after. As long as it counts on Strava, right. So you can keep your activity streak going. Because we all want that streak to keep going. So, oh yes. I think one of the most challenging conversations I have is trying to tell a runner that they can't run. And, and that's why most of the time I don't, because most of the time runners don't want to hear that. You know, and those are the doctors that I always like the most when you go in and they're like, listen, I know you're not going to stop doing this. So let's figure out how you can keep doing it. And like, then also correct what's going on. And, and, you know, this injury that you have, you hit the nail on the head because from my experience, right. If I were to tell an athlete, like, well, you can't do this, or I think you might need to hang up your cleats. Like that is not only not what I'm in the business of doing, but that is not going to be what they ultimately want to do. You know, they came into the office to be able to get back to what they want to do. So a lot of times it is working together, figuring out, okay, on an individualized basis, you know, instead of running four days a week, right now we back it off to three and then we add in two low impact bike workouts. That could be enough to allow your body to feel better, to recover, and then to ultimately perform at a higher level going forward. How often do you have to tell people to actually listen to their bodies? All the time. Because we just don't. I mean, you start having something hurt and you just go, ah, I'll work through it. And I've done that. I can't even tell you like way more times than I would ever want to tell a doctor. Well, and what I tell people, you know, I use that line a lot because I like when we are, um, working on getting back to sports too, because I think, you know, that is really, really important, you know, as we are, you know, starting our return to run program, for example, the feedback that your body gives you is critical for us to know, all right, are we ready to move on to the next step? Or do we just need a little bit more time here? And then we can move on to the next step. Yeah. And if we don't listen, then sometimes we end up having to start over from the beginning. This seems like we get to that old cliche where sometimes it's not about working harder. It's about working smarter. And that's something that I think we can really focus on as this podcast evolves to give people kind of those tips so they can be a little smarter about how they do their exercise routines and really, really do the most to help the body. 100% agree. I think, you know, that's where sports medicine, I think, can be so helpful, right? Is to give you that one little bit to kind of push you up to the next level. And like you said, being able to talk through what can be beneficial for the long run to prevent injury. So Dr. Wickman, we've kind of given folks a little bit of a teaser for all the things that we want to kind of tackle as we move ahead here. You know, as we kind of wind this down, what are kind of some of your key takeaway points or final thoughts that you want to leave people with so that they're excited to come back and hear us again? One of the big takeaways I have is, you know, when we're talking about sports medicine, many times, you know, going into the doctor doesn't mean that, you know, we're shutting you down or you're going to be completely done. It's many times more of a conversation between athlete and coach to figure out, okay, how can we go about this in a smart way to be able to help heal from this injury so then we can keep competing? I don't know about you, but I am so excited about just everything we have on our plate going ahead. John, I think this is going to be awesome because like we said initially, like this is not only an opportunity for people to get to know us, but get to know our awesome, awesome sports medicine team, who's involved, what's involved and how to keep people, not only keep people on the field, but allow them to, you know, be on the field for longer and to be able to compete at the highest level. Can't wait for our next one coming up in one month from now. Sounds great, John. Can't wait either. So wherever you are on your fitness journey, know that Sports Essentials is here to help you take the next step. To make the podcast a regular part of your workout routine, please hit the subscribe button. Until next time, play hard and be well. now,