 aromasin, noises, aromasin, noises, aromasin, noises, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin, aromasin problem is, whether it's a cancer or an issue with swallowing or rib fractures, things like that, and then moving on to educating about what the various options are, how we're going to address those issues in kind of a sequential fashion, and then kind of crafting what would be a care plan for them. We cover several different organ systems, different parts of the body, and that involves a lot of different approaches. We do, particularly in chest surgery, a lot of minimally invasive procedures. We use the surgical robot quite frequently, mainly because it allows us to do things, to do the operations that people need, but to do it through smaller incisions so they have a faster recovery. At the same time, when we need, when what a patient needs is a bigger, more complicated operation, again, we have all the different resources we need available to do things like big chest wall resections, to be doing esophagectomies and things like that, and get people through them with very good outcomes. The important thing for myself and my team is that we think of people not just as one specific problem and someone else is taking care of the rest of it. We want to be involved in a lot of that, and so we take a lot of ownership. When we're dealing with lung cancer, that loops in myself, that loops in pulmonologists who are medical lung doctors, it loops in medical and radiation oncologists, it loops in just radiologists who are helping us sort of define where a tumor is and how to get tissue for that, so it becomes an incredibly collaborative set of things. When I'm getting to and from the hospital, I'm usually on my bike. I do a lot of mountain biking and road biking, which has been great around Cleveland. It's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural, it's not very natural