 nadolipine, authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized authorized helping other people to come to this world and to improve their lives. So I said, how can I serve? I realized that without flow, no circulation, there is no life. So that's the opportunity to impact in a good way on patients' lives. If I can improve that circulation, I'm improving their life. You can call it a tissue, an organ, but directly impacts the life of the patients. And having the possibility to do that is a great privilege. I'd like to start the visit with a question, how can I help you? I'd like to listen to the story. Every patient has their own story. And even when it's a subtle symptom or hint, for that patient can be the most important. One-third of the visit is educational. Where we are. What do you have? If we have the diagnosis. The second is a physical exam. We have technology. We have all the technology that we want. But I like to go with basics in medicine. Physical exam. While I'm doing that, I'm asking some questions to the patient. And it's connecting the physical exam and the previous medical history. The other third, we can show facts. And we can say, on the physical exam and with the history, the diagnosis can be this one. If I don't have the diagnosis and we're waiting for the results, I don't want to create noise or anxiety on my patient. I want to work with the patient through the process. Listen, today is our first meeting. Let's work through this. When a patient is a real thank you, real thanks. The patient is looking to my eyes. We are shaking hands. And one good handshake. The patient is saying thank you. Not even a word. Just with the body language. Sometimes it's a hug. Sometimes a patient can talk. And I can't. Because we have tears in our eyes. Because we pass a tough moment and then we're after that moment. It connects what I received from my grandpa, what I have been studying for, with that magical moment. And I can't.