 QUIL-ph concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate concentrate which predisposes your risk of developing breast cancer, like a BRCA mutation. Your doctor might recommend getting a double mastectomy as well if you have bilateral breast cancers or breast cancers in both breasts. If you only have breast cancer in one of your breasts and don't carry a gene mutation, then a double mastectomy is not shown to improve your survival. But some women still choose to undergo a double mastectomy out of personal preference. What happens before a double mastectomy? Before surgery, you'll typically meet with your multidisciplinary team to determine whether other treatment is needed before surgery, such as chemotherapy. If you're interested in reconstruction, then your breast surgical oncologist will help refer you to a plastic surgeon to discuss reconstruction options. Reconstruction can include using either an implant or tissue elsewhere in the body. There are several different types of mastectomies that we could offer you, depending on the type of breast cancer you have and your breast size, but to allow for plastics to do reconstruction. A mastectomy that you might talk about includes a skin-sparing mastectomy or a nipple-sparing mastectomy. And this helps create an envelope of skin that allows the plastic surgeon to use to rebuild the breast. What happens during a double mastectomy? During a mastectomy, all of the breast tissue underneath the skin is removed down to the chest wall while preserving the pectoralis major muscle. So depending on where your incision is, whether you're getting a skin-sparing mastectomy or a nipple-sparing mastectomy, the envelope of the skin is used for the plastic surgeon to place a tissue expander, which is a temporary implant, before you get your permanent reconstruction. After complete treatment, your breast surgeon might sample some lymph nodes if you have cancer or any suspicion for cancer being there. And then a temporary surgical drain will be left in place before you leave the operating room. This is typically left in place for about one to two weeks, post-operatively, to prevent fluid from building up underneath the mastectomy flap. What happens after a double mastectomy? Most patients are discharged the same day after their mastectomy, whether they're getting reconstruction or not. Some patients might need a stay for one or two nights after the operation. You'll be prescribed pain medications to help manage your pain at home. You will follow up with your plastic surgeon or your breast surgeon to determine the readiness of your drain and when that will be ready for it to be removed. Typically, we say to plan on having about six to eight weeks for a full recovery after a mastectomy. Most patients can resume going back to work around three to six weeks, and we recommend that you avoid heavy lifting or strenuous activity for about six weeks after the operation. Some patients might benefit from getting physical therapy after your mastectomy, and that referral can be placed after you see us in the office. What are the possible side effects after this procedure? A lot of patients might feel tightness in their chest wall or some nerve pain. That typically improves with time and with more range of motion exercises. Some patients might develop post-mastectomy pain syndrome, and if that's the case, then there are some modalities to try to help with the neuropathic pain. Potential long-term side effects might include lymphedema if lymph nodes are removed at the time of surgery. Typically, when that happens, your breast surgeon will help monitor these symptoms and can refer you to a breast physical therapist or a lymphedema specialist to help with prevention and becoming a further problem. What is the prognosis after a double mastectomy? Your prognosis will depend on what we find at the time of surgery. If there's additional treatment needed, such as chemotherapy, radiation, or endocrine therapy, that will depend on your pathology results and the type of cancer that you have. If you get a double mastectomy to reduce your risk of breast cancer because you have an increased risk of breast cancer from a gene mutation, getting a double mastectomy reduces your risk of developing breast cancer by about 90 to 95%. The decision to undergo a mastectomy is a personal one and your breast surgical oncologist will be there along the way to help you make those decisions. There's different types of mastectomies to undergo and they'll help guide you in getting you an individualized treatment for you. Will you concentrate on醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫醫