 Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson, Wilson Wilson, Wilson, Wilson Wilson, Wilson, Wilson Wilson, Wilson Wilson, Wilson Wilson, Wilson Wilson, Wilson Wilson, Wilson Wilson, Wilson Wilson, Wilson Wilson Wilson, Wilson Wilson Wilson Wilson Wilson Wilson Wilson Wilson Today, we're going to take a closer look at CUD with the help of addiction psychiatrist Jared Harp. He's among the many experts at Cleveland Clinic who pop into our weekly podcast to guide us toward healthier living. So with that, let's explore why cannabis use disorder is a growing concern and, more importantly, how it can be addressed. Welcome to the podcast, Dr. Harp. We are happy to get some time with you today. Thanks so much, John. I'm really happy to be here and talk about this important topic. Well, it is an important topic. And I know by every metric I could find, there's just no question that cannabis use disorder is becoming more of an issue in our society. What's driving this surge in problematic marijuana use? Yeah, you couldn't be more right, John. I mean, it's something that we're seeing certainly. And like most things in life, it's multifactorial. It's really kind of been a perfect storm of increased access, increased potency of some of the products, commercialization of the products, and really a general sense of normalization of use and a decreased kind of perception of risk. Well, it does always seem like there is never just one reason. And I think we're going to get into all those things you just talked about a little bit more as we move on. But just in talking about cannabis use disorder, where's the line for kind of defining whether somebody has this disorder or whether they're just kind of using marijuana in, I guess, a responsible way as a wellness approach or just kind of chill past them? Yeah. So the line often comes when you start to appreciate that there's loss of control of your use, that there's consequences of your use, and that despite all of those things, you can't you can't stop. That's that's often where the line starts. And that's like, you know, I don't have a familiarity with that. I know I like I enjoy a beer as people who listen to this podcast will know because it comes up enough. But I know we all know that, like if you have one, maybe it's not an issue, but it's when you start, you know, you're having a six pack a night, you run into a problem. Is that is that kind of the same thing that you see with cannabis? Is it just like how much you're taking in, how often you're kind of hitting those tokes? Well, I think there can be a component of that. You know, when you look at someone who's having a struggle with with substance use in general, be it alcohol, be it cannabis, it's often not as much related to necessarily why they're using it or even how much at times. It's really about how much are they able to control how much they're having and the kind of relationship that they have with the product. So while it's true that many people do, say, have a beer every day or many people do smoke marijuana every day, that doesn't necessarily mean that there's a use disorder or a problematic use of those products. It does increase your risk, I would say. Certainly, if you're using more often or using higher amounts, you're more at risk of that problematic use. But that's not really the core of the addiction. It sounds like it's whether you feel like you need it to kind of get through the day and function. I think that's true. In a lot of ways, it breaks down into what's commonly referred to in addiction as the four C's. We've touched on them a little bit. Cravings is one of them, which is kind of what you're describing to some extent there, a desire or urge to use. Compulsive use, where you're using kind of even when you don't necessarily want to. Loss of control, where you're using way more or for longer time periods than you intended to. And then continued use despite consequences. I think those are really the components that we're looking for when we're saying, is this an addiction or is this just somebody who is using something regularly? Now, when you start getting to that point, when you're hitting some of those four C's that you just kind of laid out, what are some of the signs then that kind of follow, that you kind of see in your everyday life that kind of show that this is becoming problematic? Yeah, absolutely. A lot of times it looks like, you know, for marijuana, say you go to the dispensary and you buy a product and you say, this is going to last me a week. And then it's gone in two days. And you're back in the dispensary. Uh, you know, it's, you know, Hey, I got a big job coming up. I can't wait to start. This is the perfect job. I've been looking forward for this job. This is exactly what I want. I know there are no drug tolerance policy, you know, workplace. I know they're going to do urine drug screening when I start, but I am really having trouble abstaining from use. You just can't walk away from it for, for even a little bit. Exactly. And those are all just signs that, you know, you have goals in your life and that you're working towards and, uh, in marijuana or other substances for that matter are interfering in that and, uh, really kind of taking control and hijacking your life in a way that you don't want. Yeah. It seems like it becomes like the top priority for you above just everything else. That's, that's the truth of it. I mean, as you develop more of a problem with any substance, your life becomes very substance specific. You know, cannabis seems to be the center of your universe. Whereas before it could have been a variety of things, a number of things. And that's, uh, that's never a good, a good, good place to be. It's not where people want to be. No, no. Um, now how do you see this manifest in other, in other ways? Like I'd imagine you see, uh, physical effects, uh, your mental wellbeing, social relationships. Like, are these all things that will start kind of showing signs of strain if you, you kind of start developing cannabis use disorder? Yes, they, they certainly will. I mean, you'll, you'll notice some of the behavioral changes like we were just talking about with the, with the loss of control and things along that line, but there are physical consequences as well. Um, the ones that people most generally notice are kind of a little bit of a brain fog or mental fogginess, maybe some impairment to their concentration. And therefore memory as well, because when you can't concentrate and focus on things, you're not really encoding memories very well. Um, it makes sense. Yeah. Yeah. And, and paradoxically, you know, sometimes worsened anxiety, worsened sleep, which are things that people often use marijuana for, uh, with long-term heavy use, those things can worsen, especially when you're not using the product anymore. Yeah. That's kind of ironic. I mean, you're doing it to try to relax, to get to bed. And then yet somehow it's going to affect your sleep. And then it just seems like it turns into a vicious cycle. That's, that's one of the cruelties of addiction in general is that many times people are using substances for a variety of reasons. Sometimes it is truly just because they enjoy the substance. That is true. That's a subset of people, but many times it's to treat a very specific thing, whether it's pain, insomnia, anxiety. And oftentimes substances do work in the short term, but long-term it just makes them worse. You become more reliant on the substance and exactly as you said, it's a vicious cycle. Yeah. And when you start trying to use that, that, that substance, like you said, to fill a hole that, that you feel like is in your life, it sounds like that's kind of that, that, that slippery slope you get on where, where you start getting toward that, that, that addiction or, you know, that, that use disorder. Exactly. Exactly. And that, that's those, those kinds of signs that make you raise your eyebrow that, you know, maybe, maybe this is something that needs further exploration and ideally some help. With, with, with relationships and everything, is this, I mean, do you see people actually just start, start cutting people out and start almost like, you know, closing, closing doors on, on their friends and family and things like that? Yeah. It's, it's kind of like we had talked about earlier, your world can get really, really small when, when you're suffering with an addiction. Um, and cannabis is no exception to that. Um, no, it may start with maybe a family member has a child, a young child, and they don't want you smoking around them. So you're like, okay, I can't smoke there. Maybe I won't go there. Yeah. And all of a sudden that whole component of your family is, is starting to drift away and friends, social situations can go from there. Yeah. How quickly do you see these sorts of things happen? I mean, is this, is this over a long term that we're talking about or, or can it just kind of, kind of happen, happen like that? I think for some substances it can happen very quickly. Um, for cannabis, it seems to be more of a, a longer term. Uh, and that's one of the things that can be kind of insidious and subtle about it and can lead to people not realizing how problematic their, their, their addiction is, uh, potentially, because it is so slow happening. One thing happens several months later and other things happens. And before you know it, you end up in a spot that you hardly recognize, but you don't even know how you got there. And it was just one little step at a time. It sounds like that classic, that example everyone uses with the boiling water and the frog, where it just, it keeps getting, you know, a little worse, little worse, little worse. And you just, you don't realize that I guess in real time as it, as it's taking place. It's a perfect analogy. It really is the truth of it. Um, with some, some substances, uh, of abuse, there can be, um, you know, some very obvious and hard and heavy consequences that are so obvious and very hard to ignore. Sometimes cannabis use can be a little bit more subtle in its challenges. Where does synthetic cannabis fit into the picture? Um, I, you know, I know sometimes it's kind of marketed as, as a safe alternative to marijuana. I'm guessing that might be a little, uh, marketing magic going on there. I think you're onto something. Uh, I wish it was a safer alternative. Uh, unfortunately it's, it's, um, it's quite the opposite really. Um, these are, these are not very well regulated products. These are products that although they interact in similar receptor systems of the body, uh, as cannabis, they do so in unpredictable and, um, sometimes quite, uh, potent ways. And there can be some, some very dangerous adverse consequences from their use. Do you ever see people thinking that like, if they just switch over to the, to the synthetic version that somehow it's going to, it's going to be better. And do they kind of, kind of just are drawn that way? Yeah. Yeah. I, I mean, I have seen that. Um, I think that, uh, more often I see that, that people switch to other cannabis products thinking that they're going to be safer. Um, you know, maybe they switch to, to vaping, vaping products for THC delivery instead of using the smoking, the leaf product, or maybe they switch to edible products. There's so many different products available, which is one of the things we touched on in the beginning of the conversation that there's, there's a high commercialization and a lot of marketing of different products that are quite appealing that can make this more of a challenge for people. But sometimes people switch those other forms with the thought that they could be safer. Yeah. That's a really interesting point. Cause I think everyone thinks just cannabis use, you're just thinking, you know, smoking and that's it, but it does sound like you can, you can really veer off into all these other areas with, with, like you said, the edibles and just the, the vaping and all that. And I think it's all kind of, it all contributes to that same addiction, that, that use disorder that we're talking about that kind of puts you into that bad spot. 100%. Although it is true that there might be some of those products that are slightly safer. I think in general, when you're not using a combustible version of a product or you're exposing your lungs to a little bit less harmful damage, um, that could be kind of collateral damage from use, but you're still engaging the same addictive pathways in your brain. You're still engaging the same systems that can, that can lead to problems. Yeah. You're using it to fill that same hole, whatever it is that you're trying to fill. Somehow this, the marijuana, the cannabis is what you're using to kind of fill that gap. Indeed. Yeah. I think that's exactly right. So, so if you've fallen under the cannabis spell, uh, one way or the other, uh, what kind of treatment approaches are available to address, uh, the addiction? Yeah. I think that's, that's one of the nice bright spots and the good news in the conversation is that we like good news. There is, there are treatment options available. They're effective. People get better, you know, in, uh, to me, the conversation always starts with partnering with the patient and talking about what is it that you're getting from the marijuana use. What are you looking to, to solve with the marijuana use? You've referenced several times in the conversation. What kind of hole are we trying to fill with the marijuana use? And, um, once you can identify that, then you can look at alternative approaches to try to, to solve some of those things, be it anxiety, insomnia, any number of things. And that's, that's often where it starts. I get the sense too, with marijuana, there's a definite chemical reaction that's happening in your body. So, so if, if you're going to, to, to get off of it, um, is this the sort of thing where, where you go through kind of withdrawal symptoms and things like that? You can, you can certainly. And I think that's really one of the myths and underappreciated facts of, of cannabis use. When you're using regularly, you're using heavily, you can absolutely experience withdrawal symptoms. And often it's, it's the same things that you were trying to treat with it. It's worse than anxiety, worse than sleep, irritability, restlessness. Changes to your appetite, maybe decreased appetite. Some of those things can be really characteristic. So what's the process then if somebody is going to go in and seek treatment? Obviously it sounds like there's a two prong thing. One, it's kind of, kind of getting off of cannabis first and kind of drying out as a phrase that comes to mind. That doesn't seem like it fits for cannabis. It's more of an alcohol term, but, but just to kind of get the point across. And then it seems like on the other hand, it's also a figuring out why you had to crutch on it. And then, and kind of addressing that. Exactly. I mean, I think it's, it's exploring your relationship with marijuana. First of all, exploring what it's doing for you, what it's not doing for you, and then beginning to develop alternative strategies to manage those things. Whether it's through cognitive behavioral therapy, which is a therapeutic technique that can help with developing coping strategies and coping skills. Whether it's utilizing techniques we use here called motivational interviewing to kind of increase engagement and treatment and help with abstinence. You know, there's a lot of different approaches that are, that are going to be used to, to help people to address that underlying challenge that they were experiencing. Medications could even be a component of that too, certainly. Yeah. And once you kind of, you, you, you have this and you find out you, you reached a point where you have this use disorder. Is that something where it's like, then you, you always need to be cognizant of it. I mean, this isn't something where you can kind of go back and just like, well, I'm going to, I'm going to have, I'm going to have one, you know, this week. Is it, you, you pretty much have to walk away from it and leave it alone. Yeah. Yeah. That's a challenge. And that's an individualized question. I think, um, you know, like with many things, there's, there's a, a, a spectrum of severity, uh, of your challenges with cannabis or, or really any other substance. Some people who maybe have more of a milder, uh, struggle with cannabis use, they might be able to, you know, at some point in the future with some treatment and other strategies, return to controlled moderate use. That's possible. People who do have, uh, some on the more severe end of that spectrum who have really experienced a lot of loss of control, have had a lot of consequences. Those times it becomes a little bit more challenging to, to approach that because there, there can be a high risk of falling back into those same patterns that led to the problems to begin with. Yeah. It sounds like so much of it kind of goes with why you're using it in the first place. And that may be some of, of how then things go, uh, moving ahead. Yeah, exactly. I mean, it's all about an evaluation of your relationship with the substance, what it's giving you, and then trying to find alternative ways to solve those problems and, uh, in healthier ways to manage those, those struggles that you're having. Do you sometimes find that there's like a stigma with cannabis use disorder that, that sometimes prevents people, uh, from coming in and getting the help that they need? Certainly. Um, and, and marijuana and cannabis is kind of a, uh, it's a little bit paradoxical in this way. It's, it's on, it's two prog. In one side of things, there certainly is a stigma regarding the label of having a use disorder, having an addiction. And that is a, certainly a challenge, no doubt. I think we all understand and appreciate that that can be stigmatizing. And although the stigma is going away, still very much present. But on the other hand, because marijuana use is becoming kind of very normalized, it's becoming widely legalized for recreational use. Uh, there's kind of a growing kind of feeling that marijuana can be harmless. Sometimes these patients will kind of feel as though it's just weed. Yeah. You know, how could it possibly be a problem? You know, and there, it's kind of this dual edge issue where sometimes it's a minimization where an unappreciation of the dangers of the use. And also there's still the existing stigma that could, that could prevent people from, from coming for treatment. Yeah. I feel like we're still, even as a society kind of struggling with, with, with how we view marijuana use. I, it just, you know, the reality is it was illegal for, for so long. And I think, you know, it, it becoming allowed, it's a, it's a slow process for people to kind of be open and accept that this is now, you know, part of, part of life sometimes. You're exactly right. And, uh, all, all of us are, are working to, uh, to change our perceptions. We all have so many things that are ingrained through years of messaging, uh, be it from, you know, the dare folks for those who are old enough to remember, or some of the, uh, I, I do remember that. You know, this is your brain on drugs, you know, scrambled egg kind of advertisements. There's a lot of things that, that are built in and into us that, that we're all working to, uh, you know, to develop more nuanced appreciations of. And you're right that the perception is changing. I think to some extent, our perception of the risk of marijuana has shifted maybe a little bit too much in the other direction. It was, it's all bad. It's all bad. It's going to ruin your life. And now it's, it's only helpful. It can't hurt you. And I feel like we'll find ourselves more towards the middle of that as time goes on, but I feel like we're a little bit too far on the pendulum right now. If somebody thinks that they may have an issue, um, with cannabis use. And they're just, they're, they're kind of, they're struggling with it and they feel like it's starting to take over. Um, what, what's the, what's the first step they should take? Yeah. If you're starting to feel as though that you're having some struggles with cannabis use, you know, really go through those four C evaluations, really take a close look at how it's affecting. If there's consequences in your life to relationships, to work or other things, really assess your control over it. If you're using as you intended or as things escalated in a way that you never wanted them to really go through those things that we talked about. And if you notice that maybe a couple of those things, or even just one of those things is problematic, then there's help available. And let's go over those four C's again. I know consequences, control. And then cravings, cravings and compulsive use. Yeah. So compulsive use would be just use. You're continuing to use it even when you don't even feel like you want it or need it. So if you're checking those boxes, uh, you should probably check in with somebody and talk about why, uh, you need it so much and what you can do about it. I think that's well put. Well, well, Dr. Harp, we've, we've, we've covered a lot of ground here. And I guess before, before we let you go, if you were going to have somebody walk away from this discussion with one thing, um, what do you want to make sure that it is? So it would just be that cannabis use is common. It's becoming more common by the year, but that doesn't mean it's harmless. And if you're someone who is using cannabis and using it with some regularity, and you start to notice some of those things that we talked about to where maybe it's not going the way that you had hoped it would. So seek, seek evaluation, seek help. There's help out there. Help works. People get better. And there's a lot of options to help you along the way. Hopefully people, people take that advice and reach out if they have those issues. Um, so thank you very much for coming in today. I think this was an immensely helpful conversation that can really have a huge impact on people who may feel like they've, they've reached that point where they need a little help. Thanks so much for having me. I really appreciate it. Knowledge Knowledge Cannabis use disorder can negatively affect your mental and physical health, while also undermining your ability to function in the world around you. If marijuana has turned your life upside down, reach out for help. Treatment is available. It's just a matter of asking for it. You liked what you heard today? Please hit the subscribe button and leave a comment to share your thoughts. Till next time, be well. Knowledge Knowledge Thank you.