. We're a weak late and a dollar short dusty, but we are here. That's the latest I've ever been. I'm usually just like 20 minutes. No, I know. I'm holding. Sorry about that, guys. So for those of you that don't know, we need a quick little pandemic update. And we could put a graphic here. Ideally. Yeah. Our producer, Scott McNally, got the COVID. No, no, dusty's frozen. You got severely frozen there for a second. Could you hear us? Yeah, I could hear you. I was hoping you could hear me because I just kept going, but it didn't work. Damn. No. I was very funny for sure. But yes, Scott, got COVID. It was not good. And he wound up in the hospital. And now here's where I'm just going to make up stuff because I don't know all the details. He wound up in the hospital with pneumonia. And he was having his oxygen levels dropped. And he had to go in. And he was in the for a few days. And, you know, of course, he's young and healthy. So even though he got the pneumonia, he still pulled through. And as I saw, as of yesterday's on the treadmill, walking like two miles an hour. It's even hard time breathing, though, I guess. What's the dilute walk? There you go. The dilute walk is doing the lead cardio. I'm a shredding in no time. Done sliced to no problems. No, he'll come out of COVID with stride of glutes. So we're happy that he has his immunization over with. He's a me. He said he can go to concerts now for at least nine months. Is not they say? I thought good about that. We're going to leave Scott of Florida. Yeah. Get everybody a hug. That's what we all do if we want to actually hang out on. No one people got a Florida here. Right, right, Florida taxes. So how how are you? You got your new truck. What extra fancified. You got it. Scott's Dale. Does that what you call it? Yeah, I got ceramic wrapped. So what what the fuck? Tell me about that. I didn't even know what that is. I know what those words mean, but I don't know what getting your truck ceramic wrapped means basically what it means to some of like, man's shit is super doper shiny all the time. And if it gets wet, which I don't know how that would happen here, but if it were to I'm going to get wet. It would it would be repel the boys back. Come on, Dad. He all the sudden, of course. Need some attention. I feel that. Okay, so so if it gets wet, it will repel the water. What better than metal normally does and metal with wax normally does. And I've got to fuck with it anymore. Now it's just done. Right. We're about that. Okay. Is it true that you are picking up a vehicle today? Yes. That is newer than 2007. Yes, I made an a purchase the other day. You know, this whole looking for a vehicle thing was just weird. I, you know, I looked and looked and looked and looked and looked and looked. And that you know, everyone's got all their friends and hook ups and connections, right? They got a couple of guys mainly this one, this one dude that I know used to work at the gym actually. He sells cars and then one of my clients is a finance manager at the same law. And you know, there's a bunch of like hook ups, right? Yeah. And I had a lot of people kind of keep in an eye peeled for a certain type of grand Cherokee or maybe a four runner. And um, my, my buddy bought a brand new explorer like an ST, right? And I was like, holy shit. This is like fucking nice. Right. Because I just had I just had been looking at explorers. I don't, I just wasn't really into them, right? And then I was like, so I started looking at explorers and I was like, holy shit. And I started asking some of my buddies like, what about an explorer? Do you guys have any hookups for explorers? And a few of them are like, oh, well, yeah, you know, we do have one Ford lot and trouble, but they start calling around. And, uh, you know, just out of the blue, um, got a call from a guy that he was actually one of the guys I didn't even really ask for any help with vehicle. He just knew I was looking for some. He goes, hey, we just got like five explorers on the lot that are like 2018, 2019. And they're all really nice. You should just come down and look at them. Right. I was like, I'm like, I'm like, okay, so I just like spontaneously after my work out the other day, just shut out to the lot and showed up and yeah, he had like a like a real selection of like, really nice, you know, 2019 and explorers. Right. So I looked at a few of them and I was like, I found a sport. It's got the twin turbo in it and everything and it's just fucking sweet. Only 40,000 kilometers, which is fuck all, you know, you got warned to you up to 100,000. Right. So it's like, and I took it for a drive and, you know, he gave me a good price on it and I was like, fucking done deal, just get this over with. So that's why I'm going to rub for you. We can do it. Yes, 2019 Explore Sport. He gave me a pretty good trade-in on the old Jeep, you know, the great, the great ghost. Do what's crazy though is, you know, now you'll have that, you know, until you're 80. So you're all set, you'll never need another car. I'll only drive about 4,000 kilometers a year. So I should have warned you for like the next fucking, you know, that was a guy that was, this is the show. He goes, it's wrong, really, drive that little. I'm like, wrong can ride a bike everywhere he goes if it didn't rain. Yeah. Yeah. I was like, it's not out of hand at all. I told him I said, literally, we can't finish a conversation from where Ron picks me up, which is like a mile from his house to the gym. Yeah, it's impossible. Yeah, exactly. So yeah, so I'm pretty happy. I think I got all the truck on the, it's a glorified bike carrier now at this point. Yeah, but now your, now your bike is riding in style. Yeah, so I pick it up today and you know what I was really happy about? What's that? The, the finance lady sent me a message yesterday. She goes, holy shit, you have the best credit I've seen in a long time. I'm like, yeah, proud moment. Yes, yeah, yeah, you like it. I pay my bills. Yeah, I like to do that. I buy things and pay for them. I'm wild. I'm fine. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I don't live beyond my means. You know what I mean? Where I'm from, that's a rarity. There was a thing I heard, I actually saw online, it was when they were doing black Friday sales and someone put a post that like, and I can't, you can't quote me on the number. It was just, it's saying like 80% of Americans do not have an extra $1,000 if something happens. Yeah, well, yeah, and then there's, I think that, it's also the stat like they don't have one, like if they don't work for one month, they're fucked. Right. Right, yeah, exactly. Yeah, I was like, that's, so it's fine, because it was in that quote and it said, so if you don't have a thousand extra dollars, maybe you should not be taking advantage of black Friday. Right, right, but they're basically paying me to buy stuff. Yeah, it's, but it blows your mind when you think about it, because I, I've been broke, but yeah, broke, but there was still money on the side, but that's not touchable. That's like, oh, fuck money, you know what I mean? I say it, yeah, no, definitely not upgrade your chicken money. It's like, not to get the cheap shit. Hey, I remember the days before the white tuna. Just the can, the cheat. The can. I remember those days. So no, it's good. So I'm excited, man. I'm going to, you know, it's got all these features. That cars do things now. They almost drive for you these days. So first thing I did dusty, first thing I did, we're saying I did. We got this. This is, this is totally me. Got in the guy goes, take a foot test drive. Close the door. I'm all by myself. Blue tooth, my phone in. Got to check the stereo. Got to make sure. I don't have Bluetooth, I might have seven Jeep, right? It's one year before the, the plug-in for the phone for that. You don't even need a plug. You're just, you just Bluetooth. So I blew two and I put on the back and black album to test the speakers. Of course you did. Right? Of course you did. Because there's a lot, it's, it's, it's one of my ACDC facts. Is that the back and black album has been used by many producers over the years to calibrate their sound system in the studio before they record. Because everyone knows that that album sounds fucking great. So I put it on. Fused when you were in the car for five minutes and then just turned it off and got out. I've done so, we're good. I'll take it. I'm happy because I got, I got, not only did I get a big vehicle upgrade, but a huge sound system upgrade because as a 12-speaker Sony sound system in it. So as far as stock stereo's go, like I'm not the type of guy that's going to take it to a fucking shop and get fucking subs in 10 grand with the shit, I don't give a fuck about that. Plus I listen to rock music. I don't need it. No, like I don't need fucking, 10 inch subs put in to listen to rock music. So I was happy man. I'm pretty excited. That was crazy when I was a kid and I used to actually still do that shit. The most expensive speakers in my car were tweeters. They were these little tiny things in the truck, but they get pierced your ears. Like when you turn on, you're like, whoa, you're the high. Yeah, I just don't care enough anymore. Like that's it, that's what's funny. Back then I really never money to do it and I would do it. And now I'm like fuck that. I like a good sound system, but I don't need that, I don't need to win a contest with volume and all that shit. Like, you know, I just want clear good. Yeah, exactly. So I'm happy. And then it's got shit like I'm reading the list of features. And there's like lane warning buzzers and fucking lasers. It read if there's a pedestrian in the dark up ahead of you and fucking, you know, all the shit. Awesome. And some of my hate like mine's got, when you hit the cruise control, it will, it'll paste the car in front of you. So you pull up on him, I'm like, fuck that. I want to pull up on that dude and get his ass out of the way. Right. Like you see my big ass truck coming at you quick, you're going to move over. I don't want to slow down for you. Right, right, right. That's the first thing I did on like how I turn this shit off. How do I, how do I, how do I fix this? Can I get a chip removed? I don't want this. I hate lane correct, too. I actually knew a guy who had, this was like years ago, but he was one of those dudes that didn't want to wear a seat belt. So he actually had the buzzer deactivated. Yeah, he took it in his shop, he's like turn off the seat belt buzzer. You're like, what? And he's like, turn it off. I fucking hate it. They're like, you can turn it off, I put your seat belt on, right? Yeah, yeah, it's so funny. That's classic. I told him he should have just cut off a seat belt and stuck it in the hole. Exactly. Just buy a random clip jam in there. How do you feel? Do you feel like a penny or something for real, like way back in the day? Oh, okay. Now I'm really wild and I know where am I seat belt. So, right. It's the other people I'm worried about. You put up a question area yesterday. Did you get some good shit? I did, and actually I did this morning, and I'm telling you, our followers come through, dude. So I just did screenshots, so I put it up three hours ago, and I have one, two, three. 10 pages of eight questions per page filled. So I got eight questions and like a couple hours. Just go, just screw it up last night and forgot. Did can you hear Jed barking? Yeah, but it's not annoying. You're good. We got an Amazon delivery. Someone drops up and off the door, so he's like, whoa, it's going on. It's security threat. But you know how it is when Amazon comes, you want to get that box too. He just wants to say, buddy, come here, bud. There you go. I'll deactivate him. Deaptive. Come around. Okay, so you fire off one. I kept kind of my, I had a big batch last week when we didn't do a show. But I got so much, it was the most I ever got, I think. And so I kept a few of them for the show because as I call this, it'll be a good one. Get some cells. All right, well, I'm starting off with a, this is directed to me, but I'm doing it anyways. If you had a third dog, and you know, you're going to join in on this one because we're going to pick the breed of the dog too. Okay. If you were me, and you had a third dog, and they them after another soups character, who would it be? Oh, you can't do this. You haven't done suits yet. Then I did. I watch a little bit. Oh, you did. Okay, good. Okay, so we're getting another dog. We've got Harvey and Donna already. Who is the third soups character in my house? Well, you either get a dog any name at Mike. Right. Yeah. See, I think I would war Lewis. So I'm not going to lose. I'm going to have different bad. Like a fat. Like I'm going to have a, it's got to have like a jallow. Yeah, I definitely need a, I needed to, and like a really happy. Lewis. Well, like a, like a, like this bulldog is too cool to be a Lewis. And yeah, he's him saying, like, because that's my first thought was English bulldog, but I'm like, they're kind of cool. And Lewis is kind of, you meet sort of a a pudgy, short leg dog that can't really get away. Yeah. Like it can't defend itself very well. What type, what? Really. So I just want to have a wet paper bath. Yeah, it's been like a floor. Let's be like, we can vulnerable. And if you yell at it, it has to like, cow or the cat. Immediately pee pee on the floor. You yell at it. I wouldn't, yes, so Lewis would definitely be the name. I would see if I had to do it this way that this way things get different. Now you're choosing them. You're choosing the dog based on the name instead of right, right, right, right. I'm not to go, you know, that's what's going to be. I'm not to rescue it. And I'm just going to go rescue to rescue until I find that dog. And I'm like, there's Lewis right, area. You'll probably already be his name at that point because someone else already did it. And we're good to go. That's definitely neutered. Yeah. Oh, yeah. If not the first woman he meets, you're going to do it for him with her words. It's funny. But he might have a bad habit of rolling in mud. I love this. Let me move it. What are they talking about? What? We're not going mud. We're not going mud. No, we're not. No mud. Okay. Okay. Be careful, which leash park. I guess you don't really have a rain there. So you don't really have mud. You have to be dusting here, which is your ear to problem. Story of my life. Okay. All right. Where we got? Okay. So what is your favorite more adultish cartoon? Like, you know, family guys kind of risk gay with a lot of jokes. South Park. It says a lot of stuff that's, you know, not for little kids. They did that's the aisle they're going up. I think South Park is the funniest possible plus. I'm always, I feel like if I watch South Park, I should be paying attention what's about to happen in the world. Or in some cases what really did, because I don't think a lot of people realize the detail they go into when they, like for example, the presence speaking on South Park, it'll be from a moment when Trump had spoken and you'll see like the black guy right next to the lady with red hair just like it wasn't a real image. They put some time into that stuff. But I think that show, I'm a child. If it pops on, I happen to be cruising by. I'm like, oh, well hang out here for a bit. We're good. Yeah. Yeah. South Park's great. Another one of my favorites though is Archer. Did you ever watch Archer? No. I'm going to watch it. Yeah. So Archer is great. It's super fucking smart humor. You have to listen to what they're saying. You know, the other characters in the background will say something and you're like, oh, you know, you might miss it first time. Right. You know? And so basically imagine kind of it's kind of a take on James Bond, secret agent stuff. And, you know, he's a drinker and pops a few pills and bans a lot of chicks. And his cartoon. Yeah. And his mother is the head of this agency. So his like gray hair, you know, sophisticated, very snaddy. Um, mother is the head of the spy agency. And she's played by the same woman that was the mother in a rest of development. Oh, no, shit. Yeah. So she's fantastic. And the cast is awesome. And all the voices are funny. And it's, it's really suggestive like there's so like it's pretty adult. There's a lot of really suggestive stuff, you know, right a lot of bang in and a lot of drug use. And so it's it's pretty hilarious. And then what they did with archer that was unique because I like those shows that don't care about ratings. Right. Like, you know, they're they're solid. They're into like season 12 or something now. Right. So like they don't care at this point because they're solid. So you just do whatever the fuck they want. Right. So I think it was like season five or something. They just decided like, oh, let's just make this whole season a dream. And it'll be in the 1920s and it'll be like an old school detective. So like the whole season takes place in like the 20s and there's like gangsters, Vitami guns and he's like a private eye and know the whole time he's dreaming. Yeah, because he's he he he he he he he he's in a coma from the end of the season before that. Right. I like how they create the way to do this and and all the other characters just play different roles that are kind of similar. Right. You know, like his the other agents are kind of like cops and other people he has to interact with. And they just change it and then the season after that they're like, hey, let's make it. Let's make it the late 30s and we'll do like an Indiana Jones themed season where you're more like you're an agent that's looking for something and we'll put you in that jungle and we'll have Nazis chasing you. And so they just change the season and now I'm watching season 11 I think and they're in outer space. Like on a spaceship right in the mood to decide this is where we're doing this one. Yeah, so are they just change a theme of the show, but it's all the same characters and it's the same like, you know, sense of humor and everything. So if you haven't seen archer give it a check because it's it's great. You okay, man. Come on. You go ahead. Here we go. This is an easy one, but I like where we go. If you didn't, if you don't have the genetics to turn pro, would you still treat body and what the same dedication? Well, I don't think I did have the genetics to turn pro. I just outlasted the process. Yeah, I guess it's a difficult question because I mean, if someone would have sat me down and like told me like you do not have the genetics for this, I don't know if I would have listened to them anyways, because I was so determined. Do you know what I mean? For sure. I call that's whatever one tells people that are in that zone where it's not going to be easy. You know, like there's some people that know what entails in that. Right. Is there just so good? And then there's that whole kind of zone of people that, yeah, someone might tell you to give it up. Someone might tell you it's not, it's not going to happen for you. You know what I mean? No, a lot of those people can make it. A lot of those people can make it. I think for me, I mean, when when we like, and I've talked about I did have the goal to turn pro. It was my main goal. But that was, so it's not like when I hammer on people because the first thing they think is they want to improve is it's because it's different. I didn't really know what I wanted to do. That was just the the biggest goal. It's like, you know, that was the I want to make $10 million. Well, I got to make a lot of little things happen between now and then. But that was the goal. But even if I had fallen short, here's the deal. I never let body really get in the way of the life. I think that's where people fuck up now. I see kids are like, I can't take that good job because I don't want to mess up my eating. I'm a body builder. I'm like, no, no. No, no. I know you're wrong. Like I'm a firm believer. And I don't work. I quit working for money when I was 20 years old. And I started only doing things I enjoyed doing. And I ended up making more money that way anyways. But I do think you have to have a good career to do all those things. If you've got those things in check, then why wouldn't I would give everything to my hobby if it was, I don't know, softball. Right. Like I would be the hardest working fucking inner, you know, league softball player in the world. Because yeah, I don't know how to, like if I'm going to do something, I want to do it. So the answer for me is absolutely, if I knew it was never going anywhere, it would have been the same thing because even now, what I love is the day to day. People ask me when I'm going to compete, I'm like, yeah, I'm going to do it this year. I don't know when, I'm going to do it because I want to. But literally, I like Tuesday, Wednesday. There's the day. You know what I mean? And that's where I think a lot of people missed out is, if you really love this shit, it's stumbled to become a full-on career. It was literally just like, I was playing hockey, had an athletic outlet in a place to put some anger and frustration. And I was like, I couldn't imagine just going to work and coming home and cracking a beer and watching TV. Right. Like that life didn't appeal to me. So that's what I was like, oh, good, gym membership. Yeah. So yeah, I think you, I think you put everything into anything you want to try to do and fuck what people think, because, you know, I'm sure you've had this. I think I think you, I would talk about this on the show. I had somebody ask me within the last six months. Like, do I ever regret just being a body of their entraining? And the word was just kind of like a shot. Yeah, my right. Have you seen my life? What exactly would I regret? Like I do whatever I want. I have fun. I have the same day, seven days a week. Like I work seven days a week. I like to work. I don't follow the just. You know, I could make more money or less money and be less happy and either option. This is a great gig to me. Yeah. Yeah. No, I don't mean. I know what you mean. I agree. It's uh, but maybe that's a quality. Some people don't understand. Like, like, well, I mean, it's sort of applies to it. Like you said, any hobby if you were playing softball or anything. Like look what body blended into your business. Yeah. You're good at owning that gym and forget if it is a gym, if you were selling forks, you'd be good at that because of what bodybuilding taught you. Right. Right. I know what you mean. Yeah. Where card get results. All that sort of stuff put the time in. Well, you said with the bike, it's it's it's reps. It sets. Well, yeah. So, so, you know, I get people ask me, why do you why, like, why are you riding your bike? Like, what's the point? And I'm like, what do you mean? Are you supposed to do things that are fun? Like at what point in your life, are you supposed to stop doing things that are fun? I don't get it. I don't know. I can't comprehend. I don't have follow what you're even asking. Yeah. It doesn't even make sense to me. Like, you know, I have, I have a desire to make progress in something that I think is cool and fun. And because, you know, I'm 45 and I'm off the saw, dusty, you know, they're not going to be setting any records in the gym. It's training for fun now, but I want to make some progress somewhere and like, you know, stacks and bricks on something and do something cool that not everybody does. And those boxes all get checked by this. Right. Right. Because I've always liked doing things that other people don't do. They're kind of weird. And I've always liked, you know, like, cool off the wall, interesting stuff. And so yeah, there you go. Plus, who doesn't want to actually not grow up? It's been my goal from day one. I always said that. I'm like, yeah, we're not. Oh, which by the way, I've got to send you a link today. I bumped into a, it's not your kind of riding, but an 11 year old girl like spike phenom in my head. I'm like, what the fuck? Like some of the things, what kind of bike is she riding? Like, what is she doing? Is she does tricks? But she does, I'm, I mean, like, on the ground, but also in pools and stuff. Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, you know, boy, so is she riding a, I, I could a small B. M. X. Yeah, with the way the seats real low. And it's, is she, is she riding like a 16 inch or 12 inch wheel, bike like it's a smaller bike too. Yeah, there's, there's some kids that just rip on those. They're just like crazy stuff where you're like, and when you're watching, you're like, you're 11. Yeah, yeah, there's a 12 year old boy from Germany who flatlands. And, uh, and I follow him and he's just awesome. And he just went, he had a 12 inch bike. So his wheels were 12 inches around. And, uh, he, he just upgraded to his 16 inch bike. And, our end of full size is a 20 inch. That's a BMX, right? Right. So he's up to a 16 inch wheel now. So he's got a slightly bigger bike. And he, and just over the course of the last month, he's relearning all his tricks on the bigger bike. Right. And that kid just rips just fucking rips. So funny to watch him because you're just like, what? Yeah, I'm fascinated because I think it, it tells you what, like, I mean, here we go again, but it's like, for a kid to learn that stuff, that means they just go and go. Just like an adult, only it's driven from a different place in my head. Like, it's just pure desire. I want to do this. Yeah. If my kid walked into the room, if I had a kid and was like, I'm going to buy it. But okay. Then they said, yeah, they were chipped. Like, okay, I want to skateboard, sure. Okay. My parents were just glad I didn't play hockey because one hockey son was enough. Right. Yeah. And I was so like, fuck. That's why I was allowed to do whatever I wanted. Really, because nothing I wanted to do cost as much as my brother's hockey. Or the amount of time that they had to put into going and traveling and including, including the actual time cost, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, my skiing was just as expensive with equipment and stuff. Yeah. You could just drop me off at the hill and come back at the end of the day. It was like, oh, see. Yeah. It's like, it's a cheap baby sitter. You know, let's go get rid of the kids for 12 hours at the hill, Saturday and Sunday. Both days, drop them off at the ski hill. Fuck, fuck them off. Yeah. I was in no wonder my mom and dad loved weekend so much. That was their great time from you guys. Yeah. But if it was hockey, they would have had to go to games. Yep. And then carpool other kids and all that fucking bullshit. You know what I mean? Yes. Okay. Okay. Here. I got I got a couple. What is the largest animal you could beat in a fight? Jesus. I'm looking at some of those going even basic ones. I'm not sure I could beat him enough. They're dogs. I couldn't beat in a fight. I mean Jesus. Like. I'm trying to think of like basic. Penguin. I could be the penguin. Like an actual penguin or Danny DeVito as the penguin. There's any of you as pretty tough as the penguin. I think it's an actual penguin or anyone that plays for Pittsburgh because I hate those fuckers. Shit. I'm trying to think of an animal. Literally because I laughed because I watched all those things and it's in all honesty like people and pussies. Oh, we have no defense. Like what would you think about? Like it's I've seen like the the cop dogs. Like you're not. You without a weapon. You're not beating him. No. No. You're not fighting you. Yeah. No problem. And be proud of it. Yeah. Yeah. I mean you'd have to immediately do something like gouges eyes out when he was locked under your arm or something like you'd have to go. You need to have split a split second to realize that you had to go like like mad max on the on this animal. Yeah. You know, I think they don't I mean because we're conditioned to be pussies. I mean you conditioned them to not be. You know, I love you ever saw like the um because Matt has the training place for those dogs as well and he actually has one a Belgian and did they'll jump through a fucking window. Oh yeah. It'd be stoked when they drag someone out they're like, well, I did fuck this guy up dad. Cool huh? Yeah. Yeah. They're not you have to make them work. So I'm almost dead serious. Like the the size of the animal or what animal would be would be so low. I mean literally like I'm thinking I'm like, I think a raccoon of what my ass. For the raccoon. For the raccoon. For the raccoon. The raccoon gives you rabies and then you die. So he still wins the fight. Yeah. I won the fight. He won the right. Right. Exactly. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. What about you? You got to think one. This is impossible. Oh, I mean we're just we're just announcing it were complete. Well, that's I was sort of trying to think like like if I were to get if I were to be in the forest and get attacked by a foresty type animal. What would I what would I even survive? And it would have to be like a small cat or something because it was even like a medium size length so can kill a man. Yeah. Like you know they're closet. They're so fucking unbelievable. And you know they just get yeah. You'd have to be like a small like you know like a real small link sir. Jesus. Even if you had even if you had a weapon you have a knife let's say. Okay. Yeah. You have to kill them. Yeah. I'd have been a tear you up so fucking fast. So I have a friend who shot like it would have been a cougar. Yeah. Shot a cougar. He was out hunting and he's really really experienced. Like he's flown to New Zealand and done the mountain the mountain she ponds and hiked through the bush and he's like a fucking hunter right. Right. And he saw this cougar a couple times over the course of like a two-day hunt or something like that. And he realized it. Yeah. He realized it cougar was like stalking him and he like backtracked at one point and then came face to face with it on the trail and he shot it. And it started coming out. It was like oh we're having a showdown right now. We're doing this now. Yeah. We're doing this now. I've been following you for a day and a half and now we're this is the Darth Vader Ben Kenobi scene with lightsabers. Someone's gonna die here. Right. And it was coming towards him and he shot it and it took off through the bush and he tracked the blood and he didn't find it initially. So he was like fuck. I wonder if I killed it or not. And you want to kill it obviously. Yeah. You want to be done. Yeah. You don't want to like make it suffer. And then I guess like within a few hours someone found a dead cougar like you know what I mean. He found out someone found a dead cougar that had been shot. He said oh I shot that cougar and like he had to deal with parks and raccobot or with a what is it? You're not hunting those yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? He had to like file a report or something like that. So but yeah man you and counters on like that in the bush like you fuck you better be armed. Yeah. But I think the only the true answer without being a hard ass is in those scenarios if you have any form of weapon. The correct answer is fight because they're faster than you also. Yeah. Like there's there's no answer other than I now is now or never is the deal. I think I could beat like if I had like a hawk trying to kill me. I think I could survive that. Right. There you go. And it's still good fucked up. So that's what's yeah. Yeah. It's still we all cut up missing and missing an eye. I don't know. It's a great last week. I think I almost can't think of anything like I'm trying to think of like wild animals that are weakened feeble and I can't really think of any. Yeah. I mean look look look look look look when like some of these even like an analogue gets a gets a a lying on it but they start kicking and shit it's like sometimes they get a horn in there too. I can end you. Hey did you see that? Did you see that video on Instagram of those elephants stomping and playing with that female lion? Yeah. Wasn't that unbelievable? Were they elephants? I can't remember. Oh they were but it was just out of like sport. Yeah. Yeah. Like like that. I guess that lion had had gotten in there and taken one of them down. But then got isolated from the group. Yeah. And they surrounded it and they just fucked it up. And it's like this female lion's like flying through the air and they're like headbiting it. Over there they rhinos. Other than the rhinos you're right. They're rhinos. They're like flipping it with their horn up in the air and then other rhinos with smash it with their head. And she's still like clawing away and kind of it's almost like a sea of rhinos. So she's kind of like trying to run out of the horn on the backs. You know? And they're just like, oh she got fucked up. And then eventually you're watching like it's one of those IGTV ones on like nature is metal I think. Yeah. And you're watching and eventually realize that the body's like lifeless. Yeah. Just playing fire it around. And the other lions are like off to the side like oh fuck. Yeah. And that's when you know it's that bad though because I've seen that before. There's another clip that was on their one time. It was it was one lion and like 10 hyenas. Yeah. She's in war with them. But then when a second lion shows up it's like now it's even. Yeah. Yeah. All she needed was that one more lion to show up and watch her back and it was like the hyenas all fucked off. Yeah. They went for a fermento like never mind. This isn't fair for us anymore. I think about that. It's like 10 to one we got this. 10 to two. I don't know. That's still that's so romantic. My favorite lion from that movie Jack creature with Tom Cruise. Yeah. Yeah. That's what you say guys. This isn't fair. Three on one. Let me go. It's five on one. And he goes, no it's three on one. The last two always run. It's so accurate though. If you watch three dudes get their ass kicked. I'm good. Yeah. I'm good. I guess missing a kneecap. That guy's missing a forehead. I'm out. Oh, good here. Hey, what's going on guys. Thanks for watching another podcast here. I think big bodybuilding media. And thank you to our great sponsor True Nutrition.com for making this all possible. True Nutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudeau, the creator of DC training. You wanted to create a supplement company that offered high quality third party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors, plus health and performance supplements. Check them out. True Nutrition.com. And hey, if you use our code advices, you directly support our podcast and thanks guys. Let's get back to the program. So I had a question. Is it your turn to my turn? No, go ahead. Because you I was just so I had I had a question that I answered the other day on my story. And I actually I had several people message me because of it. They just sent like gross or oh disgusting or and then someone was like I'm going to actually try that. And it was what's the weirdest thing that you've eaten that sounds gross but turns out to be pretty good. And I sort of assumed they meant bodybuilding food over the years dusty. So that's where I went with it. Got it got it got it. Okay. And what was your answer though? So I had this little phase. I don't know what I was thinking but at the time it was delicious but I would take two cans of white albacortuna and then I would dump my I was guiding for show. I would dump my prescribed amount of mini barbecue rice cakes into the tuna and I would just mash them up. So it was like a rice cake tuna mash but it's kind of crunchy when you ate it and I put some hot sauce on the tuna. Okay. And yeah and so it was like barbecue rice cakes with tuna and hot sauce and I would just eat it and looking back on it I don't understand what I was thinking but at the time I was dieting real hard and I just was like oh this flavor is good and this flavor is good. Let's just smash them together. It's gonna be fucking glorious. Yeah it's crunching there. Yeah yeah yeah. Oh god. I mean that's it. The only thing I because all of my I mean you know me my foods are all normal. Like I'm obsessed with it actually being good. I'll say the the only thing that I did find I don't like fish at all and people assume you do because I eat it but I eat it because it's got a purpose. So whenever I would do white fish the only thing I found was if I took and skillet fried or whatever you would call it some vegetables first just like what's that little that purple shit called it looks like lettuce. Purple shit that looks like lettuce. It's like a little strategy. No like little strings like a lettuce like shredded lettuce but it's purple. It's a fucks that called Jesus I don't know you do too we know what this is. Anyways things like that if I put the sauces in those things just bomb the fish inside of it it was good to go but that's not like weird it's just covering up fish. I don't have any weird wrong recipes like I mean and anything I have done that's weird was not good it was just to get it down like blending food no anyone who says oh it's not that bad like you are full of shit. Right when you blend up a chicken breast with anything in the world it's just to get it down as soon as possible like I literally do one of these like I have you all boom and it's one shot because I'm not taking to if I need to auction that's fine we're going without it it's not happening. Right okay your question is terrible that's just not nice. Okay okay oh that's it. Whiskey or vodka. vodka well sorry are we having a drink or a shot. I was there would be there would definitely be a different if it's a shot it's whiskey. Yeah because I was gonna say I mean I drink whiskey as a drink and that was a shot. If if it's just the booze it's whiskey. Right but if we're mixing a drink it's vodka. It's about for these in a mix. Yeah and I don't actually I don't want a drink like whiskey and coke that to me isn't like something I want to sit but vodka and coke I could drink. Yeah yeah I would go vodka so I don't like whiskey. Yeah I can do a shot a jack though I can do shots a whiskey but I shot to vodka are fucking terrible. Yeah no I went fishing with the guy one time it's a huge whiskey guy and he's like oh you want some jack I'm like sure and I'm thinking like you know you hand him like a cup. Yeah oh yeah if you got with the jack drinker still fuck around. I'm like what's in this he's like what do you mean I'm just you like I'll do you drink here's drink that's jack I was like why just hand him a fucking bottle weird I don't mean you say like literally and I'm just I'm being a sports I'm a drinker the whole time like right this is like like on on my birthday Emily took me out to a nice restaurant that we don't always go to from my birthday you know what I mean it was like nice girls nope we went to a different restaurant it was really really cool and I had a double vanilla vodka diet coke that was my back in the day when I used to have it drink once in a while you know vanilla vodka diet that's good and man I was instantly like I was half half three quarters done my drink and I was like drunk like a couldn't a driven like because of my body weight I probably would have blown under but because of my tolerance I was completely inebriated. Yeah you knew you would never keep behind the wheel doing that. No but you know there's people out there that could literally drink half a bottle and probably drive pretty safe because they're so I don't know if I lose yeah that's something funny I was like I had to like map out my trip to the bathroom. He said you got money to get up and I'm gonna head that way. But we know no stepping front of me and fuck up my equilibrium. Just fall over hell the guy walked me wrong yeah yeah exactly exactly oh my god I have a good one there so I'm skipping I'm jumping right in front again. Go if you could pick one food as ammo in a food fight what would it be and why? Oh I'm gonna go apples. You're going for pain. Oh yeah impact bruises. I don't make it bruises. There's some weight to them. I mean you don't want nuts not stone hurt they're hard but they're not heavy enough to have any real velocity to them. True. But if I'm I'm winning this food fight with a knockout. I like this I like this. I want to go the same route but I'm gonna use like an entire salmon. Right right you get to beat some money. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Go hold it by the tail. Just smash them with it. I'm just going to town with a swordfish like. Yeah. Okay. I'm sorry you say swordfish yes I did. Wow that's another level. So there's a food fight for a fair pain. There's people that are thinking like mashed potatoes. It's gonna make a mess. We're killing people. We saw it. We killed people. Well you said it was a fight. We were just talking about fighting coogers and then fucking mountain lions. Coogers been trying to fight me since I was a kid. Oh sorry. Different thing. Different thing. My dad's some entangled men's specific behavior. I had a couple of coogers incidents when I was younger. I just love you with entangled men's because that's funny after last year permanently. In her entanglement. Oh god. Sorry well. Okay. Okay. Favorite sports movie. There's a few here. Dude I'm going I'm going this is gonna throw you off. But I'm I'm considering this a sport. And so it's days of thunder again. It just keeps coming back. It just keeps coming back. I can't get enough of a cold trickle. I'm sorry. Okay. It's fair enough. It's a NASCAR show, right? Stock car racer. But actually my true answer is slap shot. Slap shot is the greatest. Yeah. That's the greatest movie of. You know what I I should watch slap shot again because that that's such a classic and I saw it a bunch of times as a kid and it's been years and years since I saw it. I should throw it on. It's still I literally probably watched it within the last six months and even though I know every word it still makes me laugh. That's funny. Oh those like that's a good one. That's a good one. I I'm sort of thinking. I remember seeing the program. Oh yeah. And I was like whal. That was awesome. And and then you got does any given Sunday? That absolutely is a great and now what's the I almost want to count the Bruce Willis movie that I really liked. Which one? There was that football player that killed himself at the very beginning? Was a football movie. Oh please keep talking. Oh fuck. The football movie. I'm getting you. Don't worry. That was really cool. And then you got Rudy. Do you remember Rudy Dusty. Of course. That's a guy's just who knows. Only person I've ever impressed him. You tell me the last boy's got the last boy's got remember that? Yeah. Is that what you're talking about? No that was a great show. Okay. Yeah. It was a great line in that movie where the guy actually actually slept with the guy's wife. It was an accident. Oh you walked during your slipping. My your deck fell in the water. What? Is it accident? Yeah. So yeah. So Rudy is like the greatest underdog movie right? Yeah. That's awesome. But yeah. Yeah. I think at any given Sunday is pretty goddamn good. Yeah. That's a solid choice for sure. What else he got? What else? What other sports movies? There's so many. I mean there's so many just football sports movies that are awesome. Yeah. You don't even mean? Wow. Then you got of course you got Major League. Oh yes. I freaking I freaking love that show. That's it. You know what? That's another one of those shows that I would I would stop at every single time. Yeah. Yeah. Wild thing. Oh god. Fantastic. So what is it days on this one? Jesus. Okay. I'm just experienced and then I'm actually I actually have a training question because we haven't even touched training yet. Oh, we should have been bodybuilding that's weird. Yeah. I'm an hour into the show. No training questions. Well if we're going to go to training first then but I'm going to ask this question Iran just because I love the answer and I already got it. Okay. This person wants no how big is your cock? And you get to answer and once this answers done I'm going with it for the rest of my life. But you got to give the story. Got to give the story. Okay. So that does see now we're talking earlier and I was saying that I had a line once that just came to me and you know what sometimes put some of a putty on the spot and you actually like you get them. Yeah. You win the war. You win the war for that question. I mean if somebody just walked at me and said it to me I wouldn't know what to do with her. Yeah. Yeah. So I saw him dusting his story about one time I was sitting with the staff at the bar and there was this one chick that worked there and she was really funny and you know she was like really cool to have around and just out of the blue. So the blue she goes, hey, Ron how big is your dick? And everyone just turns and looks at me. It's like the whole staff. And of course like she was she was a little older than me and like quite attractive and I was like a younger guy right now I didn't want to look like a fucking idiot. Right. There I go. It's big enough to have never had a complaint and it's small enough that it's still getting an old. And the whole room just popped and everyone laughed and now that's my that's my signature line whenever whenever that kind of joke comes up. How big your dick? Your body builder. How big your dick? Because then like you know I've had that drunk idiot say that to me like you're your body builder how big your dick. So that's a good line. So anyone out there you're free to use that line. It's not charging for it anymore which is great. And that's well it's public domain now because it's been around for a while right? Yeah I like that definitely I would definitely use that now. There's no better answer like there's literally nothing else you could say to that other than what do you want for breakfast she could ask that next. Right because any any any check that put you on a spot like that you know you got two solutions you you know like you know like you know like what do you say especially when you're a younger guy right I think it was in my 20s or something right Yeah, she's like you know a little older and kind of in your all of a sudden you're just like put on the spot and you're like oh That was a hell of an answer on a spot. I would not have come out that well and my story happy with that and I think that maybe just for a split second she might have wanted to fuck me. I'm sure of it. Just kidding alone. I just kid I'm just just I don't know just you overcame I do all right let's get to this silly body one question you want to I had a body button question yeah so this is the I know that's the good one so what is the optimal length and amount of sessions per week for optimal muscle gain and I know that obviously this is not a perfect question with a perfect answer but generally what do you think? I think first days in the week four maximum five is my solid answer there I'm psychotic and don't believe in training one three days in a row I think you're seeing that so shot at that point when you need a day off length of time in the gym varies if you're training with a partner one person I think 90 minutes is about as long as it should ever take can be a little longer but in reality if you want to break it down it's how much time do you actually spend under a bar? Yeah you know because I'll have like for example a leg day for me I just said 90 minutes leg day takes two hours every time but the reason is every single lift is so heavy that I spend so much time getting to my working sets you know when you're on a hackswatt and you're finishing at 10 plates aside you start one right and you gotta be careful what you go up to play to the time you go one three times it's the one two because those are like it's weird for my body it's every movement the first set is like a wash the second set is drastically better and now I'm moving on anybody part like even on like a hammer in climb press I'll do a single plate twice that's funny you say that because I'm exactly the same I could do like I could put like a plate or two plates aside on the leg press and do 20 reps and it feels kind of awkward I get up a walk around for a minute you'll move around a bit come back to another 20 reps and it feels like smooth range is there everything's fucking flowing yeah and now I can go to four and then six and then eight and then ten but yeah yeah that's what I do it sorts after two it's two at a time and then when I get to eight it's eight nine then ten right I see but but nine is two reps yeah so they're all what they're all ten reps except for the last touch with nine plates yeah I'll do well it's like even I don't want to waste any energy so you also want to four for ten six for like six eight for like four now I'm just touching weight in my body so the the reps start to decline about halfway through your warm-ups yeah once I know I'm ready and I'm just feeling weight but yeah so that gives you an idea though so because we we actually joke to I just barely I said because I filmed every working set at the end of the workout I got that's a good workout I trained for eleven minutes right because I had eleven minutes of true gone to hell training yeah yeah you know I just the mid I trained in a rep range is kind of funny but just barely last week I decided to do some high rep stuff just to it was right before the the knee it shows getting fixed yeah yeah and I laughed it was the first time in forever I had to cut the video because it was too long for Instagram oh my yeah that's our separate one yeah yeah yeah most of them are sets and sex both hundred minute that's plenty yeah that's minute of your life though high intensity you don't want to you don't want disappointment lasting any longer than that it's all you get that one minute so you can handle that's why I did that for you you're welcome right right how long can you last you're more long before I'm done six but I'm happy but not long enough to make you bored yeah you gotta give those types of answers to those questions that you always get your way out of it without ever truly answering that like that right what's uh what was your answer to the same thing that's funny because I agree with you on pretty much every single thing you said I just find that while you're training intensity obviously we're talking about people who are training really really really really hard right and trying to be progressive and pushing themselves and probably going to failure on most of their working sets and all that sort of stuff and you know based on the way I train and I you know style of training with you know like like to go to failure on a lot of sets and all that stuff um well not a lot of sets technically it's actually a few sets but um I always had problems when I tried to train six days a week um several times when I thought you know what I'm going to do a separate quad hand day and I'm going to have an arm day so that means I got to have six days a week right and I would always like you know because technically muscle-wise you're getting the recovery like you're I was still training everything once a week right like my frequency went up and I wasn't really doing more volume maybe a few sets right extra volume because I had the time on you know quad hand day I thought I'll add a little bit but I would just get fucking trashed and I would get a cold or a flu or I would have a week where my strength would go down and like even in the middle of a cycle right I would have like a chest day where I was a week and I'm like I want a cycle right now and I'm eating my face off like how can I I think why would I get weaker and the only thing I could ever track it back to would be the if it would always be screaming right in my face it's been three weeks since you started training six days a week and I would always be like that three four week magic mark I would and hit and I would get sick or run down or something would happen and I would go back to five days a week and everything would come back around and so you know I mean when I meet people who train every day like I've had clients where I'm like okay you know here's your this is chest and shoulders and here's your arm day and then I want you to take this day off to look all I've been taking a day off in months I'm always like oh man that you that's like that tells me that they're not focused in the gym and they're not driving themselves and they're not overloading their bodies and they're not causing the type of CNS stress not that you want to be like smashed and burned out on CNS but they're just not there's like getting the same amount of stimulus no it's it's a muscle it's funny but how to guide this week a client of mine was in the gym training and he never strapped some and it's everything just looked like pathetic and I've never really seen him train to like fuck and I'm training what I have to do this I was like wearing straps and he goes ah now I'm just this is an off-day so I'm just kind of getting a little blood in everywhere and I'm like okay don't do that it's gonna I told him I was like I understand because I I it's when I don't train it's two hours of my day I need to fill with something and I love the train but I was like if you're this tells me not training hard enough because as much as I want to go to the gym today Monday the day I don't train I'm beat up I know I shouldn't go to the gym you know I'm saying if you can't let the show this morning I wouldn't have called timing but like oh let's get in there like I'm fine so there's a desire to go because we like to train every day and we love to work out but if you actually want to follow through I can almost guarantee you're not training hard enough yeah yeah you should I look forward to off days like oh yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah we're not training thank god it's smashed we smash legs on Saturday and yesterday I well I rode my bike last night and it took the whole day for me to summon up the mental energy to realize I was like I have some activity I have to do the right like I got plans I'm riding my bike tonight like I got a like I got to like have a little nap and like get a little like energy going because I was just smashed all day yesterday from legs of course I went into the jam and like walked around and you know how to check check the jam out and I was just like uh fuck we don't have to have to like every single time yeah I actually we shot a bunch of pictures this week I had two workouts in a row where Calvin came in um you didn't get to meet Calvin did you know but I saw I saw some of the images you put up already that were so sick yeah so Calvin is like bumstead's best buddy okay and that's why bumstead likes to come out here is because he gets to shoot with Calvin at West Coast right and then Calvin would fly out to Toronto or fly to the Olympia or fly like he was down at the Olympia with Christmas he films all the bumstead's content right so all this stuff that you see bumstead put up um and now I guess jacked because bumstead's with jack so he's getting they get see or get Calvin to do some of that stuff too right so so yeah so he's he's really good and um it was it was nice to get him in for some pictures and it was so funny man because you know he he does like really good work oh it's really really good and uh he just came in and we did 100% real workouts you know I didn't like I didn't like move my arm on anything or like there was nothing like that and he got some of the best pictures I've ever had taken of me even when I was competing doing actual photo shoots yeah I could say from seeing you stop I just want more of it right I think that much better physique and I look better in these pictures I think he's the best photographer at that kind of shooting I've ever seen just because I mean I've shot with a lot of people that way as well and my my favorite shot total picture of all time of me is deadlifting in Venice with uh uh Pav was shooting me and uh he was there was same thing flex magazine at paid for it and they were like just trained right and he just caught an image off a mirror so it's like I'm actually deadlifting there's veins and shit's all crazy yeah I'm like all right that's a bad aspect here yeah because I one of you doing the um over the preacher crew yeah posted yeah that's a sick picture yeah that's him he did all those and and he had no lights no lights just a camera and you know he just shot he shot chestwork out at night and then we shot legs during the day over by the by the windows right and he likes both those lightings yeah of course and it just turned out great and and it's funny because back you know back then when I had like a lot more muscle and stuff you know dieting for show or just after a show but I don't like any of those photos because they're not real yeah you know like you're wearing shorts and no shirt and you're doing side laterals right it's like this picture to me now looking back on my career it's pictures like silly that's right I didn't that's not a train so it doesn't there's nothing like to me it was like this thing I had to do that was just kind of annoying right and and I never really liked how I looked in those photos anyways but you know Calvin comes in and shoots it's just training with like a cutoff shirt and he gets like real face and real moments and real like even just leaning on a machine right but it's it's real because you're actually pumped you're not like fake pumped where you kind of feel flat because you tried to look good but yet you tried to load and you're not really sure fuller flat and it's the other that photoshoot dilemma yeah we're possibly in those pictures like the difference between leaning on the machine because you're actually tired after a set versus posing where you're trying to get in the position that makes you look the biggest the best you know you're totally right yeah those are sick I can't wait to see the rest of them because we gotta be some pretty good snack of stuff yeah I got I got a bunch of cool ones I just don't want to bomb them all because you know it's supposed to be used for actually marking this is marking yeah I got one for you shoot I mentioned I mentioned one of my answers already but there's a few what's the most unbelievable sounding conspiracy theory or historical conspiracy theory that you could actually buy into or I interested in okay historical we have some going on right now but I don't think it could spirits like these our entire presence is a conspiracy theory of bullshit he's something else somebody knows somebody put up a thing actually today it was funny it was on so you know when YouTube people can thumbs up and down your videos so a Biden video went up and it had like 10,000 thumbs down and 600 people liked it yeah but he got 80 million votes no no one blinking at the fence we had less registered voters than votes right anyways so yeah what I haven't you know what I don't even know all the the final wash out of all that stuff I just know it just goes away someone with enough power has to care well entire system is corrupt you're all set well and and and look at what's going on in China right now China just passed a bunch of rules that make it almost impossible for anybody who's not approved by the party to run for office in democratic Hong Kong because you know China's trying to suppress Hong Kong and they're trying to like they don't want Hong Kong to you know do it's own thing anymore and they're really trying to lean on it so the commies had they are went in and arrested like it was like a hundred political people that were pro-democracy and anti-commonist party so there's guys that were trying to run for office that you know they're sitting in a box right now so they don't want anyone to vote for them it's fucking crazy um the one that I mentioned that I I think is going to be cool is uh I'm hoping one day we find out what happened with JFK right and I'm not talking about the lone gunman conspiracy I'm talking about the who actually had him killed conspiracy because whether it was one guy who got off all those shots or whether there was another gunman with another gun isn't what I give a shit about it's was it the KGB that had him assassinated was it the CIA that had him assassinated was it linda johnson who had him assassinated was it you know some sort of other group I mean there's even talks of like Castro and some of the Cuban communists having something to do with you know apparently um Lee Harvey Oswald you know he went to Mexico and met with some Cubans at some point before the assassination so there's all these crazy stuff and we don't know the the final facts I know Oliver Stone made that movie but that was Oliver Stone's interpretation of what happened and there's been a lot of dilemmas to whether not that's actually how it went down you know so um but yeah the I mean that's that's a huge deal like we don't we don't remember what a big deal that was but just imagine if that happened now oh yeah that's the big fucking deal and I think now never actually they blamed it all on one guy and said it was just him oh by himself on his team's day his idea yeah yeah and I don't buy that at all so but I think that's kind of what's if anything in the US and shirts everywhere but here you can't no matter what side you stand on you can't argue that it's very obvious that the most corrupt people in our country run it oh well yeah I mean that's you know it's that's basically everything is settled into that now you know I mean because you look around it's kind of like you know if there can be a running joke that having dirt on the Clintons gets you killed and then people keep dying anyways it's like like it reminds me of like the the m&m song where he's like you know standing in front with a can of gas and a handful of matches and then something fire yeah yeah yeah you know I mean literally because that's how it is here I'm like so that's the most dangerous person in the world that old woman that's scary shit so yeah I know that's the that's the it's fine just google it's conspiracy theory is just to see it there is a there's probably a decent list that you could dive into oh shit yeah like you know and then one thing you can find one thing to keep in mind is uh do you remember Joe Rogan did show called think it's like Joe Rogan questions everything or something I can't remember what the name of the show was but it was very short lived it was only like it wasn't even one season I think it was like two thirds of a season and they ended it and that's really noble thinking no no was it actually the opposite Joe had this idea that he was going to explore all these conspiracy theories and talked to all these experts right but the ones that he picked to start with just turned out like I don't think he picked like JFK or anything he picked like big foot right like it's going to go see a big foot exists well of course big foot doesn't fucking exist so he winds up walking around the forest with this fucking loony dude and he realizes the guy's like off his rocker right and he realizes this is going to be a shit episode and he's with this crazy guy you know what I mean so just didn't turn out that great and then he goes and doesn't another episode and he realizes the same thing is like oh wait these people are just all fucking crazy because he didn't pick like conspiracies like that where there's you know because people hear the word conspiracy now and one thing I'm worried about is that the media is going to condition people to think that anyone who believes in anything labeled a conspiracy should be completely ignored right and which is what they kind of tried to do because of the COVID and election stuff but there's all sorts of other things that were labeled conspiracies that are actually more reasonable to question like the JFK assassination right or you know certain things like that so we have to be careful that you know like I say most conspiracies are just large levels of incompetence and bumbling idiots not communicating yeah yeah I may have a tension but you can't ignore like here for example I'm hoping with the media things might start to change there's a lady here that just quit she's been on the top news channel and the top two people for last 22 years and she announced her retirement after breaking literally said it's not proud to be in a journalist anymore we're no longer telling both sides of the story we no longer did I mean she basically said I can't back what I do anymore right and when you have some of that level who's walked away from a career that's paying her ridiculous you know what she's gonna do yeah yeah she was just kind of like I know what she'm just gonna write a book but she she might not even know that yet but that's coming but that means to see that is like it was like a breath of fresh air to me I'm like okay there are some people behind these fucking lines that know its horseship they're gonna start walking right and same things hopefully eventually you can at least hamstring it a little bit right I'll go to my mother's house and she'll have the news on my turn it off like I didn't want it on yeah yeah irritated immediately I'm like what channel is I can tell you what side we're on right exactly and that's which to this one we get to the other side what about the uh I mean I've watched a couple of Rogan's podcast and I've I've I've read a bit what where are you are you interested at all in like the area 51 stuff or if there's any sort of technology they've had that they haven't disclosed to us oh I think that's awesome and I think it's arrogant to assume where the only thing out there right right right you know now the question mark of course has had they been here but I think I think yeah I can't I assume as we live and it's gonna sound fun to be able but I shouldn't there's other creatures much smarter than us right I have no doubt about that I watched uh there's uh Lex Friedman has a great podcast and he has all sorts of like you know genius level physics and astronomy people and every sort type of person on there and he had one guy on there talking about like the actual statistics of how unlikely it is that there aren't actually billions of planets like earth right like statistically there's billions of planets that are goldy lock zone from whatever sun they're orbiting where they're the right temperature to have liquid water and this you know probably have life on a whole shit ton of planets and now statistically how how many of those planets here's here's one of the the things about whether not there's intelligent life life is a lot more likely than intelligent life right because you have to have a planet that also gets uninterrupted by catastrophic events that wipes life out right literally repeatedly you know like the dinosaurs but like every fucking every couple million years when something gets actually roll and there's another fucking asteroid or the other just constantly terminating the chain of events and restarting things but still with billions of planets there has to be someone and then you just wonder if they would have bothered to stop I got about it but based on what we've been doing in the last couple years I think they look by like oh don't pull into that neighborhood yeah well it's kind of one of the things I really liked I know you're not a star trek guy but one of the rules with star trek is they don't want to engage a pre warps society right because they'll fuck it up too much right they don't want to interfere with pre warps society so so like in the in the in the movie first contact which is one of the best star treks it's it's it's sort of about the moment when earth first encountered it's first species which were the Vulcans which is like Mr. Spock right but the whole premise is they have to go back in time to make sure that this one scientist tests his warp engine at a certain time so that the Vulcans ship sees this the warp trail and realizes that earth is now a warp level society and comes and visits right and they're like there's like this time thing where they have to make sure that moment happens or else the Vulcans will never stop and it will change history because I'll never get first contact right so it's kind of like you wonder if the aliens would think that way like they'd fly by and they'd watch our TV and listen to our radio and go and they're not ready yet not now yeah we were closer two years ago that we are now I can tell you that yeah yeah yeah yeah we're not stopping let's let's loop around again it's come back on the next trip we'll see how they are they're done ready yeah so like that's that I always found that element of of of that story really interesting because that would I assume an alien would have kind of a cut off yeah well I think the fact that you and I have any two partners that people listen to is a sign we're not ready too they're not fucking ready they're not ready they're definitely not ready oh god that's cool another thing that was cool about this that's that guy was talking about I don't know if I told you this before but he was saying that one of the things about societies is that there's really a very very very thin window where organic life will have technology and a huge amount of knowledge before it becomes cyber nettoclife which almost feels like we're starting to do know as well about to encounter like basically you're a cyborg with Zonsi of this in your hand all they have to do is put this in your head and then you're officially a cyborg right so but you can't stop technological advance so no matter what society no matter what experiment you run the eventually technology will go like this and they'll eventually hit a singularity and it's actually very quick like the little gap like how long of humans been around you know 150,000 years and within the next 100 years there's a couple hundred years we're going to hit like an absolute technological singularity that's a really small window of time where it's just organic life being smart right so most mostly most likely if we get encounter by aliens it will be cybernetic or completely robotic you know it's crazy those it's a conversation now versus if we were saying this in 1982 it would seem far-fetched and we'd be saying how in 2020 there'll be spaceships everywhere right yeah but even even even more simple though because what we have now if you were to spit that back back then but like walk back was an absolute fact people like yeah why would I why would I walk around and I've been joking about recently but people came walk through dogs without their phones anymore no no I might I might walk your fucking dog yeah page it's something off the ground they're not supposed to eat I paranoid both that all the time I'm watching what Jets sniffing and shit yeah I just hope you laugh because like I said what you're saying right here I'm like oh we're almost there yeah yeah yeah I think we're getting real fucking close because when we hang up this phone and I walked to my truck it's going to tell me how many minutes it takes me to get to the gym because it knows it's what I'm about to do that always freaks me out every single time I'm like some of a bitch it's Monday we're not going but good try yeah oh shit okay there was what I wanted to ask um and and I'm gonna ask you this in phases or in two answers do you mentally prepare before going to the gym or only when you enter and the way I'm gonna add to that is now compared to when you were first getting into it great question so um I had a ritualistic routine for most of my workouts when I was competing all those years trying to get huge all that stuff which was you know it's time a little time frame of about 25 years straight small um I would I would always do my very best effort to make sure that I went from home to the gym what I mean by that is I didn't like to schedule a bunch of other stuff I didn't want to have be coming from the dentist and then go to the mall to get some stuff and then pick up some some things from home depot and then you know go to the gym I always tried to avoid that as much as possible I know obviously life happens and we got a train when we train but I always tried to make it a real ritual to like eat a meal you know put some music on get ready to train you know get in the mood I'm not thinking about other stuff you know get all fucking get my you know chesty t-shirt on like you know what I mean chesty and chesty hat like whatever the fuck and then drive to the gym with some good music cranked fucking yeah Boba but I'm not like on my phone trying to take care of a bunch of stuff and I always had like a 10 minute drive to the gym and Emmetton for so many years so I would just I would walk into the gym ready to go ready to go and that was how I always felt I had my optimal workout experience and and now I I I carry that now I mean obviously my life's different now and I do just hop into training sometimes like there's times when I lose track of time right like I'm busy I'm working at the gym something's going on and then I look over and Braiden stand there and it's 501. I'm like oh gotta go train and I literally grab my drink like I would have already taken my pre workout and stuff but I like grab my drink and my belt and hit the floor you know but but for the most part if I'm at the gym working I'll go in the back office turn the light off sit down in a chair and put my headphones on and put my feet up for even just like five to ten minutes right and just like listen to some music and just not do anything close my eyes even not off for a second and then my little timer will go off and I'll come right out and go train and just having that little moment to shut down is like a huge help I think I try not to go through my phone and clear my phone right before I train you know sometimes you have to respond to something obviously but ideally I like to shut down for a bit and just listen to music right you know section off yeah totally agree I mean I think the the answer is simple is conditioning yourself to so you're so you're your brain and body knows it's time to do this now like I always compare it to like dogs when my dogs hear the keys hit my hand they know I'm about to leave right like that's the deal so I know if I'm gonna put them in the kennels I do that before I grab the keys same thing with your training if you can get yourself in some form of a ritualistic pattern where these three things happen then you don't walk in the door the gym and then you train you'll actually condition yourself to understand like okay now it's time to shift into that place you know I think that's important if you're I mean hell if you're almost everyone but I mean if you've got kids and they're running around your brains you've got office something that shuts the world down so that when you walk in the gym that 90 minutes or whatever is yours yeah you know because that's one thing I don't have an issue with I have zero distractions well it's the gym yeah it's the only thing on my mind and it's not that I'm afraid like my phone is with me the entire time but nothing knows me away from it and you have to figure out a way to put yourself in that mindset to say like when I was first read I asked about beginning versus now I used to have to really be gym time in my brain the whole time I was there whereas now I can literally you could tell me the story about how big is your dick and that answer and I could laugh and then as soon as I touch the bar I'm back right like yeah yeah yeah I don't need to be gym guy hardcore the whole time anymore but I used to have to that was if I got out of that I was out of it yeah I know it is a skill to shift your mindset for sure and that's why I can be that's why I can sometimes have a great workout after being like distracted all day you know and there's also sometimes you almost get a rebound effect like like the more sudden you have to shift the stronger it is like I've had times where I'm like super flustered I'm like oh my god I have to train and then I wind up having like a smoke and workout where I'm laser focused so it's you know you like overcompensating you pull it all together you know I think a lot of that comes from experience so so for the person who asked the question find a way to get that system I really do believe that and you'll you will const some of the last I get that question lot what are you doing at the bad workout I'm like oh I don't I don't work out I mean that's such a rarity for me to say a workout is bad like it was not that I missed a rap but it was a bad workout I don't I have to think of what year that was when I've had yeah yeah also two I I just I generally have a really positive view of of training now so even if I have a workout where my strength isn't that great or something I just look at the positives I'm like oh you know I wasn't that strong today on the incline and the dumbbells felt heavy but they're not really great pump today and then I'll like you know maybe I looked in a mirror a little bit after it was like fuck look really good right you know so I'm okay because I don't have the pressure on me obviously to like you know outperform every fucking time right but the the marker of a good workout now is honestly like how does my body feel right nothing hurts all the movements feel greased up like that's great yeah nothing's left on the tank so you don't know yeah yeah for sure was it your turn to my turn only of time for like a couple more yeah we're gonna do a couple of the roll to the point when 30 minutes it takes me 25 to get there what's your appointment I'm getting I started meeting with someone to do some she's actually stretching me I want to open up all my hip mobility and all that it's functional for the gym but I started to just realize like I'm literally a bodybuilder like there's nothing else is natural because we don't twist we don't turn um my uh we reach it we reach into the back seat for stuff yeah occasionally you guys get out my trip my back seats away the fuck back there you're about to experience a whole new back seats are um yeah no but seriously my my PT I told him and he was super stoked because he things a lot of potential injuries we're gonna go away because of this so we'll do it and then I'm doing not tempering afterwards her husband has one of those uh it's called the X-wife it's a it's a roller but's 130 pounds oh yeah okay you know and they work on you with that I'm stoked for that it's gonna be excitingly painful yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah you get an Instagram that shit oh yeah oh yeah everything okay I'm breathing and that's something with bodybuilding you get seen plus these guys they've got a really good business going so I want to give them some some props because they're uh they're at the they're at the gym if you're at my gym and you're doing good shit I want people to know okay okay well um we've got uh we've got a we've got a lineup another guest here we've got a list of people that I know you're interested in bringing on and we've got a list of people that I've talked to and you know it's time we've got Scott back now he's he's out of the hospital so we should get someone on yeah done we let's do we'll get one before next week for sure because I have a few that have reached out and I actually have one um I'll tell you off the air but uh I want to do before the uh beginning of the like national level shows here uh he's really in the mix with prepping for the shows and all that's up plus and athlete plus a coach so okay uh and he's old school so I like him okay okay that sounds good to me um 82 in the books down and done we we battled through a lot of shit here we had dogs making sounds we had me not having internet I think we did all right I got a text while we were on the show saying that I can go pick up my truck it's a good day yeah if I don't get a picture before you leave the lot I'll be disappointed just so you know I don't know I'll send one to you I'm not gonna Instagram it though no I'm sorry your style but send to me okay all right boss okay thanks buddy remember everybody like share a subscribe comment ring the bell we appreciate everything you guys do for us we're happy to be back sorry about missing last week you know disease happens five jams yeah okay remember everybody it's just body building

Alright guys, welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Coaches Skip Hill, Andrew Berry, and myself Scott McNally. All of our programming is brought to you by TrueNutrition.com. Use our code THINK for additional savings. You get high quality, third party tested, supplements over there, great protein powders. Every awesome carbohydrate you can think of, including highly-virtenticlydectrium, which I think is going to come up today. Check out SupplementSource.ca for our Canadians. I saw the Meadows Recovery product over there a while back now for like 20 bucks at tub. They have label changes, short dated stuff. So pick up what you can get over there, tell them that we said, hello, all Canada. That's all everybody, Canada SupplementSource.ca. You guys go check that out. And of course, thank you to everybody from Patreon. We've got a topic today. We're going to discuss intra-workout carbohydrates. We talked about this a while ago. It was an episode that you weren't with us, skip. If I recall because we've talked so many times now, you're not a huge intra-workout guy from what I remember, but remind me, and then I'm going to share my ideas and Andrew's going to share his ideas. We'll talk all what we think about using intra. I am with insulin. Oh, okay, yeah, yeah. Yeah. I'm pretty much an intra-carb with insulin or I am no intra-carb. And I have admittedly not the vast majority of the years that I have trained have been 95% no intra. How'd you say natural? Yeah, no. I was natural. I have a couple natural shows there in Michigan where I was legit natural, but that was back in like 32 or 33. During the depression, no one was a show-up, so I knew I could win. So, well, why do we talk about why someone wouldn't want to use intra-workout nitrips first? Okay. Yeah. I mean, I could think of a few examples right off top of my head. One being someone just doesn't like having fluid volume in their stomach. Like maybe they'll do a few sets of water. Yeah, they just don't like the feeling of, you know, ingesting anything, especially if it's sugary, because a lot of times people get like that dry mouth when they're drinking something sugary. And it just kind of aggravates them. Or especially if you're having like a hard leg day, they start to kind of feel nauseous. And they're spending more time thinking about throwing up than they are focused on their training. But I could totally see that as, you know, as a valid reason, and I listen to my clients when they say, hey, I don't feel good while I'm training. And the first thing we'll do is we'll lower the intro if I haven't doing it. Or we might even pull it right out. And usually we just end up pulling it right out. Like for instance, you know, Nate's my training partner. He doesn't do an extra workout because for that very reason, he doesn't like how sweet, you know, the highly brand-stricted extra in and cluster dexterous taste. And they kind of make him feel like he needs to drink more and more. And then it leads him feeling like he, like he's just not able to get him effective workout that way. I don't have an extra workout in his plan. That was part of my issue. I would make me feel full. Gastric emptying was not good. And it would depend on the what those intercarb's were. So I'll go on record and say that I hated waxy maze. And I still do. And the best way to explain it. And I, and I won't say who it is who argued with me, blue in the face, because we would argue all the time, his name rhymes with, say, ponte. I was waiting for the smile for both of you. So I'm not going to say who it is. Okay. But it does rhyme with that. You take waxy maze and you put it in a shaker cup and you let it sit for only three minutes. What happens? Comes out of sleep. It's up. It all comes back. Now it may not all come down, but it starts to come out of solution after only a couple minutes. I always argued that that's what it did in the gut because the gut, though there's movement, there's not enough movement in my opinion to keep it from coming. And if it comes out of solution at all, then you're going to have an issue with emptying. You've got to have an issue with it being assimilated. And it just would waste so heavy on my stomach. So that's the one thing. So I have I have intercarbs that I tolerate very well now, but there's a caveat. And that brings me to number two. I need to get my last meal. Roughly two hours are slightly more than two hours before I start training. And I started adjusting my intercarbs because if the if the meal is too close, then it's going to have a similar effect in the sense that it's going to sit in there with that food and it's just going to weigh me down. I'm not saying that it's not being used. I'm saying is it makes me feel heavy. It makes me feel kind of descended. That sort of thing. It just doesn't sit well. I would much rather even with insulin now and even with the two hour gap. I would much rather not use it based entirely on how I feel when I train from a gut standpoint. But the reality is is I benefit tremendously from the intro with the EA's and with the insulin. The other thing that people need to remember to just because I guess I'm going to throw on a third is you do need to have enough water. It needs to be diluted enough so that it's not heavy and it's not thick and it doesn't feel like literally food in your stomach. Just to give a little bit of background on intro workouts and I know that all three of us had used this in the past. At least I would be shocked if we didn't decade plus more than a decade ago. We were using Dexdros intro workout. Do you guys use Dexdros to start? Yeah. We used Dexdros and then mix in some EA or some BCAAs. Like that was the technology at the time. And you could also use multiple Dexdros. Yeah. We go back once that first I was the idiot who would combine Dexdros with way concentrate. Okay. Not a full scoop but 10 grams of way concentrate along with Dexdros powder. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So you can imagine how that feels. Thick. That was, yeah. And probably not that delicious either. But so we went from there and then there was also a multi-dexdron and I found personally that the higher I took Dexdros the more it would affect my appetite post workout. And I know that a people have had digestion issues. Some people get diarrhea if they just start slamming a bunch of Dexdros into workout. I never had that problem but I've heard that's happened. And then for there we got into the whack. Good. Well it's going to explain why. Right? Because. Okay. I mean I think this is a good point to talk about it. And this is where this whole topic came up again because one of my clients who's a good client is also coaching athletes. And a question came up about I haven't done intro and I always list what I want him to take. And then I think he was kind of thinking in his mind. Oh, any old car would work. And he was just doing plain Gatorade powder from Walmart, you know, which is pretty much 100% Dexdros. And I explained to him a whole reason in a step further and say he was describing exactly what you're saying. He was ingesting the Dexdros feeling a full stomach and was taken away from his workout. Right? Yeah. So the whole reason. And you got to think about the molecular weight of the carbohydrate with Dexdros. It's somewhere around 80 grams per mole, right? On the other end of the spectrum we have say waxy maze which is let's say 120,000 grams per mole. And then on the further end of the spectrum we have cyclic Dexdron which is somewhere in the 200 to 400,000 grams per mole. What does that mean? What's talking about the molecular weight? And that in effects the osmolarity of the product. I mean how quickly that product will run through your digestive system and enter the bloodstream. Right? And something like Dexdros, there's a lot of little particles in there. Water is going to rush in from the exercise muscle from the rest of the vasculature into the digestive system to help digestion. So you're sending a mixed signal to your brain. You're trying to exercise which is sympathetic, right? Fight or flight. You know, do your max lifts and you're sending a mixed signal at the same time saying, hey, we're also trying to digest the meal, which is a parasitic action, rest and digest. So you're sending these mixed signals to your body and you're brain saying, we don't know what to do. We should go throw up, we should crap it out. We should just kind of sit here and try to until we feel better. So that's kind of the whole reason why we're moving toward we've had we've moved from Dexdros to these other high molecular weight carbohydrate sources. Yeah, we moved to the max maze next and then from there we finally, I guess the best would be the highly branched cyclic dexterin and their better at attaching to amino acids too, right? For for shuddling that. So you may have picked up a few amino's from dexdros, a few more from, you know, one of the either I would put like vitargo and waxy maze kind of in that same boat, you know? And then moving on to the high-lvite branch cyclic dexterin, we're just freaking scooping that stuff into the muscle basically. I would rate it from say like dexdros and maltodexdrin to waxy maze ammo also to vatargo and then carbolin and then cluster dexterin, highly branched cyclic dexterin, absolutely. And the cool thing about the cluster dexterin is that it creates, the car rider structure is almost like a cone shape and it kind of pulls electrolytes, other small molecules. Yeah, amino's, sodium potassium, all those other things. It pulls it with it through the bloodstream into the muscle cell. So it kind of acts like a net in a sense. And it's actually, it's used, some of those cyclic dexterins are actually used in different sprays for breads. For breads for example, yet to help bring the aromatic compounds so you smell them at a farther distance. Yeah. Oh, no, for breads to, it's not so that you smell it in for breads, it locks it up so that the cones will attach to the smells and then basically fall into the carpet. So when you spray for breads, the smell goes away. So I'm thinking of something different. It's, yeah, maybe that's another mechanism, but now it carries the aromatic compounds so that you smell them further distances. So you're like, oh, this is clean in here. Like they've cleaned. Yeah, with some of these. I'm all of these. What you said wasn't true as well. Yeah, we're talking about something different then. Yeah, because I heard it was Justin Harris who had talked about this. So you have different properties. Yeah, I was just saying to say you guys are coming out of it from a different Andrew's talking about the smell of the actual spray. You're talking about the action smell that you're trying to hide. Yeah. Yeah. It's, I'm sitting in the middle and I'm watching you guys talking about that. Yeah, it's a good thing. Well, I'm saying it probably, I'm saying it does both. I'm, yeah. Yeah, I heard what you said it said before, but I agree that it makes a lot. It's not a sense. Yeah, I agree with both of the statements. Yeah, I hadn't thought about it from the other side of things and how that would work. Anyway, though, yeah. So dosing guys, what would you say? So if we'd probably all be an agreement that if you can afford it, you know, like a cluster, doxrine, highly brain sickly, doxrine would be the best route to go. It's not going to affect your digestion as much for most people. We'll be go for, for dosing on something like that to start. Oh, that's easy. Eight units of insulin and 50 grams. 50 grams of carbs. Sire, just for some reason, I think that's hilarious. But whatever. It's so individualistic, though, right? Because like someone's digestive system can handle 150 grams of carbohydrates in a workout. I've done as much as that at one time and I thought, great. Obviously insulin was being used at that point. But then there's some people that need to do like 20 to 30 grams tops, you know. And I also want to say that you don't need to be 100% with, with say, sickle destructed extra. Like a lot of times because sickle dexterin is a lot more expensive than say a dexero's powder. I tell people, hey, we need to experiment a little bit if money is an issue, maybe we go 80, 20 and concentration, right? So for doing 50 grams of carbs in trough, we will try 40 grams of sickle, like, and 10 grams of gatorade powder and we'll go from there. And you might be able to move that cheaper carbohydrate source up without any digestive issues. It just takes a little frown error. Yeah. So, but where would you start for somebody? Let's say so, you had somebody come to you and they're like, hey, you guys are going to decide, like, okay, 40 would be the start? Yeah, without insulin. I want to see what 40 does first and how they feel on it, how their pumps are, without using say an insulin source, you know, right off the bat. And then, you know, I'll probably start bumping up from there and 10 to 20 grams increments. Um, as far as the limit, I mean, like I said, like, I mean, I, when I first started I was taking 50 grams and then eventually I was up to 100 and the next thing I knew in a real big push, I was up to 150, you know. So, so I think the small incremental changes seeing how your body takes to it is the way to go. How much water did you have? Uh, because I did the, like, 150, I think 200 was the highest I ever went. And that was back when John was first really pushed. He, John pushed the boundaries with, with, with, intro workouts, you know, and at the time he was talking to Shelby a lot about that and they just kept driving it up. So, and we were literally walking around with, like, gallon jugs. Yeah, he did a lot of talks with me loves to at this around the whole year. Yeah. Yeah. Uh, because I remember I had to take an interview and then copy all the notes down between the conversation and turn into a PDF for John to use for, um, like, bullet point notes and talks and, um, and even, like, his programs that he write for people. But, um, yeah, no, I think, I think that, like, because then it's like, well, when you throw the insulin in, right, like, when do you experiment the insulin? And, and I think the biggest pushback we always get from people when you mention insums, like, oh, I don't want to do anything dangerous. Yeah. And I think similar to, like, the topic we had a few months ago about, um, T3 use, yeah. It's like, look, if you use it intelligently and by intelligently, I mean, you understand that one tick on a insulin needle is one unit and you don't overdose, you're going to be completely, you shouldn't either know this. You shouldn't even, right, shouldn't feel like a hypo, you shouldn't, it shouldn't be a factor that, oh, shoot, like, I'm feeling like I'm going high, both because you've adjusted the dose correctly, you know. Yeah. That's a kind of a rabbit hole to with the insulin because we were, we're talking about intrap, we're not really talking about insulin that now, you brought up the insulin to get it. Domass brought it up exactly. And I think that it should be noted that it's not a process of, when you're using an insulin pre-workout, it's not a process of how much can I tolerate pushing the dose up as much as possible. You're, I approach it more with a, I'm trying to make the process more efficient. I'm not trying to maximal, you know, get as much insulin in me as I possibly can. And I think sometimes people, they tend to lose sight of that or they just, that's just their, their approach. They would think, oh, the more that I can tolerate the better. As an example, I mean, I have a, there's a limit as far as how much fluid and how many carbs I can actually get in me anyway when I train with or without insulin, because there becomes that, that feeling of I just, I have too much, in me. I have too much, I feel bogged down. I feel having it's funny that you said it, because I feel the same way, it's got to go somewhere. I mean, you can either feel too bad or you're going to throw it up or it's got to go somewhere. Well, like I was asking you, Andrew, and I think that maybe our connection is an awesome, but I would, with, when I was asking about like pushing the doses up, how much water did you use when you were doing like the 150? It was probably, it wasn't as much as you guys were using. I heard you say something about a gallon jug, but it's probably closer to like two liters, I would say. Yeah, I don't think it was using. Are you? I can't go less than that. It just gets too heavy. It, it, two liters, I can get 50 grams of carbs and EAAs and arguably some electrolytes in there and not have it feel heavy. But again, I have to have that gap of that two hours. Sometimes it's two, two and a half, I guess. If I'm being honest, if it starts to get over that, then I don't feel, I don't know, I feel empty in my stomach. Yeah, if it's too close, I feel full. Yeah. You, the other thing, you know, like, was going to say, you know, like my process with using it involves you getting about 25% of it down the hatch before you even do your first working set. So, you know, you get to the gym. You, you take your shmishelin and you start immediately sipping your intro workout while you're doing, you know, if you're an old guy like us, you're doing six different warm-up rehab exercises. So there's 10 minutes right there. Talking to your buddy for gym for two minutes, you're getting a few extra tips in while you're doing your first warm-ups, you know, before you on your first exercise, that's, you know, three, four, five, six minutes. So by the time you get to your actual first working set, you should have 25% of the carbohydrate in your system. I think that's a pretty good way to do it because you're not so sympatheticly driven yet in terms of the effort working doing, you're warming up, right? Yeah. You're switching from parasympathetic to sympathetic. It gives you time to get a good chunk of it in without causing any of those digestive issues. So then you have a lessable load to drink during your actual workout. I think that does help as well. I'm a little different. I don't get 25% down, but I don't want to go against your rule because I think it's a good rule. I think I'm kind of the exception. That's my, because I've tried that. I've tried to get up. I can't. I literally have to, there's a couple of things. Number one, I don't want to run out. I almost always want to leave the gym with some, some there, just in case. And especially on a leg day, or a session that is going to go longer and is going to go harder, depending on the, you know, the commute and just the amount of time involved. So it is individual. I guess that's more the point that I'm making, but I do agree with that kind of a rule, if you will. I think for the vast majority of people that would work well. awkward silence. What say you Scott? I probably about the same as you Andrew, try to get in that first 20, 25% before I'm actually into training before I actually am hitting that first working set. And then I try to finish it about the, I'd say finish it at the beginning of if not during my last working set. And then plan to have food available, you know, when I, you know, like basically. And then I think is with highly branched sickly dexter and I'm starving after word. But I also found, one thing I've noticed about me personally when I was using insulin regularly, that if I were to start going hypos, highly branched sickly dexter never catches it for me. And then I'm going to do a lot of things that I'm going to do with the dexteros with it. Or I would still go hypos regardless. It's just, it didn't have to agree with that. Yeah, it didn't have to be a little extra. That's one of, to your point actually on that because I noticed that as well, that's why I always tell people to keep a dexteros based source of carbohydrate like a soda, a gatorade, some of the kids candy, like in your gym bag or in your car just in case. And I also tell people, like if we're using insulin and intra, I make sure that they keep their glucometer with them because I want them to test themselves and experience and put a feeling to the number if you give what I'm saying. Yeah. Because being 72 and being 54 are very different feelings and love as a feeling. And I do think it's important that people kind of start to develop that sixth sense that you're using intra workout, insulin and those types of things so that they can plan accordingly if they need to. And I'll tell you what, like it's rare and offseason that someone will go hypos. It's always in a prep situation and I know a lot of people pull intra workouts out during prep situations. I go the opposite way. I think it's time to put it in more than anything. John did too, right? If we're not. Yeah. Oh yeah, obviously that's where my influence has come from that. But you'll find this as you get leaner and leaner and you get more insulin sensitive. You get done to workout. Those 82s start to creep to 69s and 65s. And then the desire and the availability to eat needs to be met. Yeah. Yep. Yeah, you can see that. All right. Anything else we want to mention on this topic? Anything you guys can think of that we haven't covered? I'd say as far as water goes, you know, we talked about amounts and I would say mix it thin, you know, you don't want it to be whatever you do. You don't want it to be like a real strong concentrate flavor. You know, I almost feel like just the flavor itself is kind of a trigger for digestion. And I wanted to be almost like a, like I use crystal light in my water sometimes. And I just wanted to be like a twinge of flavor. You know what I mean? Yeah, I let my face be sober because my carbs are not flavored ever. Okay. For that reason. Maybe also talk about what other things do people put in their intro workout? You know, what, you know, what are some other things besides the carbohydrate besides the essential amino acids? You know, do you guys throw other stuff in there for your intro's? I'll say this. Oh, my God. I might go get, okay, maybe it doesn't go against skip. I was going to say that I try to keep stuff away because I think sometimes there's the thought of, let's, let's, so if we can push these, you know, carbs into the muscle, then we should start pushing in a bunch of creatinine and all sorts of other stuff. For me personally, since I don't want to trigger digestion, I'll try to get those things in pre workout, you know, like, let's get the creatinine a half hour before I train if you're going to use that. And if I'm doing like a pre workout, maybe it would be most of my citrilline would be there. Maybe I'd put a little bit of citrilline in it. But for me personally, I want to try to keep as little as possible so that I can, like, what we're trying to do is hack digestion. You know what I mean? We're trying to hack the system so that we don't get that trigger. So that's been my mindset. I'll not saying that that's the only way to do it. So I'm open it. If you do something else, I enjoy it. I think the only other thing I do throw in it would be like creatinine monohydrate, typically, obviously electrolytes, you know. I use a product. We make a granite called recovery, which John obviously designed with cyclic dextrin, EAA's, essential amino acids. There's a little bit of a sense of our actual gondon there. But then I do throw creatinine in there at that time because here's what, here's what you'll be my argument against taking the creatine pre-workout. It's that creatinine's an amino acid, right? What do you need to get amino acids into a muscle and insulin response? So I would argue that, you know, and it's not, this could be a difference of five to 10%. But I would argue that taking them with the intro workout, increasing insulin release, would push the creatine into the muscle more efficiently. Being a small molecular weight water soluble thing, I don't see it causing an issue with digestion. It probably might be that, yeah, in the same way that an intact protein would, or yeah, yeah, I just see it as, now that again, if people say, hey, since we had the creatine in, I'm starting to feel like different, you know, just, yeah, I'm feeling like some rumbling and I'm like, okay, let's pull it out. We'll take it at a different time. No big deal, you know. And I think the biggest take on message is to, you know, start with something and then engage your progress from it, you know, start with say 20 grams of cyclic texture and 10 grams of VAAs and see how you feel on it. And then maybe bump it up to 30 grams of cyclic texture and 10 grams of VAAs. And then you could keep building on it to find a point where, hey, this just isn't working anymore. You know, I'm starting to feel like I need to run the rest of you. What's the highest you guys have ever taken your EAAs to? Probably, I don't know 25. I think that's funny. I was going to say 20. I don't know that it's not so high. But I'm like, you know, it's one of those things that you can't really quantify. You can't, yeah. And realize it's more of a digestion thing and you're going by how you feel. And there's really nothing that's going to go, wow, this really works. Yeah. These are kicking in. Yeah. Yeah. And I'm not a great team. Yeah. I haven't taken credit in 15 years probably. It's just not something I tell my clients the same. I'm like, take it if you want, but it's not a deal maker or a deal breaker as far as I'm concerned, you know, not bad, not good. For what it's worth. For what it's worth, I threw it in because Granny sends it to me for free now. Now that we really sit as a commodity project. Well, and I have this note. It's funny that you say about free. I have this note in new clients' plans that when I talk about the supplementation part, I say it in paraphrasing. To make my point, I get all of my supplements anything I want in the quantities that I want for free. And these are the things that I recommend because I could just take a boat load of stuff and I just don't think it's worth it. Now, that's not to say that true nutrition or any other nutrition company out there puts out bonker garbage things. But as an example, I don't use pre-workout because anything that has a stimulant in it is going to mess with my sleep because I train later at night even on up at night, too, when I get home to work. But I cannot use anything like a beta-alloline or anything like that that will hit my nerve pain. And that's part of the reason that I have not used a pre-workout longer than I had not used creatin. I cannot, I don't trust them, I don't know what's in them. And there's usually more in them and I don't need something to hit me. My excuse is always, if I don't feel like training, I'm not training. Yeah. It doesn't have anything to do with a pre-workout. I started to creatin again just because it is cheap and there's the research now about brain health. And that's, so for me, I'm like, yeah, you know what? If I get an extra pump out of it, that's great. But if I nowadays, I just take it because it is so, it's flavorless, right? And I keep it in a little glass jar next to my coffee maker and I just put it in my coffee in the morning. So, I'm like, yeah, I get it when I wear another. With your collagen. Interesting. Yes, exactly. So that, I have my collagen tub, my, the two tub's right there. And actually, it would have just been like probably an intruder-trition bag. But Victoria is classy. So we actually got like glass containers that sit on the counter that looks like a little glass. I was not allowed from a young age when we moved to Evergreen that I could no longer had. It was a rule, stated by my wife, I could not have protein jugs on the counter anymore. I like the way, you know, they're nice. It's like your, that's your price. Yeah. You got, especially if you have to pay for them, that's like, I'm proud to head that out there. You know what I mean? You guys, her thing, you guys remember? She said, no, she didn't want anybody walking in the house thinking I was a meathead or thinking anybody in there was, she was, I don't want anything bodybuilding related up on the walls or if they the only thing I had was a, um, Marilyn Monroe picture in the bathroom. It was a black and white and it's a classic, uh, over the toilet, that, in the main bathroom that was her doing those little tiny dumbbell, dumbbell presses. You were allowed to have that. I was allowed to have that because that was a, yeah. It was, it wasn't like she fought me on it. Right. It was just, I, I agreed. I'm like, you know what, I don't need jugs on the counter and, in that sort of thing, you know, erasing kids. I don't need people coming over gone. What's going on here? That, that jugs for my syringes, you know? Yeah. I, you guys remember, I think it was in like, a project super heavyweight DVD when Justin Harris had all his like sick with Dexter and protein like on the washing and dry machines. I don't know if he and, but yeah, that's going. I feel like he was those videos, but it was like, yeah, like you would go and he'd make his insurance free workout and he'd be scooping stuff on the, his wife would come in and change a load while he's doing it. I had to go back and watch those. We should do some sort of, uh, reaction video to that. We've been doing a bunch of reaction videos. So if you guys can think of anything, we do a reaction video too, would that be fun? Only because it's a hot topic right now that kid, um, Sam, Sam, Siulic, Siulic, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, everybody is talking about him left and right and they really are. I've only seen like one bit. You have only seen one video with a minute, but, uh, yeah, how did this happen? Can somebody explain what? What happened? How do you know what it reminds me of it reminds me of the the really hot check, the really hot random check at a football game who there's just a video and she's in the background and this perfect thing happens and they just goes viral and then she gets sponsorships and endorsing everybody's paying attention and I can't figure out why. Yeah, but that makes sense. No, that makes sense. That makes absolutely sense. Cause this doesn't make sense. It's a pair of, I can't figure it out. This is what I thought it is. I know what it is. I think I know what it is. I think it's that, you know, a lot of the younger people that we talked to on a daily basis are so programmed in that bodybuilding has to be this very specific thing and that you need to be optimal and everything needs to be perfect and your sets need to look like this and everything is perfectly controlled and calculated and we oftentimes we're, um, like a doctor's jacket while we're, you know, writing plans and you know, it's all spreadsheet bodybuilding. I think it's a, it's a pushback to that in my opinion that holy crap, this guy can just eat a bunch of cereal and go train his ass off with whatever form he wants and, you know, obviously he's got good genetics. He's making progress so there's that. But I do. I think it's a pushback to like the over science of vacation. If that's a word. I'm sorry. That's just it. Yes, essentially. He just does whatever and trains. I don't think it's a shit. I don't think it's a shit. I don't think it's a shit. I think he's just a bro. Well, you know, he's a bro. Probably started out as as a real deal thing and I think it's become a shit. Now he has, you know, I mean, of the popularity and the YouTube and all that stuff. And I know, I know, for what I think for what comes up pretty big. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah. Yeah. But I think that's where it started and yeah, who knows. But it in a lot of people were against him. So that kind of create like a lot of the older guys were like, oh, if you shouldn't be doing that and he should be doing this. And then there was a lot of pushback to the guy saying all of that. So you know what I mean? Yeah. So now. Well, and that's going to make younger demographic latch on to that even more. So at least this is making more sense. I couldn't figure out. I didn't know what it was. I didn't know. The only thing I get was he seems to like randomly like how eat when I want. I'll eat a lot and it's not great food and then I'll just train and he's getting big amounts of the appeal. I don't know. I mean, I don't know enough about the guy to like him or dislike him other than I'm hearing. Like random people will ask me about his name. And it's kind of a unique name. So it stands. It's not like John Smith and you're like, who is this guy? You immediately know. Yeah. It's Sam something starts with an S. Sue Lack or Sue Lack or something like that. I don't know. But I don't know enough about him to know. So yeah. Well, that's my take. You know, again, wish him luck. And here's the thing. I think that that's where we all start. You know, like eating the McDonald's diet and just shoving food in and lifting heavy weights. And if he sticks with it, that he'll continue to refine it and probably pick up all things. Really young like a teenager? I don't even know. I think it's like 20 22. Maybe is my guess. Yeah. I had to guess by the guess 22 23. I watched only one of his videos and it was actually a reaction video that Mike is retell did. And it's really funny because I think that Mike Yesertal was kind of being really careful not to not to call him out because he, you know, like Sam got out of a machine and he's doing these rows or something. And it was like, just the worst. Oh, he's just like, he's just like, he's just like, whiffing this later round. And you know the way Mike is like, well, you want to make sure that you can press to you dig press the scapula and full range of. And he was like, well, okay. So I can see some redeeming qualities about what he's doing. That's the way he approached it. You know, he's like he's got a good head on his shoulder. He's good kid. I see him growing places like he didn't, he didn't tear him apart like I would have probably expected him to based off of the things that he believes in, you know what I mean? So I, but yeah, that's the only video I saw of Sam was just him being reviewed by somebody else. I think we can chalk it up to the simple, I use time when the client will send me somebody doing something. And they look like the, let's say branch warrant, right? Obviously, train really hard, but his form was probably more like the Sam Sua train you're mentioning than, yeah, then the stuff Mike is a tell would recommend, right? Yeah. And I just say look, genetics are the number one determining factor in success of bodybuilding, regardless of the types of food you eat, the types of drugs you take, the type of training you do. Genetics are the number one component of success. And it's a good to pick your parents. Yeah. All right, he's young and he's getting away with it. Good for him because I'm sure we all did it. I can't, I'm not going to trash you guys. I think that's been the, the, the, the bark back at anybody who harasses him about not doing things correctly. People say, oh, well, you're just jealous. You can't get away with that. You know what I mean? That's true. And they would be correct. And they would be correct. Yeah. Exactly. I would love to be able to leave McDonald's though. I don't even like McDonald's, but junk food of some sort. Yeah. Train half hasardly and just kind of do things as I want to and maintain health and be able to grow unconditionally. That would be awesome. That would be the best man. All right, let's wrap this thing up guys. We appreciate you being here in another episode of Blood Sweat and Gear with Skip Hill. Andrew Barry. I'm Scott McNaley. Check us out over at, you can go to bodybarry.com, reach out to Andrew. Team skip.com. You reach out to skip. McNaley diets at gmail.com. And of course, true nutrition.com. Use our code, thank supplement source.ca for our Canadians and thank you to everybody from Patreon. Comment over there with questions. Comment on this on YouTube so that you guys can get more questions on the show and we can keep making this thing. It's a given I take you guys. So comment below. We'll see you.

have everybody welcome to its just body building of course I'm your host big round parlo co host SD handsha and the producer Scott McNally welcome guys remember like share subscribe comment and ring the bell ring the bell and remember i am mutant dot com proud sponsors of the show i am mutant born hard core go there get your ISO surge get your all in and everyone i should get on the gear remember dusty twenty big run twenty those are your two codes use whichever one you want love you guys thank you very much and remember the think big patreon keep a producer home thank you guys you know Scott's smashing all the shows i'm sure a lot of our viewers watch the other shows you know blood sweat and gear and all that stuff and uh and uh we just appreciate the the family feel over here think big so plus the main attraction was it does the night and we have to do anything you know right and then the bonus was that we got a co host that we didn't know we were gonna get is it's gonna get either yeah yeah yeah yeah okay but on this show the people get with the people want and the people got all the guys the one we out for quite some time remember Scott yeah well the ones they did when you were in a coma i i knocked out some bang or episodes there was a couple good ones in there there were a couple they were like keeping in the coma let him down whatever just don't bring him back is it was like a soap opera you know what I mean like there's the dusty in the coma period of time yeah there's like that the coma era where Ron is doing the show by himself yeah you know after death during death yeah yeah yeah absolutely um okay what's it what's our first topic today can you body build how important is social media in body there is that what we're talking about yes yes that one important is social media in bodybuilding okay well let let's let dusty start this what how do you how do you take that question well I take it simply is well how important is it well depends if you're doing for a business if you're doing to bodybuild like you can absolutely I think this is the tricky thing I see people complain about social media all the time right and they act as though we are being you know held by gunpoint to do social media if you don't want to be on social media just like the key is don't put it on your phone and don't do it go to the gym train and get big just like we did back in the day but if you are trying to make a living out of bodybuilding in any way shape or form then yeah it's it's highly important and valuable I think the area that things get confused to me is you don't have to do this in any way you don't want to you know I mean today we went to the gym we trained and I told Nicky I was like we woke up we're supposed to do leg gesture today we obviously traveled so we didn't then you get here after you know a rough three days in Vegas and I was like you know let's just do back and I don't want to film anything and then halfway through the work I was like I'm kind of liking this machine I created I've had a couple sets and we'll see if it is worth a shit and that was that but you know at no point did I feel like I must do a post today you know and I think that's where people get off yeah I was just watching this other I don't know which podcast I was watching and the person was talking about how healthy it was to like you know reassess what you put on social media and how it affects you because people don't stop and think about how it affects them right they just think of it as like a promotional tool like oh I got to get this out but you know sometimes there's people that like let's say they stop and join their hobby right and probably becomes like really chore and work oriented and like they're sort of feel like it's all discipline you know and grinding away at their hobby and it's just discipline just and they realize they're putting a lot of it on social media and it sort of sneaks in on you and it makes it seem like your goals and focuses are on other things now and you didn't even realize it and it can you know make it a less pleasant because you start getting all that you know you don't get as many hits on this video as you did on another video and this is supposed to be your hobby yeah right and so just being aware that that can sneak in on you and it can actually poison what you're doing because you get this negative feedback loop of all these other things going on when it used to just be your hobby and your mind was just on what you're like let's say you're you know learning to play piano or something you just literally for the love of it all the music and all that but if you started posting it all the time it can get in there where it becomes about more than that and so just being aware of that like some people I think they they wind up with so much anxiety in their training because the social media has sort of snuck into their training regimen as like a part of their training and you just got to really try to keep those you know those dividers up really try to make sure you compartmentalize what you allow that stuff to sort of you know get into because I see young people like you know this there's stress about that in their workout you know and you just that's that's where it becomes a problem to me yeah Scott yeah that's not bodybuilding you know and it kind of takes me back to just just in general whenever I had gotten just too overwhelmed by everything you know like like everything involved it like we talked about before there was a point when my whole ritual just to get to the gym and start training it required like three different peptide injections and intro workout shake and having these muscles go down yeah exactly exactly this meal needs to be prepared all that potassium yeah great right Scott by somebody um you know and and if I didn't you know if I didn't have it all lined up then I didn't I didn't feel like I did that is optimally as I could of when in reality you know I I had step back and I would remind myself like where did this passion come from and for me it was finding my dad's old weight set in the basement literally under the work bench he had like the old plastic weights you know and I pulled those out and put them up on the on the weight bench and I I figured out how to train and then his his friends helped me him and his friends you know taught me stuff and I had like some train posters I put up on the basement wall and stuff and I took myself back to how that felt and I reminded myself of the foundation of like what that original passion in love was and I disconnected myself from those things because it is so easy to get wrapped up in that just the the your the hobby I like the way you put that run the hobby can kind of take over and I think especially for a lot of us in bodybuilding we we have that tendency to do that you know and I mean to keep building off of it I mean God right now with with I'm shooting stuff I'm considering getting into reloading and like that's a whole other hobby on top of shooting you know and I mean it's like now I have to dedicate part of my basement to this thing there's 500 different machines I need to buy and it's like you know draw the line somewhere this is just supposed to be fun you know I mean yeah yeah but that's the I think that's the key though it is understanding you know what Ron said I thought was really valuable which is if if you take your hobby and turn it into a business make sure you're not sacrificing more than it's worth you know now because for example for me if someone were to say well you can make an extra 100 grand a year off of bodybuilding if you do xyz but you won't enjoy the bodybuilding as much yeah it's not worth it because I'm really not money motivated I learned that over time it's like if I have to sacrifice quality of life that I'm not money motivated I'm motivated to find ways to enjoy life that are profitable and I think that's something that people really really miss out on and I wouldn't sacrifice like you said Scott the joy of going to the gym for any of those things like I just like to go you know that's why it's always been so simple and I had to get to the gym the other day he was like what are you drinking in that shaker cup because I have a mutant metal shaker cup that like it keeps the drinks cold and I was like water with ice both in this cup you know and he was like oh that's all I was like yeah it's legs I found that any amino's anything with flavor upset my stomach so I just was like oh I just want to do that anymore yeah you know and I know when I was younger whoa whoa you can't not have your amino's and your shaker demon all those things during the workout it's going to be a terrible workout especially legs you know yeah yeah so literally the two biggest body parts that I train as far as you know breaking down the muscle legs and back are the two days that I drink water in the gym yeah and nothing else I always said do the amino's anything before but all like young me I should say that would not have worked because I know what the book tells me the book says you gotta have all these things while you train so interesting piece but I think more people should consider training and doing things purely on passion and then just seeing what they do you know I choose to record my videos just for myself and never did anything with them I just it doesn't have to be like you can do bodybuilding and not have it be like also a social media thing and you're trying to promote some sort of business like just because you're getting into bodybuilding doesn't mean that you have to do all that stuff too like you can just watch the weights you know yeah I I even had like when I go for when I take my bike out I've even had some days where I'm like I'm not going to put a camera up I just just want to like not think about it you know what I mean I mean it's trying not to be interrupted at all and let my brain flow a little more and that sort of stuff and it's super fun like it it's a different experience because you're just thinking about you know audit oh I want to forgot that you know like you just don't think I see that with clients sometimes and actually I have to talk to about it because they'll set the camera and then we're doing their set and I'll see them I'm like camera didn't fucking move dude do not worry about that and if it did move oh well like set it and be done and that's yeah very cute because you'll see it and it's funny because I always say something like you have no idea how much you lost during that set because you were thinking about the camera yeah even if it's just right before like they're sitting there with the dumbbells on their knees and they're getting ready and they kind of looked just to double that last triple check you know and then you will only die 100% in yeah I've never there's not a single set that I've ever posted in 17 years of recording body learning in some way that would have cost me my career if it didn't go up so like you know I mean I've had that before I mean it's funny but just just the other day I can remember what I was doing but I had a really good set of of rows and Nikki actually double tap the screen like she was trying to kill me so she started and turned off the camera at the same power and then filmed the whole set and then she got done and she goes oh and I said did you double tap the screen and she goes yeah sorry I go cool because I did that two sets ago to you I of course had the first amp it up like I was disappointed I don't care right right right start with you know abuse of your spouse and then tell them what you already did I think it's healthy first I think it's healthy first to miss stuff accidentally miss some of that oh can always have it our way we know it's keep you a little hard it allows me to lie about how me reps I got on it too yeah I was 17 she's like it was 12 17 you weren't there it's on a camera yeah yeah so yeah well um I don't know we were just in Vegas Dustin we were talking about that you got about that for a minute I got your thoughts I got your thoughts if you guys being in Vegas and uh and I heard you guys were you guys did a podcast you guys were at the the Dragons layer and you got on with uh Flex I wonder when that's coming out I should check right now we don't even know the answer to that see there was a lot I didn't ask you did I I knew you wouldn't know the answer you couldn't ask Flex either he wouldn't know either yeah yeah he's the one of us I was like that he I guarantee if I said hey I'm gonna send you 500 dollars but you can't ask anybody wins the show anyway yeah but um great great guy yeah we're gonna start at the top though we're gonna start at the top so okay Ron explain how we found out that both of us are in Vegas because the amount of people who do not believe me yeah no no we got you that trip so um it was like a couple months ago Emily and I were like we need a little like like at least a weekend away before the work trips start you know right I was like she's gonna come to the Arnold with me and she's you know she might might even come to one of the other shows with me too um but you know they're work trips right so she's we need a little getaway so so why don't we get away in January we book a trip to Vegas and um and and uh and uh then I just happen to be talking to Nikki and I say hey it's 10 weeks out this weekend why don't you have a cheat meal because she doesn't have one yet she's done like 10 weeks with no cheat meals right and she's you know she's like okay y'know you know tell take a meal that to be great because I'll be in Vegas and I go oh we're gonna be in Vegas and then I said text and dusty and it just so happens that they're going so we uh we wound up making plans to train at dragons layer one day and then we went to went out for a steak and a magic show on Saturday so you had your show yeah it's good who was that who is it dusty shinlim yep shinlim and he had a mentalist with him which in my opinion the mentalist stole the show I don't even know what that is what's a mentalist who was them mentally they like read you know read your mind remember his crazy as shit Charlie cloud wasn't it something sure I didn't pay attention my brain broke so he towns during yes it was awesome like he's just like he's pointing he's like he's like okay what's your post a code and the guys like you know 90133 and he like puts in the calculator is like what's your post a code and other guys like we're gonna just add them and then he has another guy randomly hit the the things six times or whatever and he keeps adding all these numbers and he get this this weird number yeah and yeah that's all do the same thing but we're doing it on our phones with him so we all have the same number on our screen okay and then and then the number was um was one 25 yeah 20 25 27 27 23 or was it was it nine nine anyways anyways the date time of the moment we were in and then he goes the reason this number is so important is everyone look at your phones and he goes any draws lines through the numbers and it's the date and 733 and he puts PM which we all have done our phones and it's January 25 2023 at 733 PM everyone's phones says 733 and the whole crowd just like popped like it was crazy it was just like that sort of stuff all night like that's just getting hammered hammered with ridiculous stuff and then the the card tricks and the illusions and it was a lot of fun I really dig that stuff because I I really I don't know I I have such an appreciation for like a people that are so crafty and the sights and practice you know like how many hours did that guy put in yeah okay I know what you're talking about now and I saw this guy do something was crazy he it was on a TV show and they brought in these three social media what do you call him people who why can't anything of the word right now people who are thank you thank you I guess I just blocked that word out of my head or something he didn't want to say it any any had all these different sets in all these different props and he had a conversation with each one of them and he told them I want you to be creative and I want you to use the props in here and I want you to come up with your best picture and through that conversation he gave them suggestions without them knowing and they all ended up creating the same picture like every single one of them out all these different rooms all these different props through the suggestions he gave which is crazy to think of just how how much we are able to you know how susceptible we are to that kind of stuff but these guys that they were like the best and they all did the same thing yeah that stuff is so fun that stuff really is I can imagine it was a good night oh yeah it was awesome and there was like show the really cool interaction stuff like he gave us everyone had four playing cards yeah remember that at the very beginning oh yeah I go to your seat and there's four there's a little pack of cards on everyone's seat and it's four cards and there's all different random cards and he had us shuffle them and separate them and move them around and then he had this rip them in half and then restack them and then cut and then throw it over our shoulder and then cut, restack, throw it over our shoulder you know he had us do all this stuff until we only had oh and then put in our cards one under our pocket yeah and put like one piece in our pocket and then blah blah blah and then he had us down to three and he threw two over your shoulders so you throw two over your shoulder and then you hit your left with one piece of it's like half a card okay because K now take the one out of your pocket and you take it out and it's the matching half for that card that's so wild and it was like every single person so you're just like yeah that was a great evening thing and so yeah that was the first trick wrong and I'm looking at Emily and I'm like it was gonna be a long night yeah just and I know that a lot of like some of those tricks are like these mathematical rules that are super deep and complicated and like people like me are brains just go do you know yeah so but I like that that show me show me what I show me how much smarter you are than me like you're deep understanding of mathematics well I'm gonna look forward to hearing the podcast when that comes out I'll be sure to put links up to it here at Think Big and also Peter friend of mine and he was at the gym there and I know that his significant others working with you Dusty he had told me that you guys were sitting in the lobby when he showed up and he said some guy younger guy came running up it was like hey I love the podcast do you guys so how many people did you meet that were into the show um there was a few at the gym yeah that uh there was that that older dude in the gym too that was training it was like oh you guys are the best I love our fears show so funny and it was just really like I was like oh wow that's awesome you know and um yeah there were several people at the gym that listened to the podcast but there was two young dudes that came up they were great they wanted Dusty to watch his deadlift video one to the back he could deadlift video yeah that was very good by the way he didn't go to actually he said what was funny was he said he goes I had three hopes for this trip hoping that I would see you in Ron that I could get you to review my deadlift video and that I could run in the Nick Walker so I was like oh cool so we're sitting there and he showed me the deadlift video and it was great and I was like man I said you know a minor tweak to like head position but as far as your execution in this and that yeah it was flawless you know what you don't get to say very often what you're hoping you get to in your in person yes great and we're kind of chatting it up and I said hey good news man he's just what I go your third thing just walked in behind you and Nick Walker just walked in and he goes no way that's right what a trip it was funny it was funny yeah we saw Nick today's both days we were there we saw Nick so he's training and just gave the you know said high and and said all the best this year and you know he was pretty he's pretty excited I think this year and he looks he looks great he's a big and lean like yeah you know that's he walked out he walked out with a sick hamstring pump with a short kind of up yeah the ham's hanging out yeah I was a free funny yeah he's fantastic so it's good good time and then obviously we we didn't enjoy the show you know with with flex and that was another thing is because I had told flex a couple weeks ago we were coming and he told me to remind you were coming right that that I was coming Nick you know and then I forgot so literally like the night before we came I was like hey Ron's coming to so hopefully we'll see you and I missed him at the gym we trained and did whatever they were at the shot show and I left and Ron ran into flex and then I don't know what happened but after chatting a little bit whatever late that night I get a text wrong gets a text he's like hey is there any way you guys could do the podcast with us good yeah I got a schedule the whole thing like having talked to the producer but you're both here so can we do it and it was funny because I will I didn't see it I was up 22 hours straight at that point so I went to bed before that text which was only like nine something there but it was midnight my time yeah and I woke up in the morning and I texted him back and then we didn't hear from for a few hours that he's trying to get a hold of the of the producer but he was already doing other things he wasn't planning on shooting that day and eventually he was like can you guys be there two a clock and Ron had plans with Emily I was so low because Nicky was shooting that day so it was easy and Emily proved her her status with Ron because literally I texted my go I don't think guys are out flex just asked about two a clock and this is like what 12 30 yeah and Ron likes like we have the whole day oh no kidding literally three minutes later just we're all good to see that I'm like and that is how it is done yeah and we guys just take note of how you support somebody on a good opportunity and you know she just said cool and and we were there for hours I mean yeah I was we were in the hotel we were actually in the hotel gym that day trained okay because we didn't have time to go to dragons there we had a date and yeah and so we're in the hotel gym training and I see my phone and I'm like I shit you know I walk over to and I take my headphone out she takes her head phone out and I said so uh flex wants to know flex wants to know if Dusty and I might want to do the show it to a clock and she goes oh I work on my laptop by the pool you just go to your thing that's cool and I'm like that's why we work yeah you know yeah I didn't blink no issue 12 years later you know I got back to the room at like 430 and um she's like chilling with a book and she's like let's go we're like okay you know what I mean that's awesome man that really is hey we got some good feedback on the last episode people are freaking there really been they've been enjoying the show I do want to say we could use more questions for the next episode but I wanted to bring this coming up in particular because there was a correction uh something Dusty had said remade steak. Dusty had said that Justin Harris wasn't the prettiest physique and trappone nutrition said small correction I believe Dusty meant to say Justin had the prettiest physique I think that's what you meant to say. Yes I love the people who don't know who that comment came from that are like I don't get it yeah for those who missed it that was just in correcting me on his gorgeous flawless Sean Rodenesque. Yes yeah especially the silhouette shots. Oh yeah yeah yeah I think of the arm over the head from the side I don't think of Roden yeah I think Justin Harris. Also we had Justin, Shire Chimden. Every time someone says 20 rep squats I think of Justin Harris for the rest of my life really I always think of him because of those videos those widow makers sets that was how I learned about DC was watching him do those widow makers. Yeah so that will whenever someone says 20 reps squats I think of his 405 widow makers and my guy yeah since we know he watches or someone will direct him to this. Yeah Justin this is your public invite to be on the show. So massive. Yes and we don't have to we could talk about anything we talk about guitars let's talk about guitars man come on. Let's talk about guitars for like an hour. It's like late a minute. Yeah yeah okay we had Justin Shire commented too. If you remember what we posted those pictures he wasn't satisfied he says I still am not happy when I look at those two pictures today so it's good not me. It's good that this is no the judge he has. Yeah yeah Justin's photos but Justin's physique photos leave me eternally unsatisfied. Yeah yes. So we did have a bunch of stuff though one question I'm not seeing it off hand but I remember what it was we had a guy say that so he's wondering when's the best time to end a cut. He said he's not competing anything like that he's just trying to get into better shape now he does say he's a strength athlete so I don't know what that means and he says that his strength is plummeted over the last two weeks. So I thought it'd be a good topic just across the board especially for guys who don't have a show when do you stop cutting? Yeah so people that are cutting for purely cosmetic reasons are part of this group right and there's those that cut as part of a strategy to maximize insulin sensitivity and you know make things more efficient if they you know that sort of stuff so those are kind of the two types of people that I think mainly cut without a show when you say oh yeah yeah so if you're doing it for cosmetic reasons I mean if you haven't gotten the result you want yet then like I would maybe look at fixing your diet instead of ending the cut like maybe he just needs to do a week of really high calories fill out get kind of like you know all glycogen up and maybe the strength comes quick right back and he can get back into a more strategically planned cut there he's not going to have a strength plummet on that's one option and then the other option if he's doing it to like you know maximize insulin sensitivity and all that sort of stuff I mean then you know maybe it's time to end the cut I don't I don't know the reason why you're strength is down like are you 3% body fat and that's why you're strength is down like are your glutes peeled or are you just like under eating you know so those are the questions that have to be analyzed but yeah there's only a few real reasons to continue or end it yeah I was going to say the only thing I was going to add was I think sometimes the a very common mistake it's what I did when I was first even coaching people was the calories were too low too fast the output was too high too fast yeah you have to be very understanding of how a cut works and also understand that it's not linear progress you know linear progress because that's an issue we we just talked about it Ron driving back home last time it's like people don't see that Ron with he was working with Nikki like he started a diet and it kind of went along and was going really good and then it kind of like fluttered for a little bit and just kind of hung out and experience tells you sometimes especially with a longer timeline leave it alone you don't need to immediately the moment progress stops go okay but I better lower the calories or increase the output or whatever give it a minute because all of a sudden it started dropping again you know and all your guys time together it's been two adjustments total yeah and that's all it takes to make massive changes if you've got the patience and I find I mean I just had a guy a fan send me a thing hey you might look at this diet so he sends me his diet over it so yeah I'm starting to cut this week and I said can you send me your previous diet real quick so he sent that over it was a 1,400 calorie difference he was planning to do in a day oh god right like a median like day one like yeah day one is this I was like whoa whoa whoa whoa and based on his pictures and wait and everything he was in good shape I was like I would do I would shave 200 calories soft total right right and and just cruise for a minute and then I said and maybe implement a off training day diet that's you know another two 300 less than that calories start there you know so that is usually issue because outside of mentally you shouldn't be losing strength until your deep into a prop yeah yeah yeah I saw a few people remember a couple episodes ago I made a comment about how I used to you know have the mentality of fighting to keep every rap you know what I mean yeah and I saw a few people reposted that like they you know that that struck a chord with a couple of people and that's that's that's you have to keep that in mind like you should be able to get really lean and still be really strong you know it's a break record so the end yeah the I I there there was an exception with my pressing would always take a bit of a step because I felt like you know with a lot of fluid in my shoulders and stuff when I would be heavier I had like a pillow on my chest and then you know I dropped like 10 pounds of water and I was saying there's no pillow on the chest so the my pressing my pressing always took a bit of a hit but that's other things would go up during crap you know so and if he's a strength athlete that would be super frustrating you know like if anything you'd want to get your strength to weight ratio maximize so you'd want your old lifts with your new body weight you know and so yeah we're just being got our new curse probably just drop calories too low for too long you know agreed there's even that point too where if like you were saying Ron if you took like some time to to really fill out for a week maybe that will fix it sometimes even just like throwing in higher carbs or something before you train you know on a big body part you might find that you you hit that point that like that magic pocket where you start adding food in and you keep getting leaner you know and I mean yeah at that extra cup of rice and before training and now you're like three times as hungry after you train you had more glycogen and the muscle more energy and yeah now you're getting even you know lighter than you were before yeah I've had a lot of people say hey you know like most of the people that reach out while they're already dieting and asking hey can you like help me with my prep yeah I find the number one thing is when they send me the diet they're on it's like way too little food too far out that's yeah that's kind of one of the common things I think then that's what triggers them obviously to reach out to a coach it's like things aren't going well you know and dusty mentioned that kind of a rough number he said 200 calories for that one guy which is totally you know doable but like for the most part I tend to think 500 calories like that's where I kind of started it's like that's full 500 calories but you know obviously someone's leaner I would go less you know the latter might might even go like 20% of their calories you know but there's a little bit of over they already yeah and timeline you know like I got nine weeks his a little different than 19 so yeah you know at the end of the day time is your best friend when trying to get leaner and hold your strength so you know there's also you have to you know if you're rushing a prep there's only so much you can do sometimes I remember when I started bodybuilding like my first show when I talked to someone I was like how long do I need to prep and they said 12 weeks and this was based off of nothing I didn't they seem like sure it off just 12 weeks was the number that's how it is it's been yeah yeah it's so funny because now like at the end of my career um 20 weeks was always my number not because it takes me 20 weeks I can get ready really fast I just found that I enjoyed the prep better it went better I maintain more muscle mass strength all the things I enjoyed about bodybuilding stayed with a longer prep so now it's funny I almost feel bad because people will reach out to me and to have a high effort prep how long should we go and those send pictures and they're in a good spot you know where I could get them ready in 12 weeks I'm like listen perfect world it'll take 10 can I have 20 right and it's not because I'm trying to make more money off of you right I can guarantee you a better result with that timeline and unfortunately it's become common enough now that people say yes to that where I think when I was younger 12 was the number if somebody asked for 20 I'd like to just try to get my money yeah people would think we're a bad coach if you told him 20 weeks yes for me I would take you that long yeah I remember the old like I kind of kind of cut the tail end of that um that was an 80s thing was like a 12 week prep and everyone it was very common like all the pros would say yeah you know 12 weeks so for the Mr. Olympia like it was very very common to hear that number and I think it was because you know first of all those guys were you know at the time the genetically elite you know of people that were lifting weights those 80s pros were they were the cream of the crop like you know there's and um and they kind of you know obviously stayed leaner in the offseason anyways and then also the condition wasn't as like ridiculous of a standard for the most part yeah so there was that so I sort of saw that like transition like you know I think my first show I even prep for like 20 might have even been 12 week prep for my favorite for show but when I was in high school I did a show as a junior I might have done 12 weeks for that but but by the time I got to like competing and like hanging out with bodybuilders that everyone was talking about 16 weeks that week that was the number yep yeah and it was 16 for ages like we always did 16 week prep and we'd be fat as hell and we'd get to the 16 week mark and we'd be like just so mash everything to you know getting shape and then the kind of the concept of the 20 week prep I remember when that was creeping in and these guys were coming in like you know you know at first it was like the guys are getting super super dice we're just genetically the best right at getting diced but then when the prep's got longer I found that was when other people were getting peeled yeah that's I think what the change was it's I agree yeah it's it's time time is the key for most people to get peeled and it just takes most people a lot longer than than we used to think we used to hope you know right so that was my trick was was at at the state level I could be competitive because I could get really really lean and honestly the conditioning that I brought I don't think it I don't think it would stand out as much compared to the guys today like it would just be like oh yeah there's another guy who's in a good shape you know it was like literally everybody is absolutely peeled now like the people like just got top five at any of the national level shows for light heavyweight like all of those guys are going to be way more conditioned than what they were you know 10 15 years ago but it was the same thing was that 12 week went to 16 and and then started extending but I remember back then it like the 12 week preps people people used to think that like you would go too far like after that 12 weeks it would be like it would be counterproductive yeah like you know now you're going to lose muscle so you need to keep it short and man people used to come in like like you said Ron like the early 2000s like heavy and then they would die at hard in that 12 weeks like it that was brutal diet man well man that nasser nasser would be 325 pounds like 12 weeks out from the Olympia yeah only be eaten like double McDonald meals with double blizzards and everything like that and like and you know water just blown out and then you know within 12 weeks he'd be 280 peeled out of his you know at the Olympia getting second yeah you know it was just crazy and so there were those guys doing that still back then it was like just seems harsh I remember when I worked with Chad Nichols in 2009 um I you know we we were getting really heavy like that's when I got to 330 yeah and I was like we're going to start preps soon and he's a guy just want to sit at this weight for a while and and then and then come down and I was like we don't have like a lot of time like a laughter because I just sit at this weight for a while and I go well how long do you think you want to prep for me he's like well I really like to do 10 weeks how do you feel about that and I went I do not have the confidence to do 10 weeks like I've never been to tell you in my life and I want to be like really pillbs I go okay well let's do 15 you already 15 and I was like okay so that's the you know that's a nice that's a nice job yeah yeah but in hindsight I think you know I could use another few weeks I mean I could have really sat in better condition for sat in that condition for a longer period of time and it would have been a better even if I didn't lose body fat it would have been a better you know you know what I mean yeah so so you know in hindsight I kind of wish I would have even done more than that I think that you know you know Chad's worked with some pretty genetically gifted guys they get shape in a hurry so he probably gets some of those guys like you know oh it weeks let's go you know but I just was like man I don't think my body's gonna do that I bet you no matter what you did to Ronnie he never looked flat you know what I mean I could imagine dieting him it had to be easy not easy but easy you know the only way to get Ronnie to be flat would be to overly dehydrate him yeah I think it's kind of what happened in O2 against you know it's funny is talking to Chris about this and not him specifically and people he worked with but something he brought up about prepping guys like that that is different he said well it's easier let me refray this I'm going to put my own words that's what I'm gonna put in his mouth but more or less the the idea was sometimes it's easier but sometimes it's harder because they always look good so you have to remember that you know ramen eight weeks out if you were working with him and you were a very good prepped coach but you'd never work with someone like that I think the overall mass and what appears to be conditional the things is so mind-boggling you don't realize how much more room there is to improve we said that it kind of hit me because I have I did learn that over the years working with people was like when I worked with someone who was small I was like listen we just gotta get nasty because there's nothing here to work with other than conditioning and it wasn't until years and getting better that I understood how to bring someone in that was 250 on stage and sliced you know because they looked great at 265 and you're like oh this is this is good and and I think that's the the line of the longer prep two because it allows you to bring that plane and slowly and you know you can go a little too far so they flatten out wherever go okay now it's bump it up okay what happened to the look and kind of get some feedback because you know Scott you were like oh man now everyone's peeled and I was so glad you mentioned national level shows something and you haven't been to the shows I've been to like no one's peeled you mean at this day level yeah and that's it I mean I want to bring it up not to chart you know take a shot at state level shows but to remind people they're on their way up get shredded that is your magic that's what we'll get people's heads turning that middle rates win over all's at local scale that really can because they get nasty and I can't press that enough because every show we go to I mean we I went to a show a few months ago and there were it was that is the best show I'd seen a long time at a local level show and a figure girl walked out and I was like there's the best I have seen the entire show I mean she was mind boggling and I'm like no disrespect to her but we're talking about up to heavy weight violence it were very good and she stole the show because they weren't hard enough that's cool you know when you're like and you want to go tell them that like you guys were awesome and you won the overall but you want to know that next level because I think that's what people get thrown off on is you really should go especially if you live in area where it's not hard to do I think you should go to a national level show or pro qualifier and look at the top guys to really understand what for black about term averages yeah the top five are all the nannas as far as conditioning goes at a pro qualifier and I think that's really important when you're coming in because that's not what enough people are thinking about and and you'll find yourself getting embarrassed pretty quickly because conditioning makes you look bigger than you are you know and a lot of factors and I think I've shared this before but Chris Cook told me at one point the first national level show he went to he's from Alaska so didn't know anybody yet and he was a heavyweight he got to prejaging a little bit late and he runs in and he sees all these guys lined up and he just had falls back and he asked the sky goes dude how long ago the heaviest go and he goes oh they haven't went yet we're middle weights and as soon as he heard that he realized he was going to get smoked because he thought they were all heavier than him and there were two classes lighter than he said like brain yeah he immediately goes that's what I realized I spent $2,000 to watch a body yeah when I first started coaching I and and really when I first started coaching competitors it was the men's physique guys that started coming to me and it was when men's physique was brand new and I remember the guys in the gym they thought like oh well we're not body builders we don't train like body builders a lot of them thought like at the time like we don't have to train legs because you don't see legs all that stuff all the all the stereotypes that we all made fun of men's physique yeah that was that first round yeah so I had a couple guys that came to me and wanted help and so I was like well fuck it I'm just gonna die at them like body builders and we just got peeled like absolutely lights out freaking peeled and we went to the show and they took first in second you know second to the the guy who took the other yeah and and back then because it it I just was thinking further about conditioning then versus now because it was like it was almost easy to coach back then when I first started because like nobody else got that and I became like this men's physique coach like all of a sudden all these men's physique guys were coming to me like I had this special knowledge about men's physique I was just doing what we did with body builders you know and their smaller dudes their smaller body builders and it's just gotten crazy shape you know yeah it still works today you know if that's what I do it so what I do with figure competitors they're just body builders to me yeah I think they're all body builders and really important yeah yeah yeah yeah but I can just like I can use just the differences the fullness at the like the conditioning at the end you know what I mean it's the same level of actual muscle or fat loss but you just don't want to see veins but it's like the exact same thing yeah I mean I've had you know every time I've helped like a you know I've had like several really good figure clients it you know went one in pro cards and stuff like that and um I always get a bunch of inquiries afterwards you know what do you you know what did you do and I'm like well she's I don't know her body weights 135 so we just think of a body builder but with a body weight of 135 pounds this is a hard yeah so that's all it is to me just muscle in fat that's all you made of you know muscle fat and bone your own water such yeah it was some water yeah there's a lot of water a little bit of that yeah yeah what's next got run what's a hoser ah that's another Canadian word a hoser's like a softball yeah like a goofball like a yeah I wouldn't say loser that would be it there would be like be I could goofballs a hoser dummy can you use it the sentence ah don't be a hoser man copy let's go it's very that every single movie slap shot they call the each other at all the time like their friends hey hoser yep yeah hey loser do like not yeah sort of offensive well in 2024 probably is probably yes anymore yeah everything is offensive we used to it's a thing that would be a it's it's meant it's meant it's meant to be offensive between friends yeah yeah it's a funny way to do that to my friends yeah all right we have a whole whole list here says no prize for guessing who questions is uh who the this question is to trigger would you rather use an expo toilet barefoot eat a burger that's arrived fully loaded with salad in mayo and you can't send it back or pick it off or use your cell phone for a critical call that's been on the gym floor facing down for an hour no you cannot clean it no option for Bluetooth or speaker you need skin to screen contact no blue paul's buscoe balls deep raw into this answer she hears and he says I'll see I'll see you next month so he must be going to the Arnold so I don't even because I know that it's so great I've read the name of like this is fun to Scott oh Scott that's a good one he actually he well thought out he message me last week and he was like did you guys record yet and I was like no not yeah I was he was like okay I got a question for you so this was that was good he was playing this yeah what yeah um funny enough I'm going with the phone off the floor pool picked a phone up off the floor put it flat against my face make it call I'll even hold it against my face until the emergency crews arrive oh see like I'm using it to call 911 for an emergency if they're like yeah you know ambulance to be there in ten minutes I'm okay I'll hold and I would do that I think the last one would be I couldn't do the burger I didn't eat the burger now I couldn't eat it it would because I would just it would just be too much it's too too much sensory violation for me that's violation of the inside of my body too like you're violating it inside of me like I'm not gonna let that happen like the barefoot the toilet I can handle that like I'm a man I could walk through the forest naked if I had to but it's not something I would ever want to do and I would be very interested in disinfecting my feet as soon as possible but I would rather go through the forest naked than through the bathroom at a bodybuilding show with my bed oh yeah I'm just saying like he was a weak comparison okay well make it minus ten no there's a lot of enchasing you I don't know I don't think these people understand how the toilets and Dubai were but anyways go yeah yeah so so yeah so I would I would put the phone against my face nice okay that's where I am I got that wrong just so you know I actually thought the thing he would least do was the thing I thought he would accept just because I was like it's just a little mayo it's fine but I should have known since we know onions put a movie edge too anyways it does completely change the burger I'm gonna agree with you on that yeah so hey if I put shit it's not like it's an oxygen needle yeah yeah it was just got shit on it it's the same meal it's good yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah all right so Tony has a good series of questions for us coming up apparently he says question for the next episode and every episode I'm going to ask the same thing for a different body part what are the most common mistakes you see people make when it comes to training hamstrings first one is a lot of their hips lift up when they're doing any curling movement so true we're going to low back and glutes into it yeah the thing with hip flexion and extension is it has to be like for leg curls it has to be set like if you're going to be flexed at the hip then you're gonna be for the state flexed at the hip through the rep and make the hamstrings do all the pulling right if you're going to be you know on a laying leg curl you know like more like that then you just want to try to maintain that position because the more of this you give up it's like it's like leaning back doing a cable crossover yeah you're you're losing power you're like adjusting mechanics to compensate you're getting less rep there's less of everything happening so you want to make sure you're in a fixed position when you're leg curling you know I would say not hinging properly you know doing stiff leg deadlifts but they're just not working the hamstrings like they should be they're not hinging properly so this learning to bend over and hang from your hamstrings like even with no weight just full of your arms over your chest and you know drop back in a stiff leg deadlift position but you know let your butt like drop back behind you and kind of you know what I mean it's just which will learn to hinge on your hamstrings where you can feel them holding you up that's really important you can see you can see your hips moving backward and space right yeah as your binging forward versus I see a lot of times people make the mistake of like that lower back is doing all the work and then coming up and it's like just basically it's just a deadlift at that the bar at the bar should go really straight up and down close to your body with your stiff leg deadlifting you know what I mean I kind of reach out over their toes and that's a huge mistake too so if you just hit hinging when you're doing those or something that you know really important is people are reaching for the ground like they're thinking it's about touching the ground or getting their hands or the dumbbells they hit the ground okay winning reality the the perfect execution to keep it simple is that your torso gets parallel with the ground and the only way of that happens is if you're like you said Scott the glutes go backwards because if the only focus is leaning forward then you're you're also putting the weight into your toes I just barely went over that with someone actually with a row okay same thing if you're trying to think about just leaning forward to do a row well you have no power you have no base and your weight is in your toes so I'm like no don't lean forward so you're as backward you automatically fall and now you've got a better balance you know in your body for more power so keep that in mind and actually I think it was Joe Bennett's he went into pretty good detail about getting your your back parallel the floor and when you think that way you really realize that in order to do that your hips got to push backwards pretty far and it's an extreme stretch yeah I think that's the mistake I've made with barbell row now that I think about it because I've thought always thought with that movement about bending over and then just brace in the fuck out of it yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah it was terrible yeah yeah yeah and then I don't know another thing would be you know you see people do kind of those those reps where they they pull real hard and it comes up and it sort of really quickly hits their butt and bounces it off their butt yeah yeah you know like there's no control in the top of the top of the rep and you know that's the the strength curve on a lot of leg curls is kind of like harder out of the bottom and then it kind of bounces off the butt but yeah try to mean try to mean obtain control of it at all times and it's good to do like some sets where you hold it in a contraction yeah it's good to do that on on things so you master that's also part of mastery of movements to is just understanding how to do that with you know even if it's just the odd set here and there I like that it's a good practice if you ever with the lying hamstring curl only brought it up like three quarters of the way yeah that was probably a set for sure yeah like they were like gone up on my elbows to try to fully extend my back so I was literally straight trying to get the shortest when trying to get the shortest contraction possible by having the hips fully fully extended I never tried to do that one and rather say old you know like the old nodded the slag curl was flat right you know so if you guys go up on their elbows and their hamstrings are literally being like the craziest short position but you can only use like feel 30 pounds in that position right what do you guys think of like the single leg standing hamstring curl versus the prone versus the seated what do you think of the standing particularly I always love to single leg curl I was love the isolation of it there's lots of them I've really loved using over the years I usually try to do them standing up they were sort of a more of a contraction based thought of in my mind I found that realistically just and I think this comes back to simplify things I could smoke my ham's way better on a seated leg curl than any other curl in the gym and I also found that a lying leg curl in a standing leg curl was the same thing I'm just laying vertically now and I feel like sometimes in bodybuilding you need to do that it's like you can get into the you know the the facts of what that is and break it down but you don't need to like if I take the lying leg curl that is here and I put it vertically what are we doing yeah I'm doing a lying leg curl again and I understand that because I write programs for people sometimes where I'll put those you know a couple things and a lying and a seated but for me I do seated every time I never lie down I don't need to yeah it's the same movement I get the most out of it and then of course ten years later I find out that that actually is the superior movement like you're checking on it so it's like oh that thing that I felt was accurate but I do think in the same regard of somewhere argue with me and they say no I feel a lying leg curl better then I say do that you know because like you said run you and you like a standing leg curl you like a standing leg curl because you have really good connection with your muscle and you keep it out of it and you're not twisting a younger athlete if you put them on a standing leg curl they're gonna mangle it you know what I mean yeah often it does allow you to to to that shows how connected you are because I actually like them too I do a kneeling one sometimes which is the same thing it's just one yeah yeah yeah that's a knotted but that's another one where you see people on it like oh I really just sit down because you're twisting your hips coming up and everything's pulling except for your hamstring or it's getting a little bit you know like our kneeling leg curls actually really good one of my gym and I always laugh because I go up to 80 pounds on it and it goes to 200 and I'm like right let's use in that because my 80 ain't pretty so oh man okay yeah I don't know we were talking about hamstrings doing leg builds or some shit yep yeah that's always happening yeah but we don't have any um and that was about our last really good question that we hit we did have one question for Ryan that was training or excuse me something to do with music there was a Ron music okay and just getting reconfigured out on Ron music that's beautiful give you just a second oh and then scroll through the list multiple choice or something yes oh yeah here we go um love the show is always always love hearing Ron talk about music so was wondering um what he'd like to achieve in playing on in 2024 and how does picking up the base feel in learning guitar first and any personal favorite bases says play based in drums myself can't help but be curious uh okay um i forget where that question started oh yeah one of my goals in 2024 yes yes so 2024 has started really well just by fluke of all the practice I laid down last year I learned two guitar solos in the last two weeks and uh they're easy solos but i'm not a guitar solo guy right i'm like been learning riffs for 30 years and i've never really been able to play solos but i'm learning a lot more this last year with scales and stuff so i'm able to play some stuff and uh i got two black Sabbath solos now that i can play into the end of the void and snow blind which are like two of my favorite Sabbath songs and they got great guitar solos and um i've got those now and i'm just getting them better and better now and i can play along with them and i still screw up at the end of both of them a little bit sometimes but i'm right in there and so it's really been good because i all kind of came together um there's some some acdc guitar solos i want to learn this year that are a little like a little easier you know not quite as blazing fast a little shorter little easier you know so um there's a couple of those solos i'm gonna learn this year and then as far as the bass goes um i picked up a bass a couple times when i was younger like and fooled around with it so um but having one now i can't have a play to it for about a month but um you know once you play guitar for so long picking up the bass is pretty easy like yeah exactly the same it's just the strings are fatter and it's bigger and it's got to kind of adapt and um obviously it's a different instrument you know you know when you're playing and like like what's your role in the band it's a different instrument right um but it's been a lot of fun and and learning a bunch of songs on bass has fundamentally increased my enjoyment of all the music i love because yeah i just understand the bass lines more now like you know i used always here the guitar riffs and i could see the guys hand moving and i'm like i wonder where that is on the neck that's probably around there he's probably doing this and then the bass line just sounded cool yeah but now when i'm doing it they're like i would i would say oh i love that bass line but i wasn't actually thinking like what's you doing where is he and now i do that so um so that's been cool so yeah a lot of the music that i've loved for decades i i listen to it now and i have a new little bit of a new appreciation for some of the bass and um there's um as far as like bass players that that i that i appreciate or whatever um i would say christino vicelleic from nirvana is like one of my favorite bass players because his bass lines were like the it's all the melody and then in nirvana songs kobains riffs are very simple they're they're like the almost the marching part of it and the bass line is like all the melodies and stuff going on and he's really really busy on the fretboard and so that's really cool and then at the opposite end of the spectrum you know cliff Williams from acdc he takes the opposite role he's like the train tracks that the song is on and it's going that direction and you know a lot of dom dom dom dom dom dom dom dom dom dom dom dom dom dom dom dom dom you know like a lot of eighth notes just drive in the song along and uh that's been his role for 40 years in that band and you got to you got to hand it down you got to hand it to him because like you know it's easy offensive lineman of acdc right you know they get no credit no one knows their names but the quarterback wouldn't have any of those yards without him right and yeah so so that i i respect bass players a lot and Steve Harris from iron maiden is probably i think one of the all-time greatest most important bass players um because he's also the principal songwriter of that band so when you listen to iron maiden listen to it from the concept of the bass player wrote these songs which is very unusual in most cases so that's why the bass lines are so crazy and iron maiden and so important and so complex is because like you know he's actually the songwriter principally so yeah a no cliff cliff cliff from metallic you know cliff Burton he died after the master of puppets album but he's on their first three albums and cliff was he's probably thought of as like the most influential metal bass player of all time he was just and he was like the Jimmy Hendrix of bass at the time people were like what is this like people would listen to metallic albums and they wouldn't realize that like certain parts was cliff on the bass they thought it was a guitar riff like you know he's got that opening riff to whom the bell tolls people a lot of a lot of times thought that that was guitar but that's actually cliff on his bass with a phaser and there's just a lot I just I really appreciate these guys I love what what they all contributed and you know bass players are cool like I said there you don't get a lot of love you know but at times they can they can walk around the venue and they don't have to have a hat or sunglasses on you know but you know they can get away with a lot which is probably great thing hey you know that's a win. it's a flee he got he got like a ton of credit as a bass player but they they're coming you know not kind of he's one of those guys like everybody knows flee you know yeah fleas a larger than life bass player you know and what a sound too like he's got it he's incredible bass player I've people here that chilly peppers obviously but that's you know you got to watch video is a flee like freestyle and with other bands and stuff and you realize how unbelievable he is he just play any man like those guys at that that guys like flea they're that's not an instrument that's just part of his body you know yeah and there you could do anything you know so yeah pretty cool pretty cool that's all we got over here we got to remind people once again we didn't say it early so this is once again for the last five minute crew or so maybe last six minute I don't know the Arnold I'm getting pumped you I've had people messaging me like hey I can't wait to meet you guys I can't wait to see you guys out there so I'm getting excited I need to start laying out all the equipment and making sure that everything's situated now that's like what my game plan is in this next week that way I'm not like running to try to find anything last minute it's gonna be a lot of fun I can't wait to get to the Arnold and you know see everyone again I got people messaging me I'll see you in a few weeks yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah no I'm excited I'm excited for the to begin all the traveling I got mute none of missions starting again soon nice contact a bunch of gems we're getting things set up I was just talking to hauling his head here on what's app you know gonna try to organize go and visit him and jp at the shed when I go for feebo so we're gonna we're gonna try to work that out and yeah it's just gonna be a lot of fun this year got a few surprises that's cool okay so is that the show it that's it okay remember like share subscribe comment and bell I am mutant dot com boran hard core go to imute dot com get your iso surge get your all in and everyone should get on the gear remember dusty 20 big run 20 use the code of your liking big think big patreon keep up producer home thank you thank you guys very much for everything and remember it's just bodybuilding

Hey everybody, just a reminder that Monday, January 30th instead of recording our episode at the usual time, we are going to be broadcasting live time to be announced soon. So stay tuned. Not only that, we're going to be live at where we're going to be dusting west coast iron together. It's going to be cool. I'm looking forward to this. Mutants bringing me out. Mutants bringing you out too, Dusty, because you're doing a thing with the screen. You're holding there. Cool. Absolutely. Just letting it all out of the bag. Right now. It's out. Two in in. There you go. Right, let go. Okay with the two. Is this okay? I like it. It's going to fly. It's going to fly. I'm trying to be 12 years old. No. No. We act like we're good at this. I fight. I fight. So there's a couple of times. A couple of times. I've been at the mall. We're in like Jordan pants and my west coast iron hoodie and you know, I'm even t-shirt. And then my chucks will match my hat. Yeah. And then I'll walk past the family that looks like they've got like a bit of money. And that you know the families that dress their kids like cool. Yeah. Pull them a little extra cash. They got a little bit of a little extra cash. So you walk by and they've got like a 10 year old and he's wearing basically exactly the Saint-Ophid as means that like chucks it matches hat and like you know Nike pants and like a cool hoodie. And I'm like, oh my god, I dress up a child. You realize you're the same age as the dad. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's yeah. There you go. Over. Yeah. Oh, god. Yeah. It's pretty funny. So I don't know. I saw the other day Jordan Petersen was talking about dress. Like a man, you know. And like he's big on like you know he always wears suits and ties and I'm like, oh man, I failed this one real bad. I got my room cleaned. I'm doing good. But the dressing like a man part. I don't know. Yeah. I don't actually like I don't even have a suit that technically fits anymore. Oh. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I do have a couple fortunately. I got a couple. I got made like, you know, within the last couple years. So they do fit. But yeah. Well, I never know. It's like when he's going to have to go on the Olympia stage and hand out a trophy or something. You know. Hey, man. You know, Bob might like like hurt his knee or something. Yeah. And they might. You know, like I never know. Like it might be like something that happens there. Like maybe he eats bad shellfish at lunch. Yeah. And all of a sudden the finals are coming and Bob's like out of commission. Like 1,000% out of commission. There's no way he's got to get out of. He's got to get out. Possibly make that happen. You know, you know. Get you in there. And then. And then also to also to this requires that all of the actually talented people are already busy doing live streams for like paper view. You know, like so like a lot of the people that they turn to are actually already doing something. So there you are. That's the best. And I just happen to be there. That's the we're going to have a busy you know, a busy Olympia next time. Making sure that people are busy. You know, I'm saying. Get a man to carry. Well, man. It's the case. You know, I was thinking. Oh, God. Hope I wasn't see this. We like Bob. Sorry. Yeah. No. I think I screwed. I think I screwed too many names. Oh, yeah. What's a big one. That's a problem. Actually, I do pretty good. I do pretty good with names. I even. I even like there's a couple times I surprised myself of like rolled a couple hours. Just hammered him. Yeah. Like you know what I mean? Well, Russell's a name. You know that you know that we know that that's a like a you know what I mean. Yeah. Yeah. I was a bit of fun with it. So I guess we should intro the show. Um, Like share, subscribe, comment, and and ring the bell. Holy. I was like wait. Do my say it. Give me the ultimate alley loop. That was the slow motion pass. And then they slow it down and it almost hangs of the rim and then it's like, I can just end bam. Yeah. Oh, scary. It's a big moment. I don't know if it's going to be the alley loop. The alley loop is one of the coolest things in sports. Oh, yeah. The alley loop and the bicycle kick and soccer. Oh, that's a good one. Yeah. And also too like dusty. I mean, let's give credit to like a beautiful one timer. You know, like a nice pass from a nice pass from like the side up. Bam. You know, like top corners flawless. Yeah. So what are we talking about today? We actually, we actually have a great guest this week. Yeah. We have a great guest this week. And you will have already seen that show. Yeah. We haven't done that show yet. We have in our world. In our world. This is the first show. And then we will do the guest. But you will see them. They easily. The way around. Yeah. It's going to be nice. So crazy. We can't really promote it. Because we're like, hey, guys, go back in time and watch the live episode. But if you haven't seen it, yeah. We'll be syndicated. You know, like, I could go back and watch that a pseudo episode. Yeah. Yeah. Like that word syndicated. Yeah. We actually use that word. Like, that's really cool to be able to use that word. I just want to use it. I'm the producer. We can do whatever we want. Yeah. Except for swear. Except for swear. Except for swear is in the first 30 minutes of the podcast. Yeah. I've had a bunch of people tell me. Yeah. I've had a bunch of people tell me it's the first 30 minutes. You're like, here's the 30 minutes after that. You can do whatever you want. It's the first, like, minute is if it's in there, it's a guaranteed. And then this is where it becomes a gray area. They say, or if it is throughout. So what does throughout mean just throughout mean two throughout definitely means five if you hear the effort five times. It's it's out. So five. It's true. That is so low. Yeah. It's almost impossible. It can well for us it has been in the past. I've really struggled with the speed since we started doing this. Like, 100 runs take all the heat. I have bombs over. Yeah. But did you see that's got the wrong sentence from from goodwill hunting? I didn't see that. I didn't see that. Oh, man. So they were. Oh, you didn't see that video. I said, put it in the Instagram chat, but I know you're not on there much. But it was one of those, uh, uh, was Matt Damon. What was he talking about dusty the number of F bombs? Yeah. The number of F bombs because they wrote goodwill hunting. And they were like, they said, can we make it PG 13 and he said, well, how would you that? You have to lower the number of F bombs. And he was like, all right, well, how low does that to get? And they were like five. He's like, well, where are we at? And they're like 140 seconds. No, bro. And then they show one section with him just talking like one scene. Yeah. And he drops it four times and then, um, what's his name? Who's the, who's the, uh, then after? No, yeah. No, the therapist in that show. Oh, Robin Williams. Robin Williams bobs it twice in that one. I'm like, they're at six right now. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like a 32nd clip. Yeah. And he goes, he goes, but we're from the south Boston. We just wrote it like a conversation. Yeah. And we would just say it. And then we go, okay, we have to write that down. And then we go, how would you say this? And he go, I'd say this. Okay, we write that down. And that's what they got. 147. That's just natural. If you live in Boston. I did see the place. If you ever been there, it's true. Was it the lady who looked like Jim Carrey? I saw her that four ladies. Yeah, that was great. Yeah. I'll see if I can drop that in here to post production. Yeah, that was amazing. But she could laugh at herself, which is the thing that I think we all should get better at. You know what I'm saying? Like, she was hilarious. She was hilarious. Yeah, she's funny about it. Freaking hilarious. She was freaking hilarious. Yeah, there we go. That's all she was. Was freaking hilarious. Yes. Man. So, honey, can we talk about excitement that I got today when Nick and Johnson team texted me, see you in a couple of days. I didn't know they were filming us next week. Oh, that is exciting. I didn't. I was very stoked to hear that. Yes. So, tell the people. What does this even mean? Filming. What's going on? Well, we're having a mutant, uh, little mutant content party for a week. And we're bringing us, bringing people in. And then, so for make a bunch of stuff at the gym up here. Yeah, so what does that look like, exactly? Like, what it is for people who are on the outside like me. Yeah. We don't know what that is. Plus I have something to tell you. Okay. Let's go. Yeah. I'll tell you. Well, um, you know, for example, the Vegas, we did a mutant mansion. We call them mutant mansions. It's like the, just the, the thing we call it in the, in house so that we, we know what's up. And it's, uh, we, we all met in, uh, Airbnb in Vegas. It's a really nice big house. It had like, well, F bomb and 10 bedrooms. Yeah. It had like, yeah. Two, two huge kitchens, the 10 bedrooms. And anyways, we just, you know, lived in this house for a week. And we, we had a schedule like, okay, you know, you guys are training in the morning. You guys are training midday. You guys are training in the late afternoon. Yeah. And, and they, and, you know, Nick can concentrate. And then the team would, you know, go with the groups and shoot the content and gather kitchen and, you know, meal meal prep content while we're at the house at night. You know, we'd all make our dinner and they'd film it. And we'd, when then they'd collect some, you know, candid stuff. You never know when you're going to get something good. Just film my never one sitting around the table eating, you know, that sort of stuff. So there's a lot of that going on. It's, it's, it's, you know, it's pretty fun. Like, you know, just hanging out and getting, you know, getting fed. And I mean, you're cooking your meals, but, you know, you just sit in around eating and talking and training and, Yeah. You know, it's cool. And I'll have to take, I'll have to take time off of like actual work to go film that sort of stuff with me that week. You know what I mean? Okay. It's, it's, it's, it's, it's pretty fun. Pretty fun change. Yeah. That is cool. So can I, can I tell them guys? What's going on here? You, you should tell them. Yeah. Yes. So, um, I'm going to be there. Well, I'm going to kind of be there. Yeah. I'm flying out. I just, I just talked to them today, George. And I'm going to come out, I believe on Sunday, so that we can record the podcast together live and Monday and Ron already checked his internet. Like, we can do this thing live from West Coast, Iron. Next week, it'll be a few days after this one comes out. Yeah. Unreal. Yeah. That's crazy. So I'm going to blow him by that. I know for you guys, like, how many times have you guys done mutant mansion type things? Because I know you guys go, like, back to Ron, you've told stories of being like a Venice beach with rich Piana and you've been there a long time, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. 10 years. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. First, first mutant mansion was in 2013. We organized that. What did it feel like to you? The first time you were invited to do something like that? You know, mutant was pretty ahead of a lot of other companies on the YouTube channels. Like, I remember those days. I remember going to Denver, for example, for mutant mansion and we shot at Armbrist Jim all week. And it was Rich Piana, Johnny Jackson, myself, or Naldo Gary Gabe Mone. We had like a big team. And, and there, and, you know, it was, it was, you know, Jonathan was working for us in house. He shot all the fill he's DVDs. Jonathan's a good friend of ours. But he worked for mutant for a while. And he was like, fill he's guy that shot all of his DVDs like becoming 13 and still still still the one or whatever. And all those DVDs, he shot all that. So he was shooting our stuff. It looked awesome. Like, everything was, it was really cool, you know. And, and obviously, I wasn't even a pro. So like, I was like, really, like, really fortunate. Because there wasn't a lot of amateurs that were getting paid and flown around and shot and filmed like on quality film, like with like a real, really like real, like, you know, filmographer, you know, like, Jonathan was like a documentary film guy. And he was working for mutant. So like this stuff looked awesome. This stuff was fantastic. And so it was really cool. Because I'd like, you know, I'd even look better in the video than actually, look. I mean, like, was like the first time I was like, oh, wow, like this is actually part of why, you know, everyone looks great. Because they're getting shot with really high quality cameras and like, you know, produce well. And, you know, so it makes a big difference. And, and of course, the industry standard is, is that on your phone now. Yeah. You know, yeah. Right. Like back then, back in 2012, like you had to have like a guy and he had to have, like, a nice camera. Yeah. And all that lies a couple of bombs in there for you. I mean, you're noticing now. That's the, it's, yeah, noticing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know. So, so, so. So, the horse is being broken. As my grandpa would say, no longer a stallion. Jonathan noted. He's been snipped. He's been snipped. Like, yeah. No more. No more Roman, the prairie spread in his seed. Because to me, it's like, this is really, really exciting. I see myself as being more like one of our listeners. You know what I mean? And just a fan of the sport and having followed mutant for a really long time to actually get to come out in there. And they believe in our podcast, which is really cool. You know, and they're going to be this happened. So, it's not like they have some sort of like ulterior motives. You know what I'm saying? It's just like, they just see something that's cool. And they're going to support that. So, I, I say, they were. You know, I, I, I, I want to from the bottom of my heart. Like, this is going to be freaking amazing. And hopefully I don't make things. You know what I'm saying? Hopefully like it weren't you know. You know, and you know, we, we never, we never make a big deal out of any of the stuff that comes to the gym because, you know, we always want like, you know, for example, if let's just say Chris called us and said he was going to come and train, we wouldn't like announce it to our members, right? Because we want to like, keep it like, you know, Loki. So, so we never announce anything. You know, people just show up. And that's one of the fun things about, you know, you know, like, you know, like, who's going to show up next week at our gym, right? It's cool. It's cool. You know, we're bringing dusty up, you know, a, a Jamie's coming to, right? Yep. Jamie's coming. Yep. Yeah. You know, Jamie's coming to the show. Yeah. Yeah. And, you know, everyone's coming. So it's going to be fun. Andreas, come in. So it's going to be great. No, you know, Donald will be there. So yeah, it's coming. Yep. Nice. Yeah, Donald's coming. She said that it was important. She wanted to sign the wall. That's not all. Right. Which like, oh, right there. Well, I'm excited to see what the wall looks like now because the last time I was there, excuse me, I don't think it had nearly as many signatures as I've seen in pictures. Sense. So the wall has an interesting, though, the wall has the wall has swallowed a lot of the signatures as high-putted, which is kind of a, interesting way to look at it. What happened was the sun bleached a lot of them off. Okay. So I think it's time for the first time this trip. Yeah. So it's, it's, I mean, it's kind of cool because it's like interesting. You wonder, like, what signatures are gone off the wall, you know, yeah. But, you know, the first three years we were open, the sun was just hit not wall through the window. Yeah. And then we, you know, if we spent like eight grand and we got all the windows, like 80% heat blocked with like the UV tint, like we got that whole south and east wall of the gym upstairs and downstairs just completely heat tinted because it's very close. All windows in the front. Oh, yeah. So and it dropped the internal temperature of the gym in the summertime, dropped it five degrees. Nice. So like a huge difference. I give it to a hot day. 25 is a lot different than 30. Yeah. Oh, yeah. You saw Celsius, it's a crazy difference, right? So anyways, it was a really good deal. And then we realized that that's what had happened to the wall because a signature stopped fading basically. And we're like, ah, shit. Okay. So we lost a bunch of them, but, you know, everyone can restign if they have to. If you can't find yourself on the wall at West Coast, let us know. Well, I have to tell people then, too. So if we, we might not have a set time, we might be recording it normal time. I don't know. We'll have to talk about that. But that'll be on Monday. So we always record on Mondays. It's not going to come out on Wednesday. Like it normally does. We're going to do this on a Monday. So you guys left a, you know, tune in. Get your week started right with a little bit of a, it's just bodybuilding, right? There you go. So that's not, yeah, is that that's next week? Yeah, that's next week. Like week today's fast. Crazy. So they're going to get their episode forward in time. This is what's going to be. There's a lot going on right now. There's a lot. There's a lot. Yeah. Yeah. Our episodes are out of order. We got like an exception going on. There's a lot. Yeah. Yeah. Dusty has been inside the wall yet, but he did. This is what we did. I didn't. But side there. You know why they took it off after I died. Now I decided, by the way, we came up with this this weekend. Since AD is already been used by someone else. We're going with AD after Dusty does that. So that's kind of our thing. I don't want to copy this. There's like the beard. Yeah. Okay, here's a, here's a, here's a quiz. Here's a quiz question for you guys. All right. Who was the first, who was the first pro to ever sign the wall at West Coast iron? I got you. You didn't sign your own wall first. I know that much. So it's not going to be. I feel like I should do it too. I'll give you a, he trained there the day before we opened and he signed it. Train the day before you open this is I got nothing. Who is it? Somebody that knew them was stuff. Was it Chris? I'm stuck was the first. I'm stuck. I'm said was the first. First, to, the first pro to train at our gym and the first pro to sign the wall. He ended. He after all signed. Yeah. I'm, he might have, you know, I mean, I can still see his signature though for some reason. I can still find him on the wall. So because he, he comes through, like you can't take bumps. The sun can't even move bumps that from first. Sun can't even erase his signature. Yeah. Yeah. We had an over-under question about Chris's mustache today, by the way, just to give you a little little preview on that one to make side it. Yeah. We got a listener critique too. He sent us in a contest picture. Let's hear it. Like that. You want to do that? Oh, that was like a critique of us. No, I thought you meant like, yeah. No, we did get some stuff though, too, about the runs delicious meat. They like a lot of people want to get that. By the way, we can take this in the US now. I have a guy. So if you'd like to delve into Dusty's pockets, we can bring in the US too, just saying. Just a thought. Okay, rolling that out there. I know we're going to advertise that. It's no cost. You know? And we can still stick with wrongs of meat. Good. Dusty's made scene enough. Yes. Yeah. This is the ADD dusting. So my meat is like half full of good old stories and then half full of shame. We've all got some slump busters. It's fine. I'm going to slump busters. All right. Roll it out. Scott, what do we got here? All right. Well, we did a bunch of questions. We had, I'll start with this one. Just because I feel like it's a timely question. Being that this is the toward the end of January, the New Year's resolutioners, or you know, all hitting it hard in the gym. The question is from Jim McDonnell. He gave us a bunch of over-underers last week. He says, let's see. My gym has gotten so crowded over the past few weeks that it's peeing me off in many of months. I'm going to be real careful here and many long-term memories. You pretty much have to base your workouts on what's available or come in undesirable times, undesirable to me at least. This didn't just start at the New Year, but it's definitely at a whole new level. My question is whether it is reasonable to expect the gym owner or management to only sell the amount of memberships that the place can handle. It seems like they've been running sales, even though the place is beyond capacity. I know I could vote with my wallet, but I'd also leave money on the table if I were to try and break my contract. I have an answer for that simple. Gims sell membership far beyond capacity because most gyms members don't come in. So people don't realize that is these, and this isn't picking on resolution, but anyone who signs a new membership, the majority of signatures sign and do not come in and use and keep their membership for extended periods of time beyond not using them. So although to him, it is a pain if I own the gym, I'm selling all of them because the percentage of staying is low. The percentage of going to pay for a year or two years. I mean, I know people are going to remember for years, but walking into the gym and canceling that membership is a kind of admitting they're quitting. People really don't. I mean, my little gym here, I say little, it's 25,000 square feet, but they have 8,000 members at this gym. Trust and believe 8,000 people are not walking in there multiple days a week. Wrong. Yeah, I mean, the corporate gym, the reason the corporate gym is marketed the way it is is because that's what actually sells the most memberships. So and you know, like for example, I had a friend that managed a gold in another city. And he told me that his average member came once every nine days. And apparently that was really good. Head office had said something like, oh, wow, how did you get that number? Because the lower the better, right? It means they have like all these. Because then also factor in that if nobody comes, equipment's not getting worn out. I think breaks. The water usage will be low. Everything, the less people come and just pay to membership the better. So that's actually the ideal situation for most gyms. So you know, so but, you know, for example, at West Coast, our average member comes four times a week. Which is pretty good. Awesome. The other direction. Yeah. It's a really using your gym. Yeah. So the downside is we don't have a bunch of inactive members that would really help the bottom line. But most of our members come to the gym all the time. But so it's it's a slightly different model. So, you know, it's you have to run your gym differently. How about people have to understand that gyms are like all businesses are running away where they are trying to figure out, I mean, I shouldn't say all. But trying to figure out the best way to maximize their business model. For example, tanning salon. It's a lot of tanning salon and one of them locally here, switched to where you can only come every 24 hours. Not as in Monday, once, Tuesday, once, as in 24 hours later. Yeah. And the reason that that is a huge success for them financially is odds are you can't come with the exact same time. Right. So one day you come late. Now the next day you can't go that late. So you just skip a day. The amount of times they're tanning beds get used gets chopped way down. And members are up in arms. They're like, this is inconvenient. They have no idea it's unpurpose. Yeah. It literally slows down the amount that your beds get used. Getting the same amount of money. And from a business standpoint, it's a good move. I just quit a tanning membership for that. Yeah. And I laughed because I knew what they were doing on my genius. But messes me up. So see, yeah. I thought it was like a law or something like to protect you from yourself. For, you know, cancer. That's what they sell you on. But yeah, it's not. It's every day. It is the least here that it's every day is the law. But they can't. Or should attract the hours. But the genius would get to dance around it and block it. Just think about if you usually go at three and then something happens to you go at five and not tomorrow at three you're there. Yeah. You're just skip. You're not coming back in two hours because then that's going to keep it going down the line. You know, it's genius actually. But what about what about the training part? So the other end of things. How have you guys dealt with it? Dealing with a busy gym? You know, how do you handle figure out your workouts and working around all these people, the same failures resolution or whatever? I just remember that all that really matters is that you load, you know, load the muscle in a plane of motion that it does. Like, what does that muscle do? Like, if you're doing biceps, you have to load it this way. Like, all you have to do is a curl. Like, the extra sizes we do, they, they're not that different from one another. You know what I mean? You can, you can get in there. If all you can get is that one plate loaded chest machine, then just do, instead of doing two working sets on that, two working sets on incline dumbbell, two working sets on, you know, machine fly. You could just do four working sets on the one press machine that you got your hands on because it's crazy that day. You're doing a real. Two in a row. You're killing it. You're killing it. Just try to remind you, figure a little mindfulness, bring a little mindfulness back in. Say me an hour about it. He's getting passionate right now. He's passionate. That's the thing. You're doing it. You're doing it. You're doing it. You're doing it. You're doing it. You're doing it. You're doing it. You're doing it. No, but it's your right, Ron, it's that. And if you are someone like me when I was going out and doing DC training, then the word that he used was inconvenient. And my answer to that is what about body-belaness convenient. So if I must train on certain pieces of equipment, then I go to the gym when that will be feasible. Or I will take Ron's mindset. So it is nothing about being a body-beloader is convenient. So I kind of throw that out the window. I mean, if I had to, I would train at midnight. Like it doesn't, you alter your plans. The way I do it now is I actually find that new members are more respectful. They might not know everything and make some little errors. But it's the long timers that are the ones that are super saying 19 pieces of equipment. And all that crap. You know what I mean? So usually I'll be ultra-nice to people right out the gate. And that usually comes with questions down the line, which is good. And it also comes with courtesy if I'm even glancing out of a piece of equipment. It will be like, are you going to use that? I'm like, soon as you're done. Like no rush, you know? But they do, they realize, oh, that big guy there is really nice, you know, and he answers my questions. And next thing, you know, I think people really underestimate the power of just not being a douche. Yeah, that's a great point. I have to hop on that because we never have any issues at our gym because we have like a bit of a whatever you call it like relationship with the other people that train there. You know? Like we just walk over and like stand close to the pack deck and the guy in the pack deck's like two more guys. Yeah. And I'm like, hey, thanks. You know, awesome. Just chill. No worries. We just did a hard set, you know? And we'll just hang out. And we don't even ask like half the time that they just see. Like it's just it's everyone kind of, you know, if the community is right at the gym, everyone kind of has this sort of, you know, symbiotic sort of understanding of what's going on. Yeah. You know? I remember doing a, um, what was it? It was like, though, I, because I tried to do that same thing, you know, be really friendly to people. I remember one time when I did kind of lose it a little bit. This lady, I would, so I was doing, I was on a, a tricep pressed down, a cable. And, and I decided I was going to do a rest part of this. So just one set. And it took me, you know, five minutes or whatever to warm up to my one set. And, you know, do as many reps as you can. And then wait 20 seconds. And then as many reps as you can, wait 20 seconds. I do that first part. And then I go to wait 20 seconds that I had my headphones in and I'm looking at my phone and I kind of like just stopped away over here. And when I turn around, this personal trainer lady who was new had come in and she like switched out to a different handle and changed the weight. And I've just like, I was literally like turning around to put my hands on the handles. And I'm like, what's going on? And she's like, oh, don't worry. We're just going to work in with you. We'll be just a couple minutes. That was like, why? That comes with an ask first situation. Yeah. Yeah. But see, even that Scott, I can successfully guide you in the most ridiculing way and say it in a way that is nice and you will apologize every time. Yeah. Very good at freaky you in the most polite way you've ever seen. I've never once liked that. I wish I had that. Like looking back, I wish I had that. But I was in that mindset where like, hi, it already turned it on. You know what I mean? Yeah. So like it was going to go in the weights, but because I couldn't. And she was there instead. D-D-A-D-C came out. Wow, don't need a doubt. Okay. I feel I feel more useful about that. It wasn't that bad, but I did tell her how I felt. Did she put it back? Yeah. I can't remember how that went. But I know she was new there and she wasn't around too much longer. Oh, that was that. My set. She shouldn't have been there much longer. No. I don't think that the gym's you trained at. Your gym's, you know, that's one thing that I do find is, is interesting is when trainers do that because I'm always aware of who's using everything around me. Sure. Sure. Like literally everything. Even though I'm not going to use it, I know that the lady in pink is doing this glute blaster. You know, like I just know, I don't know why I'd pay attention. So it's weird to me that you not only did you know who it was, but you literally watched me undo it and turned my back. Yeah. And you thought I won't ask. Yeah. Just slip in here and change everything. Change the way, change the handle. Yeah. I don't even like when Nikki moves the seat of my freaking truck. Like just drive it where I sit. Figure it out. Me and you. You haven't programmed her in on the door yet. Isn't she driver number two? There should be no driver number two's in your truck. See, I have a system. I have a system. I have a system. The top one is me driving number two is the mirrors down so I can see the lines on the ground, but I park. Yeah. Nice. And then number three is mirrors in seat back. Nap. We're just taking that position. I knew that. That was there. I like it should actually say end. And so the three and number three is nap. Yeah. Yeah. So that's my seat. I'm kind of close. And so it gets darker. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. When does auto tint, they get darker. They James Ponds car. That is beautiful. Now everyone's looking at picking up a new Ford Explorer. Okay. I feel like I just shared something really personal. Yeah. Is your car white, by the way? Yes. I hate you. I hate driving down the road and a white explorer pulls in behind me and I like I have to question. Is that a cop? Is it not a cop? I hate going to get across my mind. I've always liked white SUVs. And and and and everyone crossed my mind and then after I got it I was like why do people drive really slow in front of me all the time? They don't do the white here anymore in Detroit. They're all black cars or browns. We do both. Okay. Yeah. I feel like in the in a proper game of cops and robbers. There should be some sort of a sign that says you're a cop. Because my big ass truck is the sign that I am a robber. Like, let's not stay here. All right. It's not fair. I don't even remember what we were talking about last week. Oh, whatever you're doing. Stocking a school. I pull in. All right. I'm not thinking I'm pulling drive and I see him. And I'm like, oh, I mean, flips. I don't even like hit the brakes. I just keep going. Yeah. Poles me already walks up. He's like, hey, Mike, what's up, man? I already had my stuff out hanging out the window. So you know why I pulled your elbows like, yeah, I was going to lay too fast. He goes 42 and 25. He goes, you know, this is schools are like, well, I'm heading to pick up a kid. So you think I know that. Because he walks away. He comes back. He's like, how long you've been here? I said, because my play trainer is on. I said, I still have both because my business and there's one of the goes, oh, cool. Yeah. Slow down. See you later. I was like, my man. Lucky. I think he was shocked. But I looked at my face. I was like, yeah, I'm very clear. I'm like, you pulled me over. I was driving like an ass. Yeah. Not that. That's that's how I talk to cops. They don't want to hear like lies and excuses. Because they know. Yeah. Yeah. But I actually, that ages since I was pulled over. But you were doing your job as well. You pulled me over. I feel you, bro. Yeah. So we did have, like I said, a critique. It was a listener critique a guy from Patreon. I'm going to see if I can pull these pictures up. He says, oh, oh, oh, if he's on Patreon, are we going to lie to him? Or are we going to be honest? We got to be truthful. He got in pretty good shape. So there is that. I just got that coming to him. I just want to make sure I knew the rules of this game. He says, hey, Scott, I'm crew. I have a question. I wanted to throw at the crew. Let's see. You guys are integral part of my body building. Wow. He says from PED radio and body building nerds radio to present. So that was like the shows we were doing in like 2015 in before the death line. That's cool. He's asking for a physique critique. He says the Tand pictures were from the Colorado Cup. 822. And then where he took the overall in body building and classic at 181. Then he says the frosty pictures, which are basically not Tand, are from North Americans a few weeks later, where I sucked down to middles. And I ended up at the bottom of first callouts for both body building and classic at 176. Looks like he works with Phil Viz. He says, visit and I plan to put on some size on my arms and legs. And then sucked down to 182 for classic in a national show to do. And the next year or two. He says, any feedback would be great. Planning on focusing on classic for my second crack at the card. Thanks a million. So here where the show is where he, this is the show where he is a little heavier. And he's going to slice, love it. Yeah, he sure is. That's a lie. That's nothing. But wait, because he gets leaner. He gets leaner. And then I didn't grab all the pictures. Here's one more. And you guys can tell me if you want me to bring anything back. I'm just going to put them all up first. And then here, check this out. This is, this is definitely leaner. This was North Americans. Yeah, he's healed. Yeah, I didn't grab all the pictures. Freaking peeled. Freaking peeled. Yes. Yes. Yeah, so he looks great in the first round, but he's definitely that next level conditioning. It's just more in the loop. We got more frost dunes. You know what it is? It's a peer. Yeah, the glutes appear harder in the frosty ones. Yeah. Yeah. So it's four pounds difference. But he's wondering what our critique is. What should he do here? I want to see the, if you had the side with the, what, what did he weigh in the, in the frosty ones? On 76. On 76. He was 181 at the other. And what can he be at the, at the National Show? What is it? 182 sucked down to 182 for classic at the National Show. He can, he can put size on. Oh, yeah. He's got room to put on size and he, here's the deal. Coming the conditioning you were frosty at 182 because I don't see that you lost anything and you're look really, I think you're looking proved. But you just went to a bigger show. I mean, simple. Yeah. You know, because he's still, like, look at his back. Look at the thickness up top. Not even the lower back. This condition like this. Just make sure, yeah, make sure you're in that condition again. Like, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sure. So if you're, if you're year yielded muscle, the muscle will be there. Yeah. You know, just come in that condition. If you guys, if we look at that front lat or that front ab and thigh, you can still see his chest is still really full with his hands over his head in the, yeah. It's frosty. Yeah. So there's no lack of fullness there. It's just harder. So yeah. And then on muscle and get sliced like that again, and whatever you weigh, obviously, of the under one of you too. And, and that's that Christmas tree is sick. Yeah. It really is. You know, that's, you know, so is there anything specific you would say, like, you need to bring up this or you need to, oh, like prove that or, or is it just kind of, I think, or what are you guys that kind of offseason stuff. I was kind of just looking at like show, but I mean, you know, you can ever have two big arms. I mean, he just kind of needs size everywhere because he's got good flow and he's got good shape. Like, from the back, he's got good structure. He just needs to be bigger, but I'd say, you know, bring the arms up for sure. And, and everything else just come up evenly. Like, I don't know. I don't, there's nothing like even has calves, you know? There's nothing that's like, yeah. Not there. What do you think does these more? Not it, Grids. But when you're, it's, it's funny. It's a compliment when the answer is you just need more. That is, if the arms did catch me a little, so I would say that would be a focal point because I think, especially with classic having some, so I think that's something that's really helpful. So, and you got room, I mean, if you're talking about six pounds of pure muscle. Yeah, how tall is he? He's a lot taller. I don't think he said height. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So he's just, just so. Yeah. If it, he can fall down to the handle. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Take six pounds of hamburger and pack it on each arm and delton, get on the back and a bit on your quads and it's a lot of meat. Yeah. I think it's funny that people don't think of that when they think of adding muscle mass when they're like, oh, yeah, so I, I did this cycle and I put on 20 pounds of muscle. I'm like, no, do you be a nice 20, 20 pounds of protein? Yeah. You're putting picked up 20 pounds of steak at once. You think you dropped that on yourself in 12 weeks with all the fat trimmed off of it, too. Yeah. You were shredded steak is what landed on you in 12 weeks. Yeah. I got to actually argue with me once about that because I said a great gain. Great would be 12 pounds of pure muscle in a year. Oh, man. If you could do that, it'd be a big pound. Yeah. Pounds heavier, you know, plus. What's I said, I always just say, I always say three years is 36 pounds. Think about what 36 pounds would look like. Yeah. Real muscle. And then some guys like, I put that on in a cycle of like, oh, you have it. Yeah. Yeah. I tell everyone my first cycle. This is how I look at it. My first cycle. I went from, I think I was 225 when I started. And it was just the debaul. I've talked about it before eight weeks of debaul. And I went to like 235. So I gained about 10 pounds. And then after the cycle, I dropped down to 227. And it was at 227 for like ages, like six months. So I always say, oh, I gained two pounds of muscle on my first cycle. Right. And like that sounds so pathetic. But I mean, my bench went up like 50 pounds aside. And then, you know, it was, you know, to me, it was a week's. Yeah. There's another F bomb for you. Two. Think with. They go in pairs. I'll leave a couple in this episode. And we'll see what happens. We'll see. We're well above five for the record. Yeah. That's not a bad idea. Oh, man. David, we've got the best part was you both went to the same time. We had talked about like Jim fights and the throw on Threings through drywall is. Oh, yeah. You see Summa. Matt Marshall, who's also been to West Coast iron. He said the most memorable fight I can remember is when I was younger. A guy's girlfriend and wife showed up to surprise him at the same time. Holarity ensued. That's fantastic. Wow. That is a good one. Like they came together in the same car. No, I think they like both were like maybe it was his birthday or something. Like I'm going to surprise him at the gym. Oh, that's what I gather. You know, that's phenomenal. That's phenomenal. Yeah. I had our gym here actually. And the, the best part about the south to me. Is that the other woman is also a woman who on Instagram and everything is always posting about her happy family and all this stuff. And she's pulled Jockey in some guy that's married at the gym for months. I'm like, that's interesting. But yeah, he doesn't train there anymore, but his wife still does. And I appreciate that. I'm like that, girl. She's like, get out of my gym. That was a positive move. Oh, funny. Yeah, yeah, I was going to get the gym. Yeah, that's a good thing. You ever see that there was a thing that went out. Some, it's the same situation happened to a guy online and his girlfriend and other girlfriend. I guess like got together and they decided to punk him. They would post a picture and tag him and be, and you know, so they tag him. And he reshares it in his stories and just says, my two girls both look and great. It's like, that's genius. Doesn't back down. Just rolls it right back out of him. I feel like now what we do. Yeah. He just made a strong announcement. He doesn't get moved. You move. Freaks. Yeah. He's just ready to just abort both of them. Yeah, for starting Friday. Yeah. Me. Well, that's literally. Yeah, that's over. No, like, no, like, maybe there's no drama. If you do that, you just let this load. You know, you don't know what happened. Let me explain just nothing. Just care. That's shared. Done. Done. Street cred through the roof and neither of them ever called him again. Just clean my room. Good stuff. What else we got Scott? All right. So, oh, I have to say, I remember my story about my buddy Derek throw on the barbell through the wall. Yes. Yes. So I talked to him on Facebook. There you go. And he said when the episode began, he heard me say that little clip that you put about. Yeah, he just chucked the bar through the wall and he turned to his wife. He said, oh, I think this is about me. He just told me. He just told me. He just told me. He just told me. This is about me. This is why I'm so watched. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He's amazing. And he said this. That's exactly how it happened. He said you remembered exactly how it happened. He came in, grabbed the bar, spirited through the wall, just pitched it through. And it like skidded on the floor. Yeah. Wait, did you go straight through? Yeah. He spirited through just through like a spear. I just like punched it. I didn't realize. Oh, no. It's shocking. Through it right through the wall. Yeah. Yeah. Great story ever. I love this wife. It was like, wait. Yeah. Imagine it blowing out the other side of the wall and like landing on the floor. Yeah. Imagine being on the wall. All the busted up sheet rock everywhere. Oh, that's correct. Yeah. When you said you were like, I, you know, that might not have been what happened. But that's how I remember. I thought you were saying they had to like give him an out. You know what I mean? Yeah. No, he, he, he message me is like, that's exactly what happened. So I just, I thought, I felt good about my memory at least. Yes. That's fantastic. It wasn't like, you know, a man you facture piece, you know, they're memory. I thought you knew, but you were like doing that for like, I could have been wrong. You know, maybe I was like, open. I was pretty correct. Yeah. Yeah. All right. So Ted from Patreon has some over-underers for us. And you got a couple of decent ones in there. Thanks, Ted. So Ted says, um, some over-underers for it's just body building. McDonald's breakfast is the first one. Dressed it over for me. Huge over just like disgusting. Why, yeah. Oh, it's plastic. Yeah. That's compared to their other food. How about that though? So the problem is when I've had that, because I've, I mean, in the last year, I've had that. Thinking, oh, I just got to get something we're getting on the road. It's like swallowing a brick and then driving somewhere. I mean, it just sits in your stomach. It weighs 36 pounds. It was too less saying, which is terrible. Yeah. Yeah. McDonald's breakfast is a lesson I learned a long, long time ago. And I try to live my life where I don't have to learn lessons repeatedly. You know, there's some lessons I, you know, taught myself a couple thousand times. But I try to minimize that. And McDonald's breakfast is one of the ones that I've been able to like. Now, not doing that. Yeah. Doing a choice. All right. Like I would rather like I'm, I'm into stage in my life where I would just fast. Okay. I would just go, oh, this is a challenge. I got no food except for McDonald's. Now, I'm just going to drink a liter of water. And I'm going to David Goggins this. Yeah. Right up. And I'm just going to kick into fat burning mode for three more hours to let it go. Yeah. There's a McDonald's. Then there's a, there's a gas station nearby. And I've actually been fascinated that what is in the gas station. Like if you really, if you want to eat decently, you can in a gas station. Like we're not talking about pulling out a great, like flawless meal. But there is food there that I, like you said, I could say, shape myself for the rest of my trip without swallowing a brick. So yeah. No. Yeah. And there's even like there's even things that in my mind are better alternatives. Like, for example, I've seen like in, I don't know if it's seven, 11, but in some sort of gas station where there's like roasted chicken wings. Like they're not even, you know what I mean? Yeah. And if you just tore a bunch of the meat off that and just ate that, you'd get like a bunch of actual real chicken meat. And you'd have some fat in there too, obviously, because they're not the leanest. It's not the leanest kind of meat. But you'd actually have real meat and you would know no carbs at all. Yeah. You know what I mean? So there's like that angle, like at least you're getting real chicken. You know, because it's always a thing like, is it real meat? Like, you know, that's why I don't eat that sort of stuff because most of the time it's not. But the odd time I'll notice, I'm like, oh, that's actually like a meat that's edible. You know what I mean? So I ate their twice this year McDonald's. Neither of them were, well, no, neither of them were breakfast. In the airport, I'm a way to Manchester and then in Manchester. Because then when I got there, I was like, I've never been to England before. I wonder if they were McDonald's is the same. Guess what? But the people are nicer inside. There was that. And there was a guy by the trash can who was like, here, let me take that for you, sir. There's quite an experience. There was that. That's funny, though. Yeah. I would still say over, especially for the office. Because even if you like it, you get like two sandwiches and a coffee and it's like $14. And those sandwiches are a lot smaller than if you were to buy lunch and get, you know, like, big old burger and fries. Yeah. Yeah. Number two, over underrated, C-bumps mustache and a ballic ratio. Too fast. Wow. You know this is true. Number one, it only works for Chris. Many try. And I want people to understand that when they stop it because they just look like they're trying to pretend to be cops. It's great. No good. Second thing is I think that Chris actually does that because his physique is better than all of ours. Fucking door. He's muting the wrong part and un muting the wrong part. Who rings a doorbell? Not during a podcast. Round take over. See, I'm just, I just love seeing the chaos that Dusty's house. Oh, yeah. Yeah. He loves how he was making a point and now he's interrupted. He was, yeah. He, yeah. You know, I'll say this. I'm, like he said, it only works for Chris and, and what I was going to say was, you know, it's very overrated because Chris would be Chris without it. That was my point. Yeah. But would we recognize him walking down the street? I don't know. He has to be in the offseason. We would still recognize him. Yeah. Like Clark, Clark Kent with the glasses. Yeah. You don't even know what's Superman anymore. So it was glass. Round was it you that sent us that video at the Olympia of a guy who pretended to be Chris and he put on like a fake mustache in a hoodie. Yeah, put on the car heart jacket. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And he, yeah. He was walking through the Olympian people and they're like, oh man, what's all brother? And he ended up like taking pictures. He started out like, guys belt. Yeah. Like just imagine that guy's not like everyone. Everyone on his belt for real. He's got Kai Green. He's got Phil Heath. He's been carrying that belt around. I'm just building this up in my head. Like what was that belt that he signed? Like was that a belt that that guy's taken? Because I've signed the odd belt that has been taken to like every expo and has like dozens of names on it, right? That that person is really collecting. And then I've seen belts where they just they're happened to buy a belt that day at the expo and they just happened to get a few guys to sign it, right? Yeah. So there's there's a bit of a difference, but it's still that guy's belt and you're not Chris Bumsted. What do you do though? Work out there. Yeah. What do you do? Do you tell as Chris Bumsted? Do you tell him no I'm not going to sign your belt? I mean, I'm going to work now. Chris Bumsted is like, right? Right. Right. So it's like, right thing. You did the right thing. But I guess the main thing I'd have the problem with is is including that like, like, I guess what what the guy doesn't know won't hurt him. You know, he sees the video and now he's like, Crush is like, ah, I'm the, I'm the, I imagine. But he went into it with like the hood on and I think he had glasses on and he had handlers around him just he walking. He just kept walking, kept his head down, but by the end he was like, hoodie off hitting poses with people and everybody was like just like, like, name it up, taking picture and stuff. Wow. It's funny. Alright. Next one was specialty bars like track bars, Swiss bars, yoke, etc. Well, I'm going to say, I'm going to say overrated for me. But I guess if you're a power lifter, maybe they're underrated. I don't know. That one's like hard because they're not really things that I feel I need. You know what I mean? So to me, they'd be overrated. Like I never use, we have a, you know, we have a safety squat bar that I, that I would use if I squatted more, but I never really use the trap bar, Swiss bar, and I never really used anything like that. So I'd say overrated. And with you, I also think that oftentimes, they're overrated if you don't need them for what you do is what you kind of nail just now. Because I see people using like a trap bar to avoid learning how to deadlift. Yeah. You know, I really do think that that's a lot of the issues. Like you cannot sell me on the idea that a trap bar, that lift is more valuable than a deadlift. So just learn how to do it. You know, there are other bars, you know, like you said, that have their value if that's within your wheelhouse, but if your body building or physique building, unlike it's really necessary. Okay. Couple more will make them quick. BCA's by themselves. I'm going to say underrated now, because everyone now craps on them. Can I say craps? Yeah, yeah, yeah. I get your laugh. Thank you. You know, I'm saying. So, you know, ten years ago, they were overrated. Now they're underrated because everyone says their garbage and they absolutely have their place. I can tell a difference when I use them. The end and everyone's like those are garbage. You should only use a, as those are kill you or whatever they say. The trend that's trying to get me, whatever. All right. And the last but not least, Chuck's for lifting. This was, this was an easy one, I think, for dusty. So it's underrated. Go ahead, Rob. We'll give you the real answer now. My answer to this is, I, I get how it's good to be aware of what's going on with your feet. And I get that it's good to understand how things work and all that stuff. But I, I think that it is one of the things that has gone way off track for how important it actually is to most people. Yeah. Some people have collapsed arches, some people have all these problems with their feet. Some people can just wear whatever shoe they want to the gym to train. You're fine. You don't need any, like, as a body person. It's coming. I'm trying not to as a body builder. I wore like, I just, I like to de-tas high tops. I used to train in basketball shoes all the time. I did a million sets of squats in basketball shoes. A million sets of leg press in a de-tas in, in, you know, converse comes, and I've would all those, like, all the high tops. And we're all that stuff trained and anything. The only thing we use to say is, you don't want to squat with, like, springy running shoes, like this stuff that has like low, you know, there's stuff that's just, yeah. This stuff that's for running, that have a real springy heel, like, the Nike shocks, And stuff, we used to always just be aware of that type of shoe. It's kind of weird to squat in because you can fill yourself moving more. But we just trained in whenever we were wearing because that was the shoe we like to wear for gym fashion. Like that was the only thought we had in our head. The whole thing about feet, literally the first memory I have in body building. Of anyone giving a shit what you were wearing for shoes was in around 2008 when Ben Bikalski started wearing vibrance. I remember that. That was the pinnacle. Like the moment when all of a sudden everyone was talking about what shoes should you wear at the gym. Up until that moment, nobody had anything really to say about it. Power lifters were chucks, but it was just kind of a thing that you're like, oh yeah, he's power lifters weren't chucks, but we didn't really talk about it. It wasn't really that big of a deal. And then the foot thing came in and all that stuff about, you know, should you have your heels, or anything under heels, should you have a totally flat foot. And then squat shoes came in, they became a thing with elevated heel. Guys are bringing in other pair of shoes just to squat in. And all that stuff. But up until like 2007, eight, nobody cared. Yeah. You did so good. They're so good. That was perfect. About not swearing. The rest of it was fine too. I could tell you one thing too many times, you know. Yeah, I felt it too. I felt it too. I felt it. I felt a little pressure. I had a little pressure. You brought it down. And I agree a million percent. And I have to say just because it's funny. The majority of anything that I do in regards to what carbs I drink or what shoes I wear is just because I like it. I buy chucks because I'm cheap with tennis shoes. And I like them. And I can have multiple pairs. So I can match my hat because I'm like a 10 year old just like you run. And that's the best. So happens to a reason behind it. Like that's it. And I'm like, oh, those are $50 and they're still cool. And I just will say some whenever you need to. Yeah. I'm also cautious of the fact that when you are 41 years old and a really cool new style comes out, you have to remind yourself, I am 41. And if I buy those shoes, I will look at a 41 year old trying to look at 25. And I am not trying to keep my old man chucks. And over here until I'm old enough to start wearing some new balance and mowing the lawn. You know, there you go. No biggie. All right. This one wasn't a question. I thought it was a good idea though. So I wanted to put it up for our audience that he says, hi, Ron, Dusty and Scott really appreciate the content. If I myself watch you guys weekly and really appreciate the humor knowledge and banter, I was thinking of a segment where you guys show someone's top set of the week. Either one of the guys or a listener submitted one. It would be entertaining and you guys could give pointers as necessary. Thank you for all the work you put in. And I'm going to tell people if they want to post something like over at the Think Big Facebook group for top set of the week and we see something good over there. And I can remember, I'd be happy to bring it into the show. That'd be cool. Yeah. I don't mind that idea. In fact, I already did something like that when we used to do our live show from the mutant office back in 2015, 16. We were streaming live over YouTube. We would do these mutant live broadcasts. We would announce them on Facebook and we'd have a bunch of people watching on Facebook. And it was like a newsroom type show. I would give an update. I would talk about our trip to the Arnold Classic. I would introduce a segment where we'd show a fan doing like set of the week. That's cool. Yeah. And then I'd get set of the week from one of the mutants. So maybe I'd message Dusty and say, hey, can you send us a set this week and I'll air it on the show? Yeah. And so we did that sort of stuff on, we used to call it mutant live. I like that. Yeah. So that was like a long time ago. But that's a cool thing that, you know, it gets people going too, because, you know? Yeah. Yeah. That's what I was thinking. People posted a set and other people come on and go, you had one more. Yeah. What about this one from Chris? He says a question for the next episode. I've been playing with the idea of opening a small gym, not opening the public just for personal clients that I train under supervision, personal training. Do you think this can work? I'm already satisfied to have more space for my home gym. So I can get in more machines for myself. And the clients would be a bonus. Of course. The good idea. What's that plan? It can work. Yeah. I know lots of people that do that for a living. They never leave their house. Yeah. The biggest thing to look at in that scenario, this is all business options is literally stop saying can it work and saying how does it work? Because you know people that have done it. So it can work. How do I make it work? Once you figure out that part, you're set. I mean, like Ron said, I know guys that literally started their home gym during the, that word I can't say that two years ago took place. Or you all can go to the gym. That's why I started. Then they, now that's their whole business. Because now they're like, oh, my clients come here. And then they're like, why would I change this? I have this gym. I don't know the house. Everyone's a winner. We're not waiting for stuff. Yeah. Yeah. It's just figure it out and make it work. I mean, plus you have a gym for yourself. And if you ever want out of it, you sell the equipment. There you go. All right. How about about a question about proteins, Joe Han, who's been commenting on a lot of our stuff. Supportive listener. He says, uh, I would like to know if there's any major downside to using a protein blend post workout instead of ordinary way. I'm already using a blend to make a protein paste together with my oatmeal. And thinking of using it post workout as well, since I like the taste and consistency better. If I recall, skip mentioning something about blends on an episode of Blood Sweat and Gear, but didn't go into depth about it. Thanks. Absolutely. Like when when he says blend, what exactly does he mean? I'm taking away this case. He's seen a protein almost. Yeah. Yeah. That's completely fine. Like no worries at all. Just do your thing. That's the reason that that's brought up is because that's back. What we talked about a couple weeks ago where we saw that big pushing. You know, way right after training is a digested quicker and all that. Yeah. I keep in mind that I jammed down the, uh, like I like to eat whole foods. The majority of my day as whole foods and oftentimes post workout as whole foods. I think we overthink that. I mean, yeah, it's just not the end of the world. So yeah, if you like it better, rock it. May not your buying well, that's protein too. Yeah. All right. Jay says, um, Ron does to you. I don't know if I already read that one never mind. I hit that. Yeah. Yeah. Um, Kenneth says a question for Ron. I know you're into guitar. If the two rock gods had a drum solo challenge between Neil Pertt and John Bonham, who wins. He says too. He says also I signed up for Patreon, um, but I'm on TDI for kidney failure. Going to do surgery for the port sometime in February. Once I'm back financially, I'm going to contribute to you guys. Listen, anybody who's on kidney issues? People take one of the hospital. Please don't send any of your money to Patreon. Save your money. All of it. In fact, you know what, Patreons good for people that have that like five extra bucks that they can contribute to us. But if you need it, please don't send it. We want you to be able to eat your food and pay your medical bills first. I, sorry, Ron. I had to say that. You know what I'm saying? No, no, no, totally, totally. But we appreciate everybody who can. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. No, definitely. But sorry, I forgot the first question because they got. Yeah, Neil Pert. Oh, yeah, the two rock, John, John Bonham. Yeah, he was Neil Pert. I don't even know. Pert's the drummer from Rush. Oh, he's good, huh? Yeah, you see, you know, yeah. And then progressive, you know, that complicated, like all the weird timing signatures that Rush had and they were like that, you know, real Prague band, right? You know. And so Prague drummers are often the best. I mean, you know, Danny Kerry from tool. Also, I mean, you know, tools very progressive in their, their metal genre, right? So Neil Pert and John Bonham, I mean, for me, John Bonham would win that. He's, you know, to me, he was that, that classic 70s drummer, like, you know, I mean, Led Zeppelin, right? So that's, that to me, it would be what I would go with. You know, I was never a massive Rush fan, but I just really appreciate their level of musicianship and all that. And I actually appreciate Rush more and now than I've ever appreciated them. It's still just not like they're not one of my favorite bands. But like when when they used to come on, I used to actually turn this station because I didn't really like Rush. But then as I got more like appreciative of the musicians that my favorite bands keep listing, you know what I mean? Like you see, you see an interview with one of your favorite musicians and they mentioned Rush and you know, they all mentioned Rush. You're like, I should really like give Rush more of a chance. You know, so I eventually like, I can handle them now. But yeah, I just love that you know, all their names of a band you don't even really enjoy. Like, oh, well, that's the band. He was born in 1937 and then yeah, why do you know this? Well, we're Canadian too. So we know that Rush is getty Lee on the base singing. Obviously Alex life's a non-gitar and Neil Pert on the drums. We just know that. We're Canadians. It's in the DNA. That's why I don't know. So not Canadian. Thank God. I thought I was just dumb. Anyway, we just know what maple syrup comes from trees. Beaver's build dams. You know, beaver's never mind. Do you think I'm a per Rush? In that is all we had for listener questions this week. Well, that's a deal. I know, I know Dusty had a few. Can we do a few years, Dusty? Yes, I feel like I have to one minute. I have one that I have to point out. And this is possibly judgment. It's definitely judgment. But I don't care. Oh, but I got to bring it up. I got to bring it up in Ron. Don't say if you get into this one. But you've got to trigger Ron. Is that what you're saying right now? You're going to think it will. Because I think you'll understand me. I don't OK. So a pet peeve of mine with our industry is people who while their body building, let their entire life fall apart around them. Yes. Yes. Their relationships go to hell. Their job goes to hell. All these things go to hell. When I see someone post their pictures on Instagram, and their kitchen has dirty clothes on the counter. And objects, I won't say the S word, all over the freaking place. I can't even look at your physique because I'm like, your life is a disaster. And I know it's a disaster, not just because it's a disaster, because you posted that picture and thought nothing of it. Just here I am. And all I see is that you have panties on the damn countertop, a stack of them. And then I'm psychotic. So I go to your page and I scroll down and I realize that all of your pictures look that way. Six months ago, your progress pictures looked like that. Oh, and then I find out you're a trainer. And I think you can't possibly be organized enough to take my money. If that's your kitchen. OK. I'm good. I saw that two in the morning of the day. I said it to five people. I lost my mind. I was like, how do you live like this? And then I just assume that your entire life is a disaster. I'm like, would you go out of good bicep? But you're shredded. Anyway, that's the dusty. Dusty. I, I am like very, also. I'm very judgmental with certain things. And, and I, like, you know, you see those hilarious pictures of like, you know, the chick showing her ass in the mirror, but there's like a log in the toilet. Yeah. Or do you see those? Yeah. Like, it's just funny. Like, you know, awareness sort of thing that you, you notice the odd thing. And I'm like, ah, they didn't look at this picture. This is a disaster. Yeah. I don't even know that. That was my big one that was not a viewer thing, just me, you know? How do you feel about that Scott? Yeah. I, um, I don't know. I guess I guess I get it. You know, I feel like I had been on that end of things at one time. I feel like before I had worked for myself, there was like a three, four year period of time where I did not have the organization that I have now. And I'm still not great at it. But I, I feel like I would at least, if I were still in that place, I would at least pick up my panties off of the table and put them in a, in a, in a grunk. You have those, but yeah, right. Yeah. Before before I took the picture, you know, like I, I, I don't know. I feel like you should at least just move the camera over here. I don't know. I don't know. I'm all about still having a good picture, even if my life was a disaster. Having there has been you should, if you, if your life is disaster, you should still put it out there and Instagram that you've got it all together. People. For you. I do us live. It's live. It was. But it is, I mean, it's just a little bit. It's just, it really is because I'm like, I can't even, I didn't look at you. Yeah. I didn't even look at you. Um, okay. So there's a couple more that actually were really solid. This is another one that came up at the gym today. So, but I had to point it out because I want to know if it happens in your gym. Ron. Okay. So, and I, and I feel like this is back to our government's doing a great job of brainwashing. So, a very, very regular thing in our gym is for someone to get done. Go get the towel in the sanitary spray spray. Everything. Wipe it down and then leave all their weights and walk away. That's a thing, huh? And I mean, I'm not type of a one person. It happens on I'm like, listen dude, you were sitting in a t-shirt. You're not trying to harden up to sweat. I don't even care if you spray it down. But if you could just take your weights off. Yeah. If I need it sprayed, I can do that myself when I get there. Like, I don't know someone's other one. Oh, I need it clean. I really don't care. Yeah. No, leaving, I don't understand how, so you have the wear with all to know that you should clean. I mean, they're cleaning the handles of dumbbells and then leaving them on the floor. I'm like, what? Yeah, and it's the normal thing. I see it literally all the time. I've never seen that. So is that thing? I don't know. No, no. I wish everyone would get past the spraying everything. The only thing that you have to spray and wipe down is if you sweat on something. Like, you know, if you're sad, like, when. Yeah, it's it. But I mean, we have hand sanitizer. It's all over the gym. We stick your hand under them and you go like that and your hands, you know, kills everything on your hands. So you know, you shouldn't even actually have to wipe any of the handles down because you should just use hand sanitizer every once in a while and you're fine. But some people still want to wipe machines. We don't, yeah, you don't have to, you know, some people are obsessive about it. Obviously, it's courtesy things. If you sweat on something, you should wipe it down. Yeah. But, you know, some people have like a hoodie on. They're not sweating on anything. You know, like a hammer, a row or something. There's nothing to wipe. Like, I don't care. Yeah, very, very odd to me. And that's just a good question that I thought I'd ask you guys. Why does the word influencer come with a negative connotation? Well, it's, it's, it's. It's because anyone can claim it. So there's no like standard of anything. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Like there's, it's, it's not like you have to be certified as like, oh, if you're making, you know, if you're making five grand a month from your, your Instagram, you can classify yourself as classified as a, you know, significant income and call yourself an influencer. It's nothing like that. You know, there's a whole bunch of people out there that are influencers, that actually make no money at all from their social media. No, are they influencing anyone? No, are they actually influencing anything? It's all an illusion that they're creating to try to like fake it till they make it. It's, it's the ultimate example. So, and I see it everywhere. Like, hey, guys, today we're testing this product. You know, it's awesome. Blub, blah, blah, blah, and they make it sound like the company sent it to them for free. For them to do the episode. Yeah. But they bought it and just did the episode to create content and put it out there. And no one actually paid them at all. So there's a lot of that, but it, you know, if they do that sort of stuff, they can appear to align with brands. They can show off the new watch of whatever brand. And if they do it enough times, people start to like literally think that they're sponsored by that watch. Right. You know, so there's a lot of like that sort of stuff going on. And it's like, you know, if to like, you know, read between the lines and look for the actual links, you know? Which I was wondering because that question came up and simultaneously I asked a friend of mine about a property that they have up in Montana that like they do everything. You go, skeet, shoot, you can do all this kind of stuff. And they own this huge ranch. And I was like, as soon as I realized you had it, I'm like, oh, I'm in. I'm going to definitely look at dates and come, uh, become a customer yours. And he sends back to me. He says, uh, well, he goes, uh, we actually do influencer packages. So I'll say what price can start to use that word. And I literally respond back with like, oh, I love that word. It pays my bills because I stopped being a bodybuilder five years ago. And I'm still making money from bodybuilding. So I think it's funny because like the general public has decided it's a bad word. And I'm like, oh, no, no, right. Right. I love that word. It's the reason I run and I still exist. I like that. I hadn't flip up that. Yeah. You know, that's exactly right. Yeah. You know, so it was just a funny thing that happened. Lured I got that question and then he and I were texting. I'm like, oh, no, no, no. This is a good word. And I'm like, I also think it's awesome that a place like that actually does it. Because I'm like, that makes perfect sense. I mean, I could totally see the amount of content I could create there. And the fun and people would definitely be down. So it's it was an interesting piece, which I will be going and will be posting and cool. We'll be talking about it from there. So it would be pretty cool. That's cool. Yeah. Very cool. But yeah, I thought that was interesting. I got to say I remember the first time somebody called me an influencer and it was early on in the like the development of that word. It was Becky who does my or at the time was doing my deep tissue work. And she said something and she said, well, you're an influencer. She's like, that's what you do. I was like, huh, okay. I just like literally thought about it for a minute. You know, I was like, okay, I guess I kind of am an influencer. I don't see myself that way, you know, right. And we do it in a different way. I think, but I also used to tell people that I had a podcast years ago. Like, what do you do? Well, I, you know, I'm a coach in a podcaster. People are like, oh, podcaster. What's that, you know? And nowadays, if you say, oh, I'm a podcaster, then the responses, my sister has a podcast. Yeah, you know, what that's the agent that in the development of the culture. That's the way my sister has a podcast level of development. Yeah, which it's interesting. I remember in a history of photography class, there was a point in history where only people who were very rich in people who really knew what they were doing could take a photograph. It was very complicated equipment. It was very expensive. It was hard to get ahold of. And then they developed something they called the hand camera. And that was a camera that you just had a little box in your hand and you clicked it. And like all the old OG photographers, they all said at this point photography is dead dead. Because they thought this is it, you know, it's like in the hands of the normal average person. But the reality is, I mean, look at what's happened with photography since I was like in the 1910s or 20s something like that, you know, right, which yeah, so I don't know. I'm a year's, obviously dead. Yeah, the development of the hand camera and then it just blew up from there, you know, so I always think of that as a similar type thing, you know. So I have a good one that we could probably close out on so we can close the end here. Biggest mistake you made in your bodybuilding career. I know it's a tough one and I've made so many. It's very tricky. Got you five of the biggest ever. Yeah. I think I got I got just a little bit too heavy several times and it made it difficult for me to get in the type of condition that. Like there was several years where I looked really good, but I was like fuck, it wasn't quite where I wanted to be, you know, because I was in really good shapes several times, but there were also like a handful where I don't know. I don't know. Like the end result, you just want to look, can you look better at any of those shows, you know, you think there's a few I could look better at. But it is or is the regret more of like a training thing long term like I shouldn't hurt my back or something like that, you know, I don't know it's hard it's hard to say. What do you just got? I can think of a lot. But the one that I think really sticks out to me is that and this is kind of like a twofold so you know, I I moved back to Michigan and I took a blue collar job and left my life. You know, I went to school for photography left all that behind and I wanted to rethink my life and at the time that's when I got back into training and I got serious with it. And I didn't really focus on my job at all. I just took a job. I just took a job that I had gone, I'd worked it while I gone through college and then from there. The company went under, so I took another job and that's when I started working for the pop company and I just was like I'm just working my job and it allows me to do the things I want to do bodybuild and I can eat meals when I want. And that's all I cared about and I didn't think about like trying to excel at that job because I really didn't like it. But like I said, it was comfortable and so I stayed there. But so that was one problem. The other problem was I expanded so many calories doing a job that I didn't like like I got to a point where I could eat McDonald's every day on top of all my food and I still had abs like it was really, really hard for me to grow because I needed to eat so much food. And eventually it went to like adding crap food and then I screwed up my digestion and really when I look back at it, it was a job I didn't really care about. I should have taken another job that it could have been another job I didn't care about. I don't care whatever it was. But I could have done something else and been able to grow better in bodybuilding, not having to push my digestion as hard as I did. That would have probably been honestly for me, the single biggest mistake that I probably made. Nice. I'm in sense. It's too far away. You know, I could have focused on my job too, right? I cheated by letting you guys answer first so I could think longer. I figured out the during the guys answers. So the biggest mistake I made in bodybuilding was not being present along the way. I didn't start getting pictures and things like that for memories until I had air quote made it. And I wish now in hindsight I had more of the memories. But I wish I had a paper from all those times. Like for example, on Sunday, me and two of my buddies trained. So the only day we trained together every Sunday we trained legs and it feels like my entire life when I was younger. I would just meet my boys at the gym, the goal was to kill ourselves before we went home. And we're doing that now once a week. And I'm like, man, I wish I would have realized that those were some of the best times of my bodybuilding. We're just being the boys in the gym. Of all the great memories I have and shows in travel, even when you break it down, I know Ronald agree with us. Some of my greatest mutant memories around the life of Jim training. So when you realize that as the higher end of your career you rose, I had that for years. And I think a lot of people that are chasing this, whether it's the pro-card or the influencer or whatever, aren't realizing they're already in the coolest part of the process. Yeah, I ran it with your friends and love in it. Yeah, I can't believe I don't have more photos of training with the guys, like all those two years in Australia, hardly have any pictures of us even together. We take pictures at events and stuff, but it's just at the gym hardly. You know what I mean? It's just really funny. I'm lucky something we thought about. I did because it was kind of like, you know, I said, coming from my old world of photography. Coming to this. Well, not only that, but the second thing was, is like, I had a great appreciation for having found something new, you know, find something else that I could love. And I was like, I'm going to, so I have, like, I still every day I get a new Facebook memory of a video I shot training with Shelby or doing something or, you know, right. I second prep. I started documenting pictures from like the first week. And I posted a amount of message board and actually I used that to get free supplements because I was using this company supplements and I said, you know, these are the supplements I'm using. I'm posting in their message board and I said, I'm 16 weeks out. These are the supplements I'm taking. This is my diet is this is what I look like. I was a middleweight, you know, and then I got peeled and it like then ended up paying me later because they're like, hey, you're really good at this, you know, so like it turned into something. So because I had to all those pictures, you know, all along the way. Yeah. Yeah. I think people should do more of that though, though, because it is something I go back now, both of my girls love to train now, which is awesome. So I go back to the gym and the afternoon and train them. And I see these young kids in the gym that all of the old timers like us get irritated by and I don't. I just see dudes at the gym doing what they do, whether they know what they're doing or not, training hard, having fun and I'm like, man. Enjoy this because it's literally as good as it gets you just get better at it. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. So soak that up as my answer for the question. That's the only that's the biggest error I have. And I actually don't have any pictures from stage when I was younger. I used to even say it like my mom would be like, are you going to buy the pictures? I'm like, no, I'm going to wait till I get better. If I have none and I'm like, right. What I would pay for the 186 pound dusty on stage, it wasn't even very good shape just to have those pictures would be awesome. Yeah. You know, so that's it. Thanks for letting me cheat off you guys. So that's it, man. Good. I thought that was okay. Well, I hope everyone really enjoyed the live interview on Wednesday. Done yet. But you guys have seen wait. Well, yeah, should be a good one. So we're looking forward to that. And yeah, do we just like share subscribe comment and ring the bell and also remember I am mutant dot com. You can make supporters of the show. Go on there. You got dusty 20 and big run 20 to get 20% off. So definitely use the code. And yeah, we appreciate you guys and and you know, last couple episodes. I really enjoyed reading the comments on YouTube as well. Yes. So I love to close up and remember questions. What are we doing? Scott questions on YouTube get priority. Yes, questions on YouTube. And if you're on Patreon, they have a thread that I put up over there too. So okay awesome nice. Okay. Thanks guys. Hard course out of the week. That'd be cool to see. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's take us up. Take us up in a few and yeah, we like the idea. Okay, remember everybody. It's just bodybuilding.

Hey, what's up guys? Welcome back to Bloods Wet and Gear with Coaches. Skip Hill, Andrew Barry and myself, Scott McNally. And of course, you know all the stuff you know who were brought to you by you. The people of Patreon, truenutrition.com. Use our code, think over there, supplement source.ca for Canadians. Very well, thank you for all the support from Patreon and from our advertisers. You can support us through Patreon or shop with our advertisers because you get something out of it at the end of the deal there. And we're happy to be here. We've got a bunch of stuff today, including in saying set of the week. So you've got some entries there. And we've got some questions. First question is from Patreon, guys. It's a question from one of our listeners, Casey, and you said, how far into your body building before you know if you have pro genetics? Six months. You know pretty early is what you're saying. Yeah, well, like other people will tell you, because I'll look at your calves and they'll look at your shoulders and they'll look at your forearms and then they'll see on the gym and see, like, let's say like when I was a personal trainer, you do a guy a good genetics when he's a younger guy and he comes in and within like six months he's already made more progress than you. And he's just kind of half-ass in it and Dick and you know, and you're like, hey, you know, you need a coach. You heard a body building and they're like, oh, yeah, something like that. And you're like, no, like, I think it should be your thing. Like, you want to go to the Olympia? Yeah, no. But yeah, I don't you guys say like you could usually tell if someone starts hitting body building, if they're putting on, you know, 25 pounds of good weight in their first year. And all the muscles are thickening up at the same rate, roughly. And shape, right? There's a lot of times not always, but like good muscle shape is a thing. Yeah, you see the insertions and you're like, oh, man, the joints look small. And the body fat distribution is pretty even all across. You're like, you can have a career in this stuff. Yeah, I can disagree with that. Yeah. There was a factor. I'm sorry. Yeah, that's what I was going to say too. It there are things we can't see. You know, how well the body, because it's. I think there's more to being a pro than the visual than the structure. But yeah, and as far as like a simulation of nutrients, how you respond to gear, can you eat a lot of food? Yeah, there's a lot that goes into it. But usually it plays out quite well within that first six months to a year where if you're making insane progress above and beyond everybody around you, there's a lot of potential there. Most people that most people don't have. Yeah, I would agree with that. And I have seen some guys that like you wouldn't think they were going to be a 300 pound body builder just by looking at them, you know, but then they start lifting. And I guess that, I guess that falls into Andrew's category of six months later, they've got the muscle. So yeah, well, let me have a little more to tell you. Yeah, you ask them what they're running and they're like, what do you mean like, like, running into the gym or on the drive? Exactly. And yeah, so you realize, oh, and you're, oh, okay, here's a prime example. There was a guy that went to my gym years ago. No, 100%, he's never does, doesn't even know if PD's look like. Doesn't know their names or anything. He was press in 160 pound dumbbells, like, like 10 15 reps, like, great form on the Nincline dumbbell press. He was see, you guys remember, Javankers, defensive end, nasty football player, like, yeah, I don't even remember what position he plays. He's a defensive end. Yeah, but he was an FZ that would have been a bodybuilding. Like his arm, he had like the clear shoulder arm definition and no body fat. And it's great, he was like six foot three, probably 280 with like abs. And that's what this guy was. And he asked me for a little bit of help to he wanted to get over 300, he played semi-profile football. And I'm like, what are you eating? And he's like, well, I get up and around one time I have a sub sandwich. Right. So exactly. And then like I have a bag of chips before I come to the gym. Yeah, and I do a protein shake afterwards. And then I have, you know, like a whatever for dinner, steak or I order something. And I get a burger or something. So he's eaten like 2,000 calories and he's already 280. And I'm like, oh, do this is easy. He breakfast. Start there. Right. Right. At one meal. And of course, he got the 306 just by adding. I was like, add 4 eggs, 2 pieces of toast and like a glass of juicer, salt them. And he got the 306 in a matter of like 2 months. You know what I'm saying? Like that. Just the kind of stuff that you and you could us, we would kill for it to be able to have that ease with gaining weight. Yeah. So that guy had, he would have had per level genetics if he wanted to do bodybuilding. Hey, how about this one? From Terry. He says after watching the Detroit pro in seeing Leslie get knocked for not having straighted glutes and not having enough leg size, I find myself completely lost as to how classic physique is judged any different than open bodybuilding. I know that the criteria says, I know what the criteria says, but it seems across the board they are judged by the exact same standards. The same is true with women's physique and women's bodybuilding. Just using Wesley as an example, the question is how is classic physique judged any different than open bodybuilding? Well, I mean, first off, classics look. Like for instance, big ramen couldn't try to hit classic poses and we wouldn't all just see here being like, oh, that's a great, he's a classic bodybuilder. The ramen is a friggin mass monster. You know what I mean? Or Jay Cutler in his prime or Ronnie Coleman. Like none of those guys embody like a classic look. And the classic is kind of the throwback to where the waist is smaller. Yeah, there's no overdeveloped or blown out body parts. And I'm not saying all open pros that big blown out body parts, but typically the waist slurments are a little bit bigger because to be 252, 262, 80 on stage, everything else. It's just, is everything grow proportionally like it is with those guys. That's why they're still able to maintain some aesthetic. But I would say, first of all, we get back to Wesley because I would say this just wasn't a good look for Wesley. Like Wesley's glutes were striated. He was just super flat. And his legs were downsized, I think, because he was flat. And because he'd been going so long. Like remember he did the Olympia and then the Arnold and then he did the Detroit. There's not a lot of downtime. And I think he even said he's he was done for the year because his body's just kind of had enough and it wasn't responding. Which would make sense. And he still, the thing is, it's hard because he looked incredible. Like he still looked in freakin' credible and he had such like just great shape, great condition. But yeah, the legs were just not the best. We know his glutes are striated. That's a thing. Like he didn't show up to the Detroit four weeks after the Arnold and suddenly loses glutes. Like he was just super-fright. Everything was little downsized. And the other thing is it's about who you're going against. And that particular show, it was him and Matt. And Matt's strength is his quads. And his hamster, he just kind of blew Wesley away from the waist down. So it would make you think, oh, Wesley doesn't have legs. And it's like, it's like saying, you know, you know, any other random pro next to Big Romney's legs, oh, he doesn't have legs. It's like, well, no, he just doesn't have a brain-dying curry next to him. And all of a sudden, like his legs aren't in the right. And they start looking weaker, you know, exactly. Exactly. But it, Brande Curry still has some of the top 10 legs in the world, target. Right. Right. So the argument there. But then getting back to the discussion of classic versus bodybuilding. And I wish, honestly, where's there wasn't weight classes in classic? Because to me, classics look, it's not about fitting a weight in a hyper-sahide criteria. They do what I think to make it more competitive, making more challenging. I like the weight classes. I like the challenge. And I find that people excel with constraints as what I found. And because they impose those limits, just like, two, 12. I love, two, 12, too. It's what can you pack into what you're allowed? You know what I mean? I don't know. Maybe part of it's the coach in me. But I get a little bit of a rush when it comes to making weights. And in trying to work within the constraints that you have, knowing that even if this other guy is going to be bigger, because he's taller, he's got his own set of constraints. You know what I mean? Why not do similar weight classes then to, like, the NPC and bodybuilding? So that, like, the cutoff is, you know, one, 97 and a quarter for light heavy weights. And then, okay, you know what I'm saying? So that there's a little bit of a, let me give you an example. Maybe if they did that though, they might end up with a lot of guys that don't look classic because they could, you know what I mean? Maybe because they don't let it give it to you. I'll give it to you. Okay. Guys look more classic because they can fill out the right way. And I, I mean, where I was going with that is, I'm a prime example of that. Me, like when I did the Tampa Pro, I had to cut down to under 240, okay. I had just competed three weeks before that. Yeah, you would be a good example of the 53, 254, okay. Yeah. And I was already in great shape. It wasn't like I needed to lose more body fat, but sucking down that 14, like I didn't eat Wednesday and Thursday, or Friday, you know, Wednesday and Thursday, was a show in front of whatever. I didn't eat for like two days leading into that show. Yeah, there's just no way I was able to come back from that. No matter insulin, no matter carbs, there just wasn't enough time to fill that cow. So it was actually arguably like my worst look in number of years. Like I was not happy with the look. Now, if I got to be like 248, okay. Yeah, that would have been a prime spot for me. I could cut four pounds and be great, you know. Yeah, I could see that for you, guy like you, I can see how that would be and you would still have that small waste. You still have the look. Let me also add about the two-twels. Just because I've seen the pictures of Flex Lewis at 231. And he is every bit as conditioned as he is at 211. And the freaky side, like amazing. I mean, I'm talking like check-in pictures for his coach type pictures. Where I'm sitting there with John Meadows and we're having sushi. I think it was up in Maine. And he's like, you want to see something crazy. And I'm like, what is it? He shows me. And like, I dropped my fork. It was that freaking good. And I'm like, what's he weigh in? And he's already in shape. He's like 231. I'm like, he's got to lose 20 more pounds. Like, wayer. So my point is that these weight restrictions sometimes hold back the best look that we could possibly see on athlete, especially in the, like, what will be the take-through? We're going to affect you. Take Derrick in what we got out of him versus what we saw before, once he went to open. You know, I, so I can agree with you. Yeah, at the same time, I love it. And I think there is something, it's broad. I think there's a reason why you don't see fat guys in 2-12. You know what I mean? You're like, you got to be nails because you know that, like, your squeeze in in. And a lot of cases, unless you're, you know, 5 foot zero, like, some of the best guys are. What do you think can help say a handful of people to have a better look where it could go against the look of the rest of the field? And basically make the majority of the field maybe far less classic looking. And just to piggyback off of what you said, Andrew, the way I completely agree with you. But I don't want to leave out when we're talking about the criteria between classic and open. I also think it's hips, boots, and adductors. Because there's just a different look when you get into the legs and the leg development of classic, where we don't have those really long, medium-adductors. I call it, um, it's kind of like a posterior chain, um, impact from all that squatting. And kind of, you know what I mean? Where in open you have that and it's okay to have. And as part of the reason I'm not as big of a fan of the open body building now, because I think the glutes, adductors, hips, and and the waistline, of course, from oblique just the midside. It's just too big. It's too big for me. I don't prefer that one. No, I think we all know when we look at open versus classic pros. We can easily distinguish. I think this verse, what they're bringing, what they're saying is what makes Matt more classic than Wesley, right? Like in a classical lineup, what makes this guy more classic than the other guy? That kind of makes. And a lot of it comes down to posing. How you're shifting the hips, how you're hitting the shots, because there's a lot of throwback shots involved with classic, where open you only really see those when the guys are doing the routines. I shall say this presentation is a much bigger factor in the classic ranks than it is. It's a really good point. Open guys walk out. They know they're big. They hit most musculars. They hit muscle shots, right? Whereas classic guys, they hit shots that for lack of better terms. It's just classic. It's a throwback to the 70s, 80s, the Brada, Haney, all those guys hitting some of those great shots that we love back in today. There were guys at the Arnold that were saying that Mike Somerfeld wasn't classic. They're like, oh man, he's bodybuilding. He's bodybuilding. He shouldn't have won. Okay, say this though, too. You can be classic and you can also be a really good bodybuilder. You can also do well in bodybuilding, because all the things that make you great in classics, small ways, wide shoulders, just structurally. Tell me that we don't want those in open bodybuilding, too. Like, bumstead, that's classic guy of all time, goes and does one open show and what he finished. Third or fourth, I think it was. I can't even remember now. I mean, who's to say if you gave him a year of diving in and saying, I'm doing open bodybuilding, there's no way class would he have risen to the top and maybe gotten to the Olympia as a regular show and gotten to the Olympia as an open bodybuilder. I know he's grandfathered in, but what do you've been able to do? I think he could. I do too. I think he could. Yeah, I do too. Give him a little time, some trend. Yeah. Let's do it. I'm all foreign as a matter of fact. I want to see that happen to be good. I would love to see it. I would love to see it. But if we went the other way and we took some guys that were like real classic bodybuilders, guys like sad trick. And we or like Sean Roden, imagine them less than they were, would they be as impressive, I wonder, if they could fit into classic. Because when I think of guys like that, they still were mass monsters to me. But they still looked classic. Do you know what I mean? Well, they had that thing. Two example of sad trick, we might have actually seen sad trick in real shape. If there were the weight classes for him. Okay. Yeah. Because the knock on him was he's never peeled peeled. Right. Yeah. And if he was forced to be to whatever 248 or whatever, might have been versus 260, that might have been a difference maker. And it might have been one of the greatest physics of all time. I got one for you. What's your effect? How do you think Flex Wheeler would in class? It may be amazing. Oh yeah. Amazing. I think it'd be Mr. Olympia if classic existed back then. Yeah, that's a good point. And the only reason I say that is because you said, you made that comparison of, you know, best of the week of all time. I'm like, I don't know. I'm sorry. I know I'm saying this classic physique. To date, it's been on a classic stage. Yeah, that's the same. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, I think, yeah. 100%. Well, I mean, does anybody been more dominant in bodybuilding through all bodybuilding divisions ever than bumps that? I mean, it's just throwing it out there. Well, Arnold, the argument though would be that his he wrote on his name a little bit. He wanted to do the music. He shouldn't have technically. Yeah. And there wasn't a lot of competitors back there. And then they clearly he was, you know, that's level. But that's the first name that comes to my mind. Share it on a question. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I mean, Lee Haney just how Lee Haney was pretty dominant, right? He was. He was. Um, but that was even during my Hay Day. I mean, that's when I was getting into it. And I knew, you know, I live out. I was like, I got Andrew then. I got one. But Ronnie Coleman. Well, okay. Well, we have this. Ronnie Coleman before he started taking drugs. Classic. I'm saying. Classic. Kind of classic. If the storage of true, he turned pro before ever taken any real drugs. Maybe took some of his thoughts to ourselves. Right? Just wanted Jim membership. Exactly. I mean, he had a pretty small waste. And his posing wasn't great. That's the thing. He weirdly would have had to spend some time posing, working the classic shot. Like, when you're the king, he went out there. He said, yeah, front double. Soon as he turned around, hit the rear double. It's like, okay, who's getting the second today? You know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. What else do we have here, guys? Um, drug Myers. He says 45 years old. Labs pulled after two months into what I thought would put me into TRT range. Is 150 milligrams a week at test, sip split into two doses Monday. In Thursday, this is 24 hours post injection. Astridile is 41 trying to optimize all parameters, suggestions. Um, what do these results say about my physiology? I don't see his like anything about his test. He's just telling us that's his ostrich and I think the last text message I sent you has to put those two together because it wasn't big. I got you. I got you. I got you. He threw some values up there. I think his test is his free time is. That's each. Okay. Got it. Got it. So yeah, he's cranking man on in this test is total test is 2006 63 and then SHBG is 60 and free test is 42. Okay. So he took his labs. How many hours after he took his injection? 24 hours. I'm going to say it's probably underground test. That's probably a little overdosed and he probably should have waited at least another full day before he got his labs checked. And I'm not one of these people that like, oh, you have to get your labs checked in the trough like when it's going to be at its lowest. I want to know what the what the middle like the the median is, you know, where the where the where where sure. And that's why we like to do more frequent injections so that we're not experiencing these, you know, cyclical ups and downs. You want to try to make it more like this. But yeah, I think it's test probably a little overdose. It's probably any probably tested a little early. Let's account for that. Let's say his testosterone comes down to if it's a day later. 13, 1400 probably. But still pretty high for what 150 milligrams. 150 milligrams. I think that total test is over 2000. It's 150 milligrams per injection or 150 milligrams total. per week per week split into two shots. Pretty good. Yeah, that's pretty good. Very good. I don't get the only thing. The only thing that looks off to me is the did you say the SHBG was 60 60. Yeah. Oh. And that's an odd one. And it's free test. That's what. 422. This is a stomp. The I exactly I thought the same thing. I'm like maybe he said 16. I'm 16. I would expect the SHBG to be closer with Gipset in 15 16. Yeah. Yes, even. Why is that so high? But also his testosterone is free test. So high. Something's just free test is so high. Exactly. It's an odd one. I'm almost calling Latter. Something's an odd ad not. Yeah. I had something's little. It's worth the test again, right? Yeah. So if it does listen to what I would do is I would take your testosterone dose like you did 75 migs on like a Sunday morning. And then I wouldn't test until like Tuesday morning at the earliest. Maybe Tuesday midday. Okay. And get those same lab checked. And let's let's see what's going on. Did he actually send the lab or did he just send the numbers? He posted a screenshot of the lab. Yeah. Oh. Yeah. So it wasn't like he didn't write it down. Well, right. Right. We all know that creatin is great for muscle building. But were you aware of its benefits for brain health? Oh. Are these problems creatin? No, it's definitely pronounced creatin. No, it's definitely creatin. I'm positive. Yeah. That's pretty much what I said. Creatin. Creatin? Well, regardless of what you want to call it, creatin plays an important role in brain health. Research demonstration your brain needs a significant amount of ATP to perform difficult tasks supplementing with creatin will improve phosphocreatin stores, helping your brain produce more ATP. So if you're not on creatin now, give it a try. Check out truenutrition.com. Use our code, think over there. They got all your basic health supplements like creatin, protein powder. Everything else you can think of. Use our code, think to help support our programming. Get some additional savings and get a great supplement. Yeah. It's definitely creatin. All right. Not sure where we're going here. And we were, like I said, guys, we're going to get to the insane set of the week. Adam. So by the way, guys, the questions that we've been taking here are from the think big Facebook group. That's also where we're going to grab the videos from the insane set of the week. People have been asking us, where can I post that or how can I get that to you? Post it there. Think big Facebook group. Hey, guys, so we posted in this group. I have a question. I'm hesitant to ask because I think I'm going to get roasted for it. But here it goes. I've lost over 90 pounds in multiple phases of dieting with diet breaks in between. Often, all lower fats during the diet phases as low as 30 grams per day and lower with periods of protein and fiberous carbs only. I do the Justin Harris method of only counting added fats since all protein sources are lean and it makes calculating things more simple. Anyway, sorry, I was getting kind of sidetracked there. Is that the Justin Harris method or is that just the method for counting protein? Because do you guys count fats from chicken and stuff? Lean protein? No. That's a parallel to Justin. I have for years. Because I have a spreadsheet that just like, but it's not a factor in my head where I'm like, if I'm saying I had 20 grams of fat today, I'm not like, okay, if you're using chicken. Chicken from your chicken? Yeah, no. It's like add 20 grams from peanut butter, add all kinds or olive oil or something. So, yeah, it's rare, but it's like background noise really. I'm sorry, I got sidetracked. Anyway, people ask all the time about that kind of thing. Yeah, yeah. I've noticed that when I take a break with added fats, I soon look worse. The more fat I eat, the worse I look and it certainly seems like my body stores dietary fat as body fat very efficiently. I've noticed significant changes in the mirror from just adding in 30 grams of fat per day. It's just five grams added to each meal. It makes sense to me because fat is the macro, most easily converted to body fat. But what puzzles me is that I'm astonished at just how little fat can make such a difference. Keep in mind, I measure way everything and I'm not just doing guesswork with the macros or cheating excessively. So, has anybody experienced this or no of people who just stay lean much easier on very low fats? Maybe those people could get to their three grams of omega fats per day and not really worry about needing any more than that. I like to say when clients ask me stuff like this that sometimes your body just like the Lord works in mysterious ways. I mean, it's kind of like when someone asks, I've been doing everything the same why did I gain a pound today? If we were doing labs twice a day and I could look at what your hormones are doing in the moment. And if I could measure your feet go out and put it in measure, all these left-through of my new variables that add up to some amount, I could give you an answer. But it's just like the trends. It's more important to look at the trends overall. And the trend is telling me what he's describing is that your body does better with less fat. And you probably saw one that does really well with carbohydrate refeits. Did he say the whole time you were reading that I was thinking the same thing like if you're having a problem with that, then keep the fats low and increase the carbs and see how you respond. But there are other variables too as an example. If you're going to add 5 grams of fat per meal in its oil or you're going to add 5 grams of fat in its peanuts or a nut or peanut butter, you're going to get a lot more calories over time. Not a ton, but you're going to get more if you go the nut or peanut butter route or a fat as well. Exactly. So the other part is that does need to be mentioned. Even though this may not be the case, he's lost a bunch of weight. So I have to wonder if there's not a negative, not feedback loop, but negative connotation in his brain psychologically with because he mentioned it. I'm eating fat. Therefore it's easier to be storage of that. Yeah, that makes me wonder if there's not something there where he's kind of like, okay, this is what's happening. And the scale is not the last word. So if you're gaining from that in its scale weight, that does not mean, oh, I gained a pound of body fat because the scale is reading a pound heavier. It's not going to be any different when you take in carbohydrates because you're going to be, you know, storing glycogen, which means you're storing more water and the weight has to go up a little bit too. So I don't consider the scale the last word number one, and go based more in composition. If you have a negative relationship, psychologically with dietary fat intake, that can feed you. That can, that can, that can, that can do you think he was using carbs when during the other portion? He was using protein carbs. Was that part of it? Was there a thing that's based diet is like protein carbs, but then when he's when he adds like five grams of fat to some of his meal. Okay, so he's not removing the carbs. I don't believe so. Okay. No, I thought it was going to be five risk card. He's not, you know, I mean, I'm saying, because then you look is good. If you do, I guess is he doing pictures too, because good, like, let's skip saying is he has this negative connotation towards any type of scale weight gain at all. And what are you actually, like if you're doing pictures, are you actually filling your intercellular fat stores and you look full around or in a good way? But you're kind of overlooking that or you're not even noticing that because you're not doing pictures, you're just looking at that scale and you think it should constantly be going down. And if it goes up at all, you're like, oh, red flag, this is bad, right? So I would tell them to start taking pictures and really start tracking the same way we do a clients, you know, with their check-ins and do your own check-ins with yourself and you know, keep your variables the same and then do another day where you're doing the fats. Excuse me, the fats that you're talking about and look at the pictures, you know, see if you look round or fuller, you might even look leaner, even if you gain to pound or too. All right, listen, we have a lot of questions, so we can either wrap it fire through a bunch of more, we can do one, leave it up to how everything's go, because we want to make sure we get in the insane set of the week. Anyone have experience with EPO for endurance? No, I don't know. It's one of those things are most bodybuilders typically don't want to add in because we're already thickening our blood with the other stuff we're putting in and we don't, you know, we've all heard stories, I can't remember what bodybuilder was using EPO, like in the 90s I think it was and had a serious, you know, a possible relation of that because of it. I think one guy that used it, it was a gamble. It was one of the big name coaches that you guys know well had him use it, worked with him for all the national level shows and the idea was to get like a more volume-ized look on stage. It was what they were going for. I looked at the literature, like the insert on it and it actually says that they will test your blood daily. It's usually done in the hospital, IV injection daily and that they're constantly monitoring to see what's happening with your blood each day before they give you the next injection. So I don't know if you're doing your 21-day cycle, I think it's a 21-day cycle. I don't know if you're doing that on your own though, are you getting your your hemoglobin checked every day? Because from what I understand is it can go from like just viscous to sludge in basically solid, you know, overnight if you're not careful with the next shot. It's just something I wouldn't play with honestly. Not having this would be something I would want like an expert doctor like like Scott's saying like testing you daily. So I just would I would never ask a client to take it, I would never recommend it. Not something I would do myself. How about a segue then or a side question to this then he said he wanted endurance. What would be our suggestions for endurance? Cardering, cartoel you. Yeah. Cardering, nocel you, methanol glue. I think we're going to find some other compounds or yielding some like data. I believe that's a good idea. I've had some incredible experience with data as far as endurance goes. I'm not going to run it yet. I'm going to save it from when I'm not on SLU but I wanted to get a feel for it. And there's some incredible like training cardio stuff going on there for me. The other one, Pico 2, the mushroom one. There's a lot of research. You know, a lot of companies sell it. It's a it's a patented blend of several mushrooms that is but I'll just excuse me. It used by a lot of endurance athletes in particular. So yeah. About MK677 stacked into DACA in test. What's your opinions on adding that in? I was going to say I don't think any of the three of us I know Andrew and myself. We're not fans of MK. Right? But it was being played. Mk plus Deca to me is just like you're going to be a water buffalo. Yeah. Yeah. Somebody asked where they can get ECA in the legally in the US. You can get it from the drug store. Right? Yep. You just got to bring your ID typically and you can only buy two boxes at a time. Brungade or primateen primateen tablets. Yeah. Trying to get my legs to respond three times a week. Three times a week less volume or two times a week with more volume 61 years old looking to start computing in classic physique. No restrictions on any movement. Just can't go as heavy or as much anymore. What's the reason? It's asking the difference between three times a week. I can't see asking whether to do two or three times a week. Yeah. Yeah. Three times a week. Rough. I mean, unless you're doing it. Yeah. Any intensity at all. Yeah. I don't know how you're going to pull that off for very long. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, like it's one thing we ask, you know, female bikini and wellness competitors to do three days a week with pretty good intensity, but they're also in their 20s, 30s. You know, some of the 40s. 60. Hey, man. I don't even know if I'll be able to train legs once a week. I have 60. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. I'm 55 and I got legs again on Friday and I tell you, I'm feeling I'm right now and I'm like, yeah, I hope they're ready to go. Yeah. So, so let's just say two. But let's start with two. Yeah. Yeah. I would definitely go to. Yeah. How about this one? Two of the options are two or three. Yeah. Yeah. Is this a suitable strategy? Pulling test eat 400 milligrams two times a week before the show, increasing mast pee from 400 to 600 and adding in trend at 25 daily, giving me low estrogen conversion status. Furthermore, Winstroke will be added to the regimen 10 days prior, 60 year old classic physique. Wow. We got all these. Oh, classic. Yeah. That's the same guy. That's the same guy. Once you train legs twice, let me try pal. Let me see. It is the same guy. Try to get a same guy. That's good. Okay. I would still a good question, but I would rather control the conversion than to eliminate it by eliminating it to a faster. I'd keep the testosterone in there, just make sure it's controlled. But would you run test E or C was it at 400 mixed twice a week? Or would you use a test pro? Oh, I would definitely. I didn't catch that. I'm a 50, 50 guy. Usually, especially if it's going to be closer to the show. I know that some people aren't. They're like, well, you can still control it. You won't have as much volume to inject. Okay, cool. As long as you control the conversion, I guess, okay. I would rather go 50, 50 split. And I'm just not an an an an an the guy. No sipping a can be argued that it's not very far off from an an an the an the a two. I can't remember the last two. I took to yeah. I can't remember the last time I took an an the an an the an you know what I'll be honest. It's primarily because back in the day there was bad an an the an an the an an a you know in supply chain and I just got away from it and I think I latched on to sipping eight and I've just always used sipping eight and recommended it. I don't know that it wouldn't work well, you know, 50, 50 with pro. I just must sit pro guy. Yeah. I always use testy. It's interesting. We don't mean that it really matters, but my logic is that it's generally going to be higher dose. Our gear is not as like 300 versus 200 and that it will. 300 all day too though, but it'll better hold without crashing that test sip is more likely. I see test sip crashes more than than test healing. That's oh yeah, it does. Really? That's my yeah, you guys know that. Yeah, it's much more successful. I can't remember the last time I saw it. That's it. Well, you also let me know. Yeah, but our air conditioning is like I walked into the gym and I do cardio. I'm like, who would set this at 67 degrees? Yeah, I know's was cold. I forget all of it, but I think that has something to do with why it's dose it pharmaceutical 200 versus testy is 250. I believe I can't remember what it is, but it does. Yeah, somebody chime in. Somebody chime in for me on the comments. Some that they will explain it. I'm sure it is like our listeners know that stuff. But anyway, um, I don't think there's one question. What's that? See the question about using cyclic dextrin and was the other thing? It's on the list there. Oh, I don't know. I was switching gears. I pulled up Facebook to put up the insane set of the week to load for a show. cyclic dextrin. Oh, and what you're going to call it? Hydro discs. I got it. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Is anyone combined cyclic dextrin with liquid glycerol for in the area? Closer bloating. Yeah. So I want to have things to be like, yeah, I want to because I feel skipped because I also, yes, I have. I want to hear skip stick on this because I know it was a thing for a little while 20 years ago, maybe 18 years ago. Yeah, it was it was back in the day. Justin could chime in on this has some really good stories about gel, sludge and stomach, not moving. I mean, it was, you know what, that was the, that was in the prime or in our prime as an industry of just nothing but trial and error. No science to go off. Really? There was some science science. There was something. Was there okay? Yeah, there was in theory. It makes sense. theory. Okay. But based on the science, it would have made sense. But Maxwell, you can go out that way. Yeah, it didn't, it didn't play out that way. And I think it played, I don't want to speak for him, but if I remember correctly, man, it's a long time ago. It was a hydration issue where there just wasn't enough glue because we were to get it to yeah, to get it to move. So it just ended up, I think explained just a giant bowling ball of gel and stomach. I want to say it was Steve Cookello. Okay. Wasn't it? I think it was Justin was Steve. Probably. Yeah. So at least Steve still got on stage and looked insane. You know, like whether it was me, I'd have been like, oh, this didn't work right. Well, I got to do this again. Steve was like, I'm still killing it. I just have a bowling ball of gel in my stomach and sleep down. Yeah. Yeah. That was my experience, too. You look kind of pregnant. And yeah. So you need to pass something and it's just not not moving. I'm going to jump over to this hard course set of the week, give me just a second here. What's up, guys? I got to jump in because I have to apologize. We freaking screwed up with the insane set. So you guys submitted so many more videos that we thought you were going to. And I missed a bunch of them. So we're coming up with a better strategy so that we get it right next time. So we look at a fraction of a mod this time. And I'm like, I said, I apologize. I'm very sorry. But we're going to come out with a better set of rules to make this thing work. And it's only because you guys blew this up so much. So thank you. Also, too, it's kind of cool because we have people at all levels in the group. You know, and you're inspiring people who are one day hoping to do what you do. So I love that. I love the community that we have and I love the positivity. So thank you guys for that. And now we shall carry on with the rest of the show, which like I said, we kind of have to up. So all right, here we go. So hey guys, vaguely from there. Let's see. That's Devon. Am I right? See here, if I can get this to, yes, it is. The RGO. He just went down into his first rap here. Is he moving this lower is it? Yeah, I like that nice control in the negative. Wow. Yeah, and those are legs. That's that's a men's physique pro right there. Nice. Yeah, that's a good legs, man. I really hope we can put the bed men's physique guys. Don't have muscle. Yes, yes, he's happy. Anyone that has never been to a pro show and seen men's pro men's physique, you will feel like you've never stepped foot in a gym. Me and backstage are some of these guys. Oh, okay. No, for sure, man. Like impressive. Because of the way he's for also tiny. I haven't counted his reps here. I don't know how far in this open. I mean, he's been going for a while here. This is where decent he's into. And I have my biases because he's a friend of mine. Okay. And it was a client. I just messed it up. We got to watch the whole thing again. I can't rewind it either. I can't rewind it either. So now I can count to. But I do like those, I like the control. I like the depth. I like the range of motion. I think it's good. Yeah. There's tension there still at the top. They're very at each rep looks the same. Yeah, silent. Sound. Yeah, like good. What's that machine there? Who makes that? E. E. Lee? You know, some type of pen ever. You guys like the pendulum. Love it. I don't go to the gym. So I don't know anything about an injured. I've never seen it in my life. I take a pendulum over a hat, squat all day long. Even though I did blast my legs with glass from the grip. I got a hack at the house. Really? You said last for you? What? No glass for me. Oh, I thought you said it was last for you. Even worse blast for me. I would get it. I'm not talking hard here. This is getting hard for him. It's got another one. Okay. Nice. Good set. Good set. Let's see here. So if I click off this, they can just scroll right on down. This is nice. I like this. Let's see if I can blow this up a little bit more. It's like a jar of go. Yeah, I was going to say yeah, yeah. It's not to count the plates and you're like, I see the elbow ribs. That's Josh. I've got an incline chest press here in the Smith machine with four plates. You got to tell me this is slow down, right? Maybe it's what you're seeing. Yeah, maybe it's what you're seeing it. Skip this. Maybe it's slow down to you. It doesn't to me. Okay. Then I'll try to put about it. Is this awful quick getting off the bench right there? Yeah. Yeah. He's strong man. He's going to do here. I'm going to go down to two plates. You go four, three. Oh, just four two. Okay. Yeah, when you see those cables on a suspension bridge, that's what he has for tendons. Yeah. He's going to freaking power. The guys don't have a brick shit. Look at those legs on him too. Oh, so funny. And I think I told him this before, he's coming to the Vermont show. Yeah, and he back the day, he's getting an excellent shape now. Like he's completely. Wow. He's he's getting great shape for his shows now. But back in a couple years ago, he's had this massive legs and this huge glutes. We called them dump truck. Like, oh, man, it was always like man. If that could just learn how to get a little bit better condition, he's going to start really making some damage and turn off last couple of years. He dropped it down to a plate for audio listeners. We appreciate our audio. Ever got hit by a car. It would damage the car. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely knows that two, 12, you know, pro. Yeah. Syshabe. There's a good set. There's a good set. There might only critique there as he just needs a tan. That's this. Let's see. Do I need to, uh, okay, I can just scroll. I like this. Wait, who we got here? Is this Jennifer Jennifer again? So Jennifer, okay, I'm waiting again. She looks incredible right now. Dusty just posted something. Dusty sent me a picture of her back. I think they trained together and Peter had posted a video of her back. Like, she's in really good shape right now. So must be doing the color. Which is where we're coming up. Yeah. I think we're 10 days out. I got a couple of people doing that. Right. So, okay. Yes. They look good. Are they up there right now? Or are they down and Florida right now? They went down to Dusty's gym in Arizona? No, South Carolina. Was that what he is? Yeah. He moved a while. He didn't want to go. Peter said it was check into they were like, I can't I never get it right. They're going to hover down. Yeah. They travel back and forth up to the home of Amber and. Yeah. Going. You guys know, Peter there. You can see Peter in the video from the gun video that we did. Screw them all that apparently. He's making good progress himself. Why are the kids growing mallets? Andrew, you tell me you're a little closer to their age. I'm closer to you guys. I'm not the hairstyle mallet guy. Should we start doing mallets? The younger guys in the live stream, let us know if we can see it. We've never looked good when you're over 40. It looks like right. Okay. Oh. There's a good set. She's still going by the way. That's for audio. I thought she was done. No, she's kind of crazy. I think it's what I'm seeing out of this. Now, she didn't start over. Word to the wise though. If she is 10 days out. No, it's going to be the last super hard day you want to have. Yeah on the on the likes. Yeah. Yeah. I think it's starting over. Now, she just barely. She got caught in the one. I don't think this starts over. Maybe I'm wrong. I think that was actually. Does it? Yeah. Because I mean that wrap. I don't know how she didn't eat it, but she was she stopped halfway and then was able to finish it. I'm like, I can't control this. They just gonna keep going. Well, okay. Maybe you're right. All right. All right. So who is this? This got diving again. Oh, I'm with another entry here on the hack. I think you can change as close. It must be a different day. It's got an exact one. Those men's busy. Guys trained to look hard. Hacks, what we don't make or this was five plates each side for 10. Really nice control. I love the control that he uses in this. Like you can see he's working this hard. You know, I'm going to be honest. Everything is going like twice as slow for me. So everything looks super controlled. There. Now I can I can see how fat or I can see how far along we are. There's a long set. Two minutes up. I couldn't have climbed through like a two minutes at the other day. He said this was after five plates on each side for 10. Nice. You put your clients through a long set, Andrew? Yeah, well, we did um, we did this thing where after we did like single leg leg press went pretty heavy on that. We went to the like the hacksaw one more upset and then we started with why I started with like a plate on each side. You do five reps and then someone adds a plate. You do five reps at a plate and you keep going until you can't go any more. You try to get like 45 reps total and I think I got up to like five and a half plates. She I think I got up to like almost three plates, which is pretty crazy. And then you rest for two minutes and then you go back down. Okay, five reps. So I can see that. I used to do something like that with leg press where I'd put start with two plates on each side. I'd get 10 constant reps and put another plate on immediately get back down get 10 constant reps put another plate on and then do that until you can't get 10 constant reps anymore. And then put two more plates on and rest on each side, rest for four minutes and then get as many as you can. It's like a good group. When you don't feel like going super, super heavy like you're just like, I'm going to join our feeling it. So you go with some super intense that just you know it's going to blow them up. We got Chris Chris Anderson here on the hack all loaded up nice and slow places slow for Andrew. I think we saw this one last week. Did we it's at the top of the list same jersey he's wearing this maybe where's every time he does legs. Oh, I think we did it says March 30th. Yeah. But we haven't seen this one. Good eye. So this was Chris. That looks nice. True squat man these are nuts. Yeah, they're yeah. I like them. All right, true squat or pendulum squats. Skip. Pendulum because I don't like how the true squat shakes. It does well. It doesn't feel solid. I guess. And if I was moving dusty way, they know way. I like it because it makes me feel like I'm squatting again. And I do like the shakes because it reminds me. It makes me feel like I'm like rattle in the plates. You know what I mean? Yeah. Both about that. He's getting nice and easy. Yeah, he really is. And that's not terribly like nice control to get in harder and he's going slower on the negative. There's a beautiful set. Good job there, brother. Who was I would say when using this kind of way, I'd like to have someone stand there. This is Bobby. So when I'm telling they can just throw the thing in the safety latch in and we're helping me get out just brown again on the squat here. This is from April 6. So this is guy. Anyone? There you know Josh you retired, buddy. Yeah. Yeah, him in Jennifer both Holy crap. Yeah, no kid. Holy crap. It's a way down there. Holy crap guys. He's squatting basically the whole bar. Boom. Boom. Oh my god. This dude is nuts. Still going guys for the audio listeners. We appreciate you hanging with us. He's got seven plates. Yeah. Wow. That was a killer set. That was a killer set. Where does he not done yet? Now he's going to do it. Oh man. So guys he has another rack set up and it looks like he has four plates. Is that four plates? Maybe three guys that are not in the screen who are pissed that they can't squat right now. Josh hogging all the balls of rats. Yeah, and all the plates. No, no the leg press right now. Oh, and he's just pumping out this. It looks like four plates. He's just pumping these reps out. Like I couldn't start with this right now guys. You realize that. Like this couldn't be my best set. Even not having done anything else first. I don't really so I always had to do at least hand curls and some outdoctor before doing heavy. Oh yeah, but what I mean is like I'm saying like even without doing the first part I could not do that second part. I'm sorry. I got you. Well, can any of these more? We saw a page. All these are from last. Yeah, yeah, so I think that was it then guys because these are all from like March 31st. April 3rd here's another new one. This would be new. Oh, it's Josh again. Josh, we've already watched you train for a half hour now, buddy. April 4th here's another new one. And this is from James. It's got a dead left here going off the floor. Yeah, what does it look like? Four three three I don't know what those other colored plates are. I think um, but he's looking really clean on this though, right? Yeah, I was thinking the same thing. He looks like he was born to do this movement. So he stops after about a good dozen plus reps and I don't think he's done yet is he. Because he's holding onto the barn breathing. Oh, wow. Just coming back up for one really brutal freaking rap. That was nice. All right, another April 1st. So I think we did see. Yeah, we saw them. Locklin. Yeah, that was a great one. That was from the last one. Yeah, that was a great one. Okay, they did like 118. April 4th this would be new. This from Brandon Little. Looks like Brandon Lake Press. Yeah, it's on the Lake Press here. I like pressed for the first time in over four years. Really? Yeah, they're nice. Yeah. What's that? How do you go? Yeah, it's not a lower back friendly movement. No, it's not a because of intrapheacle and intrapdominal pressure, but it actually did feel pretty good. I think it might. I'm going to use it as a finish. Sure. Okay. For the next few leg workouts just to see. But it's a finish. I like it down here. Do you ever do single leg press? Oh, yeah, it made me love it because it's not I did when I was having a lot of knee problem because I want that's when I was balancing out strength left to right and it worked. Guys, see you at stuffing this. Yep. Mine is not showing what you're showing. So that's that's a lot of control. Yeah, yeah, he's dead stuff like this. Nice control. The way down I love the depth on that that leg press. I used to always keep my legs closer and my chest would kind of get in the way. So the range was a lot shorter, you know. You guys ever knock a rib out your floating rib on like this? I have it. Oh, that's always fun. That was a really nice. Yeah. It's like. I guess that was it. Guess that was it. All right. Well, guys, we have to make a decision here. What stands out? Well, seen as I was seeing everything in half speed and I don't think I saw the full um benefit. I took I still got to go with Josh, which is the crazy way it's easy to use it. Man, I know but can we not him Josh went again? No, do we give Josh the price of that very week? We did. That's how I feel. I agree. This set right here is for getting credible on its own and then he drops down. Yeah, but I feel like we need to give other people a chance. You know what I mean? This isn't participation trophy. Thanks God. This is what the best said. We just going to clean up every week. That he's a bringer. He's going to have to we're going to have to retire or whatever. When I'll test up the game and bring it up. Yeah, I'm bringing it up. I'm not saying. I'm not saying squat 78 plates. If that's not what you could do. No, it's not just what I'm saying like to go from eight plates down or seven plates are around a what three or four in the same back. Okay, so it was 585 for seven reps and then dropped down to three 15 for 12 and the other rack. That's really good. You can catch very many breaths before he jumped right back. No, he just ran right over to that thing. And those are non lock. I mean those are just constant. These are like easy shots. You don't mean those are like warm up looking reps like when it's not hard. You know, he's doing this. I'd love to deny him, but I don't know if I can't. I give an honorable mention. I thought the guy the guy's effort on the dead was great. Yeah. I feel like every Yeah, that does stop on the leg press. It's hard to pick. Yeah, so if you this was great too like this Exactly, the squat was incredible, you know. Yeah, like I know that was a hard thing away. Yeah, taking anything away from anybody's effort because I mean these are these are great sets and Devon had two great exercises in here. Yep, and of course the winner for last kill and can't win again. Kill and the kill and the pendulum is usual. Yeah, I thought Devon like great here too. All right. So that's that's that. Does that mean I don't know. Is this the end of the contest then? We stop do we because we can't you know, we're not voting. You know what I'm saying? Is that nobody stood out to me as being like nobody stood out to me as being bad. You know what I mean? No, that's well, that's true. No, none of our bad sets at all. None of them were like not worthy of. I mentioned, but I mean, in my opinion, just if someone would have taken four plates on the squat and then done two plates and now and put out the effort that Josh didn't eat in the show or the contest. Or eat? Yeah, I would have said that theirs was the best. I just think yeah, the hardest exercise in my opinion was squats and he did two really hard sets back and back without any rest. Like the three plates I'm 12 was great. The five plates are six whatever some plates times what is seven or eight? Like I'll tell you where somebody could have beat him. I just in my my perspective is there someone we're squatting and they ate it or they had to dump it. Yeah. Out of failure. I'll give you failure in the squat. I'll give you failure in the squat over Josh's strength because strength is relative. Yeah. So, you know, you want to you want to beat him. Go with those constant reps and just either eat it. That is to where you have to set it down or you have to get more. I'll tell you what. The intensity on that deadlift to me was right up there. He took that last rep on it and he had to dig deep. You know, I'm saying him when he tried that rep. I don't think he knew if he was going to get it or not. You know what I mean? That was a that was a really good set. I would put him right up there if if we're giving it to Josh then I would say my honorable mention goes to him. Which let me let me find his name again. And I would say this to Josh. Bro, strong as hell. Crazy good mechanics. Everything's good. The nonstop reps ain't seen you eat one yet. And you don't want yet. And here in his defense. It's awful hard to go to failure with seven points. Yeah. And it's dangerous. It's dangerous. Yeah. We're not going to get any wrong. Like, of course. James over it. But I am saying what is that? That is a level of intensity. Why don't we make a plan on intensity? You got to do two reps? Like 20 reps on a squat or a hack squat or leg press or whatever you're doing. Yeah. Something that combines both strength and we'll call it an endurance factor of some level. So that's not just like a strength contest. Right. Because I'm not saying that being wild by Josh is strength. Well, while I am wild by strength, I'm saying the the the the set plus the set one after another. That's what the intensity of what that day is. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Well, it's good. We appreciate everybody tuning in. And of course, go to bodyvery.com to reach out to Andrew team skip.com to reach out to skip. Hit me up at McNallydiodesagmail.com. And of course, true nutrition.com user code think over there. I tried a new flavor skip. The what is it called cookie butter? You ever heard of the cookie? Okay. Never heard of the cookie butter managed. Maybe I'm just dieting now. But I'm like, why did I not know. But it's new. But it may be novel. I enjoyed it. It's not on the top of my list. But it's it's different. I'm not going to get that flavor anywhere. Yeah. I mentioned some flavor stuff. Do you guys, um, do you guys, you guys, you, your voice? Uh, not very often. But I know occasionally. Cationally. Oh, man. You got to try the the flavored stuff. I work with the elevate foods. And okay. We just came out with coconut cream. And we've got Georgia Peach two different chocolate varieties. Cookie butter. Uh, what else we got? Apple pie. Okay. I'll few. You got to try them out. Use my coconut cream. Yeah. Barry. It's, it's, and if you buy five bags, you get 20% off plus free shipping if you use my code. So okay. Nice. It's well worth it. Like I go through like 12 bags a month. Cool. It's not a great one. Right. And of course, check out the supplement source.ca and thank you to everybody from Patreon. Guys, load us up with questions for the next episode on YouTube and on Patreon. And for another episode of Let's Went and Gear, we'll see you soon. Thank you guys. And thank you for all your positivity and everything. We literally have like the coolest listeners. You know, we really do. We've got great freaking people here. So thank you to everybody in the stream too. You guys are freaking cool.

What's up guys, welcome back to Muscle Mines with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McNaley and all of our programming is brought to you by Scott's book, BYOBBCoach.com. You can get that at BYOBBCoach.com, be your own body building coach or Scott, do you still have the hardcover signed that you're off the side of the screen? Yep, it's on eBay. You can order the hardcover, but right now, Scott's got the best deal if you get it straight through him and are you still donating like 15% of the proceeds to the ASPCA? Yeah, I am. And I have a quick thought on that if it's okay with someone pointed out to me, too, that the president or the highest up seat you of the ASPCA makes like $700,000 per year, right? I'm not profit, not profit. It's an on profit. I'm like, oh man. And I looked into that and there was also some misinformation from what I could tell as to what percentage of their money they take in actually goes to dogs. So I looked into that just to make sure for a second, I'm like, I'm going to have the change. Charities are doing something different. But that number is in the amount of money that comes into that organization. That number is in all the CEOs for basically not, I mean, all of them, but the vast majority it seems of CEOs with a high end, big number charities taken around a million dollars per year. Because there's CEOs and it's kind of like, I think this is just our society is. If someone's able to bring in that much money, then that's the salary that they want. They deserve regardless of its for a charity or not. So it's working for the charity because then it benefits the charitable cause. So I was like, I don't know about that. I'm like, because you're okay with that. I'm, I mean, ethically, it's sort of, you know, it's the less or two evils or it just kind of what comes with the deal. If you want to, if you want a bad ass CEO that manages things well and brings more money in and makes the charitable charity more successful and doing it's charitable work, you got to pay him accordingly. It's just kind of how it is. I want to be a CEO. That's the lesson out of this. I need to be a CEO or something, Scott. Yeah, I mean, if you ever want to make it, you have to, I think there has to be a certain mentality for someone who. Because it's your money for your own. You're fine. Yeah, close. That shows back on now I saw. Oh, yeah. All of it's another topic. It's also brought to you guys by Trunutrition.com. Use our code, think over there for additional savings. I got an order, my college and by the way, I'm running out of college and like I said, code, think over there in supplement source.ca for Canadians. We've got some Patreon stuff. In fact, we might have some, I think we're going to lead with a Patreon question today. Because I think it was from Peyton. Where was this one, Scott? It was about, okay, would love to hear the different opinions on organic versus nonorganic and grass fed versus green fed foods. Do you think it is worth the extra cost? So, the best way to address this, I thought, I like I mentioned before. I may not be in the recording, but I have a two-part article on John Meadow site, Mountedalkaiat.com. It's a few years old now, but you don't really need the know as far as answering this question and making your own personal decision. You don't necessarily need the know. Unless you have some very specific health concern, like you know that you have a particular cancer, something like that that is highly probably caused by a specific pesticide or you have it you're in a compromise in some way or something like that. But the basics of what is, when I'm about to sort of explain here, still hold. So you can kind of get an idea if you want to make the call. And it's a great, it's a personal decision, right? It's not black or white. So, a couple of thoughts, I'm kind of just going to read these and try not to sound like I'm just reading out of a book here, but here's some ideas. So USDA organic, I didn't just know what to spend. Before I wrote this, I thought organic, like anything with a carbon in this organic. I'm thinking like it can't miss it. What is organic mean? But it's a specific, it's a label that the USDA approves based on how produce is farmed or meet as well. So it's an agricultural label you can put on the product. It's different than natural transitional is, and I'll talk with this a transitional. It refers to a farm that is doing the things that they would have to do to be able to gain it. So, and there's a whole list of those you can read those online. But not using pesticides, certain farming methods, and you have to do that for a period of time. So let's say you start off and you've been using certain kinds of pesticides. It takes X number of years for those things to leave the soil and no longer be in the produce. So you're transitional for a period of time. They sort of put your probational sort of speak, and then you can become organic after X number of years. So it's different than antibiotic free range is different. So you can look at all that, what that means in terms of eggs, and other terms that may or not be approved by the US Food and Drug Administration. So organic food tends to be lower in pesticides, but some other differences in it's variable like microtoxins heavy metals, bacteria levels, it's not as predictable. Organic produce has higher nutrients lower in nitrates, so nitrates can form nitrosoamines, which are DNA damaging, so potentially a carcinogenic. You tend to see that organic pork and chicken is less likely to be bacterial cross contaminated, but the bacteria are less likely. Sorry, maybe they may be cross contaminated because that just happens, but the bacteria are less likely to be antibiotic resistant. So to contextualize that, that's sort of a factoid that you see in the in some of the research. But when was the last time you got sick from eating pork or chicken and are eating it raw? So is that relevant? It's good point. Don't know. Yeah. So it's important to protect all this is sort of about context. The variation in toxin and nutrient levels in the generproxyomatter of how long the farmers in practicing organic methods. So this would be relevant. So other farming practices, the climate and seasonal conditions species are breath of fruit, vegetable and animal, as well as the country of origin. So it's going to vary depending on if you're getting organic from Mexico. Like if you're in the southern United States, that's a common thing. Where it's coming from, which farm you can ask, like I used to go to farmers' markets a good bit. And sometimes there were farmers there that were basically according to their word and I trusted them. And most cases, you know, sort of have to go by instinct whether you believe someone, but they're, they're, they're following organic, but we haven't actually done that because I think there is an expense associated with the instance associated with being getting the USDA's approval as being organic. So there's something there. And like for instance, the best example of a whole but beef company was out in the Arizona area. And I used to buy, like I would buy 101 pound chunks of ground beef from him from this guy. And he could actually pick the cow that he would pull that from or the cow sometimes because I like to get the leaner stuff. And he could keep the fat low and he could sort of size the cow up. And I could just see from the marbling, right? And I was buying, you know, 100 pound set of shots. He would deliver it to the gym and sometimes I was like, I would distribute the meat like other people would want some. So I would put it in my freezer and then, you know, I give 20 pound or sell just not sell, but just give for the same price 20 pound. Like Dave Henry got some of your training like gust of scent. I think may have gotten some and other friends there. People are at the gym like, hey, you guys want some of this, you know. So if you leave Henry me, that's not a number of the secrets. Yeah, that's what it was. That's, you know, it's all about that. I think he still isn't contact with that guy because that's the bad idea. I've seen his personal sauce. I'm such a small, yeah. Not already fine. So there's a price look up number, a PLU number, little sticker. That's on fruits and vegetables. You can see it if it has a nine, that means it's organic. Oh, if it has an eight, that means it's a GMO for what that's worth. So if you're concerned about that, so your reasons for going, or gain or cannot, or going to be, it's going to go hand it hand. You have to educate yourself on the product that you're looking at, the farming practices, if you possibly can. If you're buying in the store or direct from the farmer, so it's, it's a complicated scene. You'll have to kind of navigate. Organic beef, just, those kind of switching to beef here and grass-based diets, etc. They'll have a favorable fatty acid content that's more like what you see in grass-fed beef. It's the feed that the animal is fed that changes what you find in the meat. So cattle are rumenants. They have a very different digestive system that we do as humans. So what they're fed, how the bacteria and the rumenant digestive system, then takes that feed and then makes fatty acids and also how much antioxidants are found in the beef, depends on what they're given. So I kind of use the example, like if you take a human and just say, okay, there's your vending machine right there in the corner, you can have anything you want out of any machine. All the stuff that will survive a nuclear apocalypse, right? All this stuff in plastic bags that will sit there forever, that's highly processed and eat that for a year. And then compare that with someone who goes grocery shopping and they just stay on the outside. They buy only the stuff that was once alive and is still semi-alive, right? Or more recently alive, not processed. And it's going to change the composition of what's in your body, right? You're going to end up you are what you eat. I've seen different numbers, I can't say which is exactly true, but somewhere around, it depends on the tissue and the turnover rate, the tissue, but somewhere around 90% of your body's molecules are replaced in the course of a year. Okay, wow. So you're like a new person, a year. And that's from a body-burning perspective, that's really, really cool to think about. So that's why you can become like nutrient deficiencies. If you don't have any vitamin C for instance, you're going to get scurvy, like there's a classic like that. But what you eat is your DNA, your body's biological system does a good job of maintaining all those things, otherwise you just get very, very sick. But the molecules are turning over, they're breaking down and they're turning over. So that's the same thing happens with the beef. So grass-fed diet. So if we're talking about beef now, and then we're talking about the meat now, it's going to be higher generally in anti-inflammatory, omega-3s and conjugate, a linoleic acids. It's important to know the omega-3s that are there are not really a major source compared to fatty fish. Like if you just ate, I don't even know you have to go and figure this, calculate this, but just eating grass-fed beef versus it's not going to satisfy your omega-3 needs, unless that's maybe all that you ate and nothing else. All your calories came there, it's not really a major source. It's a nice perk. But it's not really that significant in the grand scheme of things. Years ago, you remember a little podcast called The Sfoli Trinity? Yeah. I remember Alan Aragon broke that down into detail, like the specifics of what you're actually getting from omega fats from beef, man, and it really was eye-opening, but it just a tiny fraction compared to, like you said, fatty fish. I never knew that. Yeah. So you'll see that. That's like the thing that's advertised, it's like, oh, yeah, I'm going to get my omega-3s this way, and I really don't like salmon or steal head trout or macrower, what have you. Yeah. You know, you can just supplement those things. As far as fats, like, first-ness, whole-beef company. Oh, oh. Sorry. I know. Yeah. We got to take the house. Yeah. You're not going to necessarily end up with a leaner cut of beef per se. That's very, of course, depending on which cut of beef it is in general. But, like I said, with the whole beef company, he kind of chose to be picked that out for me, right? It wasn't always the case. It's like, this is the lean stuff, and I could tell that was very ability there. But I just like getting, and some of the reason why I got that was that that time, there was the period I probably met, I know I mentioned here, but there was a period of time when I was eating 90 plus per se. I didn't have to be able to get 90 plus per percentage of my food raw. Oh, wow. Which was awesome. I felt amazing. It was so, I didn't have to cook anything. So, a little aside there on those days, we're going and going to farms and picking my own fruits and vegetables. Going to place like trader jose where I could get organic stuff. That, that I would still wash it off a little bit. Just as general course of action. But everything, I just threw everything in a big cooler. And then threw a couple ice packs in there, including like a chub of beef. And then I would eat raw. I'd eat the beef raw, I was eating turkey raw. I didn't eat chicken, I stayed away from chicken. I'd eat tuna sushi grade tuna raw. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Of course, the only cooked food I was eating was sushi, and that was the rice and the sushi. That was the, and I do that a couple of times a week. If you were to do that again now, you documented the whole thing with like a high quality cell phone camera. I feel like we can get you a hundred thousand followers overnight, you know, with, you know, It's a breeze to do. I just have to seek out a place that I trust for the meat. I've never eaten raw meat. I've never, you know, I've never eaten sushi. I've had sushi, I've had sushi, I'm not good. And I could imagine this man, I could not imagine this. But I'm sorry, I'm not picking us aside now there. No, it's funny because like, I've even in the last, it's not been so long. Like, like, I sometimes I refer friends that are back in the Tucson area. It's a acupuncturist that are there that remember me for when I was doing this one. I was an acupuncturist school. And I say, hey, tell him I said hello and then they come back and he's like, what? He's like, he's still eating raw meat. I think he'll be over. Yeah, he's still over here. Yeah, he's still over here. Right? Oh, wow. So, so yeah, but I, but I trusted, you know, I trusted his stuff. I, you know, and so that was not a problem. You know, and I, and I never got sick doing that. Not a nice. I tell you what, like, like, corn, like raw corn on the cob. Oh, my God. It's so good. It's so sweet. Oh, really? Yeah, I mean, as an aside there, there was, you won't even be able to find that it's not even on the internet. There was a form of eating called anopsology that a guy named French guy in a beige. I have the have like the a print out of like his document as to how you do this. But he was, the idea from this is total aside now. I mean, I think we're kind of having fun here. But was that when we started cooking food maybe 10,000 years ago or so, you changed the chemical content. And that then disallows us our brain. And we know this, like, there are certain things that people just tend to overeat. We've got so much fat shrugger and, you know, foods are manufactured and also presented you in ways to get people to overeat. I mean, God yeah, look at what's happening to our rates of obesity and overweight. So, but when you eat this way, he believes in this idea of a taste change. And I've actually, like sugar, you can do this with sugar snap peas. I did this in my anatomy and physiology class. I taught at the Acupuncturne School. You give people sugar snap peas that are raw and you say, just start eating these, eating these. And some people like 30 or 40 of them and all sudden out of nowhere, they get a taste change. It goes from being sweet. You know, me just takes boo, and they'll even spit out, right? Some people eat three or four and then they'll be like, oh, what the hell? And like, is it a bad one? No, like, it's not brown. It's not the nasty one. It doesn't have some, it got on it or something. And then I just go try another one. And so there's something is changed in terms of their sensory system. Yeah. And their body and ideas, like, this is his idea, is that this was an evolutionarily evolved system for allowing us to navigate with our appetite, making sure that our nutrient needs are met. And you see people when they're become nutrient deficient systems. You see that with dogs, they'll end up having like pica, it's called where they'll start eating dirt and non-food items. Dirt has lots of minerals in it, electrolites, which the idea would be that those dogs, I hadn't seen this document in directly. This is just the notion, but those dogs are doing that because they want something. Or they eat poop, which gives them bacteria for their microbiome. So the idea is that your system, your appetite control system is somehow engaged in ensuring that you eat get the things that you need. Protein leveraging we've talked about here before too. That's the idea that some of your appetite, your overall appetite is based on ensuring that you get enough protein in your diet. So if you eat more protein, then your appetite goes down. And glucogon gets released with more protein that actually inhibits appetite sweet. We know some mechanisms, at least on a hormonal level related to that. So I just eat this food and I just brought a whole like a smorgous board, like a little mini buffet of the things that I wanted that I thought like I might like. And then I just eat whatever I want. And I always like the beef and I was still training at the time, so that I had an increased protein need. So I always like to be, and then I'll sit in my account, I'm with the beef. I'm going to have some carrots. I tried to do things that were seasonal and regional specific. You know, that's, you know, so and I just eat until like I didn't want to eat anymore. And I just would kind of graze throughout the day and of being I had to because I was in classes and I had clinic and I was trying to busy day. So I couldn't just like, you know, pop open the cooler and start eating during my lectures and that sort of thing. But anyway, so but I was getting grass fed beef that had like nothing on it. These the hoba beans were it had a certain flavor and he had Africanized cows that were really well adapted to. To the heat of in this case Africa, but now they're in. And Arizona, so they're not out there going, oh my god, this is they're just not they were they're really well climatized and genetically adapted to being in the heat. So they were a really good breed of cow to have. It was really humane and they lived to be like 10 years old on average 8 to 10 years. They've lived full lives. Wow. And get there it's it was so much the opposite what you typically see in the in the agricultural industry where they just they they if they're grass we can get back on track out they're grain fed. They gain weight more quickly they give a greater feed efficiency right right and you get more marbling that way potentially. Which is can be a good thing you're bad thing depending what you're looking for. And then they want to basically optimize how much food you have to give the animal relative to how much meat you get from it. Right so once the animal is sort of reached it's you know after a number of years less than I think less than 50% of its expected is life expectancy. It's not growing anymore so why keep feeding it this is the perspective from the agricultural is like so they just that's when you slaughter. So the animals are couple three years old something like that. I don't know exactly the number whereas he was keeping his animals for eight to ten years and he just had enough of them. So they could live a full life and they're out on the range doing what cows do. So what you feed the animals then will change the for instance grass versus grain fed the this saturated fatty acid content overall. Sorry the composition but not the content per se unless you find someone who you know has lower fatty acids or lower fat content and they'd have to do an analysis. But you tend to see more cholesterol neutral fatty acids in the grass fed animals and remember that grass is is the food that cows are sort of meant to eat. So the grass fed actually have more vitamin A and E so those are good. Glutify on an even super oxide dismutase so those are antioxidants are higher in the grass fed versus the grain fed. So you might get lower. So the thing is that the grass fed is not that much of the fat. So the grass fed is not that much of the fat fed. So the grass fed is not that much of the fat fed. So the grass fed versus the grain fed. So you might get lower. Fat content but not necessarily there are also a different flavor not everyone can tell this but there's a many people could tell and it's. You know, I think once you if you've been eating for so many years so many abrogate it so many food source they have so much shit so many chemicals in it. But it's probably lose some of their ability to distinguish the finer differences between a grain fed or grass fed. And you may not even like, you know, you may not even like the grass fed because you've grown up eating grain fed and then it maybe comes a just a comfort food right. Like this a hope the whole hobo beans that was the grows there in the desert so there was this. So the whole hobo beany flavor to the meat which I thought was great. So the last important thing here is that you can grass fed animals and sometimes when they're then taken them to slaughter or we're moving them in that direction. And then they will just grain feed them for a couple weeks. That can undo a lot of these changes you see in the fatty acid content. On the other hand you can grass finish. Yeah, right. And then that shifts things back. So it's relatively quick. It's not and the time frame I don't know exactly. I'm sure it varies. But you can so getting ideally would be grass fed grass finished. Worst case if you're if you're concerned about grass versus grain fed would be grain fed grain finish. But yeah, if like if they say grass fed and then they grain finished for three months you're like, okay. It's basically grain fed. It doesn't really make it much but different. But if you know so we have to grab we have to grain feed for like the last two days when the animals are you know being moved and they're waiting in line for slaughter so to speak. Then that's not going to that's not going to matter so much. So in this case the guy the hobo beef company he was doing all that personally. So they had grass like right up till the day they said goodbye. Yeah, we recently got some peed Montise beef. Oh yeah, it's really good man. Delicious. Oh super low in fat. Yeah, yeah, it really is. Yeah, yeah, it's the chicken. Yeah, the lean ground beef has very very little fat to it. The steak is absolutely delicious and tender. Unfortunately it's not something that I can afford to always do. You know what I mean? It's kind of a specialty item for us. I've heard certain things like with fruits pesticides bananas for instance are pretty well protected from the pesticide. You can definitely like buying an organic banana is not going to be as advantageous as a certain other fruits for your actually consuming the skin. Or berries for incerries. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, but anus you just treat the inside so it doesn't really matter. That's what the you know the peel does for you because yeah, that's that's a huge. You could do I mean, I'm sure they're entire podcast that are dedicated just to this topic and they go through and they talk about specific pesticides and how toxic they are and what the research suggests. Let me ask you this because I think with our audience. The big question then is Scott, do you think that it will make a difference in your body building? If you were to pay, say, strict attention to this. Let's say let's say you could take a guy who was eating all organic and was eating all grass fed. And it at when that was just running whatever was cheap at Walmart, you know, whatever whatever you could get for the best sale. Do you think you'd see a difference? Let me add one thing before I forget this is sort of important. But that's the question. You're just refraising that's the important that's the essence. So I'm not going past that one thing I wanted to add it is that you will see grass fed protein powder. Oh, yeah, like a way I slid or what have you. And the grass or grain feeding changes the fatty acid content. But then when you make a way isolate, you're removing the fat. So that that was becomes an ethical rather than a product quality concern the way I see it. So the proteins are going to be essentially the same, right? Yeah. And so once you get to the point of having a way protein powder that's devoid of fats, it's not a big deal. There are actually if you get undenatured way, way concentrate. So just there actually is an antioxidant effect to that, which has been really it's been well documented some older studies. But you don't really see that and people don't they're avoiding those fats, let's say. So yeah, that's that's the question. Is this going to make a difference? So I can think of several ways that it potentially could. So there are people, for instance, on one side of things that have multiple chemical sensitivities. Yeah, so they go into some businesses and like we had to have this in my clinic years ago. And if someone came in, there's sometimes both men and women, they wear lots of clothes and lots of perfume. And you're like, oh, that smells nice and it doesn't go away. Like the smell is like overwhelming. I believe it's still there. Right, but so it's strong. And so some people like literally will start to have allergic reactions. So they're that sensitive. So you could some someone if these two twins, if they both were so genetically predisposed to have chemical sensitivities to things that are in non organic foods that they're unaware of. And then have an impact, especially if they started taking in large amounts of one particular food like a lot of bodybuilders do because I really like this that and the other this particular berries like that's going to be my fruit source, right. Yeah, that might that might end up putting kind of like kink in the cog of the cogs of their progress. This is an aside and different, but there's been a couple bodybuilders. One of whom is one of our fellow podcasters who went started eating lots of sushi grade tuna. Oh, yeah, and Andrew, right. And they ended up with mercury issues. So a more moderate consumption would have been the big of a deal. But when you're doing what bodybuilders do who are busy, you're just trying to get the food in. You start having that same thing over and over again, then that toxin, especially through particularly sensitive to it, could be something that could have an impact on you. Yeah. The other thing I wonder to it, it depends on the person. And I haven't seen this study. This is just from like experience, for instance, with all the raw food. I was eating, I mean, that's one version of clean, right. I was about as clean as you can get, right. Not cooked, like just straight from nature. We were picking the, picking the fruits and vegetables. I put them in the fridge. I pull them out, wash them off and eat them. That was it. Just to get the dirt off. How's eating raw sweet potatoes? Right out of the ground, baby. And those good, it tasted good. My taste for things was substantially changed. So let's say someone's dieting down, right. And they do, and you know, there's like Aaron Singerman did this. He tried to use an if it fits your macros approach. This is a little kind of the famous one. People can see he may have gotten rid of these videos, but this is long time ago. You think before he even started his supplement company. A way before. Yeah. You remember this, right? And he did, I look good on steak. Everyone was watching him. Like he was, you know, kind of like Sam Sulek, everyone was like, Watch him like how's he going to do? Yeah. Aaron was doing men's physique. And he didn't look good, but he was just going to a diner in the morning. You know, and he was just eating whatever. He didn't really care about, you know, anything other than the calories and the maybe his protein, if it is macros, right. Yeah. So he was just like, you know, a dieting down, let's say, and you're eating foods that have that are that aren't organic, that are more processed, that may tend to cause you to want to eat more those things. Versus foods that are much more satisfying. You froze up on me. So if you can still hear me, I'm going to keep talking. This could potentially impact, actually, your micronutriate status to some degree. I mentioned before, and your, your still frozen. So I hope you're good. Okay. Good. I'm good. And your appetite. Yeah. And how, and how well you were able to sort of manage the diet. Because the foods will taste better. They may then be more satisfying. As long as they're not causing you to binge. But like you eat, and people, many people can tell the difference between organic fruits and vegetables and non-organic. The taste can be worlds apart in some cases. And that depends on, again, where you got it from, maybe how long it's been in transit. There's coatings that they're putting on some of this stuff now to keep it fresh for longer. Yeah. Or if you're sitting it, to brighten it. You're all these things. And when you want them to ripen, all this stuff, right? So this is organic kind of is a major step from protecting you from all this junk. And like I said, this article is a little bit old, so there may be some things like who knows. I don't want to be conspiratorial here, but there may be some things that still happen to organic, USDA organic fruits and vegetables that really shouldn't, if you've based on the nature of what organic is supposed to mean. Tanya was with us, and she said, we're mentioning organic produce uses pesticides too. And those pesticides aren't regulated like conventional. So, you know, yeah, you're certain. Certain ones that are allowed. Yeah, and you'd see, you have to look that up. I can't remember. Yes, there's been a while, but yeah, there are certain that they can. And those are ones that were deemed so. Yeah, you got it. So the kind of get, so that's one aspect of the question. You know, would it make a difference in terms of your appetite levels or whether you have chemical sensitivity? The other thing is, you know, ethically, in terms of like what let's say you're talking about beef now. You know, what do you, what do you think about the agriculture in the sea in terms of how they, how they're treating these animals in general, right? Or in terms of eggs, you know, are they free range? If they're not like they, I mean, you can see some horrific, there's a horrific information out there and what happens with chickens, where they just jam in together and they pump them full antibiotics and some large percentage of them die off because it's like one chicken per square foot or something like that. And yeah, and there's just, they just, they die and they trample on each other and they're running around on their own feces. It's just awful. Yeah. So just how, you know, your psychologically, how you feel about eating lots of eggs, let's say if eggs are a mainstabred diet, right, could be effects. So how, you know, how are you going to do with that? Like are you going to think, you know, gosh, like I've got this luxury that I'm, that I'm enjoying as a bodybuilder and meeting all these high protein foods and all beef and chicken of these things. And I can't with good conscious do this. This is why some people are, or vegetarians, they're animal lovers and they just like I just can't be involved with this at all, right? But if you feel like you know, I'm going to be able to bodybuild it very well as a vegetarian, right? And there are ways around that to the other topic, but, you know, at least this way I can know that, you know, in the sort of cycle of life, these animals are being treated relatively well. They're on the side of the spectrum where they're being taken care of. Yeah. So, but yeah, so lower in pesticides, a different pesticides is important. So you have to, like, and with each, with each type of produce, there's different rules and regulations. And I don't, I don't, honestly, I don't know exactly where it stands now. And I mean, especially, who knows what our new administration may be doing down the line as far as that goes to that could all change, because everything, there's so many things that are getting turned upside down. Yeah. Oh, if they may abolish the USRD USC organic program. So those aspects, you know, you're saying kind of the moral side of it, there's the, like, that allergens side or the sensitivities, the sensitivities potentially. Yeah. Possibly. Um, nutrients. Are you getting that many more nutrients? I wonder if that, and itself over the long haul is going to make a difference. Man, I can tell you that. I can tell you that. You know, you, but you see a somebody who's like, like, um, like, omnis people. And I've seen, I've seen people that are kind of removed from our society. And I'm just like, man, they look so healthy. These people just look healthier in some cases. I know that's a big generalized statement. But I've seen people that like, they haven't been exposed to everything, all the chemicals we've been exposed to over the years. And if we're, if we're super charging all the stuff as a bodybuilder, you're not just eating, you know, past decides and all that. You're like super eating pesticides. You know what I'm saying? So eating your food. Yeah. Your consumption might be twice that of a normal person. Right. Right. I'm not sure if you can see that. But I think that's a good example. You know, I've seen people who are watching you know, but it is, it would be such an expensive experiment to figure out, you know. So the thing like, omnis, this is a good example. Like, you, you see this with, I know, expert here, but with many health related behaviors that they, they will tend to coexist. So, everyone's smelly. You'll see someone who's like, wow, you're, it's, it's so contradictory. Like, you're a vegetarian and you only eat organic, but you're a smoker. It's like, yeah. What's, like, what are you doing, when does probably just cause they're addicted to it? Sometimes, you know, you don't see, you know, people who eat really well. Sometimes you see this, but it seems like you don't see people who eat really well in the extra, as well. And then they're just horrible alcoholics. If they have one really powerful vice, it seems like, um, Time to get the omnis. Amazing. Yeah. Yeah. I was, you know, seasonally and local too. So they were able to grow their own stuff. That's kind of what I was, what we're doing. I go to these farms that were local to Tucson. Yeah. And so you, I was eating what was available. So it wasn't anything that was being forced to grow. Right. So there's, yeah, there's, like, this is, you know, closer to what, you know, I mean, interestingly enough, I mean, agriculture's only been around for maybe 10,000 years as well. So we're, we're even agriculture is somewhat artificial. You would only eat the things that grow in your region naturally without being farmed. Yeah. It's, like, for individual, it can be done. Right. It can be done. You can grow all sorts of produce and those sorts of things. If that's what you do. If, like, basically, you know, you make enough money to run your own personal farm and eat that way. Yeah. That's just not a typical modern lifestyle. But that can be done, you know, in a very sort of traditional sense. But, but anyway, so, you know, the omnis, and you're looking at those examples, those aren't, Those aren't controlled examples, those are kind of natural experiments that we see. And they're doing, like, like, they're eating seasonally. They're also much more physically active. Yeah. They're moving around. So there's, there's a whole lifestyle. And that's just one piece of it. So whether you change, like, one thing went to organic. And here, and actually, this is, I'm glad you brought that up. Because this was probably the, one of the most important points for a lot of the listeners is that, if you're someone who's enhanced, right? So using gear, you've got potential contaminants. If you're on the black market, you've got Benzel Benzel, Benzel, Benzel, alcohol, F-O-O-O-O-L-E-A, whatever, solvents, things that Mike potentially have, toxins have the carrier oils that could have possible negative effects, inflammatory effects, your super physiological in terms of your gear use. So you're just not doing TRT and try to keep yourself balanced out. You've got a toxic load there of sorts, right? I think there's no doubt about that, right? It's, like, this is what kind of comes with it. You know, there's this is one part of enhanced body, but it's just part of the deal. So how much you can, could offset that by, by eating a super clean. I think if you take someone who's just eating just tons of process stuff versus someone who's just going to stay in the perimeter of the grocery store, you can only choose in the organic grass fed or be a better yet going to a farmer's market, and talking to the farmers themselves and finding out what they do as farmers, as far as they're farming practices. And for each of these food stuff, like eggs, you know, the luchene content and eggs, for instance, is different depending on what they've eaten, right? So, but if you did all those things at least, what I think tends to go along with that, and this relates kind of the notion you brought up with the omish, is that if someone has the mindset that, you know, I'm going to, I'm taking these risks, I'm going to do enhanced bodybuilding. I know there's some things that are maybe beyond my control. I'm trying to use farm grade stuff. I'm choosing the right curial oils blah blah blah. I know there's still some unavoidable risk that goes along because my hematicate goes up and my, you know, when I get an oils, my cholesterol profile goes to health. But I'm doing everything I possibly can and taking minimal risks, I'm being progressive with my doses and everything else. And I'm doing all this stuff on the other, in the organic, which is an extra cost. Yes, not cheap necessarily to do that, especially if you're eating a lot of stuff, you can cost a lot. I think comparing that, like I've got, I'm turning all the dials to keep myself as healthy as I possibly can be. And I'm choosing the, as wise as I can, in terms of safety of the things that aren't necessarily intrinsically safe inherently safe. Versus someone that just says, you know, I'm just going to eat whatever I want, I'm just going, I'm going out and I'm burgers and fries. I'm, so, so all you can eat, you know, diet, you know, fast food and junk. And I'm just, it's just boat loading all the PEDs, blah, blah, blah, blah, and not paying, not doing blood work, etc. There's going to be a difference. And, and the, and the, and the question is, I, I think if you have someone who's really smart and meticulous about it and they're taking care of their health. Being healthier. I have this sense, you're not going to see this study, but being healthier and feeling better. Like one of the things just empirically that when someone, when you're trying to bulk, and you're on a bunch of junk, what have you, and you don't feel good, you don't make good gains. Sure, right? So if you're doing this. So if you're doing this, you're doing this, and I know, it's like, no, I'll just, I'll just force it. And there is some forcing, like you go in the gym and you force yourself to get more reps. Get more weight. There is some. You have to, you're pushing. You're hacking the system and pushing it to its limits to exploit your biology, become the biggest, most monstrous version of yourself that your genetics will allow, right? So to have, you have to have that mindset to certain degree, but I think if you, if you can, the better you feel when you're bulky, as long as you're making progress, and even the better you feel when you're dieting down to the, that's an indicator that your system is, is going to do better at making those adaptations to the hypocloric or the hypercloric diet and the training, everything. So, you know, doing all those things and this and organic being and grass fed and all these things, you're diet in terms of the sources of food that you're taking in. I, in very circumstance, can make a difference and you will notice that potentially in how you feel. But it can take a while and the, the studies aren't this long, so like I said, like if, if 90 plus some large percentage of your molecules are new over the course of a year, right? And, and, and, and, you know, toxins will end up many of them are like philic, so it'll end up in your fat stores. I mean, people, this is, I haven't seen this study directly either, but this, there's this notion, you'll see it propagate over the places that, when people start, stop eating lots of process, stop and things that have pesticides, some of these like philic toxins that they will go through like this phase where they're feeling really shitty, especially if they're losing weight too. So now the storage volume where those philic toxins is, is located, and you see this, this happens with saunas too, so you can actually sweat out the, L, R, H, sauna method, you can go, you can go to Google scholar and find that. It's actually was associated with Scientology, L, Ron Hubbard. You do lose toxins when you exercise when you drop body fat, the depots available for stocks and storage. So if someone cleans up their diet and eliminates the incoming of toxins, but then, and this is the idea, I haven't seen this study directly, be hard thing to do, because you're not going to get many people who want to take these lifestyle changes, but then you start, you could lose those toxins that you're clearing them from your system. Yeah, and that takes time, that takes some time. So it might be, you know, a year until some of those toxins in their metabolites, depending on which ones, are kind of out of your system. So it could take a while, but you run, I mean, like I said, I did the, the raw thing for like two years. I felt phenomenal. I felt great. Yeah. I felt really good. Yeah, I was just eating. I wasn't trying to bodyble the time. I was in school. I was studying from my board exams. I was actually working at the school, and I was academic dean and training for the school, and full time in school, and still training and running my gym. I could have had a bunch of things going on once. I was overloaded, but I felt phenomenal. I had just bound this energy. I wasn't drinking a bunch of coffee in the morning or anything like that. I wasn't doing any no-PEDs, bodyble, and really none of that jazz. Okay. I felt great. So anyway, yeah, it's a personal choice, but it's a big, I think, and that last thing I'll say, and this is it, I think sometimes, I don't know if there would be anything noticeable or anything that you would notice or that actually would take place. If you just haphazardly shifted, and so I'm going to just pick this in this. It's not that it's bad, right? But I think for something to have a market effect that you on an individual basis would notice, you may, because you don't know which of those things may be problematic, which of those pesticides, which of those features of the beef, you know, maybe you're someone who just can't do well with an atherogenic diet. Like if your fatty acid composition of your meat, eating lots of red meat, is very important for what happens to your blood lipids. If that's just your genetic proclivity. So you go all in, so to speak, on the healthy route, that's when you're going to be most likely, I think, to see an effect. You just say, oh, you know, I got, I look like here's the organic apples with a non-agentic apples, and it's only five cents more per pound. I'll take the organic, and you do that. And that's the only thing you do. You can't get another setting thing. Right. Yeah. That makes total sense, man. That's incredible, though. It, of course, leads us to Scott to give us an hour in depth look. It's good. I don't even know this area very well at all, but that's my, those are some thoughts. It's good. It definitely, I think, it, it maybe answers the question for a lot of us, and, you know, I, I don't know. I, I'd love to be able to push further into that myself, but just the cost, man. It's, uh, it's a lot. Do you think, I don't even know if we have time for anything else today? Oh, shit. Okay. Sorry. No, that's all right, man. I, I, I think we, uh, we went deep into this one, and we have a bunch of stuff for future episodes, too. So we still have questions, and, uh, not only that, uh, guys, you can leave us questions, because if you leave us something really good that catches Scott's attention, then there's no question. I'm sure that he's going to say, I want to do this one next week. So I think that that's a good move. I'd love to talk more with training with you, and, and like I mentioned, um, in text earlier, I'm here in more people talk about MK now. So, uh, six, seven, seven, seven. Yeah, that's coming back, right? It seems like it is, man. Angelum swings back really is, right? So I, I would love to, maybe even take just 15 minutes, one day to revisit that topic, and look at the research you had shown us previously, because it definitely changed my perspective on it, uh, after we talked about that. And just hear your, your perspective based off of, you know, what we're looking at. That'd be cool. I'd have to go and, yeah, maybe there's some new stuff that's come out since that, um, I don't know, maybe, oh, yeah. If you can find it, it probably could finally easily link to that old podcast for folks to, not that I want to, you know, eliminate that topic again, but I don't know how much more new I'd have to say. I don't even know where it is. I'll have to dig. I think it was on the old channel, and it was, oh, it was a piece within the old content. I don't even know if we could find it. I'm sure it was on audio only, you know, that kind of stuff. So it'd be cool to revisit though. Like I said, if anything, if you'd be up for it. I wanted to ask you too, since we, we don't, we have a couple minutes here. I just want to ask you how your training is going and how the hips are doing. Oh, hips are, you know, it's funny. I've got a, um, someone I just, um, met who is, is gotten a hip replacement. And it gave me some contrast. Very, very, how, about as healthy as you can possibly get massive amounts of pain. Just got one hip replaced. Um, and the hip replacement per se was, was like, I don't even, like, it was nothing. It was literally because I was so well trained beforehand. My issue, and this is just to me, is that I got a hematoma on the right side of the left side, but out the right side did not. Okay. Um, I think I, I probably mentioned this. So after I got done, I was on the, on the floor waiting to be checked out, and they didn't check me out. They had a change of shifts, and I was walking around the nurse's station. So they said I could, and I walked around for like an hour, like, right after, like two hours after I got out of surgery. And they did this. I'm like, Hey, you guys going to check this again. Yeah, we'll be with you. She's like, Okay. So I was talking to people and my, this is awesome. I don't have a limp anymore. This is great. Got home, blood out. It was, I had to go back to the ER. They shouldn't let me do that. Like, there's like, no, no, you shouldn't be walking. Like, you can walk on for a few minutes, but not an hour. Yeah, we talked about that after it had happened. Yeah, is that causing, is she now, I have, I have, I have pain. And I have a massive amount of scar tissue. I have pain at the location. It goes down my sartorius. And then he went in like seven weeks later to, the hematoma. There was not, but he wanted to get an sample to see if it was infected. I'm a while they're checking this seven weeks later, but maybe he knows it wasn't, but he, he nailed the, um, lateral femoral cutini's nerve. So he, he didn't go directly in. He went, went sort of at a diagonal and I felt it zipped down my leg. So I have, there's nerve damage there. Okay. So it just, I mean, I just trained through it. The training isn't like, I just trained through it, but it hurts. I know what causes to hurt and hurts. I like, lying in bed and like, right, not just lifting the leg up. It's just, you've been bodybuilding, you know, for decades, too. Like, there's always some that eight, so I don't even, like, I think the average person would be highly annoyed by it. And I just don't even, it just, I blow it, I kind of just blow it off. But every once I'm like, this is silly because the right side was asymptomatic. I had no problems. And they were coming. The symptoms were coming. The hip was a wreck. It was actually worse than the left one. Yeah. The left side is what hurt. And now I ironically enough, the right side gives me problems. It's relatively minor, but I just trained through it. Training is going good, man. I'm just training here in my barn. I'm doing the 42 training family man plan. Okay. Is that three times? Three times a week. Yeah. Yeah. I just take care of the dogs. And it's a full body three times a week, basically. So, so yeah, it's lots of fun. And you know, every once in a while, I think, like, yesterday I did, I did glute bridges, which I don't like, I throw them in every once in a while because it was the muscle around day. I did glute bridges with like, I was like, almost 500 pounds, I guess, is what it would have been. And sometimes I think, man, what happens if you break your, break your femur, you know, it just amazes me that these prostheses, like they're so solid. And people can check out Roman Fritz, like Roman, Roman's now, he said both his hips done. He had just two surges on each side because he had problems each time. He had to get his other one down the second time. Yeah. Yeah. And he's, you know, he went right in the squatting and it just sort of amazing how much these can have. Because there's like, sometimes I think like, man, I got to remember, there's a piece of metal stuck into the bone of my, the shaft of my femur. And it's, you know, it's held in there. This is modern medical science. This is badass. I can squat all I want. I can do 600 pound leg presses and 400 pound glute bridges. And it's good to go. And I could probably, I couldn't lift it, but I could probably do it with 2,000 pounds and it would still be okay. Yeah. Because that's, that's just, I'm super grateful for that, man. I mean, I have this, like it was kind of medical negligence that this all happened with the thing and they don't care, right? It's a matter of them. There's, it's been like medical shenanigans. I have a whole medical shenanigan story, but, but I, I'm just feel so lucky that I, you know, I can still do this stuff. Like, because I, if, if I hadn't gotten that done, if that weren't available, What is Tony writing? Yeah. She says it's funny how we, we're always like how do normal people think feeling like crap normally is. Is normal. Oh, okay. We can fix them. Yeah. I mean, but that's one of the things, one of the gifts of bodybuilding kind of leave it with this, you know, is that, Especially when you're dieting down, even like there's so many struggles, there's so many challenges that it reset your perspective, because we don't get this in a normal modern Western world. Like life is pretty freaking easy. You know, we drive our cars places. We don't have to do manual labor. We don't have to hunt our food. We don't have to grow our food. We just go to the grocery store. We, we collect it up in baskets. We don't even put our baskets back in the rack. You know, that's how freaking lazy. Like we are as I'm generalized. I'm stereotyping, but I'm, I always bring the baskets back. I'm like, oh my god. Like, where's it at? So, you know what though? I'm going to tell you, I've got a beef with people, because there's people out there who are like, I'm going to judge you. If you don't put your basket back, that says everything about you. So, what people don't know is that the big boy, the guy who's getting the baskets, he has some different alternatives that he has to do at work. There's a few different things. One of the jobs is he has to clean up the poop out of aisle seven that some elderly person left. He's got a clean up the toilet. He's got a clean up the toilet that somebody plugged up. And then after that, he's, you know, got to do several other tasks that nobody else in the job. Well, and then from there, the manager tells him, hey, I want you to go outside and collect all those carts. And he gets to go outside and screw off for the next 30 minutes. So, the further you put your basket away, the longer he gets to not have to do those other things. So, that's my, that's my, my clap. That's how you rationalize this. Like, no, because I've worked in the grocery industry for years, and I know exactly that's when they're smoking weed and their vapes and their cigarettes and all that. And they're, they're not dealing with their boss for 20 minutes. Right. Unless it's freezing cold or nobody wants to be a or any. Yeah. Those times you better put your basket away, but if it's a nice warm sunny day, do your, do your bat, your grocery store clerk, a favor and leave your cart as far away as you can, because he's going to take his time. I take his sweet time getting it. Yeah. And while you're at it, like leave it right in the middle of a parking place. So someone wants to park there. No, don't do it. Yeah, to move it out. Or leave it behind another car or just floating around. Smack it in somebody else's car. It's crazy. They're all over the by see people do it. You know, I just walk over it. So, hey, let me get that for you know, but it's, like it's, it's like putting a little divider on the conveyor belt when you're there checking out. I forget to do it every once in all of the people don't do that. There's all these things that just become our norm. Yeah. But you know what I do do. Like they folks ask me it's like, hey, do you need help, you know, help out with your groceries? I'll, I'll just say, I said, you want to break. Yeah. And they're like, I was like, what do you want to do? Yeah. I could use some help. Come on out. And I'll just walk out and say, I think you need a little bit of break, you know. I look to see you. Like there's no like, you know, other person behind me. There's no one there. They're making something. Yeah. The manager, like a huge line where people need that me sped up. But if it's just like empty. Like, hey, you want to break them, cause it's a nice day. Like, come on out here. And I'll just want to give you a chance to get outside. I actually don't need your help. So I do offer them that, but you're, but you're right. Like that. Yeah. So, well, maybe what I'll do it from now on Scott is I will gather together the carts and put them all together and push them to the end of the parking lot. Right. Yeah. So what's up? I out there doing. Yeah. So, so they don't have the extra work to do. So that's nice. I'm doing the, but they still get to get outside. They have the long walk. So it's a kind of like, you know, split in the difference between your strategy. Right. I get to see poop in the, in aisle seven at the grocery store though. I haven't. You're just seeing that. Yeah. You're lucky. Yeah. Ron told me, Ron part little told me that he worked at a department store that was connected to a mall. And then there would be a point in time where they'd say, okay, guys, like I went, everybody, I went you three. There's like three guys who did the bagging and stuff. I want you three to go collect carts and they would literally three teenage boys for work would have to go walk through the mall for a half hour. So you can imagine the antics they got into. You know, they look at for girls and everything else. Sure. They're going for an hour 45 minutes going. You got a big mall. You got to be one every store just in case there ended up one like, you know, back in the changing room. You know, a Victoria secret. They had to go back in there and check. Never know. Never know. Oh, geez. That's funny. I'm glad you're doing pretty good with it. Scott, we're up this thing up. I've got other stuff to do. And guys, definitely check out Scott's book, BYOBBCoach.com. I'll put a link in the description to get the hard cover autographed by Scott and to donate some money to the ASP. We're also brought to you by Trinitrition.com. Use our code, think over there and supplement source.ca. For Canadians, thank you guys for pay-tran. This was an entire Patreon episode. Thanks to you and thanks to Payton. So thank you very much. Yeah, good question. And for another episode, guys, muscle minds. We'll see you soon. Peace. Peace.

I got a jump in guys because we have to get to our listener questions. I know you guys can ask Dave questions all day long. We didn't even get to his diet. Dave real quick, what was your diet again at your biggest? It was how many ounces of meat in how much rice? One kilo dry weight rice a day, three kilos of meat a day, one kilo a broccoli a day, and about 500 grams of oats. So I think the food had something to do with it too. It's just back to back. You know you're eating when you measure your food and kilos. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building. Hey Ron Parlo here, Dusty Han Shah in that corner. The producer Scott McNally in that corner. And today we've got Dave Crosslands, Scott's co-host over on drugs and stuff. How's it going Dave? It's going well. Yeah. It's great to have you on the show man. I'm looking forward to asking some questions and chatting about some non-body building stuff which I'm sure you're quite excited about. I got to remind everybody to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. I felt like we're going to work today. And remember, I am mutant.com, mutant real supporters of the show, born hard core. Go to imuton.com, get your ISO surge, get your all in, and everybody should get on the gear, Dusty 20, Big Ron 20 save yourself some money, get yourself some good stops, no BS and around. So Dave, what's new man? Not much to be fair, I'm different than you. Great to finally meet you in England. I got to meet you at the booth in the UK which was good. You know, you're a real, you know, a lot of Scott's friends aren't actually real. They're just like other accounts. They're profiles that I set up, you know? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, I booked the trend where the camera puts 10 pound on you. I looked 10 pound heavy in real life. You are a big man. You're a big dude. What do you actually weigh? How tall are you on? What do you actually weigh? I'm a fat man. Let's get this right. I'm a very fat man. But that's all awesome. Dance bones, big bone. Yeah, big bone, James, climb jilla. It's hard ski. You guys are a Dave was jacked. Dave was like a massive dude. One of the things I'm going to make sure we talk about today with him is bouncing. Because I know you and Dusty, all of you guys have had bouncing experience. And I know Dave's got some stories. I'm going to show you guys a picture of what Dave looked like not too long ago. This is David. This is David as best when he had his arms all oiled up. That's a great job with the oil though. I'll be honest. Hey, look friend. Yeah, that's a big, really smooth. I'm going to. Who is gay crack arms measure there? Did you put a tape on them? 20, so my biggest biggest was 26 and a half. Oh, with a 74 inch chest. That's how tall are you? Six foot warm. So you're just just like my height. God damn. So I mean, I know you said you oiled your arms. You experimented with all sorts of stuff. No, I was joking. People, people, people, yeah, people always give him crap. And they they'll comment. They'll be like, you guys, I felt a sharp that guy's arms or you guys, you know, that guy just is all oil. And so I was so impressed with your use of the oil. Now I'm actually a little disappointed. It's not so. I didn't know that. You guys can't pass it. I was very impressed. I was like, you know, that's well done. I know you. Yeah, I was like, no, they're not even red. You know, I was always like, they would have bruised like crazy. I mean, I was very impressed. Right? Yeah. Now I'm disappointed. I'm really, really impressed. I was really impressed. I was really impressed for me. Yeah, I've always cited. But I'd never used to throw in the arms. I never hated to do that. I was like, obviously. You know, I was going to do the same thing, Dave, because my, my biceps were terrible. So I was like, well, I'll just sit hit him. And it was the one, like, one of the muscles of my body that was like, don't you dare. It was sure for days. I can knock the hell out of the whole body. Cuffs and biceps don't touch them. They were not friendly. The calf was really bad. The bicep I was like, I did it for a minute, because I was like, it's fine. I'll put up with a pain. And then I started thinking, I'm going to tear a bicep deadlifting. Yeah, I better stop. So I stopped. Cubs are definitely a good one. Cubs are definitely an experience. I quite like doing calves, but they are definitely an experience. I was obsessed with getting big calves. What most people are obsessed with big arms or me, was calves, always wanted monstrous calves. I wanted big calves in my house too, so I got married to a girl that had to be. Yeah, yeah. He just waited on himself for a life to get a nice, nice, nice calves. Jumps, epoxy. What did you think of the Arnold UK? Yeah, what? I thought it was a good show. We don't get the sort of American influence like normalists. So to actually like, you guys being there, missile MP are being there. There was a lot of big names that we would never normally see. And even in the previous journals that were franchises, we just didn't see the American rounds. So it worked really well when the impact is enough to the back of the American Arnold, because they sort of got a lot of brands to come with it. It was Stan Weiss, yeah, could have been better. There were definitely some obvious very big spaces where they just haven't sold space. But as a show, I thought it delivered, definitely from an athlete point of view, definitely from the people being there. I mean, Viss was there. Obviously, Jamie was with you guys, but Diamond was there as well. And obviously Gladiators is quite a big thing over here now. But yeah, there were a lot of big names. There were a lot of who's who were the various industries. And actually, I thought it was good to me, went very, very well. Could have done one a bit more trade from that point of view, but there you can't be all. So what about the podcast viewers, you get people coming up to you asking about DNS and all that? Again, and you're pretty easy to recognize. I, I find it really weird. I say this is God. I don't know if he believes me or not. I don't understand why two people tune in to watch that shit. We can't wait. I genuinely don't get it. He's like, what? Oh, what? Oh, buddy, you're alive. That you actually was saying, that's not true. For an hour and a half every week, Jesus, go get our hobby as something. I mean, this is just terrible. So he continually amazes me that people do genuinely want to, and generally enjoy it. I think you've done a lot of the crazy stuff that they all wish they could have tried. You know what I mean? They've definitely has contributed with some self experimentation to a level that most people are like, damn, that would be fun. But they just can't quite commit. They don't need to. Yes, he did. Yeah. Yeah, please don't guys. Don't. Lessons learned as the point of this show. Let's just slow it down a notch. Throw that one picture back up. Scott, one of them in the chair. I don't think you put that on when we were on area yet. All right. There we go. That one. What do you weigh there? A 385-ish. At six foot one, God damn. Yeah, I topped out at four 15. At four. I still look like I lifted weight at four 15. I look like you should have been rolled back into the ocean. Throw back at the water on you to keep your life. Well, I think there was more water in me than there would have been in the bucket to be fair at that point. But then that was at that point. Mike and he's with failing and everything was going south for you rapidly. So Dave, when you were pushing and this kind of a known thing, drugs bore me, how was the training? Like did you have a lower back tightness on everything you did? Did you feel good? I mean, like the training itself, wherever you're there, because I figured between the food and everything, you know, when was the point where you started saccharifies seeing the ability to train hard because of the, I don't know, to calm the effects of being that big. I would have said probably three, seven, five, three, eight, five, some were in that bed, was where the crossover. And I noticed as we started to see it. So at four 15, I was weaker than I was at three, 65. Right. I was a lot bigger. But there were a couple of exercises that I could move more on. But in general, I wasn't as strong now. So three, 65, I could train fast and I could train hard. I would come out of six, seven, plate squats, 90 seconds, and I was back on to run going again. You know, that was the sort of pace I always kept. So it was very on-off. It was still heavy load, and it was just band-band-band. When I started to go over the three, seven, five mark, I started to lose that. And those 90 second gaps were becoming a minute, and we're becoming like a couple of minutes, three minutes, four minutes. Right. I was blowing like an old car or a split between sets. Surprisingly, to most people, at three, 65, I could still move pretty good. And I could train hard, and I could train quick. But yet, the train did definitely start going downhill. I also mentally sort of lost direction around then as well. I've always had this, I don't know, there's a weird approach, but probably slightly different approach than a lot of people do when it'd been around drugs for a long time. The drugs were always at all. They were also something I did to achieve a goal. They were never the goal. They were never the main factor. The main factor of me was always being training. Right. I only took drugs because I wanted to train harder. That was my motivation around site, Sarah, was because I wanted to train harder. I knew the drugs were allowed me to do that. It was never to get big. That was a by-product of training harder. But around the three, 75,000 was where my set slipped. And I started to be very driven. And then it was all about what drugs could attack. How could it get bigger with more drugs? And I lost sight of what was my core lovin' and the core beyond it, always for me, has always been training. I all threw my training of fantasize about how can I train harder, how can I make this more intense, how can I make this exercise more difficult? That's always being what I wanted to do in the gym. And that's always being my primary driver. I would train whether I had drugs, I would train whether I had good food, he didn't matter as long as I could train. And that shifted. So when that shift took place, did you was part of an experimenting also? Like actually seeing not just for yourself, but in general, just because it's, I find it interesting because like you said, your foundation was training for some to shift that much that you lost track, like you just said a minute ago. I mean, you're training dips down 50 pounds below your peak weight. Yeah, I mean, I, I, so I peaked at 415, but I suppose, really my peak weight of any consequence was 400. Right. The 415 was 15, just water. I'd probably know what it was. And it was a gradual thing. I've always felt I've had a pretty good grasp on me. I'm being quite real about who I am and what I am capable of and what I gave a lot of the young quite open about where my mistakes are and where my problems are in my own behaviors. And the, the, I just caught myself having conversations in my head. I used to sit and devise workout plans continuously. And how could I intensify that and where did I take the 4th of the gas on that? And could I, could I go a little bit more out of that with a little next-wise, and spend a lot of time mentally focusing and mentally training myself to hold form under the most extreme of effort. And that took a lot of years and a lot of this been to get to that point where I could be giving everything I had but still hold for. And that started slid and I just found myself thinking more and more about drugs. And I caught myself. And I remember it to this day. It was three o'clock in the morning. I was sat on the toilet doing a GH injection at three in the morning because I was pulsing it. Perfect timing. Yeah. And I, that there and I just went what the, come I do it. Right. At that point there and then was, this is it. This is done. I'm here for the wrong reasons. Right. Just too much going on. And that was the end of it. And then quite literally we later, I was admitted we could in the failure and shortly after that I started getting heart problems. But I mean I went into it very open. You know, I was very open with what I was risked. I was putting myself out and everything else. And there was quite happy to have said it. I mean even now, I mean I'm trashed but I don't have any woe is me or I regretting this or regret. I don't regret a second of it. Right. So, you know, like Dusty said that the training. So, you know, people will say, oh, it take, you know, you get guys that are 210 pounds telling everyone else how to get massive. Right. Or guys that are, you know, 190 telling everyone how to truly train for head-perchrophy. But I look at you at six foot one and, you know, getting up over 400 pounds. Okay. Let's even say your body fat was too high and you had a ton of water on you. So, what? You're still 360. So, so, you know, just looking at the raw numbers of how huge you were. What did you learn about what put the size on the most in the gym? Like, what were you, you know, because a lot of guys top out at 300. I mean, I got to 330 and it was everything I was doing. I'm I could have taken way more drugs than I did. But, you know, I had my own speed limits. But as far as food and training, like, I don't know what else I could have done to get bigger. What, what did you get? You know, you, 340, 350, 360, 370, 380. I mean, like, what was going on in the gym? I, I'm very, it's probably, I don't know this right word, spiritual about my training. I'm a big form, junkie. Well, I actually know I'm a big engagement junkie. Forms probably the wrong word. So, for me, it was all about being as effective as I could in engaging the target muscle and the movement I was doing. And that was a continual challenge. So, I, and that evolved. So, originally it was just, you know, getting the muscle and feeling it. Then it was about building up the pain tolerance to ensure the level of pain you were going to generate when you were engaging that well. And then there was always this appetite for pushing the limit. And a lot of people, I don't think they actually understand what fail you're is, because most people don't fail, they stop and fail mentally, because they don't think they can get another rep. Where I would go down whatever exercise it was, you know, that next rep, the negative will be completed and when it came to the positive, I would start. And if it didn't move, I just stayed in position and kept pushing. So, it was things like that and I worked a lot on mentally focusing on what I was doing completely and totally. So, the only thing in my head was the muscle I was working and how it moved and how it was attached and what it was actually doing and how it was contracted in that movement. I got to the point, I didn't count, so that it didn't count reps. I can't attract a weight just for progression, but it was a very connected thing when I was training. And I didn't judge my set on my rep on the number I did or the way I did, I judged it on how it felt and how that engagement felt and how deep I could feel that recruiting tissue. And I got to the point where I was literally, I wasn't consciously trying to pull in a movement. I was trying to almost just contract. And then that sounds a bit wrong, but it was like rather than trying to pull the dumbbell up in a bicep curl, I was trying to just flex the bicep with no real consciousness about the being a load in my hand. Right. So, I'd flex the bicep at the bicep with moving then into and that would move the load. Right. You mentioned like six seven plate squats. Was that, were you training like, you know, if you step back and look at all the loads you were using, were they all huge like that or were you doing some stuff with 30 pound dumbbells as well? I didn't find that huge. Right. Most people. It's great. Yeah, but it's relative isn't it? So, to me, you know, I'm three and a sixty five pounds that I'm stepping out with three and a kilo on my back. But a guy at two four, he's stepping out with 250 kilo or two four, he was more impressive to me. Right. Because he's actually, you know, he's squatting much more in relation to his body weight. So, though the total weight seemed big looking in relative, I didn't think they would that big. There was a few things. I never allowed myself to have any limits and I never, I always surrounded myself with people who were way way stronger than me. So, when I squatting my only days, I squatting with power lifters. They would do two reps, I would do eight. But my head space was they were using the same weight as me or I was using the same with it. The reps didn't come into it. It was just about the load and I forced myself to, to almost not allow myself to limit what I was doing. So, like, I do a picnic and I do the stack, like a straight arm picnic. I do the stack with two people still on it. Because I didn't visualize it that I'd say, that you can't go heavy. Why can't I go heavy? All it is is the movement that my muscles do them. The type of exercise makes a freaking difference to what I'm doing. It's how the muscle moves it's important. And I apply as much loads of that movement as I can maintaining control and fall. So, yeah, I suppose the word big numbers, but they didn't see me at the time. They just, they were just what I did. My reps were always slow, they were always controlled. I mean, I, you'd never see a bar bounce, you'd never see any speed and anything I did. I didn't explode reps, it was all just, you know, almost piston like almost hydraulic light. And that's how my brain was working with it as well. It was muscle engaged, muscle pull, muscle relief. It was that sort of robotic approach to what I was doing in a sense of the smoothness of the movement. I mean, any way, any repackers stop at any point and then restart and go to the opposite way or whatever you want to do with it. That was the sort of level control I forced to have. I think as as I tried to continue progression, I constantly rather than looking to move more load, I looked to get more out of the load I was doing. Right. But I would start scoring with an empty bar and then I do play, then I do two plays, then I do three plays and it wouldn't be like, I got to the four plays, so I could get the bar and move back properly. Right. Yeah. Yeah. You've done your hands on the bar at that point. You've got to get that weight to settle it in. But so did I do light work? Yeah. I still did a lot of time and attention stuff. But I just got stupidly strong in weird movements. I mean, I'd sit on a bench with 85 pound dumbbell in my hand and do a seated lateral raise in perfect form. Right. And sit on a preacher bench and do a single arm dumbbell, curl with 95 pound dumbbells, super stretch fully straight all the way up. But you give me a barbell and that's struggle to curl more than 20 kilos outside. Because you're really good at the movements that you were using because you liked those movements. Yeah. But it was all about, it was never about load for load sake. It was all about the stimulus. My driving factory and everything was about the stimulus. You know, it wasn't about how I could move more weight. It was about how I could make that hurt more. How I could stimulate the muscle harder. How I could make that more difficult to do. And a lot of that came from focus. I was mentally exhausted after workouts. I was like, look, physically. Do you think that that's a thing that has gotten lost a little bit? Because of the amount of information overload we have. It's something we talk about on the show all the time. But you know, I'll have people reach out and say, oh, I saw your skull crushers. When I do those every time I do them they hurt my elbows. And my reaction is always, well, higher you doing something that hurt your elbows. It's not a magical movement. I feel like that's something that we can't push out enough. And I'm glad you said it, which was you were doing the movements that worked for you to get your desired result. And I feel like that gets lost because I don't really care. I mean, I try to think of someone off top of my head. Max Charles, he used to always put up videos and the range of motion was super short. I mean, the depth was short. The contraction was short. And people would say, that's terrible. And I was like, look at him. It's not terrible. So what do you think that's gotten lost a bit? And how do you think guys should focus on paying attention even when you're writing their routine? It's like, a guy should be able to say to you, hey, Dave, the squats. I don't get any contraction out of him. Well, then what do you think the contraction out of? I would work on exercises. I didn't get on with just for the sheer. Yeah, literally mindedness of it. I think two things have happened. More than two things have happened. One is people don't know how to train, but they think they do. It's overly regulated. So I might have said someone here and I don't really give a shit. But it's like, what the fuck is a D load week? And why is it scheduled? Right. So from my point of view, if I'm starting to have a lack of progress in the gym, or I'm starting to see niggles creeping us something else, I would review what I do, but I wouldn't plan a D load week every eight weeks. Right. I would back off and maybe go higher, rep and light away for a couple of sessions or maybe a week. If I felt I needed it. And nobody seems to have the intellect to be able to to interpret that anymore. So it's all going to be planned. It's all going to be structured. Let me slide. Spread cheat. Why are you thinking? Yeah. I love that, sir. I got to jump in guys because we have to get to our listener questions. I know you guys can ask Dave questions all day long. We didn't even get to his diet. Dave real quick. What was your diet again at your biggest? It was how many ounces of meat in how much rice? One kilo dry weight rice a day, three kilos of meat a day, one kilo abruptly a day, and about 500 grams of oats. And you split it all up like what was like one meal, because I know you're eating like every hour on the hour. Friend and friend and grams of meat, 100 grams of rice, ten meals a day. So damn. I think the food had something to do with it too. It's just back to back. You know you're eating when you measure your food and kilos. Yeah. That's what he calls one. Yeah. How much money do you have? A thousand pounds? Yeah. You know when you're wingering your money. You're running your money. You're cutting your money by weight. Yeah. You're rolling that point. Yeah. It's with the food. A lot of people said to me, it's easy for you. You've got to be a gapetite. Meal six onwards was forced. I mean, I was literally spoonful for a spoonful. Rectching, nearly throwing up dry, Rectching. They were forceding. Every day that food was forceding. It wasn't a case of, oh yeah, this is good. No, it was hard going. Unless you've ever lived that, you don't know comprehension of what that feels like. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Before we get to the listener questions, I just want to confirm that. Even though I didn't get to 450 and I get to 330, I talk to younger bodybuilders about this all the time. I have young kids send me their diets. And they're on like these. What I consider low calorie diets that they're trying to make gains on like, oh, my carbs are 175 a day and my proteins 160. And I'm like, I just, that's not what we were doing when we were 300 plus. Not all, you know, and just they think it's all just a calculator. I mean, it's not how it works. Great. Great. Scott, fire away. All right. So we got a bunch of them. Dusty put out a thread plus we had like the last two shows. We had just a bunch of questions. So I'm just going to pull from the top here. Oh, we had some from Patreon to, um, all right, related to training. So it would be a good segue here. Question for the next podcast. Do you guys think it's possible to go to the dark place needed to push a set to real failure without tapping into trauma from the past? I have no issues with tapping into it. But I find that affects me for a few hours after I leave the gym before I snap out of it. Wanted to get your guys' thoughts. I think the dark place stuff is is overplayed and, um, like, I, when I think of like the hardest sets I ever did, like the heaviest sets of squats and stuff. And I use the term dark place. I'm thinking of like knocking guys helmets off on the football field. And that sort of thing. I'm not thinking of like, you know, getting abused by a bully or wanting to take revenge on some guy who, like, hurt my feelings. Like, it's never went like that. I was sucked out with weird when people went that direction. I was like, huh, that, I don't think about that stuff at all. It's like positive dark. If you know what I mean, like, I think if I was John Wick, how would I handle things? You know, like, lighter weight than you're using, I'm pretty sure. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, I just think this whole, like, go to your trauma thing. I'm like, that's not what I ever meant when I use the phrase dark place. Yeah, I couldn't agree more because I think that I do, I understand how it got misconstrued a little bit. Because I still, I'll still say that during a, I say go dark, I'm really just talking about like, in, in my brain go dark as shut the world off. You're here, you're in this moment because when I'm in the gym, especially at this point in life, like, I feel very fortunate. I'm not there like, bringing home, I mean, should I had a great child that I got nothing to bring. I mean, like, you know, so for me, when I'm thinking that, it's just like shut the world off because when, you know, I've always said that when you walk into the gym, that's that, to me, that's the safe place where you leave your business and your, your relationship troubles and all these things in the parking lot. You've got your two-hour solst from that and you say focus. To be that's really what it means and, and be fortunate to do that. So, yet, I've never had to feel emotionally exhausted afterwards. I think the darkest thing that I would ever even think about that would even cross your mind is it's something in a positive way, more like, I do think there's a power to having people to doubt you, whether it's in business or whatever, just as a little nudge to yourself when you're getting a little lazy, just like, I'll be waiting for that. There is that guy that said I couldn't do this, so I should probably do this. I feel like I, you know what, I did do this for a while, though, guys. Like I tapped into, it was like, I got clean and I got back into lifting. And then I started, I'd go to the gym and I just like let out all of these like tense emotions that I had because I was still like sorting through a lot of stuff in my head. And, and I found that after a while that I would like try to like work myself up into it. You know what I mean? Like I tried to like take myself back there and after a while, it was like, when my life got good, you know what I mean? And after my life started getting good, it was like, it was harder to do that. And now for me, I like your definition dusty because you said like dark place, it means like, like let's go dark. You don't I mean like shutting up like when this heat goes my phone. Yeah, when the Navy seals pull down the night vision. Yeah. We're going dark, you know. There's show that on for no. Yeah. What would Scott call on now? Like last night's apple was a little bit soft. Yeah. You guys, we're totally crazy. They increase the price of the granny Smith. I mean, I don't know. I'm grateful to have good workouts now. And I go to a light place, you know what I mean? Right. But I think remember James Hollings had long. He took that. And he took that. I can't go to that dark place anymore. He's like, because it just sticks with me. He was like, and that was years ago. He's made a whole heck of a lot of progress since then, without having to do that. And I'll add this. I think that if you force yourself to keep relieving past traumas, that's not gonna be healthy for you. Like you were literally, like literally, if you relive a past trauma, you're feeling that again. I wouldn't intentionally go out of my way to force yourself to do that day after day after day. That's not gonna be good for you, you know? Right. But I think a lot of it is how you how that motivates you as well, so there's like you said there's the, there's the dauer thing where someone's been negative towards you. Just like, I'll show you, yep, for Karav. You know, I remember being having the piss taken out because I couldn't show the press more than one player side behind the neck. Mm. That's an F-Mum. Keep going. That's a huge one. Keep rolling. Keep rolling. The long term result of that was five plays behind the neck. Right. Yeah. That was driven by the was driven in a positive way, rather than I definitely, I did use things that lie through at me or my Instagram, my training part that used a lot of my insecurities in the early day. But all that did for me was making me not insecure about those things anymore. Yeah. So it was actually quite therapeutic. As it went on, I got more into, got this house so corny when you say it out loud. I never thought I'd be saying this today. But I got into a more fancy sort of role thing where the sets was me sort of fighting me, but it all became about me trying to beat me and you're this, you know, summoning a dark, power sort of thing to get through. But it wasn't in any way dealing with, you know, but shit, it was all a sort of made up thing. But almost playing a role, but fully commited to that. And I was this warrior machine and the gym that was going to give everything I could at this sort of scenario. Yeah. Yeah. I saw a psychologist. I can't remember if it was on Lex Friedman or on Rogan or one of the podcasts that I check out. But she was talking about the epidemic of anxiety and depression with young people. Yeah. And she was saying that one of the major massive drivers with all this anxiety everyone has is that they keep talking about it, over and over with, and it's part of their identity now. They're like, oh, I have anxiety. It's like, quit talking about it. It's move on. Like, that's part of the problem. They're in a Facebook group for anxiety. And they're in a group with their friends for anxiety. And they're constantly talking to their therapist of an anxiety. And they're seeing the therapist of a anxiety. And they're just never, ever ends. And that's part of the reason why it gets so out of control. Yeah. So you just like, you gotta just move on. Like, shit happens. Like, go to your squats. Like, yeah. What do you mean? I just want to get into this. Yeah. Yeah. The only thing that gave me anxiety around the gym was squats. Yeah. It was leg day. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was leg day. It was before. Yeah. Train legs so hard that leg day is your biggest problem. How about this one, guys? So somebody asked us, does Nick Walker have, was he say here exactly? I'm going to get the exact where he says, first just body building. Does Nick Walker have a small chest? Seeing his most recent, most muscular inside chest. I see with his arms and dulse are very dominant and sort of make his pecks look small, relatively. And he also added to he's a huge Nick Walker fan. So I got a grab to picture, grab one of his later shots, one of his famous basement shots. Like, I don't know. I got nothing. Yeah. It's crazy. He looks like a headman. Small. Yeah. How's that? Big quarking. A small head. Actually a nine in a size nine head. It's just he's that big. Yeah. And also everybody's got slightly different proportions. Like, you know, Lee Priest structurally had really huge delts and arms in relation to just this circumference of his pack. It wasn't like his pack was small. It was just structurally had a smaller rib cage. And people often said Lee's chest was small, but he was also top six at the Olympiad five foot four. So whatever. Yeah. Like, you know, everyone's different. But not in next chest isn't a problem to me. I've never once looked at it and thought it was an issue. All right. Jim McDonald's got one for us. He says, when a person sees one of their favorite body builders in person, what is appropriate in terms of coming up and introducing yourself? Is he cool to ask for a picture in the gym? What if he or she is mid workout? It's best etiquette to wait until they appear like they're done training. That's just the best etiquette ideally. Um, you know, unless they're standing there talking, like, maybe they're done chest and they're filling their water bottle and they're chatting with some guy and they got a big smile on their face and they look approachable. I mean, you got to have some kind of social skills to like judge that. But if he's at the squat rack, putting plates on the bar and he's got his headphones down. He's going like this, believe him, I won't. Best advice and don't bother people when they're sitting at a table eating. That's like the worst because they got to get up and interrupting the conversation and all that weight for them to be paying and leaving. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, for some reason I thought you meant like if they're eating their meal after they trained at the gym. Oh, no. They're sitting at the bar at the gym eating, talking to people. That's fine. But if you see him in the restaurant, talking with their friends or their family or whatever, wait until they get up and they're leaving or whatever. That's going to add one thing to the gym just because I've had a couple of people doing. I thought it was great is I had a guy come up and I was resting and finally said, hey, I don't want to bother you. But I'd like to get a picture before you go and I said, perfect. And it was like, well, let's just do it now. And the other instance, I was going to leave and I said, wait, where's that guy? And I found him to take the picture because you also don't want to like, you know, I would hate to sneak out of the gym and not knowing they were there. So, you know, I do have no issue with that because that puts it back in that person's hands. And I'll be honest, man, for as long as I've been at this, if anybody wants a chat for a quick second or a quick picture, it's actually really humbling that someone actually cares. So, I'm like, yes. Yeah, yeah. I was always very easy for pictures. Even if I was in the middle of my hard workout, I didn't care. I also took it as a privilege. But, you know, if just saying my everyone, yeah. Remind for. Remind for. That's not. Just remember, the people, you know, they're not an item, they're not a commodity. They are people. And training is their job and part of their life and give them the same respect you expect to be given to you. It emases me that when people get famous in whatever people start to think that they're public property, they start to think that they own a piece of them. And it's like, you know, they're still people. And the respect that they deserve. You wouldn't walk upon on someone you don't know in a restaurant and sit down and start asking them questions and them into the mail. But why do you think that's okay to do it with somebody who's a part of it? Right. Well, we witnessed that Justin and I witnessed that with Jamie when we were in England. He's like, TV famous now, right? At our table. Yeah, we were at a steakhouse, like a nice steakhouse, you know, where the stakes were like 80 bucks, 100 bucks a steak, like we're at that type of restaurant. We're all sitting down and baked table, like 12 of us. And people just started coming over to the table in the middle of dinner and asking, and not even really asking, but just saying, I need to picture with you. And Jamie's like, Julia, you guys fork in his hand, like looking up like that. That's tough. Me and Dusty were like, these people just have no idea what they're doing. They're just because like, star struck. If Jamie, like I said, no, I'm trying to have a meal right now. Can you respect that then he would be a jerk. You know, yeah. Yeah. I've got one question off the bucket, huh? How do I get invited to a mute and stake out? He just got hanging around the booth long enough that everyone just assumes you're part of the crew. I would actually before you think you're getting invited, you might want to have scotted at it out the, I eat my steak by the kilo. Yeah. Yeah. It's not a good data. Throw out the four. I've been 300 times. Stakes, please. Yeah. I've done a 72 ounce steak. Yeah. No doubt. No doubt. Twenty-five. You've been hit shirt on the wall. No, is it one of those where you if you get your picture on the wall? The old 96. He went. Yeah. Great. I helped the record for a while. Yeah. I can't eat that. That's just all fat and gristle. All right. Let's see if it's here for you. Like I said, we had a bunch of them. That's for all the John Candy fans. Yeah, I loved it. The only you and I actually got that just for the rest of the day. I didn't get it. You don't watch films. You won't get anything. Yeah. I don't watch it. I've been watching some TV lately. Um, all right. Most common mistake you guys see with quad training. I will sit this one out so we can cut short on time. You know, we can keep this thing rolling. But real quick for me to you. Just not getting enough depth on everything. Success leaves clues. You know, look at the athletes that have the biggest quads. And they have them by accident because they're not trying to get big quads. But they're Olympic weight lifters who are going ass to heels on all those front squads with elevated heels and those shoes. Sprint cyclists who are putting their knees to their chest with maximum power exertion and short trek speed skaters. Um, those three athletes have the, on average, the best quads of all Olympic athletes. And they have the most extreme ranges of motion. Um, they're not even trying to get quads. Weep and they have quads weep right. So then you get gyms full of people that are trying to get quads weep and they're doing, you know, shitty leg presses and they're not bearing their hacksquads and, you know, they're not taking the leg extension all the way back under the seat and just everything. You know, full range of motion is like the number one factor. I've seen a lot of stuff where your foot position this way doesn't even really make a difference. When it comes to how much more important depth is. There's absolutely nothing that can be added to that Scott. You can move on. I'm just really quick. Went through all. Yeah. I was like, I got nothing, bro. Do you want anything, Dave? The anything I've got is trained out because most people don't, especially. Yeah, you're a pussy like. I. That's I. All right, quick, simple question. Ask yourself this one question. When was the last time you failed squad? Right. Yeah. That's the bar on the rack. Yeah. Also, I, I think it's a mistake to do the hero thing and pull the stopper's out. I know guys like to do it for videos, but I would set the stoppers perfectly because if I was training alone, I would take that last negative. Yeah. Like I would, you know, I get the rep I barely got and then I think, OK, there's not another rep. So I'm just going to sit five, six second negative and put the bar on the stoppers and climb up from underneath it and re-rack it from my back off set. And that's something I do not see people doing. But that's what it takes. Like that's what I would do when I was trying to get my legs huge, you know. Well, the question of the week here is it bad. This is from Dusty's Instagram page. Is it bad that during an argument with my misses? All I can think about is when it will be when it will be over so that I can eat. I see nothing wrong with that. It's good. I, yes, I've, I've, I've that's what many it's time. All right. How about this one? Have you ever made an online shopping purchase, impulsively during prep that made you shake your head after what was some of your best in worse purchases? My, my, my, my own online, but I bought a seven series BMW once didn't prep on low carbs. So there's that. That's amazing. You know what I should do right now. What's that? Make a five year decision because I'm hungry. Yeah. Does it feel good? Yeah, luckily my last show was 2015 and I wasn't online shopping nearly as much back then, but I did, I think I just caught the very front end of what would be considered the sneaker head phase. I had like a slight sneaker head thing. My last few shows where I was ordering online. But, but I remember reading about other guys and they were making much more, it much more severe purchases during prep than I was, you know, sneakers and seeing that bad will be a fine car. It seemed that bad. Most of my bad purchasing decisions have been made post since I stopped competing. The bike in the background. Well, the bike gets used. I have too many guitars though. I've never breaps, so I don't have a problem. So, hey, you have no excuse for your bad purchases. You just make them anyways. Zach Collins, engine it with three bulldogs or three preps. Oh wow. Those are good. Those are good decisions. Dollar always good decisions. Speaking of which, I have to give a shout out. I put this aside here to these guys. You know these guys right, does? Yes, of course, getting a dog from them shortly. The power of rescue. They, they signed up to the Patreon. So I'm going to say, yeah, thank you to them and look at all these freaking dogs. I just took a screen capture of their page, which they didn't have to sign up to the Patreon for me to do this. I freaking love dogs. But these are all dogs that they have a feel. That's my girl right there. Bottom right one. You're kidding me, man. That's no, but right there. You need that bulldog. Someone needs that. But Scott, you need to buy that bulldog. That bulldog looks amazing. I believe that I believe she's already gone. I can't remember. Yeah. Because they put up their their full circle stuff, too, which is amazing. If you're not following them, you should just for purely like, if you love dogs. It's a my Instagram. If you go to my my search page, you know, it's dog rescues guitars and bikes. There's no more study. There's hardly any sluts. Oh, I know. I'm just sluts. I'm just sluts. I'm all slotted out. We have a dusty. We have a growth. Oh, we got one that's perfect for Dave. How important is HCH to TRT or a cycle? So I'm coaches hammer hard. When do you think it's important to add this in? And what about any substitutes? Like MK6677 or other peptides? Love the podcast and the channel. The new day was coming today. Yeah. GH Dave. That was a forwanderer. I just I don't I for a longevity feel good. Beautiful sort of vibrancy as a supplement for that market. Yeah, I'm on board with it. For growing muscle, I just get another bottle of Deca. I want bottle. There you go. I just I find it expensive. I don't find it that particularly productive. Um, it has benefits, but I don't find them prem or primary. I just find them secondary. You know, if I'm looking at what I'm using to get big, the row feels definitely not going to be at the top of the list. If I've got more money than sense, yeah, fine, I'll I'll try a bit. But so I mean, I've been high and I didn't really. I struggled to understand what the fuss was about. You did a what you did that that GH experiment. Didn't you where you took like a massive amount for a long period of time? I can't remember. Twenty-three. Twenty-seven are you a day? The farmer for how long? Trauma. A few months. And what was the data? Where? You were a minister. Yeah. Yep. Um, incident resistance and spent a lot of money. I just didn't didn't see the. Now when I look at growth, low dose, time correctly, it will have had a little bit of polish to what you're doing. So to speak, but I just don't see it as a primary mover in muscle growth at all. Some people disagree with me, fine. I'm not that bothered to argue to be fair. But I just know, I just don't see it as being the Holy Grail that it was once thought of being. I find it very useful for so-called rejuvenation, for recovery, for wellbeing, for general vitality. It's a nice supplement. If you slow dose, I don't think there's any reason for high dose at any point. But it, I say, on my shop in this, it will be very low there. Yep. Well, I just think most guys are better off investing a bit of money. Big, big, big, big, big more money, sensibly. There we go. My seven series. Yeah. Okay, by growth and so-called centers. There is one thing better. Our mobile delivery services like Uber eats in Door-Dash, destroying the restaurant service. Or are they the best things in 50 cent wings? I never use them. Really? Yeah, I don't like learning money. Yeah, just a ridiculous thing. I thought everybody was doing it nowadays. Nah, I just lazy people. We do once in a great while, but it's rare, like super rare. Yeah, I've got to show my children from that. I've got to treat our daughters. We'll do that sometimes in just order. And I'm like, look, they increase the price of every item. Then charge you in a mound. I'm like, I always joke that things like that are invented for people who are either poor or want to become poor. Yeah. Because like, why? You know, why? I did this to order this food. I'm like, you have a car. And does it the restaurant? You can make less money because the restaurant gets less money out of it. So it's like, screw that. Yeah, I'll use it. I'm guilty of using them, but that's only when we're on the road. Or we're jumping from place to place. And we're turning off. That's grass and food quake, but that's of what? Like locally one of a home never use them. Yeah, yeah. You should be mindful of your local places because I feel like the people forget that the people who are spending money in your businesses are local people. You need that money needs to move around. Like Ron can't just take the money from the gym and hold it. He's got to use it around town as well. So people can afford to come back to his gym and vice versa. Yeah. Yeah. It's got to be that way. I'd tried to do everything in my life really near my place and my business. You know what I mean? That's a great idea. I love that. Yeah, agreed. Support the community. What else do we have here? I was going to tell you, I have a friend owns a restaurant locally. He said they're doing an extra 60K because of those apps. The business they they hadn't done previously. But they because like grub hub or whatever charges you something as the business owner. They do like you said dusty. They had to raise their prices. So they're like we just were raised our prices for that stuff. Yeah. Which find if you're done up to pay for it. I mean willing to pay for it. Dust again. Yeah. Let's explain how nowadays at local shows you have to look at who won against. We you have to look at who you won against. Because show talent can be weak that overall wins don't mean you really are at the national level anymore. I think we've talked about this one before. Kind of. Yeah, I mean it's pretty quick. You don't it that was never. That's when they also I hate that hour era and the era before us loved to shit on the current era. That was always a problem. Like the shows were bigger. But I mean I won my first overall with a perfect score overall class. And was nowhere near ready for the next level. And the guys were good. It's just the gap is enormous. So it's simple. We live in an age where you can go look at what the next level looks like. Look. No one I'm not saying you're not ever going to be ready. But you're not ready now. Why spend $3,000 you're going to ask kicked. Your wife will do it for free. Yeah. I agree with Dusty. It was always a thing like you know I was qualified for nationals for two years before I ever went. No, I went to nationals the third year. I was qualified to go because how's that go for? You did also face second and then super heavyweight said only 24 years old. There you go. Yeah. But I was just smart enough to know like just because you're qualified doesn't mean you should be there. Nope. No. All right. Casey has one force. He says if you've only got to splurge funds on one brand of equipment, which would you choose? Sorry back. It comes. Yeah. Comes down to like simplicity. Low so low maintenance simplicity of design and the footprint size are the three main things I look at. So you're looking at hammer strength kills everyone on the maintenance. Yeah. That's a good slowest maintenance equipment ever made. The plate loaded hammer strength is by far you don't have to touch it for like 35 years. And side backs is probably kills everybody on foot print and simplicity is there. And the maintenance is very low. So it's a fantastic brand. There's a couple others that are great, but it's really hard to nail all three of those. You know that old saying you can have light strong cheap. You get two of those. You get the pit too. Oh, right. Light strong cheap. Pick two because you can't have all three. It's kind of like you know low maintenance, small footprint simplicity of design. You know, say side backs, which is now gone. They're rolling a bunch of those designs into the life fitness brand. So some of those pieces are still going to be available with a life fitness sticker on them. And then hammer strength. Yeah. How much you Dave, what do you guys have over there that you like? You know the best kit I've ever tried and it was made by the blog alone to Jim. You guys have like a lot of homemade stuff over there. Don't you? It was, it was made by a bodybuilder for bodybuilders. It's the best kit I've ever ever used. It's 40 odd years old now. It's still brilliant. Not only did it just to it right. And I can't give you any of your explanations and that. Pyramini's is flat pulled down. Had a 350 pound stack. His calf machine was a 1,550 pound. Oh, God. Yeah. Yeah. It was just built right. I've never got into the big brand thing. I've trained on some beautiful kit but I couldn't tell you what it was. I just got on it. It felt right. I used it. It didn't feel right. I moved on to the next one. I never got it. And it's almost a subculture now. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. You can be quick in. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's a bit like, it's a bit like sneaky heads. It's there's people that talk from Jim to Jim to be able to use that side backs late press or all that particular, you know, Watson piece or Arsenal piece or whatever. And I don't get it because I don't know the Browns in relation to the equipment. I just know what felt right. If it wasn't gimmicky stuff now. And if it wasn't like a like, I couldn't justify it, I guess, is what I'm getting at. But if it wasn't the cost factor, I would get a bunch of Jim Lico stuff. Because I could have like an entire Jim in my basement. Because it would all have. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, they've got some great pieces definitely. And you know, you see, I look at Instagram and you'll see somebody doing a row. And they got like six plates aside on it and they're not like dusty. They're just like like a regular dude. And I think that that's a piece of shit machine because it's just eating plates. Like there's a reason some, you know, two hundred, not one hundred and ninety pound should be doing six plates on a row machinery that makes no sense. So it's poorly designed plate eating machines. And they're just novelties and gimmicks. And they make people feel great because they posted on Instagram. But yeah, that's the problem that they become the most popular machine in your Jim. And because everybody can look strong at it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You want the one that taxes you the most, not the one that makes it is easy. It's possible for you. I love it when I get on a row and I can only do two or three plates. I'm like, oh, this is a good row. Yeah. Yeah. I love the moves so much weight to put the kids started on this thing. Yeah. Every Dino's row that old row of dealers. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was a great one. The red one that we did. Yeah, we got video that's great. All right. What are some of the moments where you felt that you were being the most hard core? When I started and I carried out a gallon water around like an idiot. Yeah. I learned about leaders later in life and convenience and cup holders. Um. I had a bunch of bandanas. Yeah. I had a bunch of bandanas and boat neck shirts and I had a hip. That's a little closer home. Yeah. That was just these new boat neck. Look what? The trap. So I was like, I was a one in done cut. I was so proud of myself. I put it on. I was like, I look like I went back to the 90s. So I saw kids looking to make a comparison. It was trapped tip to trapped tip. It couldn't have been a better cut. Yeah. That was a magical moment when I cut that thing up and like, look at that. I actually kept the strip to show Nicky. I was like, just so you know, I did this in one shot. So I'm going to find presses and shrugs all day long. Yeah. Yeah. There was a judgment free. I thought the gym was funny because I felt like all the older guys understood what was happening. Yeah. Oh boy. I think he had nods and maybe a slight like, yeah. And I like how you chose to go no stringer. You just won't just boat neck. I used to do that a lot too. You don't need the stringer. The stringer's just like, you know, it's a nice accessory occasionally. Yeah. No, I just agree. You need the stringer because you need the stringer for the strip down halfway through the worker. Ah, you're going to do the tarp tarps off. Yeah. You're going to do the layer. You're going to do the layer. So it's full hoodie first because you covered open. So via head, so no one did you mean a moody. Then that comes off. You mean a moody. Then the back comes off. It's a little spring at the finish. Oh, I love it. That's my new catchphrase, mean and moody. Okay. What do you guys think about guys who hit a vacuum and study hitting their abs while doing their mandatory. So like the judges call ab-thine a do a vacuum? Yeah. Close my mind. I don't understand it. If it's a good vacuum. Well, so what I tell guys is hit the ab thigh. Blow it out. Blow everybody's minds with the ab thigh. Make sure you see the judges all stare at how great your abs are. And then if you want to pull up into a vacuum and get the crowd pop, you can do that. But if I was a judge, I'd be looking for your abs. And if you're not going to show me your abs, then you lose that pose. That's my mindset. It's an ab thigh. If you look front double-buy and they don't go like this, then how do you judge your front double-buy, right? Yeah. My biggest bookbear when I judge is people doing dumb shit. An over-laborate in transitions into poses and waving their arms like they're trying to fucking fly or just about dump her hot shit. It's just like getting into the pose, do it and hook off. You thought we don't do? You forgot we don't do swears, Dave. You told me that you never said love. Why could you do swears on this show and you can't do swears on our show? Oh, boy. You never told me I couldn't swear. You did a lot of swears today. Don't mind him, Dave. No, he gives me a list of warm allowed to do what no allowed to do. And there was no swearing on that list. There's always no swearing on the list. He told me this is absolutely a warm heart short, right here. He was a f-bub, Dave dropping them the whole time. It's got no. And Ron, did it good job today? Dave, this week, if Dave could be more like Ron, we would have a good thing going here. Be more like, Dave. This is how Madger life has gotten. I'm not allowed to use the hour would. No, no, you're definitely not. We learned that last week, didn't we? Well, I learned it. We might not know what to do. I'm not allowed to do it. We learned Dave. He's a kindergarten. He's a kindergarten. You should have adopted me for a week. It's a lesson. That's a week. Again. Oh, boy. That's a, this is, this is a task. Well, we have you here, Dave. I expressively wanted to have you here to tell us a story about being a bouncer. Because I learned a whole other side of Dave. I had heard some bouncing stories before. But when I came out to visit, the guy's Dave lives he used to. He moved. But he lived in a little village. Just like you would imagine in Northern England. It was literally like cobblestone roads and stuff like that. A little tiny village in the middle of nowhere. And one day we were eating food and he told me all about how, what was it? You said that you were, you weren't necessarily the hardest puncher. But you could definitely take a hard hit that you don't look at that nagging. You didn't go down. What was that ass-trace story you told us about? Oh, all right. So yeah, I can't really punch for toffee, but I can grab people. And I used to restrict that oxygen flow was always founded to be very effective. But I could always take a good punch. Probably we'd growing up with two brothers that were older than me and liked to use me as a punch bag. I guess I've got used to it. But I was working a charity music festival, a low key thing, nothing, not big, no names or anything like that. Just local bands, local people, local fields. And these two gentlemen that like to use drugs that made them look unwell. Decided that we were going to try and gain entry through the field. So we met them and informed them that they wouldn't be allowed to gain entry through the field. And that they wouldn't be welcome because we basically didn't want their sort at the event. So one of them decided to introduce my head to a 10 pound lump hammer. Oh, and he caught me at the back here and opened it up. And at that point obviously we all had a little bit of a dance and we hugged each of her a little bit. No, I just thought I'd hugged him a little bit and explained to him that he was doing something that wasn't very nice and not very friendly and he shouldn't really do it. Wouldn't be acceptable. No, so I guided him to the front of the venue where the intention was that the local conservatory were going to be informed. And I just restrained him gently. Why my colleagues brought his two colleagues up through the field as well. Now if you've ever seen a dry stone wall, it's basically a wall made out of stones that are piled on top of each other. It's a very, very skilled job. And then for a top what they do is they're put a stone on its edge. So the top of the wall is these quite big, you know, that'd be this size piece of the stone about two and a half two and a half inches thick in a sort of half curved shape, each rooflet and they make the top of the wall. So I was distracted by his two colleagues disagreeing with my colleagues in the field. I turned around to him having hold of this stone in both hands and in literally wiping it across the side of my head in one fell swoop. That then restricted my vision slightly. Unfortunately the blood men I couldn't see very well. But I knew he was in front of me. So I grabbed him and pinned him by his breathing apparatus to the wall at the side of the pub. We did have some on-site dogs. Real dog dogs. Yeah, dog dogs. I did not think a British word like the eggs. Your friend, your friend. Like the eggs. So Bob the dog was the name of the handler and he was well known for his dogs. He may or may not have introduced a mild metabolic cycle to a couple of these animals. I heard a piece of the dog. He's wrought violent may have dragged a Suzuki Germany down the field in the middle of the night when he was changed to it. And he introduced this animal to this gentleman's arm and then he proceeded to run around the car park with him in his mouth. By this point things again a little bit not so everything's going to be crazy. Yeah, it was really normal up until the dog. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. He sensed all to these. Well, he had a different trip to Tardid to me at that point. And then one of them got into the pub. I blocked the other two's entry from the pub. And one of them ran up and punched me in the face. And then the one that got into pub, the army came out behind me in the English pub. We had these big pot astraes that are about this big. Big ceramic astraes. And he came up behind me and smashed that over the top of my head. Your poor head. Um, no sense. No feeling. The police did eventually arise. Um, and obviously it was expressed there. I would like to press charges against these gentlemen for the several holes that are now. Puffusely pumping blood out of my noggin. And they inform me that the gentleman want to press charges for their lack of teeth and an inability to use their arm anymore because they're talking just out into bits. I had to result it went nowhere and we went not for knocks, so to speak. But, uh, yeah, that was an interesting evening. Damn. No, I bounced at, I bounced at some bars, but I don't ever remember having a, a rot whileers on staff. Yeah, right. That's really another level. They don't do that in Canada. I've never been with a police of a building before either. Right. Part of a while. And why was it loose? Yeah. It was a striestone that not made with any cement that just sat on top. Uh, for use of bouncing, what was in this bar that they wanted in so bad? I mean, you said it was an average band. I mean, damn. The band was in the field. But the bar had nothing to do with the actually vent. The event was in some tents in the field. And the dogs were literally there for the nighttime shift, like when it all closed down to protect the band equipment. So I put the nurse to fly there. Oh, I dare. So, uh, and then the bar was just serving food and, and drinks to the event. So they had like an outside bar and then inside bar as well. Oh, there's been also, so over the years. I remember, I got stuck to by somebody. And that ended up in a physical brawl. And that was quite an asking one. And, and it was, there was blood appearing on this gentleman's head, which I felt was coming from him. And I was quite encouraged by this situation. Um, I felt that just this was being served. And this gentleman was getting what he deserved until I actually realized it wasn't here as it was mine. Oh, and it was just, Oh, my chest. Oh, my God. We don't bounce like that. And the United States is different. Yeah. Oh, man. Yeah, I mean, we saw some braels. I mean, I saw some braels in my day and like, you know, I did have a couple of good headbutts stories, but nothing compared to that. No. We, uh, oh, I've had shotguns pulled on me. Shotguns fired at me. Nice pulled on me. Just tried to be run over. What do you get? What do you get? What do you get? What do you get paid? The bounce. I think you're underpaid. Drastically for knives, guns, bricks. You had your own business. David, I did this. I did this. I'm through. And one of the things we specialized in was clear now, shittles. Patently making bad poems, good. Um, yeah, I mean, there's been some funny stuff over the years as well. And it's always, it's, I remember, um, end of a club. This was very early in my bouncing days. We, we found a gentleman in the toilet who still had his parents around his ankles. Um, and I'm not sure how it occurred, but there was several people's urine and theses all over this guy. Um, he was a mess. I need to stunk. So, but we had to get him out of the building. And we couldn't leave him where he was. The ambulance wouldn't take him. The police wouldn't take him. Um, so we, we, we grabbed whatever we could in the way of toilet roll and, and beer towels to pick him up with the sort of carry him out. Uh, and the police has said, from in the back of the van, we'll take him down to the cell. We'll get a duty doctor down to check his alright. And he could just sleep it off in the cell. Uh, and we got him halfway across the road when Nick who had one of the lads I was working with dropped his guts. Stunk and we just dropped this guy in the middle of the road and ran off because he just smelled so bad. Just left him in the middle of the road where he was with his pants round his ankle, come with each hit and pissed. Drop his guts, do you mean like, threw up? No, he's hard. No, Nick, hard. Uh, I think you know the meaning. I thought I meant you. Yeah, I did too. It was, it was, it was like that's it. Yeah, it was, it was, it was, it was just, don't you? It was just, don't give us file. So you just said that you were running off. Fee sees all over him and it was his fart that ended. Yeah. Wow, what is that guy? Too much. You got to draw the line somewhere. Yeah, yes. I agree, just you know, there's no just no need. Um, what is I could go on on on on on those things. If we had time for all the stories, Dave also owned, um, like a, a monster truck and gave people rights in that. He's also told the stories about how, uh, so Dave's little time. He's talked about that on the shows. And for a while, he lived in Canada, right? And he lived in Canada, uh, alongside you. But you weren't supposed to, was that when you weren't supposed to be, like you were, you were stuck? You were like, Dave didn't want to get trouble. So we went to Canada kind of thing. I lived in front of the land. Yeah, for a while. Yeah, no, I lived in part, I moved, when I moved over, I went into Toronto then I went to Hamilton. Um, and I was in Hamilton when there was the big kickoff with the Indians over some, some houses that were supposedly being built on reservation land or in the inland. Right. The, the developer at board, the land off the council and the council had supposedly been ordered off the chief. And the Indians were saying he, one, didn't have the right to sell the land because they don't believe in ownership. And two, it was just an ex on a piece of paper and they couldn't prove it was him. So for literally, I think it was about two years. It occupied this land. They built a, like, a makeshift sort of, for almost on it. And they occupied it for months. It was in all the news for a very long time. Yeah, you remember what year that was? I remember that. If you remember what year that was? Two, four, five. Yeah, yeah. And then I moved to Port Dover and I lived on the shores of Lake Eri on Port Dover for about six months. Okay. Home for a couple of years. Then I went on holiday for four years. I went for four years. There you go. Okay. Oh, I can, can I, I've got time to tell one story. Of course. So I was held at Diagon, and I had a great attention sent, and then I got moved to Toronto, West One, which is a very unpleasant person. I might have. That's after they figured out who you were at this point. That's after they realized who I was yet. And so I was being deported and, and basically, you're a prisoner to you get to the airport. Then you get put in city clothes. And then you meet a martial who takes you through into departure lounge. And then you just board the plane like anybody else. And it's the country you're going to back to responsibility to arrest you if they want you at that end. So it must have been these guys the day I don't know. Full orange jumpsuit. Top and bottom shackles, chain link in the whole work. Proper chain gun job. I'm shuffling out the prison into this fan. I'm getting to the airport. This post took me down to the customs door away from the public, so I can get changed into this really in clothes. They didn't. They walked me up to the checking desk. Still shackled. I'm still in chains. Still in the Irish jumpsuit. And they checked me in. There was a woman at the checking desk. Next to me, looking incredibly nervous about this big blow with a bold head and a beard. In chains, being checked onto the flight that she's about to board. Then I get taken to customs. These two security guards get the roll of the lives. I'm allowed to get changed and I meet the martial. And he checked me for the departure lounge and he's like, you're going to go get a coffee do what you want. I'm just sat and chatting and shooting the shit. And he was great. He gave him a document, some a passport and said, right, you bought the plane. And then when you bought the plane. And off you go, open and ever see you again. So I get a whole row in the middle of the plane to myself. Nice. There's no one near me. I've got the whole row out to myself. I'm sat in this row and on the end row, because obviously you've got the two aisles. You've got seats by the windows. An aisle, middle row aisle. Yeah. Seats by the window. This woman that was at the check-ins now sat. She's now, she's now looking across at me thinking what the, yeah, this guy's here. He was there in the jump suit. Why is he on the plane? Why is he sat near me? Why doesn't he have a check-in? And so we do the fly. We landed in good. I get off the plane. I've got my documentation. I decided, I need to go to the toilet. So I went to the toilet, then I came out and I walked down to the passport control. I mean the domestic line for entering the UK. And this six armed officers, five story armed officers at the bottom of this queue. And one of them walks up. They all have machine guns at the airport. So the one of them walks up. And he's only ready to go next to me. And I step out, I give him the passport. And I think you're looking for me, mate. And he's like, yeah, yeah, just come with us. I went, okay, I'm there. And then all of a sudden this guy turns up, Puffing and Planet in the apartment. You've got the plane to meet me and miss me because I've gone in the toilet. So now I've got six armed police officers around there. I'm coughed. And I'm like, look, I've got a luggage to collect. Okay, no problem. We'll go get your luggage. Okay, so they walk me down to the carousel. So now, let the carousel surrounded by a cuffed against. surrounded by six armed police officers and machine guns. The cop is to get my luggage off the carousel. And this woman stood next to us now with the carousel. She just about has a heart attack. It's amazing. So she definitely had to tell the telegram kids anyway. But yeah, she definitely had a nervous fly, I think. Yeah, I didn't work that way. And in just for anybody else that doesn't know Dave's story, it was for taxes. Yeah, no, it's for you. Well, we see it stolen vehicles in the IT for what was what I've done with. Damn. And that's where I'm going to let you see it. And what I'm going to tell you. For what I'm present was worse than England. No, it wasn't as bad as shots. Shots, shots is a dump. But Toronto wasn't pleasant. I was in with a mad rush in at Killed Coppers. A big far accountant from New Zealand, New Zealand, who had failed to surrender account information on one of his clients. And it was doing a connecting fly. Didn't realise it was doing a stopover in the States. So he had a warrant out of stun them because he hadn't failed to provide his evidence for the American courts. So he was in there waiting in whatever was going on with him. So he wasn't really in there because he committed a proper gravy. He was waiting what they were going to do about him not surrender in this information. Yeah. And a young lad who was in for several murders, who just constantly spoke about how he's Gill friend and how she was going to wait for him. And she was going to be there for him when he got out. Obviously, we all move very different. But I wasn't going to tell him not. I wanted to wake up in the morning. So yeah, that was an interesting cell that was forward of Chad with him. Oh, strange individuals. Damn. Oh man. Yeah, that whole transport prisoner thing is he didn't move. And you wonder how it actually goes, you know. Yeah, I thought they were going to martial with you or something. Yeah, just kind of a fumbled hand off all the time. Yeah. I think he depends on obviously the offensive committed. Yeah. I mean, yeah, what you know, classes of white color crimes. So I don't think they had any concerns about me flying. I think you've you were a multiple murderer. You might fly in coast with a martial with you. I think that might be slightly different. Right. Right. But like I just want to listen to the unedited, Verthe unbeapt version of this episode. You can do that at Rumble. Because there's going to be a lot of beeps apparently. There's going to be a few beeps. Why is he going to be beeps? I don't understand. There's something on the bomb. Ron show him the bomb. I didn't say nothing. I didn't say nothing wrong. No, I don't think so either. I don't think so either. I don't think so either. That's right. I don't know. Is that the far bomb then? That's the far thing. Similar. Yeah. Yeah. Mm-hmm. Well, thanks for coming on Dave. I really appreciate the stories. The astray capped at for me. It's good to finally have a long form discussion with you. You know, obviously I've watched a lot of the, I let the podcast play in the background quite often. And I appreciate your insight into that being extraordinarily massive. Throw that picture up one more time Scott. We can do that right here. You know, you can say all you got to say, but 400 pounds is still 400 pounds. So thanks for coming on Dave Crosslin. Co host the drugs and stuff. You can catch out. What days your show always come out? We always put it on Mondays Mondays. So it's out while we're recording now. Yeah. These are watching the new episode of drugs and stuff. Okay. Thanks Dave. Remember everybody like share, subscribe, comment, and ring that bell. Yes, sir. Remember I am mutant.com, Boring Hardcore. Get your ISO surge. Get your all in and everybody should get on the gear. That's the one. Okay. Thanks everybody and remember. It's just bodybuilding.

The answer is we just get out of our own damn mind and just go for it. Hey jump jump in. Just go jump in. That's what life has meant to be. Just go look hey everybody you only got one frickin' life. What are you gonna do? Well. What? I'm gonna be good to start fresh after three days of hanging with each other. That a trade show. How much protons on your hand? Oh, oh, I think James left some on our chair there. Look at the like right here. Yeah, yeah from his big huge massive calf. I think so. Right off. Okay. Hey everybody welcome to it's just bodybuilding day three life from the 2024 Arnold Classic booth. The mutant rebirth born different born hardcore. Remember I am mutant.com get your eyes so surge get your all in and everybody should get on the gear. Just a 20 big run 20. Remember like share subscribe comment and ring the bell. Okay. Jim McMahon. I call him he goes me captain Ron which is an old Kurt Russell movie reference. So I call him Admiral Jim because that's a star trek reference. Oh, I even better. Even better. Admiral Jim. Although I live to be demoted every chance. Yeah, yeah, hey we'll do that. You know when I say Jim. I try to sound like bones. Jim. Damn it. Jim, that's expensive. That's over budget Jim. I always love it when I call you up Ron and every time you say damn Jim, you took great idea. No he doesn't. So so Jim McMahon obviously founder of mutant and CEO mute CEO on Instagram right? Mute CEO there we go. They didn't they won't give me a discount code though. No, no, but you do need to blue check. I mean you should go on. I got one. You got a blue check? Yeah. I bid $8,000 for the blue check. You got a new. It's a counts. It's all twice. I had no problem paying for it. The count security is like my buddy got his account hacked right before they did that. Oh no. I thought that was what it was about. Oh yeah, because if you have blue check it's like way easier to get your account back with get hacked. Yeah. You said picture of your ID with you and they're like, see I thought the blue check was literally you just made for the blue check. Yeah, a lot of people think that you're just trying to look important, but there's benefit to it. Yeah. Like it's that's you and you're verified. Yeah. Okay. You have to verify your ID just like digital passport or anything as we said to it. It's really good. So that's how you're role just for those of you that don't know little education. That's right. I still think it's a government block just to get our information. I know. You should already have that. But yeah. Yeah. Don't they? So you've had we've all had great weekend. This has been a great weekend. It's been a great weekend for for mutants. Been a great weekend for the honor of classic and a great weekend for everyone at the next bow. This is 2019 numbers again. Yeah. It's actually better than 2019 numbers. We're getting back. That's a whole point. Yeah. I love it. Yeah. And also this has been a very special weekend because you know mutants title sponsor again for this third year in a row, fourth year in a row. Fourth year in a row we blew it up. We went big. Jim behind it all. And of course last night you were on stage given out the first place award to had each you pan and looking good in your fancy jacket, stand with Arnold. Yeah. Tell us what happened after the show is over. Tell us what happened. What's the first thing happened after the show? You and Arnie. I went to bed. Yeah. No. That's not what happened. Okay. No. No. Divine inspiration or whatever you want to call our divine intervention. It should say for whatever reason we had a little miss happened on the Friday night. And I know we've talked about that story already. But so from the miss happened Friday night there's a little bit of backstage paranoia in this set up area. So the Saturday night was supposed to go off with a little less glitch. Right. And for the most part it kind of did. But I stayed over on the opposite side after the awards and normally just walked away and go. But for whatever reason I was just hanging out I was standing on the opposite side Bob Chicara, of course on the other side of the podium where Arnold comes from. So the awards are done. Had he's done all his poses and everybody's walking off stage. I was about to turn my back and all of a sudden from way across the other side of the stage. They see Bob and Arnold's business partner Brian. They're waving me over. So I walked behind everybody while they're doing their poses after the event. And they take me down this private stairs and yeah we're in the bowels behind the back stage there. And Brian and Arnold said hey what you know thank you very much with the last four years and you have something that is special to you for you. So they gave me something pretty damn special I got to say. Didn't expect it didn't even know this was going to happen. Conan himself handed me an authentic Conan the barbarian sword. So amazing. Like full heavy with the things heavy. I heard I was told it's a perfect replica of the real Conan sword used in a movie. Right down to the very fine details. No kidding. It very well could be. Well we'll send that out and get verification. Yeah. But yeah it was it was amazing. And I was like blown away and like I posted like one of Arnold's handlers was taking the if some photos and video for me and thank you for that DC. So it was like yeah I was stunned like when you see the photos of it I'm just in stun mode. Well we're gonna get a photo. Yes. Scott's gonna throw it in right here. But we'll do it in post as we said. I send the business we do a lot in post Jan. Well we've got I have to work with these guys. Yeah yeah. Thank you. You're the deleting words. Yeah you'll be editing it with my bombs. So yeah. Let's not go there. Yeah. So then that's not the end of the night. You get a Conan sword from Conan himself. Yeah. Yeah. And of course we're not taking that back through customs. You're gonna get that shipped. They are gonna ship that up to us and be a good real. Yeah. And that's one kind of cool point. You got to remember mutant is awesome as far as working. It's hard on you sleep. But it's been a fun ride. You got it. I'm still the same 28 year old guy. I'm still the same 11 year old guy. Well the first time I saw popping iron I was 11. And that kind of started me on this whole freaking miracle journey. Yeah. And I keep getting asked the same kind of question they will how'd you do it. How'd you start there? I go the same way. I need to start anything. You just go for it. Yeah. And I think that's the great mystery that far too many people were clouding their own minds and lives with a naral's new book and his Netflix special. You know it's the same damn message. Get out of your own damn head space and freaking get after us. See I said freaking wrong. Yeah you guys. You're not the same freaking. That was good. You're a very good father that way. You got to freaking in there. We get a freaking in there. Anyway, but it's the whole mutant thing. How did this 11 year old kid from Fort Moody, Parkoquil, and I'm going to cook with a Mary of BC then who were all that stuff? Why is a Canadian brand here at the Arnold's kicking ass? Like I'm still questioning now. Like where's the one? What I know you guys don't think I appreciate that. But the answer is we just get out of our own damn mind and just go for it. Jump. Jump in. That's what a life is meant to be. Just go look. Hey everybody you only got one freaking life. What are you going to do? And that's Arnold's message as well. Yeah. It wasn't the other messages that he's been, you know, we wouldn't go back to where. What happened four years ago. But the real messages get out of your own damn wing and be useful. Yeah. Just go after it. And that's why mutant wanted to step up and keep this comorottery going with the Arnold's classic. And that's what we call it. Classic. There's also the Arnold sports festival, which is the whole ex boat friends of ours over at KSM 66 and sponsoring that. But hey mutant. We're the Arnold classic. Right. The home of body building Arnold. Yes. Is a legacy. He's alive. Living legacy. And we want to keep honoring that. And so the whole thing about mutant is just being a brand and sponsoring the Arnold Classic. It's deeper than that for me. I'm still that 11 year old kid. I never would I be if I wasn't for seeing pumping iron. I would probably be flipping burgers. Yeah. Yeah. No man. Hey, I got to ask you. I mean, not to go back to the beginning. But what was the very first thing you did? Like when you started the company, where you like put in protein and jars in your garage or something like that like, well hold on. No, that's quality control violations. Yeah. While in the 80s, there wasn't so many rules. I've always been rules. It's where the people follow them or not. But you know, you tell us the very, very beginning. I know we've been over this before, but just give us like the calls notes that we have started. We have. We have. I guess. You have. Yeah. Listen, I had 40 different jobs in my 20s because I wasn't qualified to do anything other than to sell back and cleaners and lottery tickets to unsuspecting people around the world through phone calls. Yeah. I didn't come up with the company. Those are jobs I had that I quit within two or three weeks. Yeah. Like those jobs, I'll tell you. And one point I was also a Mick Bouncer. Yes, McDonald's can of the hat security. What? Oh yeah, we had security in McDonald's. You're kidding me. I'm not kidding you. Like, they got McDonald's. They got a McDonald's. They got a McDonald's. They got a McDonald's. Yeah. He's things in alpha. Yeah. Yeah. Couple of streets of England. We actually had under contract. Okay. From McDonald's can of the way we had nine McDonald's. It required security. Wow. And so we were the Mick Bouncer's. So we got a McDonald's. We got a McDonald's. We got a McDonald's. We got a McDonald's. We got a D for free. We loved it. We were working out before there was a powerhouse gym in Port Moody. This called KG's gym. And so, you know, a whole bunch of us from KG's gym. We're like, oh, we get paid to eat. I never heard of this in my life. That's amazing. That's it for another day. We could do it. Like you said, that's the old show. That's awesome. He's from Detroit. He's from Detroit. He's never heard of this. Well, Detroit, all of the cashiers have their own life. Yeah, I guess they don't need that extra care. So they just train at the wall of the house first. Yeah. And then move on. Hey, Iran. You know those green things that British Columbia and Vancouver vancor down. Yep. Yeah, it was very famous for that green. He's a green flower. Yeah, we had a couple of incidents and some of the McDonald's areas. Yeah, yeah. There's some space out of the Preka dealers. My mind is blowing. That might just blow. They've been listening in the yard. No. They might have mounted drop-dissive lock bag here and there. And that might have ended up in somebody's pickup truck. Yeah, yeah. Wow. So what was the very first step when you started the company? You know, because like you said, oh, nobody wants to hear about the company. Let's go back to the paprika. Yeah. Yeah. But you said something interesting. I want to make sure we touch on. You know, you look at where you started and where you are. And I think that's what happens and how people don't just do it. And I think that's because a lot of people get overwhelmed. They think, well, I couldn't start a supplement company. I mean, look at what it takes. Yeah. But this wasn't what you were thinking when you started to come. Come and learn in a way. Because it's all about just like bodybuilding. It's about incremental goals. Short term goals. Yeah. What was your first goal with the company? With the company? So first goal. So just a preface. One of the 40 jobs is working for somebody else in the industry. Yeah. And a lot of people who were in this industry, that's how you got your start. You're working at a GNC or a vitamin shop. Right. I got kicked out of university and started working in a fitness place. And then I went to another fitness place that had an open juice bar area. Nobody was running the juice bar. So I became juice bar gym. And then I got to know some of the suppliers that I got to job with one of the raw material. I was sorry, one of the branded suppliers way back in the 80s. I got to drive all around a Western Canada. I mean, some of the names I could drop for Western Canada. The guys that got to me was pretty good. So like you were like a sales rep? I was sales. I've driving all around Western Canada. Even it just snowstorms. Yeah. I was pretty awesome. Yeah. Well, people who don't know what witches like in Canada, Western Canada is a very unhabitable place in some areas. Just think Minnesota in your worst winter storms. Oh, yeah. Just no thank you. But it wouldn't win Americans think about Canada. That's exactly what we picture. Yeah. All there is up there as far as we know. And a bear. Yeah. The bear. I got to come out of the 80s once a while. Feed the polar bears. Yeah. Anyway, sorry. This is the damn question. It was I was working for somebody else. And then they sold the company. And then the new owners came in. I wasn't named the company, but they were bat shit crazy. And within like two or three days, I was like, I got to get out of here. This is going nowhere. And so I started to put the idea together. Okay. So a way protein and already just come out. Creates him is kind of still new. This was like even before muscle tech was born. Right EAS. It was just kind of out there finally. Yeah. And I just found that stores and consumers, they just wanted to strain information. And nobody was giving it to them to see him. So I just came up with, hey, I knew some other raw material suppliers from the other brand I'd worked at. So I went to a facility in Cookwellum that could do the blending for us. And then we would just flavor it up and get it right. And I know it's going to make it better than that. So we had a creatine, a way protein, back in the day course. You have creatine with sugar as well. So we had a creatine and sugar product. And part of our thing was I would just go and knock on all the doors of all the stores, the new me. And it was almost like a mini 5 or 10 minutes seminar every time I walked into a store. They were just thirsty for information. Okay. And then also one of the cute little things we did decided to do. I mean, as real pain in the ass when you open up your jar, especially when it's your creatine with sugar. And you got to find that scoop. Sugar doesn't feel good on the finger. You get some sticky fingers, right? Rolling stones. Anyways. The, I would take the scoop and put it in a ziplock bag and I put the ziplock bag, scoop thing, glass in the jar. And just people appreciated the fact that I took that much caring and effort to do that. I couldn't continue it forever. I'll be honest with you. I don't look in our jars. Yeah, don't do it now. Yeah, yeah, the ingredients are like people. Yeah, yeah. You'll have to fight to find the scoop. It's okay. Find the scoop. Yeah. So that was the first thing. That was the start. So it was four products. And then so I didn't have the filling machinery. This, this outer blending facility didn't have the filling machine either. So what runs referring to is I would literally get up at like three in the morning. I was on adrenaline like for a year and a half. It was crazy. But I would get up at three in the morning. I borrowed about 200 square feet off of my brother and lost warehouse. So I go in there before he would get there. We had a clean room area. So I would take the empty jars and I would, in my other hand, I'd have the scoop. And I'd be scooping the powder into the jars, put it in on the scale, fill up the minivan. Yes, I had a minivan. Not proud to serve. And I'd drive from Abbas for a divine cover and sell all the warehouse come back and do it all that same night. Get up at three in the morning again. So persistent, consistent discipline, dedication, all those words. Everything I learned from the gyms. Like when I was lifting weights at 11 from seeing pumping iron, then I rehabbing a knee injury from hockey when I was 14 and then trying to qualify for the World Junior Powerlifting Championships and ruining the shoulder when I was 23. But there was still always the consistency in discipline. Real quick, real quick. So you're filling these jugs, you're delivering those up. You like jugs? Is this where we're going? Yeah, that's a different conversation though. Is that your full-time thing or you're doing that on top of another job? Good question. So I quit my bang job. Because that's the big jump, right? Oh, okay, here's a little deeper than that. All right. So I had $13,000 in the back pocket all saved up. My wife and I had just moved and bought a little house on the Prairie in Abbasford. We lived right on the US border, by the way, which was awesome. My corner store was in another country. No kidding. I am not kidding. So I used to, and we had a baby and we were going to, and we just got married. So I decided to quit my job. Have all this stress. New baby, new marriage, new house. You quit the job. Gable my life savings. Yeah. Being respectful to my dad who was a trucker and being respectful to my mom who was a bank teller. I honored them by writing up a little nine-page business plan. So they knew I wasn't just winging this. And I went to my mom and dad. So listen, I need a loan of $30,000 to also do this. And what year is this? This is $96. So $30,000 in $96. So $150,000. Yeah. No, it was only a Canadian money. So it wasn't $11.26. There you go. It's still good change back here in McDonald's money. So my parents, they said, no, we would just give you the money. Or no, my dad said, we'll invest the money. And it says, screw you dad. You're not investing in my goddamn company. This is my vision. I'm doing it. Nice try. Yeah. And the other thing was, if it failed, I was going to owe it. They said, no, you loan me the money. And that way, I owe you no matter what. And then my parents got less them. They, I might get a little weeping this part. My dad, I didn't really clue in that day. He was having an enginal attack. Later that night, he actually had a heart attack. He alive. He's alive. So he, he jokes. He kind of likes him when I tell the story. You go, I asked my dad for $30,000 and he had a heart attack. Literally. Literally. That's wild. But what my parents did, which was so cool. They said, listen. We can't invest. We won't loan you the money. What better thing an apparent do is actually witness their children, taking inheritance to see what they can do with it. So my parents gave me the 30 grand. They gave my sister 30 grand as well. She went off and did her thing on Salt Spring Island. She registered in massage therapists and turned it into, you know, good house and everything. And yeah, I was blown away by my parents attitude on that. It's like, you're going to be alive and watch what your kids can do. Right. So it's up. We'll take a little, early. We'll take a little inheritance out early and you won't get it later. Yeah. Yeah. And I said, thanks dad. No, are you okay? I got a news for you, Jim. You don't need it now. Yeah. Well, when he came back from the heart of the attack and had the stance and everything put in, I said, go buy yourself a good set of golf clubs. I'm okay. Yeah. Yeah. That's an awesome story, man. So you started up when, when did you wind up nationwide? What point was, was, was? Which nation? Yeah. Like a what point were you all over Canada? When did that? When did you feel like we got Canada? Well, it escalated very, very fast. And again, this was not by design. You've heard me say this many times and this is a very happy accident as what's transpired over the last 28 years. So that's a testament to just head down, go for it. Don't try to second guess anything. Just go, go, go, go, go. So they, I can illustrate this by numbers. So people get context. I told my mom in 96 said, my goal is I want to sell $20,000 a product in that first month, which means I could, you know, I didn't have an overhead. So I could pay myself, you know, probably 20% of that money. I can't pay myself even 1% of the revenue these days. Yeah. But 20 grand back then, I could pay myself a living wage. Very first month was over 42 grand. The second month was 80. The third month was 160. This was snowballing. Wow. Out of the gate. Wow. That's amazing. So BC was done. Alberta got done real fast. I strategically pissed off. They're now friends of mine, but I strategically pissed off a national distributor. I won't tell anybody how I pissed them off. But so they would go around. You hear about that pvl brand out in BC? And those guys who are, if they're watching this, they know exactly who they are. And their friends now. So by me pissing them off, they went around and talked about pvl all across Canada. They have a chance for. Oh, so there's no bad publicity. There's no bad publicity. Just get your name out. No, I haven't heard of pvl. What are they doing? They're giving people stuff. Great products, great price. It's not the worst. So that's the thing. That was, what? Canadian made. Yeah. So those in Canada, when you go to the Canadian Health Food Association, show the CHFA show, the West Show is always in Vancouver, except in 1997. It was in Calgary. So that's the next province over from BC. So it's about a 14 hour drive, something like that. Yeah. So I loaded up the mini van and dude of one company of one. Drove from Vancouver to Calgary. Buddy of mine Scott, then I worked with before he met me in the parking lot of the saddle dome, helped me unload the mini van to help set up the boot and because Jim, I'm your first employee. I said, I have no money to pay you. Because I'll work for commission. I said, I don't have the cash coming in from the retailers until like, you know, 30, 60 or 90 days after we sell it. You're going to starve for 60 or 90 days to do this and Scott, he went no problem. Wow. So we set up the booth. We had the product in the booth. I come into the booth on like the Saturday morning to work. And there's a gang of like eight guys from this other distribution company. There was a gang. And they come up to me and they're poking me. You want to play with the big boys? Oh, God. That's amazing. No way. I am not kidding. Old school. Yeah. Yeah. And one of them is actually one of my good buddies Tony and Kelona. No. These days. Yeah. I hate don't. I want to play with the big boys. Oh, yeah. I got the poking the gest in every day. Back in the days when the mafia ran the Canadian supplement market. Yeah. Yeah. So that's like. No, it's just the Irish mutant mafia. There we go. There we go. And now for a lot of people watching, they might wonder well, mutin hasn't been around 28 days or 28 years. Yeah, 28 days out. But that's another really cool thing about the where we are now. Yeah. The snowballing. You, it was actually. Can you rephrase that, please? That's another the snowballing of the brand, right? You started mutin. The first mutin was a 2005 where your, your other brand, pvl, Yeah. Decided to make mutin mass. Yeah. So the company originally was called pvl nutrients. Yeah. And we were going after a different name than what it is today. So pvl still around. Yeah. Dude. It's a rock. Yeah. It's a rock star sports nutrition brand just to delineate. So we ended up making the pvl brand. It started working. And then when you get into things like a gainers and things that, with that, you know what, this is going to get a little more hard core. So we still have the pvl brand name on it. So we call it pvl mutin mass. But we were talking about what is this thing going to be? Nobody had done a 15 pound bag before. So we did that. The other big brand gainer in the 12 pound bag that's black and green and operates out of Illinois. Their product was a little lower percent of protein. I think it's like 16 percent protein of a non-estecan. And so we just took up the protein at a 20 percent level. So it was like three and a half parts carb. One part protein, great ratio, 15 pound bag, no need to ever down that. So it was a lot of first. And it just worked. People just grabbed onto it. We were shocked. Right. All of a sudden we had to create an international sales department. We didn't plan that. Yeah. It just all of the sudden. And we started getting phone calls and phone call. It was crazy. And so mutin mass itself just started to become this juggernaut. And it already had the red labels. And it was already from the rest of the pvl brand. And then a couple years later we just took the pvl off of the brand. So it truly mutated. It truly mutated. It truly mutated into its own brand by itself. Yes. And spread like a virus all over the planet. Yeah. We got a couple more minutes. I want to tell the pivis story really fast. So how mutin mass came about actually wasn't by design. Okay. Because we were now manufacturing. We were doing the blending and filling for other brands as well. So we had so many places in order for like 5,000 kilos. That's 11,000 pounds, that's it. So 5,000 kilos. Or maybe you know kilos. Okay. Okay. Okay. Kilo's a star. Yeah. First you get the money. Then you get the power. The brand. Then you get the women. Yeah. So we wait. Gramps kilos all of them. So we had 11,100 and 1.26 pounds of a strawberry protein that was built for somebody else and then they re-naked on it and made a bill. So we had all this strawberry protein and I'm like, Yeah, you know strawberries not the greatest seller of protein, but what we're What are we going to do with this? Right. So we're like, so then this is how the idea of mutin mass came about was from a problem that we had. We just pivoted and we said, well, let's take the protein. We'll put it back in the blender. Well, add some carbs to it and add some more MCT oil. And let's come over the gator. Yeah. Wow. That's a story. That's a story. And it took off. You did. I imagine it sold then like you didn't expect it to. Wow. You do have some expectation when you make a product. But, of course, look. It just mushroomed into this. Yeah. So this was not by design. Yeah. That's incredible man. This fun. And now we're here at the 2024 Auto Classic. Fourth year as title sponsored. Fourth time. Four times. Four times. Four times. There you go. And it all goes back to having taking the change. Yeah. And we keep taking the chance. Okay. People have seen what we've done here this weekend. They go, wow. Way to go. It's still a gamble. It's still a calculated risk. We don't have, well, I better remember better. I say this Arnold and Brian are listening. But we don't know how we're paying for this yet. We're just going for it. I love it. It's okay. You got 90 days. Yeah. We're good. Yeah. You're going to show it to the people. Yeah. So you got a sword you can sell if you really need it. Yeah. There we go. I think we're going to keep that sword. Wow man. No. It was a great weekend. And you know what? I mean you have done. I know I was speaking for Dusty and Scott here. I mean you have done so much to give opportunity to so many of us athletes over the years. Like everybody. When I first. I tell the story about when I knew who you were. I knew Jim. I saw you at the shows. I saw you around Alberta. I saw you around BC at the show. This I knew that's Jim from. And you knew our crazy rap Lily. Yeah, and I knew Lily. I was her trainer. And I knew who Jim was. You were very friendly to me. It was nice to me. And I remember we were standing backstage at the Alberta's one year. And you were standing there holding you. It started doing the Mutant Award. Oh yeah. I knew it was. I remember it was 2010. You're standing there with the Mutant Award. And I said, oh, you're giving out the Mutant Award. And I wasn't a Mutant yet. Yeah. He goes, yeah. And I go, oh, well, don't you have a athlete at the booth? I thought he was giving it out. Because I think it's said somewhere like Mutant Athlete would give it out of water or something. You know? And you look to be goes, he doesn't want to do it. And I will never forget that. And I thought what an idiot. Because I was sponsored by another company at the time. And it was sponsored by a super big company that everyone knows. They didn't use me for anything. I was a little tiny, nothing. I was just for an ad, right? And I just sat, man, if I was with the company, I'd do whatever they wanted. Yeah. Like I'd get out in front of anybody. And I'd just said, what an idiot. And then, you know, less than a year later, I got an opportunity to sign with these guys. And I just sat, there is no way I'm ever going to say no to Jim. And I just, I will never forget that. Well, there was the one time you said no, but that's a different story again. A lot of different stories. I'd already smoked so much Jim. Yeah. Well, hold on. I don't even remember when TikTok was first starting to come out. And somebody came up with the pink tutu. I knew I knew Jim. That was a no Jim. If you would ask me, if you would ask me, I would ask you would have done it. I would have done it. Yeah, man. That's still good. And yeah, and it just really, you know, it really is a testament to the company why we're here now and what you've done for us. And it's part of the brand. It's part of what the brand stands for. And of course with the podcast, like you bring and Scott into the fold, bring in him to the shows, letting us do this here. This is a more space. You, you, you, you, you remember one, you and I were talking on the phone when I, I just come from my, my one hour walk around Port Moody. And I was hoffing and puffing and you and I were on the phone. And I'm pretty passionate. And as you guys know, I can demonetize your podcast way faster than I am. And I'm so, but the F-barm starter coming out after like, you and I were just having a good session and after five minutes, then we were rolling on this conversation. Yeah, I was pacing outside of my building and poor Moody people go, he's done another mile or two. Here's, I mean, I was just talking and rocking. Oh man. And we were having it because I wanted to learn what you were doing, what you were doing. And you know, why you're raping and pillaging me from right to halfway, so for a second. It's not real play. Well, it was like, what's the good juju that's going on here, right? Yeah. And I wanted to learn what you were doing. Moist curious. Right, I'm always checking on you, how's the gym? I called you the other day, and I'll, you know, at least space and things like that. Yeah, yeah, so supportive. Yeah. No, man, it's again, thanks for coming on today. Your story, what do we start the podcast? Right away, we didn't hear record soon. So, wait, as I supposed to record it, we're just getting the greatest debris interview. Oh, look at that. So, yeah, man. And this is the fluff files. Yeah, it's just been a lot of fun. You know, you know, you get to points in life where you can get on this train or that train, and you just think, man, you get on one, and then you get to a point where you're like, man, I picked the right train. You know what I mean? And I felt like that for a long time here. But all you guys are doing the same thing. I've got your dude with the podcast, Dustin, your dude, whatever, dusty does. I don't know, I do. Certainly does dusty things. I'm not really sure. And he's like, Kramer. Yeah. How does he, what's he do? He's always home and he's always around. He's got money. He's so much. And he enters the room like you do. But, and Ron, I get a, listen, I get a front row seat to see what Ron and his partners are doing. Because that gym don't forget was offered to me four times over the last 20 years by the landlord. Yeah. And there's a lot of death associated with this area. It wasn't you. Yeah. There's a side story here. Yeah. It was a world gym. It was a family gym. It was a lot of gyms over the years. You know, the owners passed it away. His, all this crazy stuff. Yeah. And so our company was in the next building over originally when we moved to Parker Pullham. And so I knew the landlords. And they offered me that gym two or three times over the years and former owners tried to sell it to me, Randy and Brad. And no, I was so happy for you. And you asked me, hey, what, my opinion was, I was, you're a big run. You're a opinion counts. You know what you're doing in a gym. I will never forget. I told you the idea and you said, you said, you're the guy to do this. Oh, how you said? You said, look around you. You said, you're the guy to do this. Like do this. During the pandemic, when C-bumb came in, I mean, come on. If you get an opportunity, you've got to go to Ron's gym. It was as simple as that. Like I still think you're not giving yourself enough credit for what you've got. So let me pump your tires. Thank you. Thank you. I appreciate that. I'll pump your tires when I figure out what you do. I don't even have a car. And my partner's really appreciate how supportive you've been in the gym. You know what I mean? It's been pretty incredible. So you're the type of guy. There's two types of people. There's the we eat they starve. And there's the rising tights, float all boats. And who you want to affiliate yourself with? Means a lot. Bob. She's a affiliation. She's a hero. I'll check. He got all the names right. Good night, Bob. It was a good night. You did a good job last night. No, nobody got killed. Howdy, true. Paaah. He's good. That was good. That was good. We got a love Bob. So thanks. He coming on, Jim. OK, bye-bye. Yeah, we're going to wrap this up. Remember, remember, I am mutant.com. Get your ISO surge. Get your all in and everybody should get on the gear. And lots and lots and lots. And now, and now the new mind foot? My fuck. There we go. The new mind, the new, the new, the new, the new tropey that we're launching. And it's we're very, very excited about it. You can call it in mind free. If you want to scop, but there's no R on the label. Or give me my FK. In mind FK, special for mind FK. Mind FK, if you're a snowflake. There you go. And remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and bring the goddamn bell. OK, thanks everybody. Jim McMan, cheers. Admiral Jim. It's just bodybuilding.

Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building. We're gonna do Instagram questions in this episode. Dusty Han Shah, Scomic Nallie, and of course myself big round part low. Like, share, subscribe, comments, and ring the bell. And ring the bell. There we go. I thought you were wearing it. So we're back. We're back. I changed my shirt. I saw that in my hat. It feels very new. Yeah, I'm sure it's all the time. It's fine. Yeah, you change your shirt too. You're just, you're like Mark Zuckerberg. Yeah, the new one. The new shirt will be dangerous. It doesn't fucking matter. Right? The last of a douche with less money, but yeah, same shirt. No. Yeah. Okay. Did you see the influencers in the wild post that Mark Zuckerberg? No. It was in. Just that one. It was really good. The guy who runs the account for influencers in the wild. I don't know if you guys follow that one. That's fine. It shows like, it's like video is that people send in that they think of people who are influencers, like shooting in the selves. Yeah. So they'll be like a girl rolling around in the water. And you could tell her, like, boy, friend is like trying to get the perfect shot of her in a little film it. And it just looks so funny, right? Oh, yeah. But I guess Zuckerberg sent a photo of himself into the account. No kidding. The account was like, Zuck has a good sense of humor. And they sent Zuckerberg was standing in the swimming pool, taking a selfie of himself. And behind him was like, like, I can't remember what animals. It was like two deer or something. Like, right? Because it's like, you know, they're coming out of the forest behind him. There's like some wildlife behind him. And he's in the pool taking a selfie. And it's someone took a photo of that. Right. And Zuck sent that in. He's like, here's the ultimate influencer in the wild. It's great. The ultimate influencer, right? Well, that's amazing. I hate him, that's so amazing. I wonder what he's really like. What if you just like, you know, got stuck on a three hour drive with him? Oh, God. Who'd be the worst person to be stuck on a drive with? You could think of. I don't think anyone from the view would be perfect. Oh, my gosh. Well, yeah, I think with those are just old ladies. So just don't talk about it. It takes with them. Just don't talk politics with old ladies. Who fucked does that? I'm sure they're, you know what I mean? Valid. Get them to tell you interesting stories about the 60s or something. There you go. Yeah. Well, I was at Woodstock. There you go. Talk about that for an hour. I'll be entertained. You know? You know, yes. That's the thing about tolerating other people. You just have to know like what not to talk about. It's a good point. It's part of like if you just have to get along with people, just know what not to talk about. Like, you know, I could spend two hours in a car with anybody if you avoid the right subjects. You know? How do I keep their opinion completely away from me? Let's do it. Yeah. Yeah. Sure you could find some. You could find something you have in common and sure someone likes, I'm sure I could find someone that I would think was my mortal enemy. If I knew they're politics, but if we talk about movies, they might like the same movies as me. I feel like we could make this room below. This could be like a segment for Ron, where we call it like, like be a little more Canadian. Did I ever go talk about, you know, go for a two hour car right with anybody with anybody. Yeah. This I do it. The worst, well, the worst person, someone who thinks that they like who's driving. You're driving. You're driving. Is it your car? Sure. Yes. You're driving like this. It's not okay. So it's not like you're splitting a rental car and you're going to take turns driving. Yeah. You're driving them. They have to understand that they have zero say in the music or the volume. I own the car. I'm fucking driving. I get to do whatever I want with my music. I can crank it to 12 and play AC DC. The whole two hours. There's nothing you can do about it. Don't touch my stereo. Yeah. Okay. People have to know that. That should be an unwritten rule anyways. You know that. That's something that I deal with here. So I don't like Blair my music. It's not 1997. I don't like twice. I don't like the CD or anything. But I'm listening to my music at a tone that I like. I can hear right? If I have to say something to you, I might have to talk like this. Yeah. So but each time we'll pull up somewhere like through a gas station or the school, the rules will turn it down before we pull it. I'm like, I don't care if they know what I'm listening to. No matter what it is, under no circumstances, there are any sort of a weird one to it. Yeah. That's a certain rules man. We're driving to Ruby. Yeah. Go grab into the movie the other night and I'm cranking. Any notes and tunes cranking. And then Emily reaches up and she turns the volume down and starts telling me a story of a better day. Wait a minute. We're listening to this. Right? And I was just like, whoa, whoa, whoa. What is going on here? It's all over here. Are we talking about our days right now? Or are we listening to music? Is I? I was under the impression we were listening to music. And you see, I think we're going to talk about our days while we're driving. Okay, I mean, we could have a discussion about this, but you can't just reach ahead and just see someone's fingers touch the knob and then they turn down. I just think, who does this person think they are? What do you think you live with? We are something. This is ridiculous. I mean, we're something to say. Well, listen, if you're going to listen, this is my thought though. If you have something to say and you say it to me while the music is up, I determine if it's important that it turns me and if she turns me and goes, should we do this check that we just saw them? Whoa, what? Turn it. Yes, we should. Flip a bitch. We go back. We take our shot. See what happens. But like, just a random. What else do we need from the grocery store? Not now. Yeah. You know, you're driving. And it's another thing too. I don't know if this is a woman thing. But because of our viewers. Yeah. I don't know if this is a woman thing. I don't know what it is. It's magical. So I can have some music on and we're driving. Maybe it's we've got to drive. And I know that said there's a playlist and there's two songs. And then I know that the third song is a really good smoker. Right? That third one's going to be awesome when it comes on. I know what's coming. She says nothing. For two songs. And then like the opening riff of that third song that I've been waiting for. And anticipating. You know that third song starts opening riff starts. The drums kick in. Just as the first verse comes in and you just ready to just fuck. Yes, fuck. It's like, so my grandma decided that. I'm like, you had two whole songs. It was like, it took me the other shows of these two songs. And I thought we're okay, but they're pretty good. So I just let them play. You could have told me all this. And then as this start. And it organically started to, you know how a song is always better when it comes on by itself. Yes. Yes. As opposed to when you play it, she's like, we used to listen to it a time. Now my head's not the same. It was about to happen. These are both good. It was about to organically play, you know. And remind me of like those old days when something would come on the radio. Yeah. And now she goes, what? Can't rewind. Like, shh. Everybody car shut up. Yep. You know? There's something about those days. There's something about the sanctity of a song coming on by itself. Like on a playlist or a serious satellite radio. Like, oh, this song is on. You know, like, the handful of songs I can't turn the car off. I have to let them fall. Oh, yeah. What would be one of those? You didn't know. Even though they're on my phone. Yeah. Of course that. That's a totally different thing. I feel the same. What would be one of those songs, right? Like a song you could turn off. So I've said this before 1979 by the smashing pumpkins. Okay. Absolutely. Always have to let that song finish. I don't know. Something about that song. Can't not let it finish. You know, just a handful of them. That's a good one, though. You made a really good point, Ron, because you know at this point in life. Like when I'm heading to the gym, I know how far the gym is. I cue my Spotify songs to get me. Like, I don't leave the driveway until all my music to get me to the gym. And that couple of minutes where I sit in the gym parking lot. You know what, how many do you need? You need six songs in a row. How long should drive? Like how many do you need? No, it's a short drive. So four is good. But I spend five minutes in the parking lot. Deciding. Just so that whole four song. That song is, I'm priming for the fourth song. Yeah. Four songs. Yeah. That's the, you're parked by song for it. And it's just, yeah. Yeah. See? And that's when she would turn it down. That's when the thing would come out. That was the fucking ratter clause. Come out and fucking. Sam, Richard for the cameras, they can see like what it looks like. Yeah. If the camera were the, were the knob, this one is from the knob. This point of view. I feel that. I do. Wow. Did you ask, still sit with her at the movie? Did you sit by herself? Oh no, I think it was good. I was good at that. Hey, like I said, you know, part of part of getting through life is learning to call up those moments without losing your mind. I just quietly remind her, name, return my song down. 979, you know better. You turn this on down. He's the same voice. Yeah, the same voice. You turn my song down. And then she's part of me. That's absolutely keto, or seriousness is if the tone never changes. No, I have to stay calm. I have to stay calm. Oh, it's good shit. Sorry. I don't even know where we are anymore. I've completely lost track of what we're doing. Well, we're supposed to do Instagram questions, which I had a lot of. Oh, boy. So is that what we're doing? What's doing? Yeah. I just got an attack that drives me crazy. Anyways, would you ever say that you need words of encouragement? Because you're super hungry and that's all you're thinking about. That one hurts me a little bit. I wouldn't write those words. No. Never. Yeah, so the guy that wrote those that's probably listening to some. Sorry, but he shouldn't send those words. Just suck at the fuck up. Well, you don't want to type it. It's certain things you don't want to like, yeah, they might occur in your brain. But when you write them down, it makes them more real. You don't want that. You want to deny it. And I deny stuff to feel is down. Possible denial. I believe the feeling is down. And I deny denial. I can see the liability. Yes. Yes. Okay. So I have a couple of questions. Well, there's actually two that are about food. About some tips. What are some key basic tips to make your food more enjoyable? Cook it properly. Cook it's not long. But I mean, like, I think most people that suck at cooking, they think their food is terrible because it's dry or something. That's what I think. Yeah. You know, like, cookers or extra cookers, are magical because they keep things everyone's favorite word moist. See, I love barbecue chicken. Like barbecue chicken is the best. It could be better. But people butcher the fuck. They dry the shit out of their chicken and then they can't reheat it and then it's brutal. Yeah. So yeah, you got to just don't over cook you shit. Like everyone blasts the fuck out of their barbecue. We tend as well, I think because in bodybuilding, we're making things in bigger quantities. We tend to just go on autopilot with it and do the same thing over and over and over. And I try to give people a few options for meats. I'll be like, well, you can use turkey, 99% ground turkey. You can use turkey breast. You can use chicken breast or you can use light fish for this meal. Then 10 weeks down the road, the same guy says, is there anything else I can eat except for chicken because I'm so tired of chicken? Like we was on the list. It's still right on the list. We don't think, I mean, the reality is we don't think about it. We just do the same thing over and over and over and get burnt out. You get burnt out. So I think different seasonings, you know, that can help. Like you were saying, Dusty, we just talked about the simple and sweat and gear too. Somebody said, hey, what do you guys think Dusty likes using the Insta Pot? What do you guys think about that? And of course, skip. He's real old school. So he's like, I just put on my chicken on a pan and I cook it. I don't care what it tastes like. But you know what, you know, you can have a little flavor in your life, you know? Yeah, yeah. I actually say that I get it. I get it. I still climb. So it needs to, I feel like to help you not cheat. Make your food taste good. Yeah. Like, I'm not saying that you should do things that are off the plan. But if you find ways that you can enjoy your food, you don't feel like you're dieting. I will finish, as you say, like it's current. A million years ago when I just kept repeating it, I would finish a prep and I'd have employees. But like, oh, you still doing another show and I'm like, no, why? We're eating them more food. Or you're eating the same food. I'm like, yeah, but there's more of it. Like, I don't change the chicken. Like the barbecue chicken is still barbecue chicken. And just now it's got 400 grams of rice within 200. Because I actually like it. I think that it really does help because my first started by building, I thought that hardcore was the thing. Just cook it in the pan, make it taste like shit and sometimes you're going to make you look better. No, it just makes you hate life six times a day, fuck. Yeah. What, I got a question here. What's your favorite kitchen tool that you use? Your favorite thing in your kitchen that if you had to go to someone else's kitchen, you would take it. Like, it's, oh, other people don't have, you know what I mean? There's something that you, you know, like, you know, like, you know, when you go to like, you have to go to like an air, you get like an Airbnb. Oh, yeah. And they have everything. But they don't have that thing that you have in your kitchen and you fucking need to bring it. Yes, I'll go to that. I have quite a few of those. That's a problem. The one guy says like, like, example, your favorite scissors for cutting meat. I don't know. Could be something like that. Yeah. I do, okay. I will say that, I mean, I didn't think of this that simply, but I have some really good steak knives, which I'm not partially my steak knives, but I've always bought cheap ass steak knives from like Walmart. I just never thought it mattered. And actually, a client of mine bought me a set for a gift after I showed to six steak knives. And then at first, I'm like, I was like, what the fuck is this? And now I buy expensive ass knives like right there work. And I'm a shitty cook, which is, I use word shaft cook. And they're still worth it. Good knives are amazing. Yeah, they have. Yeah, I got a really good knife set for Christmas. And I was like, I, yeah, cool. We got one of those cool knife sets. It'll sit on the counter. You know, with all the little knives, got a bunch of little steak knives. And then it's got a whole bunch of knives. I started using those things. Jesus, like, like, I just grabbed a piece of the fat and hold the steak up. And I just touched the blade to the fat and the weight of the steak just like, she's not. No, I mean, I just dragged the blade along the strip and just shears the, the, the, the steak, the weight of the steak just shears itself off the fat. The knife is so sharp. It's fucking so easy to use. Yeah, that's a P. Um, I mean, it's not something that I don't think people have, but I am also a big. I use tongs of hunch to like flip things, you know, yep. And I'm fine with that. It's a tongs. You have to have, but they have to have, there's a tricky thing. They're usually either plastic or metal. And I use them over extremely hot things. So I need the part that my hand is on to be temperature control. So another right issue. There's a person. Yeah, right. There are there are a lot of things. My one of my big things is that if I go to like say an Airbnb or, you get like a hotel room that has a full kitchen or, you know, I would go stay at my mom and dad's house for the weekend. I would always think my frying pan is way fucking better than these frying pads. As I always had like the big, like the 14 inch high edge, oh, pretty new like I can buy a new one every six months. So it's like super non-stickier egg whites just fall out. Yeah. Like you just that sort of thing. I a pan like that. I fucking, I'm like, I'm very snobby about my frying pan. It's a valid point. I have a pan that we only use for eggs, because it is so slippery, and I swear to god it's not good for other things. I'm like, just stocks for this other shit. You know, I'm like, I'm, because I like to make fake fried rice, with like just soy sauce and you know, put a little egg or like, cook it to a crispy, that piece is actually bad. It's no good. Fake fried rice. Yeah, because I don't really think that's delicious. Told you, I like my food to taste good. There's one thing, author, when in that is glass storage containers. Oh, yeah. I don't like plastic storage containers. They weigh a lot, but they're worth it. The quality, the taste of the food, even the next day. If you put that in plastic, it's going to change. Well, Ron does the same. I've seen him. Yeah. We used to work there. You always had glass containers. Yeah. Yeah. I always used glass containers. And big on that. Funny about that. That was actually something that my mom was doing that. Like back in the 90s. She was all about the glass containers. My mom was a pioneer. I had it every time. You know, my mom was a little more plastic. Don't waste food. Eat all that shit right now. You're going to waste if you put in the fridge. I'm right. What else we got? Okay. Hey, here's one we've all dealt with, especially me. Tips for leg day nausea. I'm eating 90 minutes out. I'm only using half the pre-workout that I use for other body parts. And I'm just drinking water while I train. What is wrong with me? I keep getting sick after I do quads. Sounds like he's not a good workout for me. That's true. No. I mean, I've thrown up a thousand. A thousand times on leg day. But then you get guys like Ian Valer. Ian Valer says if you're throwing up, there's something wrong. Like you're doing something wrong. Like there's no reason to be puked. So I never threw up once I got in shape. Like once I stopped like earlier in my career, like long before it was even remotely going to be called a career, I puked all the time. But I ate worse and I never did cardio. Once I got into cardiovascular shape, it was never an issue again. But I will say I don't consume a lot of liquid while I'm training either. I drink before I go in and when I'm there, like if I brought a leader in, I'm bringing three quarters of a liter out. I'm for a two hour leg day. You know, so that could be part of my thing. I'm not throwing any of my stomach to get sick with. Yeah, because I easily, yeah. I don't know, it's, I threw up on leg days when I was like in conteshape with really cardio. I just think there's some people, I mean, I mean, a listener here might be able to help us out more. But everyone that I've talked to, they just say, there's a certain blood chemistry that will trigger nausea because of the receptors in your brain that make you want to get sick. And so something that you're doing, like the four straps or something that you're doing is just triggering you to vomit. Hey, buddy. I don't know what he's working at. So yeah, I mean, it's not always, it doesn't always mean that you're out of shape. Some guy, like, I definitely, that's a factor. Like people who come into the gym and they train once, like, I'll put them through one leg workout and they'll throw up. It's like, yeah, that's who's just a shock to your system. And I don't ever mean to make anyone throw up. I try to, like, guide them. You're trying to gauge them. Yeah. Trying to gauge them. But sometimes, you just, sometimes people, maybe they drank too much pre-workouts to and that sort of shit happens. But, um, I think there's a genetic component. There's something going on, it's a sudden people throw up on legal time and other people can train just as hard and not throw up. I don't know. I don't know, something going on. But for nausea, I mean, he's doing all the right things. If he's trying to minimize it, I think that's a good question. Enough information that you knew the things he wasn't fucking up on. Yeah. Yeah. You know, maybe he just needs better cardio. Maybe he's carrying too much weight around. Maybe he's needlessly overweight. You know, he could drop 20 pounds and maybe he's substrolling up. I don't know. But yeah, that's something a lot of, I got a lot of guys go through leg day vomit. What if it has anything to do with the density of the food he's eating? He said 90 minutes, but I know that for me, I can clear food in 30 minutes and be ready to train and not feel like it's coming back up usually. But maybe if I'm a steak or something heavier, the digest slower, maybe a lot of fiber in it that might slow it down. I'm more likely to go hypos in a workout. Like even not using insulin than I am to get sick. Right. So going hypos for you would happen more frequently. Yes. Yeah. Even like I said, not using insulin. That's more of a common thing that I've had to watch out for. And that's one of the reasons like prework or excuse me, intro workout carbs had been a really good thing for me. I could eat like 30 minutes before a really brutal like back day or leg day and still be good. And having those carbs intro would be helpful. Right. It's funny because I, it's very rare for me to go hypos. You know what I mean? But it's used to be super common for me to throw up on leg day. So to watch his own, you know for that over the years for sure. I Scott, supper topic, how is training now? It's getting better. Nice. Nice. You know what I discovered? Wind. I discovered that I was missing a key element. And it's not what I would suggest people should go out and do. But you got married. That helps. You don't even like not living alone. And in this studio 24 or so. But I got a new pre workout the other day. And I took him to do it. I like I tore it up. I went and trained legs at the actual gym gym, not just the basement gym here. It was good man. I was like, I think this was the key element that I was missing all along was a lot of caffeine. I just didn't even meet Jack. I'm so shit. I thought you were gonna say like, I thought you're gonna be like, now this this product which I, you know, I don't get paid to promote or anything. But he uses one ingredient and you were gonna be in like this one. Sure. Yeah. I think this huge difference. I went. We went to vitamin shop and I hadn't been in there for a while. Most of the supplements I buy are just from like true nutrition and that their pricing is really good. But I looked everything over. It was like it was getting to see like, what are the kids taking nowadays? And so I actually asked them. I was like, hey, what's the most popular pre workout you guys are selling now? And I bought a tub of that and I looked at like all the different companies. There's like so many companies out now that if, you know, it's really the market's changed and pre workout was like $50 a tub. So honestly, if I was like a 22 year old kid trying to do bodybuilding, I don't think I could afford that shit nowadays. You know what that kind of price? Right. Yeah. What is up with that? We're gonna have to send you some oil in. I gotta try it. Yeah, I wanna try it. We gotta do, I mean, I wanna hate this. I wanna go online. But because when I was with condemned, that was the only thing I was worried about losing was a pre workout. Yeah. Because I hated the previous. What was it madness? Well, madness was just a little stem scoop. It was just a little concentrated stem scoop. I never liked any of those. Yeah. So I didn't like it. And then they sent it all in. And I actually like continued to use what was left over of my condemned for a while. And finally it was like an arm day. I'm like fuck it. I'm gonna try this. So I took a whole scoop. And A, I knew it was awesome. B, I realized I needed a half a scoop. That's right. We're talking about the F, definitely. Yeah. I was like, holy shit. I do 23rd of a scoop. Yeah. 23rds of a scoop of all in. Is that one of the like the bigger all in one type pre workout? Yeah. It's a whole, literally, nice. Yeah. Full dose of everything. I like that. I do. So good quality, citrline, malle, tonalet stuff. I like that. So, so, but it's 300 milligrams. So I only want about 200 milligrams. That's kind of my workout. The problem is just that I find with the higher dose. It's, I was trying to get tonic caffeine my entire life. But my heart rate in my breathing gets fucked up on back or legs, with the caffeine's too high. So it's got to be just enough to like, okay. We're ready. You know, right. Yeah. We'll get you that though, because you'll also like to taste. So I got to try that. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. Sorry, I do realize again, that's what I do. So, okay, that's the whole point. The goal does, he isn't to go through 20 questions. It's to go through, it's to go through. Look at, we're sure for questions. And you get completely sidetracked with, with, with nonsense. Yeah. That's the thing. No, but I had a really good one that I wanted to say earlier. And then I remembered we were not going to show you that. Ah, there we go. This is a good one. Most valuable thing that you learn on your entire bodybuilding journey. I like this one. I like these neat ones. Scott is so frozen. I thought he was fucking a beautiful, so that was wild. You're not getting out of this, Scott. Yeah. I don't know. How cliche is this answer going to be? Go. How cliche, how cliche is what I'm about to say? I don't know. I just got to be something in there about like, you know, living your life on your own terms. That was something that I had to sort of like embrace to the bodybuilder. You know, like I remember being kind of aware that it was always weird and it wasn't normal. Everybody, everybody was like, that's not normal. What are you doing? Like I always knew it was like abnormal. So I had to get used to that. But I think that kind of embracing that and accepting that I was doing something that wasn't normal. It also, I think it generally made me more open to other people that were also sort of cultural rejects as well. Like, you know what I mean? I always thought I was like a really tolerant and like, oh yeah, that's really fucked up, but do you think buddy? You know? I was always kind of one of those people and it was because I sort of thought that what I was doing was like, eat it. It's so weird and you know, not normal and people probably saw it like through all these different stereotypes and all that sort of stuff. So I, you know, that probably shaped me quite a bit as a person. But that's an interesting thing to maybe wonder how bodybuilding affected me that way. But I'd say like just the goal setting is probably the most valuable thing. Like okay, like I have to do this on this day. Right. And you think about it like for a 21 year old kid to set a goal like that, like it's pretty aggressive like my first show, you know, like, okay, I'm going to do, I'm going to do all this work and then I'm going to like drive to this other city. I'm going to throw myself into this competition with who knows is going to show up. Like it was a real like uncertain like thing, you know, but you just do it and you have to, you have to just do your work and accept the consequences. You have no idea what lies ahead. You know, who's showing up all that sort of stuff. So like that's good for you. You know, a lot of people hesitate so much because they're afraid of that. What's the outcome going to be? Yeah, with bodybuilding, man, he can hesitate at all. He just have to bust your ass and go. You know, agreed. Well, you've got. Well, you know, I knew I had a pretty good feeling. I wasn't going to be a pro bodybuilder early on, which was probably a good thing to have realized, you know, but at the same time, I still felt like, you know, I had really been into photography for a really long time and gone to school for that work in that industry and got burnt out of it. And when I discovered bodybuilding, I realized like, you know what, I can, I only have so much time in this world to really go all in on so many different things in life. And you know, and I felt like it was worth exploring. So I thought, I thought, you know, it might limit me from seeing other learning other things, but it'll allow me to explore this one thing at a really intricate level. And I think that being able to find something you can do that with teaches you a lot, you know, and for sure. It's evolved, you know, because because I think it's early on, I really enjoyed the, like, the quote unquote, suffering, you know, in dieting and stuff. I really enjoyed like how much can I handle kind of feeling. It's evolved because now it's just like pure joy, you know, the last prep I had was just like pure joy that I'm able to do this and could afford to do this and have the know how and the health and all that. So I, I guess, you know, the biggest thing is probably like the, like you're saying, Ron, you know, it kind of it built confidence. We're able to do all those things you're talking about to me was able to give me confidence and then getting in recovery and discovering all these things I realized like, I could apply that to any area of my life, which I, you know, then I did. And it's, it's definitely been to my benefit, you know, I'm not great. It's awesome. I would say, um, the, this, the blanket answer for me is, it's almost a piggyback off of what Ron said, which is it was the first thing that I, that I knowingly in life and I wouldn't say it's first time I did it was first thing I knowingly did where I had a goal, had a date and worked backwards and came up with a plan on how to achieve that goal. And had to work every single day towards that goal, obsessively. And as you get older, you realize that that's literally everything you do and want to own a new house and you have no money in the bank. And you know, you need 10% down how long is it going to take, how much is the house going to cost you work backwards and you start saving or doing what it is you need to do. And I find that that practice is what a lot of people don't do. A lot of people have dreams, not goals. And if you have a goal, you do that. You say, okay, well, when, okay, how long is it going to take? Okay, now that I know when that's going to be that the goal is what do I have to do to make that happen? And if you implement that just like you do a show, it happens. I mean, so far, I haven't had a goal that I chased with that kind of focus that I didn't get. And Roddy really taught me that. It was really, it's really that simple. It's cool. You know, and then the only other dish I was going to say which Ron used the terms a lot, but I found that everyone does, which is reps. Like that is something that is alive and also every person I've ever known who's successful and something. I've even heard people in other nine sports and other professions use the word reps. And I'm like, yeah, it's the thing. Like, yeah, they're doing them too. And I think that when you have that in the most basic form, it makes it so clear that everything that we learn from bodybuilding is beneficial or can be. And I told the stroke kid just recently, and I said, you have two options with bodybuilding. It will either enhance every area of your life or ruin it, your decision. Right. And I think it really can. And I sadly, I feel like more people let it ruin it, but that's just my opinion. Those good. I got a good one here. Shoot. This at first I was going to skip it. And I was like, oh, wait a minute, this could be interesting. What are some tips for the just the average girl wanting to get into gym to look better? Like suffisiques, like how the figure girls look, but just wants to get into the gym. Tips for training the average girl to gym that wants to look better. I mean, well, first thing would be, I feel this isn't just women, this is everyone. I think that the most people when they go into a gym, they have no idea what the body's capable of, and they don't train hard enough to get a result. There has to be a hard enough stimulus for your body to have a response to need to change. And I think that that's an area that most people are lacking. I see a lot of people in the gym and unlike most, I don't laugh at them. I feel bad because I'm like, they don't know what they're doing isn't enough. And they're here every day. I can see that, you know, so I feel like that's the first step is helping people understand the amount of effort that they should put in to make that happen. Because if they have that mindset, like you just said, they want to, they're halfway there. They just need to know. Right, you know, so that'd be my first thing would be understanding what the effort needs to look like. One thing that I think is a good tip is, I can't remember who told me this. But you know, when you first get someone in the gym lifting weights, it's not like you can push them to maximum intensity right away because they're going to have the form down. Yeah, they're learning how to squat. They're learning how to move dumbbells. They're dumbbell pressing with like 15s. You know, they're just getting things moving. But he said it's important to find something, anything that they can do with maximal intensity if possible and make sure you integrate it in. So let's see, you get someone who's new to weight training, but they can sprint on the bike. And make sure you put some bike sprints in the program because part of what you're doing is teaching them to train hard. I like that. Like it doesn't matter. Don't overthink what they're able to go hard on. Just make sure there's something in there that goes hard and kicks their ass. Because you want them to kick their own ass in the gym and it'll leak into the other stuff. Yeah, yeah, so maybe someone's like new to squatting. So they're squatting at 25 pounds per side and they're just making sure their form's good and you know, you don't want to push them to failure and they collapse under the bar and fucking you know what I mean. But they can get on a bike and they can really fucking crank out some reps because maybe they use to play some sports, right? So just make sure there's something you can really go hard on and try to integrate it in there. And I think that that's important and would be for women too. But I think the main things you want to do with with with not just women but you know, newbies in general is, is you want to get them moving their bodies through full range of emotion. You got to get them squatting. You got to get them comfortable with barbells and it's not that free weights are magic but for beginners they certainly are foundational. You got to get them squatting. You got to get them doing some dead lifting, understanding how their body works, moving through those big movement patterns. You know what I mean? So you don't take a new girl and put her on like, you know, single iron bicep curls and single leg, you know hamstring curls and and take she's going to get the body she's looking for. You got to get her moving, you know, as much stress to the body as you can put into an efficient program. That's my thing. I like that. What's next? That's E does to looks like he's got another one. No, I'm scanning for for more here but here's an important question. You got real big legs. Boxes are briefs. Oh wow that's easy. Neither. Boxes are briefs. Because I need them to come down my leg. I need them tight so they don't ride up on my legs rub together. Briefs is impossible because legs rub together. But I actually just wear the compression shorts that under armor works. Those are underwear now. Very expensive underwear, by the way, but I don't like my legs to rub. Good sucks. And you. Well definitely not like baggy boxers like cotton like like boxer shorts. I've never owned a pair of boxers shorts in my life. I like the, you know, the, I guess you call them boxer briefs. Like the, the better bodies ones that go down your legs a little bit there. Yeah. Yeah. Those ones are awesome. I do have some briefs. They're fine. I got some sacks, you know, whatever brand that is. It's fancy. It's those fancy sacks briefs and boxer briefs. But yeah, no baggy boxers like you. It did always tell when the radio turned down or his buying is underwear and it's from sex. He invited himself. No fucking what the radio. The guy's been down. He's been down. He's been down. He's been down. He's been down. He's been down. So I should get to wait with turning the radio down once in a while. He's irritated. He's like, man, these are nice. I'm mad at you for doing that, but you buy my underwear. You know, what do you think Scott? Boxer briefs. No question. I'm grateful that I don't have to walk as much as I did for work in the past because my legs would shave in the summertime. Like a mother fucker and it was the worst. I can't imagine you're you're whole you must have been sweating before you even got to work. Oh yeah, when you're just humidity. Did you change shirts during your shift? It was your doing. No, no, no, no, you didn't have that kind of time that kind of luxury. It was just like training the whole day. You just feeling you're in the you know it was like that. The the perspiration of training, but like all day. All day. Did you ever wear long sleeves during in the summer? I'm pretty sure. No, we we were allowed to start wearing, you know, we were allowed to wear shorts. And so I would start and I would like to shorts because they were cooler. So I would start wearing shorts like is early in the season as I could, you know, and as late into the fall, it's like almost Christmas time and I'm still rocking the shorts, you know, because it was easier. Yeah, I used to wear when I tinted windows, I wore shorts, but I actually wore long sleeve t-shirts because they'd get wet. So it was cooler to have a wet shirt. I mean, I was wearing time button ups. It was a t-shirt, but it was like a 50-50. It actually felt cooler because I wasn't in the sun like direct to the sun. And I was like, this is actually cooler than the other options. Just put like a big two X, three X shirt on and sometimes I even had like polo shirts that were thinner and you get like three X one of those and just like you just swim in it and it felt more comfortable that way, you know, and then my goal would be like just keep getting bigger until you fill this thing out. And I would walk around work just like eating my food and stuff because there's no managers like when you go to a grocery store, your managers not there. The grocery store managers are there and they're like, hey, you know, yeah, this is what you got to do today, you know, just let me know, sign this thing before you go. I'm like, all right, and then I go and buy some food and I'm like walk it around, just eat and go in the bathroom to take some insulin, you know, listen to Ron, I would listen to Ron's podcast while I was doing that, you know, oh, that's so fun. It's good. Then go take a break. You need some, you my, my next meal. Right. Text card on Saturday to like tell him like, yeah, drink six ounces of water, you know, need a rice cake before you get on stage. Yeah, that would suck. All right, that's funny. I'm getting all the life questions this time. So those are good. All right, here's another one. How do you deal with major adversity in life? Just fucking go like this and just fucking get in there. I mean, it has to be dealt with so you just take it head on. Agreed. I don't know. I'm trying to keep your life. I guess another thing as I try to keep my life as normal as possible through adversity. I think some people and obviously life throws you curve balls. I understand that your life comes apart sometimes. I mean, it happens to everybody. But you really do have to try to keep it together. Almost to the level of like living in a little bit of denial. I think that's actually a good thing. Like, you know, like you just like, not fucking keep this together. Training it for 30. I'm going to be on time. My training partner doesn't even need to know this. Happened. I'm not going to show up and, you know, spit into his ear. Although that's training partners are sometimes four. That's very important role that training partner can help you with. But you just, you know, you try your best to like just keep together, keep life taking away. I got my business meeting. I'm not going to, you know, not going to let on. You know, there's a little bit that, you know, Bill Bird talks about pushing the motions down until they just come out all over your family at Christmas. I think that you do that with your adversity too. You just fucking kind of just just choke it down and just try to keep your life together. I don't know. Focusing on the routine, which I guess goes to back to what bodybuilding is taught us. Focusing on keeping the machine moving, keeping all the moving parts moving and keeping the process happening has been how I've gotten through everything difficult in my life. Yes. That's probably the better answer than the one I actually gave for the question, because I just kind of didn't even put this question. I found a couple things basic. First being, I think a lot of people spend a lot of time focused on the problem. That's a thing. And I don't like, for me, the problem is the problem. So, fuck the problem. What's the solution? What are you going to do? I really do think there's a lot of mental masturbation spending a lot of time romanticizing how they wish life could be. But it's not because this and then in they spend weeks and months thinking about how they wish it was and it's not. Same thing with relationships or whatever. And at the end of the day it's like, it's not. Shut up. What are you going to do? What are you going to do? Like that to me, and it's not meant to be like it sounds like, oh, I'm hard. It's not at all what it is. It's just it's a fact. That is what it is like, go. And the other thing that I was going to also say is, I've definitely learned that all the hardships that I've had weren't always hardships. Like they felt like it in the moment and then you get to the other side and you get to the thing that that you had to go through to be there and you're like, oh, that's why I had to go through that. So I was ready for this. I've really found that nothing is really what I think it is in the moment. Yeah. Like sometimes there's great things that are happening to me. And like that was fucking amazing. And then the bottom falls out from it. You're like, oh fuck, that wasn't good at all. But you had to go through that as well. So to me, the answer is nothing is really a bad thing. It's just, okay, what are we doing next? How do you handle the next step? I actually just saw a thing in the day and it's like, if I walked out to my car, my truck and the gym parking lot today, it was on fire. I got to get home and then we would go to dinner and we would enjoy dinner and I guess tomorrow I'd buy a new car. Like all the insurance company and like, yeah, I mean, there's nothing to that's done. There's nothing to worry about with that. And I think obviously that's very simple because it's an object. But people do try to do that with relationships and things. I mean, you know, if my business partner stabs me in the back today, fuck, that's done. Okay, what am I going to do? And I really think if you get right to the, okay, what am I going to do? You'll be a lot better off. I used to tell employees all the time when they'd come with me with problems. They'd start talking like, oh, what's a solution? They'd go, I don't know, go, well, then come back when you have one. Right. I don't give a fuck about your problem. What's the solution? When you come back with that, now we can talk and maybe I'll help you with an even better solution, but don't just dump it on me. Fuck off. Right. Right. I've seen that. I've seen people in, you know, nutrition clients because you know, it can be difficult to get the, that your logistics down for getting all your meals in during the day. And I've met some people that will focus on the things that they can't do versus focus on the things that they can do. And I think if you, if you do try to, and it affects you, you know, if you're just like, oh, man, I can't do this. I can't eat at this time. It's like, all of a sudden, you're looking at like all these limitations in your life versus that opposite. And I think I can do that sometimes, too. I can catch myself and be like, wait a second. Just because I can't do this, doesn't mean I, you know, I can do all this. This, this and this. So yeah, I was fine, interesting. We have the opposite. I got the other day. He's been climbing for probably a year and a half. We've done a couple of shows all this shit. He goes, oh, hey, so I'm, I'm thinking about competing again in November. And I'm retiring in August, which would be nice because I'll no longer have that four and a half hour commute a day. This is the first I've heard of this four and a half hour commute that you have every day. It made me laugh. I didn't even talk to him about it. I was just like, we've done shows. And I've filled you with cardio, eating, posing, you know, posing with candy, doing all the shit and he is never mentioned it because it's not my fucking problem. And he has to find a way. But I just thought it was so impressive because I'm like, we got to him. That's a chunk of your day. Yeah. Then you got an hour and a half a training an hour of cardio. Then I'm like, I told him like that's I'm impressed. I didn't even know you had that. I mean, I'm assuming, you know, so it's shocking because like you said, Scott, I'll have people that tell me the opposite. I got called in earlier today. I wish, I guess I can't do cardio on him. I'm like, how do you later? Do you want to have your word? Oh, the gyms close. Walk down the goddamn street. I don't know. Yeah. Living a bad neighborhood. Carry a gun. Exactly. You should have too. I don't know what to tell you. Funny. What did your turn? Your turn? Yes. Well, here's kind of an interesting one. It's, we could talk about this. What do you think about TRT forever? No cycles ever never coming off? I love it. I love TRT. Yes. Well, I really disagree. That's what TRT is. I mean, the only thing that's, that's the thing that's why I thought we should discuss it. Like people throw around this term TRT and they don't understand that that's what TRT is supposed to be for. It's test replacement therapy. The only thing that will change is over time, your blood work will determine if you need last or more. It's not always more. And that's why you don't guess. I think what's interesting. It's funny. You said that wrong because I had that question last year. I didn't even bother to answer. It was like I said, what do you think about anodrol with anti-RT? I'm like, it's not TRT. It's like a anodrol. Yeah. I'm like here. And I think that's like it's really funny. Before you'll get the guy that's like, I'm just doing 400 million of TRT. I'm like, that is not what it means. Yeah. You're only time testing. You only have high fucking goals. So I did see one guy showed me blood work. He was taken 250 migs a week, which is pretty high TRT. You're like probably not in normal range. But his test levels. So his total test was slightly above range. Right. But his bio-available and free test were below the middle of their range. Because he had really high SHGB. Right. That's six hormone binding globular. It was his was like right at the top of the range. So it was binding up a lot of his test. So it's like interesting when you see someone on 250 a week and they're actually their free test is actually very middle ground. But that's where he's the other guys on. Yeah. Yeah. It's where your blood work comes out. That's where you have to have you have to know. Yeah. Where do you get someone else on 100 a week in their their free test is like above normal range? Like way up there. Yeah. So that's all when you bring in your your supplements. That's the thing is if you don't know that right and you're still not feeling good because you're in your blood work. Yeah. Oh, I must say 350 it's like no you need borough. Right. You need something to free up here. I think you be or you know lower it. I mean lower your SHGB or something like that. Yeah. Some of your effects free test alone. It doesn't need me. You need more tests that I won't bind any less just because it's to take more. So yeah. I get asked a lot like how often did I go off? Because I'm everyone kind of you know, I'm kind of an old school guy. We used to go on and off. Yeah. And I went off all the way up until I was 39 years old. Right. That was the first time I ever bridged a cycle with a cruise like a like what we would call cruise dose. Yeah. And I remember I did 200 milligrams a week for 16 weeks. So it was four months. And that was the first time I ever cruise. But I was 39 already. So it was a lot of coming off before that. Right. I think people are more afraid of coming off than they need to be. And again, technically, if you get into the science of it, if you're not going to be off for like a year, you are better off to bridge as they say. I think we healthier. Like it's it's all in your body. Yeah. All the same bad shit that happens you know too much gear, you know, can happen when your test is too low. Like your cholesterol can go to shit, your estrogen levels. Can you get messed up? You know, like a whole bunch of stuff can go off out of whack by being low test for a long period of time too. But I did find when I got sick last year. Obviously, they weren't injecting me shots to the month in the hospital. I didn't get back on anything for the month afterwards. And so when I got my first blood work, I was actually shocked because obviously I've been running shit for 15 years. Well, levels were great. I didn't feel terrible. I really was really surprised. I was like, you know, I think my test was at like 650 at that point. It was eight weeks off. And I was like, that's just that's just lingering. So that's just lingering. So that's just, that's just lingering. So that's just lingering. So that's just lingering. So that's just lingering. Well, well, maybe Matt was giving me shots while I was in. He's like, I didn't take any shots while I was on there. I took three grams of sustan on the day I went in. But why do I might be there for a while? I know how my test levels were back to normal yet. Yeah, it was surprising though because I actually was like, wow, I don't feel like deaths. You know, plenty other than being weakest. Whatever you front loaded. Yeah, go back to last show. Front loaded for the surgery. I knew it was current loaded for the coma. Front loaded for the coma. You gotta be ready at all times. You never know. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yes. I'm curve. What do you think Scott? You got anything there? I don't have anything. I might at this point I'm along for the ride basically. You're here to answer the questions with better answers than Ronald. I'll go to the kids. What the? One week in the rest. No. Is there are there any hobbies that you wish you would have taken out and you just never? Yes. A million. Yeah. I don't think I need a more time at this day on this. Yes. Absolutely. I think that's the one. Okay, that's my one sense of regret. But I have been obsessive about things my whole life. Like when I played hockey, it was all I did. Yeah. Right. I played as much as I could play any time, any place. I can get ice time. I'm in Street hockey done. When I was bodybuilding, it was the same. I was very obsessive with that. So now, like, even something as simple as a hobby I'm taking up is traveling. Actually, going to see things do things. You know, Ron was really good about that. But like when I was in prep, I really didn't go do a bunch of other things. Some of it was financially limited. But like, I've probably done more in the last year than I've done in the six, seven years before that as far as going to concerts, doing things. But I always thought a learning guitar or something would be awesome because it seems like it would be very hard for me. Like, when I see a very basic, like someone learning guitar, I'm like, oh, my fingers wouldn't want to do that. Yeah. You know, so I think that would be fun, very, very challenging, you know, something like that. I've been running a lot of guitar lately because I bought, you know, I bought a couple and I also got this, this really cool little micro amp. It's called, because I have an condo, right? So like, and sometimes I'm playing at night, like Emily actually goes to bed and then I go sit in the office and jam. So it's like, it has to be headphones, right? Okay. Yeah. So I got this so micro amp. And what you do is you plug your headphones into it and then you plug it into your guitar. So, you know, you hit your guitar and it comes out your headphones. But then you blew two through your phone to the micro amp and you play an album. The album comes in your headphones and you play along with the album. So it's exactly what every person has ever done. Every kid who had a rock and roll dream sat by his record player back in the day and jam to Led Zeppelin records, had to figure out that the records aren't perfectly in tune every time. So you got to, why doesn't this sound quite right? Because when they recorded it, they were a half step down. So you got a tune, you're guitar, a half step down. I'll get no sounds right with the, you know, like, you got to figure all the kids that went through all that, like all the musicians that I love. They all did that. They all sat in front of their record players and tried to play along. And you tried to turn the amp to just the right volume and the record player to the right volume. So it sounds like you're playing with the band, you know? And I used to do that when I would jam try to learn a bunch of songs. I'd try to get my skill up. I'd put five songs on a playlist and I'd try to play along with all five of them perfectly, you know? But now I can do it all with this little, I don't even need an amp. You don't even need your actual amp. You just fuck it. Just put this little toy in your guitar and plug your headphones into it. Let's create these stuff. And it's like 150 bucks. Oh wow, it's cheap. That's cool. So yeah, and then you can also run a run a USB cord from the little micro amp into your computer and you can record it all in garage band. Oh, nice. Oh, nice. That's after. That's bad. So it's just really cool. So I'm having a lot of fun with that. But I always thought like I sometimes wish I would have played enough guitar that I would have been good enough to like, you know, like there was this blues bar that was down the street for me for a long time when I had to have a ten. And they would have like jam night. Every Sunday would be like jam night. And just anyone could go down there with their guitar and all the blues guys were just jam and together and you'd get up and plug in and play for a while and then you unplug and go sit down and have a beer and someone else would go up with the drummers and everyone to just be jam and together and have fun. But those guys are like good, you know. Yeah. And you're rolling and they're not going to fuck you or do it. Yeah, like, you know, I roll in there with my tender vonna songs and my 10 AC DC riffs and everyone and there's like a blues player and just fucking rip, you know, like they're not going to want me around, right? So so I always wish that was good enough to go down on those nights and just like be one of those dudes. It's just like that the people that go to comedy clubs and they put their name on the list and they said, yeah, like I admire those people. Oh, for sure. Something else. So I'd say maybe stand of comedy with something that I was wish I would have done when I was young and dumb enough to just let my self get buttured. You know. Yes, that's a hard one. I don't think I only people realize the difference between being funny in person and being a comedian. Yeah. Yeah. That was a wrong to do with those. He's got the storytelling down. He can lead you down a pass. We could comment to all the time about how they people like your storytelling around. Oh, wrong. It was a well story story. I remember one time I was with these guys in Australia. There was my buddy Chris who was used to grow all this weed. He was like a surfer and he was, hey, we're going to do a comedy club. You should come with this. And I was like, oh, sure, I'll go. So I went and there was like one other bodybuilder that came with me and then him and then some of his friends and his friends were like crazy surfer party Australian guys. Yeah. Right. And we went to this we went out and we had a I had a one out of beer with them and I remember some chicken fingers as you do and then we went to this comedy club. And I remember thinking like we got to the comedy club and I remember thinking, holy shit, this place is like dump. Like this is a dump. It's not big. It's just a fucking dingy little hole. Yeah. And people were getting up and like it was kind of funny. A couple of guys were funny, but you know, we were we were smoking weed and we were, you know, just being goofy. And I was just telling this sitting in the chair talking to the guys and then the another comic would come on and we watch him and it was pretty funny. And then all of a sudden the one dude that was with us just like walks on the stage. No kidding. It's a bitch talking on the mic. I guess he put his name on the list. I didn't even say anything. Yeah. And I look at Chris and I'm like, what's he doing? He goes like, he goes up once in a while. Like it was nothing. No kidding. And he just got up there and told this funny story about he told story about shit in his pants or something and everyone was laughing and stuff and they just comes down grabs his beer and he's like, hey, you guys ready to go? And I remember sort of thinking like that was fucking cool. You just got up there and like ran the room for five minutes. Yeah. And you didn't bomb. You actually did all right. You know, if anything, we were heckleam. And you're telling your friends the screw over. Yeah. And I just remember thinking like, oh shit, like I don't know the balls for that. I'm gonna get up there and my underwear maybe if I'm in shape. But yeah, that's fine. Totally fine. Yeah. I just that had an impression on me. So I was at my or that. That would have been a cool thing to get into. You're sure. You too old to do this at this point now. That's the now. Absolutely. Now your judgment's completely lost. Yeah, we can't put it up. Yeah, we can't put it up. You have all the best stories. Oh God, there is no. And that's cute. That's classic. Where we at? That would be good. I'd like to see Dusty do five minutes. I would. I'd like to see there. You guys do five minutes. That would be good. If Ron did five minutes, they'd want ten because they'd realize like, how does this guy's got an act for this? I'm I push Ron into this eventually, actually. Yeah, after watching, I was I watched a few videos from that awakened with JP guy the other day. I watched that yesterday. I have to say that to do what he does, it has to take a certain level of intelligence. Like he's a smart dude. Yeah, he don't know his mark. You're manipulating the humor and the satire curve just right to stay on brand the whole time. He's really good at it. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I appreciate that. Yeah, I feel like it has to be really self-aware. Yes, really self-aware because they have to like, yeah. I feel like broken, really brought to our attention. Like as a society, like the art of comedy because he's been doing talking for years about, you know, like I remember I used to listen to him a lot and I remember him talking about like what happens when you bomb, you know, what happens when you just get shit on stage and what that whole experience is like, what do you say about it? They just said, you know, it's like, I mean, you just have to get there's nothing you can do and you're up there and it's like your worst nightmare kind of thing and it starts happening and there's nothing you can do and all you can do is just sit there and take it and go through the process. Yeah, yeah, yeah, it's hard to imagine any of those guys ever bombing now that they kind of have their art their craft mailed. Yeah, you know, seems impossible. Even shit in front of a room full of people. Yeah, yeah, both to be the most humbling thing in the world. But like how Rogan says you have to go through it. Like it's like a right of passage, you know? Yeah, you're going to like it's a guaranteed thing that's going to happen, you know? And did you guys ever watch that billber, fili, rant? Do you ever see the fili rant? Hmm. It's, it's a Rogan calls it the greatest one of the greatest performances of all time and there was like a comedy night in Philadelphia and you know, Bill Burr's a Boston comic, right? Right? There was some massive rivalry going on at the time, fili and Boston as there's probably been a bunch of different sports. I don't know. But anyways, Bill Burr went up to do 20 minutes and the crowd was just brutal. Like fucking hated him. And so he just kept taunting them and taunting them. He's like, oh, yeah, you guys are going to heckle me, hey, bunch of fucking one of the only fucking hockey cities that were pants. The fucking 70s. You guys are going to fucking he just starts laying into fili. I, you mother fuckers think, yeah, well, guess what? I got 17 minutes left and I'm doing every last fucking one of them. Like he wasn't going to leave. Like, oh, you guys want me out of here. Do you have fuck you 14 minutes? Let's go. I can do this all day. You and he just starts fucking the crowds turning on him and he's just going for it and then the magic kicks in and like minute 17 starts cheering him. No kidding. It's turning. And he just stays out there. He's like two minutes left. I'm not fucking leaving and he's just fucking giving it to all and they start cheering. He roasted them hard enough that they started loving them. That's cool. And at the end of the 20 minutes, he fucking walks out of stage. And I guess I guess when you watch the video, it's like, it's like funny, but kind of weird. Like his weird set, right? But I guess the real story was backstage. All the other comics were like, Bill Burr's savage. Yeah, the savage is the baldiest fucking guy. Like he didn't give a fuck. They were sitting backstage just like, oh, what's happening out there? That's so cool. But it's on YouTube. So I don't know. I haven't seen it for a long time, but I did watch it a few times. I don't know. Fuck you 17 minutes. There's a long time. I'm not leaving. I'm not leaving. Okay. Well, is that it? Are we good? Thank you. Good. Um,