next Wednesday. We could do either of those two things. I'm good with that. I'm good. Let's stay on. Let's stay on course. I don't have anything booked for the 22nd. I'm going for Wednesday. Okay. Which is live episode. I'll put 10 a.m. Excellent. Okay. Thanks. Thank you guys. Thank you. Bye.

That's big business, you know, these factories that make these laws in China don't. They're not there to make steroids for laws. Yeah, they're making it for big farmer. So yeah, you know, is there gonna be an issue with the farm zoo industry getting hard with tariffs? Potentially, yeah. Is your T.R.T. test gonna go on? What's up guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crossley. I'm Scott McNally and all of our programming is brought to you by evalblutanalysis.com. You can get your labs done by Dave if you're in the UK. And if you're on cycle then you should definitely be doing your labs. And if you're in the UK then you can do your labs with Dave where brought to you by truenutrition.com. Use our code think over there for high quality third party test and supplements. I just got some cookie butter protein. Got the pure way isolate. Check it out. Great flavor and you know basically wholesale pricing. Use our code think over there. Of course, supplement source.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change from week to week. Just check them out. If you're in Canada go over there and see if they've got a guarantee they got something that you want. It's only gonna be like 10 or 15 bucks which is on herd of today in the world of supplements. And straw sports nutrition go over to stromstports.com and you can get some great health stacks. If you're on cycle and you're in the UK then you're gonna need to hit up strom. Dave, what's going on man last episode. Last couple episodes have been doing really well dude. People have been engaging with them. Thank you guys for all your comments. It's things are going good man. People are enjoying the show. I know. I just remembered something. Oh, I'm writing it down. Dave also warned me too guys he was like listen. I haven't made any coffee at all today running on zero cafe and there's going to be more yawning than usual. Which is generally a pretty good amount of yawning. So it's going to be funny. I don't think it's just time of day. Yeah, I just get to these times during the day and it's not. I need to not enough. Morning for me mid-afternoon for you. We did want to talk about the last couple shows before we did though. I had something that I wanted to ask you your thoughts on. Of course, this is just opinion. Listeners, I want to hear what you've heard too. Our tariffs going to affect underground gear. Our tariffs going to affect raw compounds from China. What are we dealing with here? It's not as big of a problem for you in the UK, but here in the US tariffs are putting everything on its head right now. So there's actually, I mean, UGL rods, their illegal products sold under the black market, there's no tariffs. I mean, he just doesn't exist. But China also is one of the biggest producers of raw pharmaceutical powders from the pharmaceutical industry as well. Of course. Yeah. And that's big business. You know, these factories that make these rods in China don't. They're not there to make steroids for those domestic law. Yeah. Thank you. They're making it for big farmer. So yeah, you know, is they going to be an issue with the pharmaceutical industry getting hard with tariffs potentially? Yeah, is your T.R.T. test going to go up? No, there's a possibility. I mean, I don't know how significant Chinese raw import is in the pharmaceutical world, but considering the size and number of factors they have, I suspect it is rather decent. I would too. I'm going to do a search. How? How are we where this? How? How much percentage of pharmaceutical rules are produced in China? Okay. Yeah. All right. Let's see what we got here. Okay. There's mainly just articles. Nothing is just jumping out. What percentage of drugs? How about that? Oh, this doesn't sound. Oh, no way. So this is obviously just a quick little blurb on Google. It says US pharmaceutical production estimates that 54% use manufacture, finished pharmaceuticals, consumed in the United States are produced in China. Okay. No, no, no, no, wait, wait. Consumed in the US are produced here. Where's here? It says only 6% are sourced in China. That doesn't sound right. You do a search day. You see you come up with. I'd be curious. Oh, okay. I got a graph here. I got a chart. Um, the USP medicine supply map and analysis chart shows the India is 48% China is 13% the US is 10%. So it's saying the India is bigger all around. Okay. Why aren't we getting our bras from India then? Like, do they maybe they have different, I mean, we're just, I'm shooting from the hip here Dave. I literally don't know, but are they looser with their regulations in China? Because we did, you know, we just talked the other week about how there's these mom and pop hormone producers that were all shut down in China recently. Maybe they just had loose regulations, though, and they were able to get away with it, you know? I've always found that what happens. Right. Okay. So APIs are what is active pharmaceutical ingredients. Okay. China makes 40 to 50% of the world's APIs and 70 to 80% of the world's APIs. Both the global generic drugs. Diana can the live stream says a different number. He says 20% of global APIs. But hey, 20 to 40% either way is a lot, I guess. But it's not as big as I thought. You don't even mean. Right. So the USA FDA has reported that about 13% of the registered API manufacturers are based in China. That's only part of the picture because many non-U.S. drug companies rely heavily on Chinese ingredients. Sure. Supplement industry, I'm sure, as a whole, you know? Over 90% of antibiotics such as penicillin and its derivatives come from China. Great. So we're screwed. We're screwed. Don't get sick, people. That's the key. So yeah, it would look like there's this quite significant level of raw production. I think the issue is, complete drugs. I don't think China has a huge share of the market. But ingredients for drugs, they appear to have. Yeah. So okay, I talked to a couple sources today. Well, I spoke to one today, client-amined, spoke to another yesterday. And I just spoke to a supermod from a major source forum who is going to dig into this. He's getting some more information. He's talking to a big supplier. I heard a mixed message. Number one, a high level underground or generic growth distributor in the U.S. has said that they are unable to get supplies due to tariffs. They're closed down for the next two weeks. I don't understand. And that's what led me to dig into this. I spoke to another source, just a source of all products. He had said, no, man. He was like, there is no reason just as U.S. a day because this is an underground market. They're not going through normal custody chains, right? So unless the manufacturing process is somehow being impacted. So China's just not making as much of the shit. You know, it's got nothing to do with the fact of getting this shit here. It's just the fact that they're not making as much. But my understanding was for a lot of this, there were a few large manufacturers that provided raw antibiotics for the black market. But there were literally thousands of agents. Yeah, yeah. So speaking to the representatives, and this seems to be a Chinese thing where someone will will act as an agent for several companies selling all sorts of modern, wonderful shit. I mean, I remember speaking to a supplier years ago about medical equipment. Chinese agent. And it was like, oh, well, if you want this, I also represent this company. You know, it's like, it's just a one-man shop, but he didn't work for any of the companies. He would just go to them with, I've got a customer that wants XYZ. What price can you give me on this? Yeah. Then come back to the customer and go, it's going to cost takes them out and he's bought his bit on top. And that seemed to be a very common way of the Chinese trading outside of the country broken the peak. Yeah, people would have regular jobs and then they would do brokerage on the side. Yeah. For numerous things. And the unabolic scene seems to be very much the same way, and that because I know when I've ordered peptides, and I order my peptides for what I use personally, direct from China. And I'll say, you know, can I get this this in this? And she's in right. I'll have to point by the factories of more than see what I can. So it's like, well, you obviously don't work that. So I spoke speaking to the same supermarket. And this was in regard to our episode that came out recently with Tim from Australia. You know, we did have feedback where people are like, oh, man, this is completely bold. All the gears good nowadays and speaking to this guy, the supermodus, longtime veteran, you know, and has a good inside pitch. He had said so on the note, and this kind of tied in with the pre-mo issues that we had, there were a series of shutdowns that happened. And the way he said this worked out was that there were a lot of smaller mom and pop raw producers that had been shut down. And he said that a lot of these places, they weren't operating under normal guidelines when the Chinese government looked into it. He was like, he couldn't even locate a lot of these companies. So they literally just went town to town and started tracking these people down and shutting facilities down. As a result, it did create kind of, you know, a bottle knack or a reduction in production. So we're kind of hearing some different stuff. You know, you heard the story about the bad pre-mo, and that being the cause, I'm hearing that there were shut downs. Whatever the case as a result, pre-mo production is lower, you know, or pre-mo on the end user market is lower right now. It's still available. There have been some issues a major company in the U.S. I think they're actually sorry, international. But a company that supplies end users, you know, checks all their stuff. They do a really good job. But apparently they got hit because with a lot of these companies that were these smaller companies that were shut down, they've sent out basically bunk stuff to try to recoup some of their losses. So, you know, we had a listener on Patreon who just was on Blitz Whittengear. And he was like, hey, I'm taking test in pre-mo. My estrogen looks like this. It's out of control. What do you guys think the deal is? And Andrew said, you know, I think that your pre-mo might be fake. You know, anyway, it turns out he finds out he's sent it out to GenoShik and it was. It was completely fake. And that was an issue with this major supplier. And it turns out that they got hit. So information is out on a company called Geno. We'll just leave it at that. That they got hit, you know, and everybody who purchased the bad stuff, they're getting recouped and all that. But, you know, it does happen basically. Yeah, there was four to five loves hit with bad rules and the UK all from the same manufacturer. The whole use in the same supplier. Yeah, I know one love just sees trading completely. They're just like the lost old faith in being able to get legit gear. I think the others have traded through it. But, yeah, there was definitely there was four to five loves affected with it. With it. Well, I don't even think it was a bad batch. It was several wars that were doing weird shit. Mm-hmm. Really? Okay. Yeah, so the prima was causing horrendous pit and infections and all sorts of problems. And then the test was doing weird stuff. And yeah, there was about four to five different types of antibiotics that seem to be affected. Some two are lesser or more tolerable degree than others. Yeah, but yeah, I mean, it seems to have been resolved that one now. But I'm not sure what a couldn't stay at play isn't. That said, I think the market is pretty good overall. So I don't want to just slant it as in, you know, that you've got a, you know, it's not like a Russian relate. I think when you're getting gear, like there's a lot of good stuff out there in the market. But, you know, you know, I, so overall, I think that we're good. We did, you know, it's just, sorry, kind of just, yeah, yeah, yeah. And this is no attack on anyone. I've known labs just simply fuck up where they've labeled, oh yeah. Propers test-end. You know, or vials have got mixed up. I know a lab that pushed a lot of them test out as test-end. Got it mixed up, but the wrong bloody labels on it. Oh, it was all sorted, but accidents do genuinely just happen as well. So there is that side of things as well. And going back to Tim, he's in Australia. Yeah, they got a camera off over there. Yeah, Starry supply is difficult over there. It's not easy to get gear. There is a lot of crap about in that market place because of the difficulty getting the drug. There's not a huge amount of homegrown suppliers. And penalties are particularly harsh if you get caught. So as a result, it does open the market up to people to abuse it, because people can't get it. So, you know, people will sell all sorts of crap. Yeah. So I don't think Australia would be a fair representation of the quality of gear that says in the states. Absolutely. I think the quality in both those scenarios would be higher. Canada as well, I'd put them right up there. They have the same laws as you guys, where, you know, good lots of personal action is, is, you know, is Lee as okay. Hey guys, future Scott here editing the show. Listen, I want to make sure we are abundantly clear. The gear market is going to be just fine. Don't fall victim to fear mongering. I saw a source post this week that pre-miles on available. And masked is next. You know, we're heading into hard times, but thankfully, we have ample supplies. You know, get your supplies while they last. And it's, you know, a marketing tactic old this time. I promise you guys, the market is going to be just fine. So please don't spend more than your means. And, you know, focus on your training and your diet. Those are really the things that are going to make the difference. Also, while I got you here, if you haven't liked the show, then please hit the like button and leave us a comment for the next one. Questions all that stuff. Let me know what you think of this episode. So anyway, we do have a bunch of listener questions, guys. And as I was saying, we had a lot of really great feedback on the last episode. But we was interesting to me to hear, because I thought this might happen. I was kind of like, I don't know how people are going to take this show. Because we, you know, the topic was minimal effective dose to make cycle like gains. And I think most people got it, but we did a couple people there like, oh my gosh, man, you're telling me 250 tests is the minimum to make, you know, cycle gains. Like, I really like your show, but I don't agree with you guys. And it's just an interesting place because 20 years ago, it would have been said that 500 was the absolute minimum. Don't even mess around. You know what I mean? And now it has swung so far back. So I can't complain that people are learning the low dosing. We had another guy Dave, who was like 40 to 60 Annavar. Because I think I mentioned that that was in the study of Scott Stephenson showed us, that that was like the high end, like maximum effective dosing where you're going to get the most amount of progress. This guy said 40 to 60 Annavar, how many weeks on that before your kidneys fall out? I think I'm like, oh my gosh, like, are we in a world now? We're 40 to 60 var is it which it's high dose, you know, but it's not in my appearance. I would say 100 high dose. Yeah, I would agree. I'm with you 100% on that man. I would say 46 to sort of 30 to 60 years where your dosing would be if you wanted to have a decent effect. Yeah, I mean, a lot of these down to individual personal experiences, isn't it? But I mean, it used to be the start cycle was 40 to 500 milligrams. That's it, don't deal. Any lower you don't bother with. Yeah, people have accepted what I find ironic as well is you've got somebody who feels at 250 miggies, not high dose, but not a low dose when it comes to testosterone. Yeah. And yet you've got TRT clinics in the state, dosing people at 2 to 300 miggies. 300. Yeah. Yeah. No, I'm with you. You know, 100% of the man. There's a certain confusion there isn't the many things I will wish is it. I think part of it too that's changed has been the the user has also changed. The demographic of people who are using has broadened, you know, years ago when we talked about the 500 test or nothing, like everybody who is using was generally not always, but generally more advanced, a lot of people were competing, a lot of people were really pushing pushing and they'd been in this game for a long time. You know, I talked to, I got one thought Dave, and I was just trying to remember, I was going to say without forgetting it. Go up. Okay. And because I spoke to Steve at one point about this, you know, he had put out a video where he said five milligrams of anavar is all you need. Like five? And like I said, we looked at this research 40 to 60. I think 60 was the high endocing of like maximum gains. And but Steve's perspective was this, he was like, yeah, man, but a lot of the people who were watching this stuff on YouTube, they're not that high level bodybuilder. These guys are guys that are in TNT, they're looking for a little additional boost. Yeah, dude, you'll feel five milligrams of anavar. You know what I mean? Like you'll get some pumps from it. You'll probably get some level of benefit morale will be better. Strength may go up. But it's a different story to actually growing new. Oh, the key word. T-Shill. That was what I was going to saw a torch on. Do you think that people's expectations or what they feel is viable or realistic from a cycle has lowered? Huh. Yeah, I don't know. Going back to when I was cutting my teeth. So we're talking 30 four years ago. It's like the 90s are we talking? We're talking like the 90s. Yeah, we're talking about the late 80s early 90s. Wow. Yeah old shit. I know. It was a young buck back then. Yeah, a sculpture of the head. That's about then. Yeah. I was, man, I remember it was a good, good era, you know. Yeah, they were thinking about settling down at that point. You know. Now, I, I worked at a gym. My name is gym. I worked at Melonyship. You got kicked out of Melonys eventually. I heard. Yeah, that's it. That's why I started there when I was 16 beyond the counter. Okay. Just I was just less school, you know, waiting to go to college and all that sort of stuff. Okay. So I worked there. And when the guys that came in, now these guys were competitive, but when the guys came in, that did cycles, and we were still very much, you know, cycle PCT, about them. Yeah. There was a dramatic change in their appearance when they went on cycle. They grew. They looked significantly bigger. They looked significantly different. Yeah. I would have said that's not as reflective now. So I, I'm curious as to, you know, do people have people got to a point now, and this is probably where the low dosing comes in, because they feel productivity is good even if, by what we were seeing for years ago, it's not much change that they feel that's still significant. And that was that's been a productive cycle. You know, I have people expectation from cycle lowered significantly, which is why the lower dosing is more, I'm just saying acceptable. I don't know if that's the right word. I could see that. Yeah, I do. And I think part of it, once again, goes back to like the demographic changing, and there's a lot more, we'll just call it like your average gym go, or a lot more people, like before it was a small percentage of people in the gym we're using gear. Now it's, I think a fairly decent percentage have or are, or are on TRT, and some of those TRT people are looking to add something in. Yeah, and I think that for sure, the lower expectations, absolutely, man. I don't think that that's a question at all, you know? I'm with you. Huh. What's that? I've not aware as someone's just mentioned something that a study that came out, or a comment that came out today about one set of the body. Oh, the lowest of the body. The dose. See, what do you guys think of Dr. Sean Fells, leadist post today about the study that confirms that one set per body part still creates high per trophy? You know what? I would love to dig into that. I haven't looked at it. Victoria told me about the study. You know, so I'm not going to say anything either way, because I haven't looked into it. I'd love to get Scott to take a look at it. He's great at breaking that stuff down. I will say this. A study is just a study. We talked about that on the latest. It's just bodybuilding. Like, it's really not absolute proof of anything. It demonstrates a result in a very specific, you know, situations. So, I wouldn't hang my head on any single study. You know, it's great information, file it away, and continue doing the things that you know and your heart are working. Studies and experiments into whether a theory or an idea is correct or whether a pattern noticed in some of our use is correct or exploring that idea further. You know, it takes a lot of studies coming up with the same results before science will turn around and go, this is what happens. Yeah. All right, listen, well, what do you say we dive into a bunch of listener questions here? Because we got hammered with them. I'm going to tell you, we got a lot of questions. You guys are welcome to comment with questions for the next show. Are there drugs that block DHT receptors in the prostate to help prevent BPH? Also, if I'm taking enough testosterone that I require an AI to lower estrogen, wouldn't the DHT also be high thus require a DHT blocker to lower that as well in order to protect my prostate. Thanks for the great info. What was the second part? Should he take a DHT blocker because he knows if his estrogen's high, it means his DHT is going to be high. Shouldn't he protect his prostate? Is there such a drug first of all that blocks DHT? Number one and number two should he take it if he's on cycle because his DHT is obviously going to be high and his prostate needs protecting. Do we have a test dose? No. So, I'm obviously blocking the common approach is to block the conversion of test to DHT using a five-hour for the reductase blocking agent like the doctor. Do it as the right. Now, if I try only blocks type two, whether you have one block type one and type two, so obviously is more effective. I can't hear your day if you're here. I know you're not going to have to get the pillow tuck going. Sorry, can you hear me now? Yes, thank you. So, commonly DHT management in prostate is done by stopping five-hour. So, you take the finasteride or does that stride? Which then stops the conversion of test to the DHT. The over approach with prostate management is to block the undergen receptor. But that's not specific to the prostate. I don't think there's anything that's specific to the prostate. I could be wrong. It's not something I've looked at in a long while. I know there's a few undergen receptor blocking drugs, but the only one I can think of at the top on my head is flutomide, but I know there is some more than the old tend to end in mind, but the over-the-comment member. Don't know of one that's prostate specific. Well, let me really get back just a minute here. So, this guy sounds like he doesn't have any experience yet. You know, he's new to all of this. Are you suggesting that everybody needs to block DHT? No, they're prostate. To be honest, in general, it's not something we see a lot of. We'll see some mild prostate information occasionally, but it usually results that it's down to some form of infection rather than natural antibiotics. Some of the older users, sort of guys that have been using 20, 30 years, we'll see some information at the prostate, but generally it's not something that crops up very often. It's not something we see in repetitively, you know, it's not something that seems to be problematic. I'm curious, is it why he's concerned with his prostate because he actually have an issue, is there a family history? Is there some concern around there? Does he say anything? No, I think that it's just a matter of him understanding the way steroids work. So, you have testosterone, it's going to break down into either testosterone, or excuse me, DHT, or estrogen, he recognizes that he needs to control some level of estrogen. So he's asking, like, well, does that mean I need to control DHT too and if so, what drugs are there? The percentage of conversion is actually very low. Is it very, very low? Yeah, it's single percentile. I can't remember exactly, but it's single percentile of tests that gets converted to DHT. People who do get a high PSA reading, let me also tell you that if you have sex, or a mastobate, you will have a higher reading. So you need to, with sex, that too. Well, boom, boom, sex needs to be left for at least a week. He's actually more impacting on the old prostate than the normal sex is just, you know. So, keep those things in mind, and if you do get a higher reading, then maybe take a break and test again, you know. All right, so don't have your morning one, he's what Scott's saying when you test your prostate. Exactly. Oh, there's just a comment, I think. And I thought it was a great comment. He says, uh, at 26 minutes in, regarding the Synth oil comment aimed at Dave. I remember the first time I watched the podcast, and I was, it was soon after I switched from advice as radio to think big. I saw, shoot, I just lost my comment there. I don't know whether it was. Okay. Um, uh, let's see, Dave in the thumbnail. I saw Dave in the thumbnail, and I thought no way that that is real. But it was the topic of the video that interested me after watching and learning more about Dave and watching under construction. I became a regular watcher in fan of the show. I think the key thing about trolls is being closed minded. I saw Dave thinking, that's not even possible, but I was opened in my beliefs began to change. That's when this comment being opened minded, right? You know, I felt that about Scott. My thought there's no way a human being can be so ugly. But obviously as I've got to know, my real eyes that is his real face people. That's not a mask. Thanks, Dave. I appreciate your mail. I was spending more in the winter with you, bro. Thanks for the day, didn't it? Yeah. For the week, actually. Great shows as always, guys, my first comment. I was wondering if Dave has any updates on what's happening with these Chinese raw suppliers. Oh, we just talked about that when I told you to. Yeah, to me. I was just going with the updates this week. No, me. I know, book it off. Dave, how long would you recommend someone to go back on to your tea after a blast? Yeah, key factor here is how quickly your levels return to some form of normality. If you get your levels down quite quickly because you don't do anything post-blast for a few weeks to get levels dropped, then I would say eight, eight week minimum, ten week of being within normal range would be where I'd be looking for, but also I'd want to check bloods before going back on to make sure things like HDL have recovered blood thickness isn't a concern. If you're going straight on TRT post cycle, then you're probably going to be above range for an extended period of time, which would then extend your period of time. You needed between cycles. It's, it's all about long term stress management and bottom line. You go into your cycle, stress from the previous one, and you'll find your tolerance of that cycle will be much less particularly when you're pushing higher doses. And your future progress will generally not be as good. So the healthier fitter you are moving into a cycle, the more you're going to get out of it. Yeah, and you've talked before on the show about how that was the big difference between under construction one and two. You made fantastic progress after one, and then that was after having some rest time, all that versus two, you just kind of went back in hard after not having a lot of recovery and that was kind of the undoing of it, right? But I'm much so, yeah, very much. I mean, obviously, I was using very high doses, so the effects were definitely magnified, but still, still is the point, and I've seen it repeat another people as well, you know, where they've just gone on too soon. It shouldn't be scared at a time off, but we are, you know, we tend to be, and then it's like, I get that being there, I understand it, but you don't need to be, you know, you'll be surprised. I was speaking to a pro, a very large pro. Would you go as far as Converge? No, no, no, no, no, no, no. And he's been off cycle, no drugs, whatsoever, nothing. No t-rt, nothing for six weeks. Okay, and he's seen no reduction in performance. His test levels are now low. Okay, but he's seen no reduction in performance, what's whether Bury has found recovery is getting a bit more challenging and he's sort of longer. Yeah, but if somebody who's training at that level of intensity with that level of muscle mass can go six weeks with no drugs at all, why are you panicking about having two weeks or three weeks off post cycle just to let your levels come down before you start your tea out. Sure. Hey here's one, I thought would be an interesting topic for us. It's not he didn't ask a question, but I had an idea to talk about. He said, we're talking about you know, minimum effective doses and stuff last week and he said that he added in 10 milligrams of anovar. He said he will he hit a plateau on his dumbbell and client press. He decided to treat a try a bit of var and now four days later he smashed two extra reps and hit a new PR with 10 milligrams and you know, I more power to him and I said to him, I was like, you know, what, man, it's not just like, eventually you do tap out the gear, you know, that you what it happens when you are already running full bore and then you hit a plateau. You know, and I thought it could be a fun conversation for us to talk about what are some training techniques basically to break a plateau so that he has this in his arsenal, but let's give him some training techniques too because I think that those will possibly be even more valuable than just having the gear as being his one channel, you know what I'm saying? Yeah, so you want to do that now? Yeah. Go on then. Well, I'm curious to hear what you have to say. I have a couple thoughts, but I read over here a few. My personal approach was I run a very regimented training program and I generally did the same thing day in, day out, it changed much and in fact over 10 years I didn't really change my workout plan much at all. But what I would do is I would change the exercise order. So say I plateaued on my third exercise on chest. Then if I made that my first exercise when I was all fresh and not done to pre-exorse the exercise is private to it, I was obviously going to be stronger. So I would start with that then exercises my first exercise, breaking new strength flattos in that exercise and then I'd move it to second, try and maintain that strength. If I didn't, I'd stay there until I did and then I'd move it back to third. And then again repeat the strength process. So that was one thing I used quite a lot. I had a natural sort of evolution in the training in that I would go through a bit of times of being super strict. Even introducing time and attention stuff but really form driven and then I'd allow that to loosen a little bit and loosen a little bit and it was just a natural thing and the distinctive thing is right right where to loosen now. So then I tighten back up again and then it was slowly loosened off while I put it for more and then I tighten up again and each time when I tightened up I was coming back to a heavy point then I'd be in the previous time I tightened up. And this process might take six weeks. It might take 16 weeks. It might take 26 weeks. It all depended on the movement and I would only loosen the form when the strength progress or the rep progress wasn't continuing a little bit. And then I and so my net strength gain each time my only B510 key loss. But each time it was 510 key there's a net strength gain with very strict form and then I'd move on from there. I was never really I was always quite form led anyway. A lot of that was driven by injuries so like when a bench press or did anything jazz because of the detached back form had to be perfect because I was injured you know I had a detached pick I couldn't afford to be loose with form. So my bench was always substrate and my flies were always substrate then that I had no choice in that and that's sort of carried over into a lot of movements where form was very dominating but back I would get loose with and apply a bit of momentum to break into new weight platoes as well so that was that's the other thing the cheat rep format was something I used as well in order to break into new platoes. But I also I mean I remember the first time I squat at 7 plates. So it's well second time. So in my 20s I was above 7 plates squatting and then when I got back into training in my 40s I remember the first time I looked and moved back into 7 plates I walked out and it and re-racked it probably four or five weeks on the truck just getting used to holding the way down. Just just just just getting that initial because I don't care who you are it's fucking scary when you're moving the heaviest weight you've moved at least for a system period of time in a major compound movement like squat or bench because you know you know if that screws up that's a long time in hospital yeah I like your idea I was out with 7 plates loads of times and then eventually it was like right commit yeah and when I did we're finally moving it moved well but you were awesome. If you were walking out with that you still were squatting that day you know full squats with slightly later weight or what oh yeah so I mean my squatting was really really simple. I struggled with shoulder mobility to an extent so the early sets I struggled to get onto the bar properly yeah so first I'd start with trying to just stretch out a little bit on an empty bar just trying to get it under it then I'd do a plate two plates usually reps would be 12-ish give a take I didn't really count the early reps it was more a feel thing yeah but time I hit three plates on the time I finished a three plates bar position was usually correct so about that point the weight had stretched me out enough to get bar position correct yeah three plates would normally be eight maybe ten at a push and then from that point on with there were sets of six but they were they were very controlled and I just went three four five six six and a half and for a long time it was six and a half six and three quarters and I was doing six reps with six and three quarters so seven shouldn't have been any big challenge but mentally was meant to was a really big challenge point and I don't even have this squat had heavier than that in my 20s and that was only because the what girl I was training with slip two tens on slightly off we threw the bloody workout so when I'd probably got up there I was actually doing seven and half and you didn't even know it no no that's just that out there really I do in that to people before yeah it's true to a degree it can were particularly on big compounds where fear becomes a big factor yeah yeah and a squat in it can be scary as hell I mean I remember stepping out we seven are standing there and I couldn't keep my hips still okay my hips were just just gently but they were just gently flexing back of fall for it was like you know this is and then as soon as I released and committed fine no problem but I got it right it just wasn't steady still I got a tip for him this is one from dusty I think it's it's great if let's say he's working in the 10 to 12 rep range and he finds that he can't break a given way and like this is basically his big sticking point if he changes that rep range up to like 16 18 and I never thought of this until dusty talked about it about why this works I knew it worked but then it really added up to me so if you're doing let's go extreme let's say 20 reps each one rep is one 20 of your what you're capable of versus if you're doing a one rep max then like literally there's no way you're getting to like you literally just did everything you could I couldn't be like Dave let's get back under the bar and this time do that again but get too reps but if you're getting 20 it's 120 if you know you could push harder to get another rep and so you can still progress then but in smaller increments you know if you're say doing instead of 10 you're doing 16 or 18 reps you know and the muscle is still going to grow off of that it doesn't really know the difference it knows the hard you know stress yeah and then down the road then you can go back to that 10 to 12 for whatever you're working in before so I thought that that was a good one that I would add in and I've seen it work for people really well too you know I think it works both ways as well you can you can go higher rep or slightly light away and higher rep or you can go lower reps like you have your way and then pull back to the weights that you were struggling with before sure there's there's it does too so a concept whether if you go heavier when you go back to the weight you're doing 10 to 12 reps with it feels like because you've got this capability of moving more load and if you go the way you've done like like like just you're creating like you say you're not putting as much demand from a point of you have increase in the reps for workload because the weight is smaller so the extra rep is less taxing but you still build up progress and again you can move on I know Andy Bolton with Paul if he did a lot of higher reps than a lot do and he never pushed low rep lucky never did doubles or anything like that going into comp if anything he's reps was slightly higher yeah and he was usually quite away away from his max weight efforts that he only really pulled out the bug on comp there all right we got a bunch of on let's see if we can maybe even wrap it fire some of these he says a viewer question for David Scott I was reading a comment elsewhere from a guy who is currently using 75 anoddraw per day and even after nearly three weeks of use he has experienced zero weight gain knowing crease and blood pressure and even after a couple of weeks his blood test show that his RBCs have not even increased a single bit but he also reports zero strength increases what do we think on that I think it's very tough I would question drug quality though that are potentially I mean weight gain is it's weight gain driven more by food than it is by drugs you're not going to gain weight if you don't have enough cause calories to support that weight gain unless you're in control I feel like anoddraw you're going to gain some water you've got a bit full yeah I would just let you should be a bit full but I mean initially in Stington's crap gear and it's probably the most lighter yeah what do you guys take the molecular weight into consideration when planning a cycle example test is 288.42 grams and trend ace is 330.5 would you would you take this into account when figuring out like the difference is considering that there's almost a 20% difference in active ingredient for the same ML no different compounds yeah I'm with your 100. the atomic weights don't have significant well I might be completely wrongy so I'm sure somebody will correct me here but I would have suspect that the atomic weights don't have a huge impact on the amount of milligrams per hundred milligrams it's the estimate that really affects the dosing in that point yeah listen to we talked a bit about like using the least amount to get the effect you want so if you kind of use you know if you have a rough idea of where you're going to jump into a cycle let's say you run 350 test for your first cycle you'll get an idea of how you do with that do you know what I'm in and then you'll be able to determine like hey 350 was good for me it's like we can't break it down into such a scientific thing we're like we needed to increase that dose to get this you know what I'm saying it's just I take it for granted that this is the compound and my body is going to respond to X amount of the compound and if we don't get the response we want then we adjust the dose or we of course look at the other factors too like training and diet you know well the other yeah and I mean the other thing there's always going to be a problem within our marketplace is quality of drug I mean we've touched on that I quite a bit a lot but but yeah I'm pretty certain that atomic weight has no relevance to drug effectiveness but S-to-weight has an impact on active ingredient per 100 milligrams I think that is that what he's getting at there I don't understand he said molecular weight and the consideration meaning there may be more active ingredient with one-aster versus another yeah so the the atomic weight is not the same thing the atomic weight is what when you identify a compound using mass spec you you actually look for the atomic weight because it will show that that peak okay so that's how you identify the compound but trend have at a different atomic weight to to test has no relationship to how much trend there is in a hundred milligrams of 10 as opposed to how much test there is in a hundred milligrams of triathlacy as the way that affects that yeah and even that though like do you take that into consideration no no every study ever done in antibiotics has been done on total molecular weight of the compound okay so that's the hormone weight on the estaway yeah okay uh chance I get a strong lower back pump when I train legs back abs back and the list goes on human back twice it must be really bad back pumps could you please advise and had overcome the pain please I think we never spoke about back pain topics which seems to be a common undiscused issue in the gym world back pumps this is usually two two two drive it's one would be literally black pumps so you look five grams of touring can be very effective helping with back pumps the ovaries are lack of hamstring or glute flexibility which then forces tension into the back because in the back to be under more stress when you move so I would always hit it from both angles I would definitely start some hamstring and glute stretching on a daily and then I would try to tolerate and see that helped as well about this one um he's got Dave uh what do you say here um would you and be able to talk about carnitine uh it's it's types benefits drawbacks and overall nature please in previous episode Dave mentioned it's good for sperm count I'd love to hear more on that thanks so much for sharing the knowledge with us I don't know any more about from the disease it helps us but mobility but I don't know the mechanisms of play yeah you look good it's thin yeah a little bit yeah I looked into it a little bit and um what do you find here alcarnitine has been showing to have positive effects on improving sperm quality mobility count and more folly so there are benefits I'm gonna effectively give a dose out here there's if you do a Google search there is a study out there about dose in is a 500 minimum but I think grommets the more popular dose in in research but there's an overall evidence supports the elk carnitine can positively impact failed male fraternity for this capability even a relatively low dose at two grams per day this supplementation in hit low enhances sperm I think they're talking oral sperm parameters regulates hormone levels reduces ROS levels and subsequently improves fertility rates however for the research is needed to elucidate the underlying mechanisms and establish optimal dose in conclusion the role of elk carnitine in the field of male productive health is highlighted with the potential to improve sperm quality infertility he did mention an interesting thing there he said regulate hormone levels now Scott Stevenson did a huge deep dive into this a while ago which kind of like everybody had questions man do you remember this the topic was elk carnitine and thyroid hormone it does not change the level of your thyroid hormone but it will change how effective that level is for you so if you have low thyroid hormone and this is where it gets weird if you have low thyroid hormone and you take elk carnitine that low elk carnitine will become more effective for you but if you have high thyroid hormone it'll be make it less effective is what this research showed we had it like three podcasts on it because it kind of blew everybody's mind on this topic so regulate it okay kind of an interesting side note what would you say 500 you said maybe start I'd say yeah like is that injectable for what I've seen a gram injectable oh it's a one of eight okay okay in different types if I use oral I'll use the acetylal carnitine it's gonna be more available than just like traditional elk car but yeah the injectable is gonna be writing your bloodstream for sure Dave did warn you guys about the yawning and see if we have anything else to clean up here before we get into Uncle Dave's advice big folks big Dave looks like he couldn't give a crap if you hit the like button or not guys hit the like button just for Dave today people love you Dave ugh okay one last one don't be put off by my warm cherry fluffy exterior I am deep down a miserable shot can we get you a t-shirt that says that I think I might get what you this might sound like a silly question but I've got to ask and would really appreciate any insight from you and Dave I've been getting pretty bad acne for example my current estridal level is 180 p-moll what's the best way to manage or reduce acne in this situation do I need to lower my test dose right now I'm running 650 test E per week along with a thousand iu of hcg every three days and I'm taking one milligram of remimidex daily wow and just to clarify the remidex is legit it's bought over the counter you're subscriber in big fan thanks for education Stuart what's up Stuart well these issues still elevated um so it might be a case of increase in the AI control but so a lot of AI one milligram a day for 650 test per week that sounds redonculus need to sound a lot do you like that word redonculus redonculus so two thousand would I know I would like I instantly thought of it for some reason I wanted to use it sorry yeah you just needed a colored shell suit thing on now and bright colored woman oh why get over last a oh okay so what you guys did over there there are only two thousands and some high tops or something oh that's what I saw and all the american films oh okay yeah it's a must be real I'm sure yeah I mean if you're having to run that amount of east of your management I would start to think that maybe high dose the remitising drugs is not the way forward and possibly look at you know adding in something like mast and a slight the lower dose of test one you'll get the serm effect but but to obviously you'll get lesser remitisation and therefore management should be easier and I am assuming that the acne is east of your base that would be the obvious thought with where you are yeah I wonder how you I think that could be a potential thing I feel like the 650 test is not agreeing with him if not only has the acne but he also has higher estrogen what is the range in the UK and P-Mol for estrogen like what's the type of oh I think it's 149 okay and he's at 180 so it's not like an estrogen is crazy you know no it's not I say I mean normally I would say the issue was sitting at that on 650 test I'd probably just leave it yeah if you weren't getting any real sides but I mean the acne could be getting driven by DHD from the test as well to be fair it's not a simple solution is it there could be a few factors at play here side note washing your skin with head and shoulders shampoo tools help dry out acne yeah there's that that's a good point um I'm saying it's secure but it's at least of a temporary that's the fault yeah and in understand to the acne is an infection to the skin so regardless of what the cause once you have it it will want to perpetuate itself and spread so there's that keeping the skin clean removing bacteria which hazel is a great antiseptic that also adds moisture the skin you don't want it to be completely like you don't you want to dry it out but you don't want your skin to also be dried out which will then trigger you to produce more oil so it's clean dried out and then also remove re-return moisture so it's is a lot. I remember my brother using which hazel to treat his block eyes that he regularly goes. Really he get a lot of fights. It made me middle brother was a gob sheight and he couldn't really fight so he ended up getting battered quite a bit um it was the oldest in me that was the fight as our mat wasn't a particular fight oh yeah you'd go out and get drunk and then say some of it looking stupid and end up getting a slap and then be there in the next one in the bathroom applying which hazel to his blocker. We'll tie this in it as Uncle Dave's advice in some way. We're you. We're you. We're you. We're your brothers as big as you where they like tall shopping guys. So my I will mark is six two I think and he was big like me. Then we took me and me and remember the mark that after me mum sided family. That was six two and a half I think but he was slim like me dad so me dad wasn't tall but me dad was very slim okay and so me and I'm out look very similar to each of a mat look like he was the milkman's and yeah he used to he used to go out and get piss he wasn't very good at handling his drink in his younger days and then ended up being a gob sheight and used to end up getting battered for it and then I'm out you stuff to go and saw his problems. You had a tall a big grandpa too didn't you who was a budget yeah my grander was six two 24 25 stones so what's a 160 kilo oh wow big he used to pick a half cows and throw him a reshorter and walk him out the abitree into the butcher blocker to chop him up you know he was a big strong fella that's wild man and I think he told me that once before that's the picture I have in my head when I he actually broke his hip because he slipped while he was carrying a cow and he hit the floor and then the cow landed on top of him oh and he never he never really recovered from that he's hip was always a problem. Wow yeah I mean me grander even his 70s was strongest at so he didn't lift outside a cow as though I assumed right no that was like kind of before people lifted a lot I assume yeah strangely I was never particularly strong when the grander was very strong and it was quite so I got the size in that he's never really got the strength you know I mean I built my strength up over time but I wouldn't I would never say I was known as being particularly strong there was a few things strong on shoulders yeah but I was never particularly strong elsewhere but yeah he's me grander it was a massive fellow and there's some pictures of him I think he's 18 19 and I'm 17 and apart from one being black and white and one being color you'd think it was the same person you're kidding me no we were very similar I used to get the old deers used to get on the bus coming out from school and it was a public bus so it's not like it was a school bus and there be old deers from the village on there who knew me grander as young and a bit oh your stumbly's grandson I all right I used to fancy your grander whatever you always like oh god that's um did you tell me to that he was involved with like some underground meat oh in the war yeah so me grander we're a butcher um he was the head butcher for co-op in odisfil for a while and obviously during the war meet was rations so he used to do black market butcher in the basement under the house of course he did a well-known after your own you know wait what you what you say he's got the way the house was built he was he's the only one that's what I'm saying it was it was three stories at the market two stories at the front so the seller was actually you'd walk around and walk into it yeah and um yeah the used to do black market butcher in that police used to bring him meat and get him to butcher it open also stuff oh no kidding they bring their own meat yeah well coppers obviously had a chance to get him meat more than their first person did perks of the job because he was there was a rations due to like unlimited supply and he was he was too big to go to war so he's still got a big of a target you don't know say anyway we he was just physically couldn't pass the fitness so they put on that they put him on the guns on the shoreline on the anti aircraft guns oh and so he didn't actually go overseas so as a result he was at home a lot more than a lot of guys were at that time okay so he still was in yeah so yeah he used to say in the anti aircraft guns wow you guys were so much closer in World War II than we were you know what I mean like we were so far removed well you never got bomb did you? no that's what I'm saying you never got bomb but yeah whereas we did you know I mean my family's rural anyway always has been so we didn't really see a significant amount bombing where we were but we saw the refugees moving out from the cities that were all moved to the country wow the safety so a lot of children were moved out into the country to stay with farm families and stuff oh no kidding yeah yeah yeah so there was a lot of that went on but yeah make me go under the destitute black market but you know well guys that's the best you're going to get for Uncle Dave's wisdom today I feel like there was some wisdom in there you know what I'm saying that's like that was I had some wisdom actually yeah oh you do okay I didn't even know if you hit me hard you go oh my god you've got absolutely nothing what do you got? I don't really know I know that was the problem that's why I was omin and I mean so I'll probably I just shoot it from him see if I get that do you ever do it in the other way you know you have a little prepared sometimes so there I will give you all right I sometimes have a way to my point where it's today I don't really have a way to my point so my point yeah just keep swimming so that's my point no be careful around the motivations of why you do things so what have you made about that and I said I'm still going to have to contextualise this and put it in a way to understand but what I mean by that is we often do things for the sake of doing things rather than because we actually want to do things and there are things in our lives that we do that we don't want to do now some of them you have to do the beautiful things because for whatever reason you know going to work things like that but there are things that we choose to do that if we're honest we don't actually get joy from them and I see this specifically within our industry where I see people that are training or diet in our competing they don't enjoy any of it they do it because they feel that they have to do it when you know maybe there's a way to keep fit and healthy you don't necessarily have to go to it to him and it doesn't make you a lesser person if you don't you know you might keep fit and healthy by walking up hills or playing squash or tennis or or something or anything like that you don't want to compete you know that's okay too yeah there's no set thing that you have to do there's nothing wrong with lifting weights and not following the diet if you don't want to there's nothing wrong with lifting weights and not using drugs if you don't want to but I know I know I argue that there may be some stupidity we're using drugs and not lifting weights or having a diet but that's more to health concerned than anything else yeah but my my point is that to what makes you happy not what makes other people happy I like that yeah I like that there's good guys we appreciate you tuning in Dave how's your new app going the app itself spawn the number of people buying it is shit who's not good at advertising and promoting themselves who doesn't do it just it's official it's official it's got such a shit oh oh it's not what I'm saying you don't you don't you're very you hold back you don't promote yourself a lot that's what I'll say we're gonna promote you here I looked at the site it's a nice site too what's it it's it's WWE dot better you as in the letter you dot online it's basically coaching in a box for 30 pound a month from a point of view what you get for the money I don't even go wrong try it do you think yeah I know it's yeah I mean you can just book in for a month if you don't like it you've wasted 30 quit I waste more not I'm fucking coffee in a week what if you had a look at a contest once you got people going and you're like we did whatever all you you do you got a contest going oh no so we did a we did a contest like a share and like app thing you know and somebody got a lifetime membership for very I should have gotten you know I mean like what if you had everybody who was a transformation transformation something yeah yeah and whoever like get wins gets a best transformation like they get recompt or recouped you know on their their cost yeah that's I'm more than happy to do something like that I just need enough people in it to make it with doing that makes sense all right guys that means if you're interested if you don't want to hire one of us for coaching maybe you're a little bit strapped for cash but you do want some direction check out Dave's app better you letter you dot online all right and of course go to evailbottonelesis.com get your labs done by Dave you can hit us up over at patreon hit me up over there and I try to get early releases out when possible answer your questions you guys get priority on the show and of course true nutrition dot com user code think over there supplement source dot CA for Canadians strong sports dot com that strong sports nutrition great performance and great house supplements if you're on cycle you're going to need them in front of the episode the podcast with Dave crossland way well see you soon Dave I'm gonna go one more thing what's your thing don't forget the Dave super challenge you folks oh you got ten dollars I forgot to tell you we got we had somebody on you've got so you got fifteen dollars now for your super charger all right yes it's coming along yeah only a number eight thousand to go guys we appreciate you tuning in if I didn't mention it leave us questions for the next show

TRT is just lumped in all this because a bunch of politicians in the late 80s thought they could save children and save sports or at least make it look like they were by presenting this this law to the American people. What's up guys, welcome back to Think Big Bodybuilding Media. I'm Scott McNaley and joined with me today is attorney Rick Collins today. We're going to talk about the changes with TRT is the DA trying to end TRT. What do you think? Is that that's the that's the tagline right? Is that's what everybody is saying Rick. That's what I'm seeing online, you know, looking at social media. Thanks for having me on Scott looking at social media. What I see is this this, you know, completely. Yeah hyperbolic, you know, everybody's in complete turmoil. Is this the end of online TRT? There was a post that you and I've talked about by a well-known influencer who basically said that henceforth, everybody on TRT is going to need to get a new script and see their doctor physically in person every 30 days. And I know that there's a rule and we can talk about that a little bit but I was like, that doesn't sound right. Right? Well, I'm really glad to, you know, I had message you if you days ago, you had posted about this and I saw that post and when I saw that, I thought to myself, okay, this is some big stuff. And I'll say this is kind of a spoiler alert, guys. It's not quite as terrible as I thought that it was after I spoke to you. And you just did a column. This will be out in the next MD as well. And it's out right now on the digital version of muscular development correct. Right. Yeah. So you can go to it and maybe you can post the link to it and attach to this video. So the people can read the new column that I just wrote to kind of dissect it a little bit. But yeah, I think it's worth talking about. I think we need to put it into a context that makes sense. And I think a timeline on what this whole thing is all about is important and that's kind of been lacking. Right. Well, who better to have then? I mean, basically we could call you like the legal steroid expert, Rick. You've been, I mean, we've introduced you before, but for anybody who isn't aware, I mean, you really started working initially like a lot of your work was in steroid defense, right? And from there, you've basically, okay. And you went with every aspect of bodybuilding really with the supplement companies and everything else, right? Yeah. I mean, I'm very blessed. I like to say that my as a lawyer, my practice is kind of where health and fitness intersect with legal and regulatory issues. So if you're in the bodybuilding community, physique community, health wellness, and there's legal issues attached to what you're doing. I'm probably the guy to call. And I'm very blessed. I love my clients. I have a very busy practice. Like you said, I represent a lot of nutrition companies, sports supplements, companies, others in the wellness and natural product space, as well as a dual lot of defense of criminal matters and doping matters involving people who are either buying, using selling, manufacturing, importing, antibiotics, steroids, sarms, research chemicals, peptides, the heavy heavy quotes. So that's what I do. I've probably done more of that than certainly than any other lawyer and arguably more than most lawyers combined. So I love what I do. It's good to, I may not be the smartest guy in the room in a general sense, but when it comes to my own little, my postage stamp of territory, I always feel like I have the advantage and that's good to, to good to feel and I think my clients love that aspect as well. Well, we are lucky to have you, man. You are literally the guy I would turn to with any legal questions, especially around bodybuilding, especially around, I mean, really we are talking about steroids here, testosterone is a steroid. So where do we start with this? So I guess the start is what's happening online right now, and that is that everybody is talking about this new proposed rule. So when the DEA wants to make, you know, to float out some changes in the way that a statute or a law, as by Congress, is being implemented or effectuated, they will do a proposed notice of rule making and they've, on March 1st, they published in the Federal Register, they proposed rule. And this proposed rule would impact controlled substances and the online prescribing of those controlled substances. And so, obviously, it would encompass lots of different drugs that are controlled, but one of the drugs that is controlled is testosterone. So there's a 30 day period in which people can make comments to the DEA, to say, hey, this rule's great or hey rules terrible or here's what I think is wrong with this rule. And so that notices up the link to make comments is actually in the muskler development column that I just wrote, and which you'll, you'll put to, it can comments can comment on the 31st. So that proposed rule was published on March 1st, people saw it, and suddenly there were things in it that were very disturbing to folks in the TRT community because of the changes that it would make to the way that TRT could be prescribed and obtained by people who are hypergonatol or who need TRT. So from a timeline perspective though, that's what's happening now, but in order to really understand what it's, what it's all about and what it's impact is and what it's, it's, you know, purposes, you gotta go back, I think all the way back to 1990 and the late 1980s, right? The the story is in the late 80s, Ben Johnson, 1988, solo Olympics ran really, really fast in the hundred meters, got the gold medal, Canadian Sprinter, beat the American Carlos and then tested positive for windstorm. And the sports world went upside down, the or this Canadian beat this American, all because of his cheating with with an animal extirid and so there was activity in Congress congressional hearings held to say, hey, what should we do about this problem? How do we get steroid data sport? That sort of was all about and so the members of Congress came up with the idea that the best way to do that would be to take testosterone and other antibiotics there, right? And just lump them all in together into the controlled substances act, which deals with traditional drugs of abuse, right? Heroin, that cocaine, you know, all the stuff that, you know, is so terrible for many communities and for individuals because of overdose issues, because of organized crime issues, etc. So one of the cheerleaders for that interestingly was then Senator Joe Biden, who was a, you know, driving the train to take testosterone and put it, just forced it into the controlled substances act. I don't have the people who, you know, that it doesn't fit. It's like a square pound hole. This does not belong in the controlled substances act in the first place. And lots of folks agreed with me. So at those hearings, there were representatives of the D.A. the AMA, the FDA, even the Nationalists Sudan drug abuse, all of those representatives said the same thing. Don't, don't schedule antibiotics. There are, don't put testosterone into the controlled substances act. It's not that, it's not the same kind of drug of abuse. It just doesn't belong there. It doesn't meet the criteria that have been established to make something into a controlled substance. What a Congress do. It said, we don't care what you guys say. We're doing it because we want to save the children. If we want to get it out of sports. And so in 1990, the law changed and made testosterone and all the synthetic analogs into controlled substances. Well, think I think did that because they've completely wiped out the use of steroids since then. I mean, imagine what the world would be like, how they not. It's a great way, right? You know, as I've often said, right, supply and demand are basic economic principles. If there's a demand, there's going to be a supply. And when you shut off legitimate sources, what happens? Yeah, black market. So driving, that's the driving line. So I think, and that and it exploded in the in the years after Congress took that action. Yeah. So now you've got TR, you've got testosterone in this controlled substance status. Not by active the DEA, again, DEA opposed it, but Congress wanted it. So in 2008, there was a kid, 18 year old kid named Ryan Hyatt. And this kid was able to go online and access a prescription for vikoden from a doctor that he never saw, who never examined him, who never determined anything. And he overdosed and died. And so that was what to the attention of Congress and Congress is like, well, let's make a law about this. So the inactical law called Ryan Hyatt Act of 2008. And it's an an act that was focused on keeping opiates and other addictive pain killers, which are controlled substances, out of the hands of people who might overdose or get hurt. So what it required was a face to face in person medical evaluation of the patient by a doctor to try to prevent these rogue pharmacies, these rogue sites that are just kind of out there making these pain killers available to folks without any real medical interaction. So that was the point of that law. The in person medical evaluation imposed by Congress online prescribing. Yeah. So in 2020 suddenly we got you cut ahead now. So so now suddenly, co-opening team comes, right? Yeah, let's say you said we're going to not use that word unfortunately, but yeah. What do we do? Yeah, what do we use now? We get we yeah. Yeah, YouTube does not like that. So I'll have to all have to believe it. But yeah, that happened. That happened. Yeah. Yeah, something happened. I don't know what it was. But something happened in 2020. And suddenly there was a concern about people who had telemedicine prescriptions, prescriptions that were based on interactions with physicians fall away. And in the Ryan high at act, there are some exceptions to the face to face, the in person medical evaluation. And one, if there's like this emergency, we won't say the word, but like we could say lockdown. We can say lockdown. Yeah, we can say, you know, sort of a national health crisis or national health emerge. So what DEA did in 2020 was it suspended its execution, its implementation, its enforcement of the Ryan high act. So basically that in person medical evaluation, we're going to put that on hold for a little while while this emergency is going on. So that's 2020. Now, cut ahead. Here we are in 2023. Now, supposedly the emergency is going to be over on nail 11th of 2020, 30 according to the couple. That's what it is. So what you're telling me is this is just going to go back to what it was prior to the emergency. Well, that's what would happen. I guess if DEA didn't try to get involved and change some things. So what DEA is done is it it's proposed a rule that would change things so that it wouldn't go quite back to what it was before 2020. But it would imply imposing some new regulations and some new red tape and some new rigameral that they would essentially be able to still even do prescriptions now without an in-person, but just for a limited period of time. So what the new rule is that, unlike before the 2020, suspension of enforcement, now and get a prescription for a controlled substance, but it can only be a 30-day prescription. Then you got to see your doctor if you want to get more. And the idea of it, again, if we're thinking of this whole law as being all about not TRT, but being all about vikoden and opiates. So basically, you can go online, you can get a doctor through a interaction through the internet, but you can't get more than the 30-day prescription unless you get an actual in-person medical evaluation. So it's better than it was before 2020, but it certainly there's details of it that impose a lot of regulations, restrictions, record-keeping obligations on the part of physicians that are may make sense for vikoden or for opiates, but don't make it for testosterone because going back to testosterone is the the square peg in the round hole of this entire legal structure of the entire structure of the controlled substances act. Yeah, so I mean, the reality is this isn't an argument of, you know, should TRT require these things. It's really should testosterone be on this list. Well, that's certainly yes. You know, and that, you know, whether that ship has sailed forever, I probably would have said, if you'd asked me five years ago, Rick will testosterone ever be taken out of the controlled substances act or or brought down to a lower schedule below three. I probably would have said no because there's really no strong constituency to do that. That Congress is interested in, but that's kind of changed because it's interesting because one of the big pushback coalitions against this proposed rule, which, you know, does add more record-keeping and does require back to in in person, even if it's not for the first 30 days, after that you do have to do the in person. One of the, one of the pushbacks is coming from the trans community because the trans community is looking at this as an anti-trans proposed rule that this is about denying trans, you know, people who are born assigned female at birth and are now looking to become either more masculineized on a non-binary scale or ultimately to become men and transgender. That these people are being unfairly treated by depriving them of the most available and free access to the medication that would allow them to be comfortable in their own bodies. So I've read a number of articles criticizing the proposed rule, not just from the bodybuilding community, but from the trans community. And that has some unfortunately bodybuilding. We don't have a lot of power behind us, but I get to tell you what, I think the trans community can get some shit done nowadays. So if we have any chance, we can we can hope for them to do it, you know. That's full and in changing a lot of cultural aspects that you know, you never would have thought would have changed. Yeah, yeah, that's crazy. So let me understand this then a little bit better. There's a lot of companies out there today that I feel like the TRT, I like online TRT, the telemedicine stuff. I feel like in the last few years it's gotten bigger and bigger. Do you think there are companies that have taken advantage of the changes that have been implemented since 2020 and have actually almost will say like been able to create a foundation for their businesses as a result of those temporary changes? Well, I guess if you got into the business while post-20 October of 2020 when there was really no enforcement of in-person and you set up your business model, expecting that to go on forever. I don't think anybody reasonably thought that would go forever. It was clear that it's an emergency exemption. So it's by definition. It's not supposed to go forever. But I guess if you set your entire structure up to expect that it would never change, well, now you've got to make some changes because now somebody does have to see this patient in an in-person evaluation. But it doesn't have to be the prescribing physician. So DEA has is offering in this proposed rule a number of sort of ways of getting around having to actually see the prescribing physician. And that can be seeing a physician in your state as a patient who is a DEA licensed provider in that state. And again, I don't think that the DEA is really focusing on TRT as part of any of this. I think they're thinking of it as opiates and painkillers. And so getting a DEA licensed physician in your state, you know, Michigan or wherever you are and then having that person do the evaluation of you and then interacting as the two of you with the doctor, let's say in Florida, who becomes the prescribing physician for it, that can be away around the requirement that you ever actually have to go to Florida. So there are these ways that DEA is offering. The problem with them is that some of them require you and your doctor to be sitting together at a video screen with the doctor in Florida from a practical standpoint. Maybe these things make sense. It will really concern about people getting addictive drugs that they can overdose on. Maybe these things make sense. From a person getting a prescription for, you know, 100 or 200 milligrams of test a week, probably doesn't make a lot of sense. Even the 30 days doesn't really make a lot of sense when you apply it to TRT, you know, what real changes are going to take place in 30 days. Maybe it makes sense if you think about it from an opiate perspective. Sure. Like it and maybe, but that's really where the DEA was thinking on this. And I think that the TRT community just because the TRT communities just thinks about TRT, right? So yeah, it's all about me. It's all of the for everybody. Every group, every special interest, everybody, it thinks of everything in terms of how it impacts them. But this really isn't designed to impact them. This is designed to act other types of drugs. Now, the argument that given that it does impact to stostroon does that make sense. And there's some arguments that probably a lot of this doesn't make sense for that. And so that's why some people are pushing back and commenting to DEA that, okay, this is some of this may be great for protecting people from overdosing on, you know, an oxy. But DEA should be treated differently. Maybe that needs to be a special, a different rule with respect to the time in which to see a practitioner for medical evaluation or, you know, other at maybe less of the rigamorole attached to it, less record keeping. I mean, the silly record keeping, silly in the context of TRT, what time the prescription was written and when the entire, I mean, just stuff that seems like complete overkill. But, but is it the death knell of TRT? No, and don't forget none of this applies to anybody who's actually seeing a doctor. So if you've got a local doctor who's prescribing you TRT, whatever it is, and any dose of whatever it is, this is, this doesn't affect it at all. If you see the doctor once and then you get the prescription, none of this applies. You know, this only applies if you've never seen a physician for an in-person evaluation. Interesting. Okay, so you mentioned the comments and that this comment section is open right now. You mentioned that you have a link in the muscular development online article. We're going to put that link in the description of this podcast that way I encourage everybody to go over, first of all, read the article, and then after that, click on the link and send your own comment. And how would you suggest that we go about this? I mean, number one, you know, when we're talking about it the other day, it's like, you mentioned that, you know, when we've talked about here, this is really about opiates. It's not even about us. So it's probably not going to help to just start screaming and be outraged. I need my testosterone. That's probably not going to be the angle. What's the angle here? Yeah. Well, a lot of people will be hesitant to even make a comment because this is a comment that's going to get to DEA. And people are reluctant to speak to government particularly, you know, the drug enforcement administration. So, but I think probably people who are on legitimate TRT and who find things within the content of this proposed rule that just makes it very inconvenient, you know, and makes it tough on them can say that. And TRT clinics that are having issues with it, certainly can express that in a respectful way to DEA. The last thing I guess I'll say is that a lot of people think that, and I've seen a lot of the comments that this is sort of this extension of this war on men, right? Yeah, that this is that there's an ongoing war on masculinity and on testosterone as a emblem of masculinity as the essence of masculinity. And so to testosterone and masculinity are just demonized and this is an extension of that that the government is against masculinity. There's something to that. It is separate and apart from this rule, I think, you know, when you look at, for example, the FDA's black box warning on testosterone, basically coming out and saying a few years back that testosterone causes, you know, heart issues and cardiac problems and all these, you know, cardiovascular problems. When if you're actually look at and I know you know this lecture like I do, Scott, if you actually look at, you know, testosterone, it's actually low testosterone that is linked with more cardiovascular problems than optimized, healthy, normal testosterone, even in the mid to high range. So, I think there is a certain anti testosterone bent in government that probably exists, certainly at FDA. And I think culturally we're in a weird place, right? I mean, we're in a place where, you know, masculinity and so traditional masculinity is demonized or at, you know, or at least kind of dismissed or or scoff dad a couple of years ago, the American psychological association came out with a position that traditional masculinity is toxic. Yes. Is problem. Yeah. I mean, so, so, yes, there is this, this cultural anti male anti testosterone kind of thing that's running through society at this point. But we have to be careful about then taking that narrative and putting everything that happens through the lens of that narrative. Because again, you know, this, the Ryan Heidacht, it was really not about testosterone at all. It was about pain killers and DEA by making this rule about that law is also about pain killers and vikoden and not about TRT. TRT is just lumped in all this because a bunch of politicians in the late 80s thought they could, you know, save children and, and, you know, save sports or at least make it look like they were by presenting this, this law to the American people. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Well, this makes a lot more sense to me. And it does make me feel like we are not being as singled out as I initially thought when I was just reading through social media. This sounds a little more balanced, which is I think that's at the end of the day. That's, that's kind of what the real story usually is, right? Somewhere in the middle. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Well, I appreciate your time here Rick. I appreciate taking the time to explain this to everybody. And man, I encourage you, everybody out there, if, you know, if you're in a good position to talk to the DEA to make your comment because you have to leave your name and your contact information and all that if you feel a comment. Right? And to do that, hopefully the DEA will kind of rethink and say, you know, some of this is overkill for this particular drug. And maybe we can make some separate rules about it. I'm going to keep my finger on the pulse of what happens if anybody wants to follow me at Rick Collins, he is cute on Instagram. I tend to try to keep new news and information out there by posting it on Instagram. So certainly follow me. I encourage you, you're followers to be my followers. And absolutely. And I will know at some point in the months to come how this all shakes out. Yeah. And like Rick said, guys, follow him for more. I hear all sorts of great news from you stuff that I didn't see otherwise relating to bodybuilding, relating to antibiotics, derides, TRT. And a lot of off-topic stuff too. Things that I wouldn't have thought about, but I appreciate your post. You always get me thinking. Thank you, brother. Thank you very much. All right, guys, we'll go to the links. Check everything out. We appreciate you hanging with us. For another episode here at Think Big Body Building Media, I'm Scott McNally and I'm here with Attorney Rick Collins. Rick, we appreciate your time, man. This is awesome. Thank you so much. Great time.

the uh... we got a Q and a episode a yes yes we actually a bunch of stuff here too uh... maddie is literally moving my mouse and some of the bring her up here there we go look at that hey maddie so it's dark friendly yeah right as well come is there anything go with it we got to talk about before we do questions to talk about anything really got to take a special going on here no i just said something to start us out with an absolute bang though this is good yeah you're new me and we'll go right to this okay alright alright so really i'm most interested in the second part but the the first part from James norton is a would you rather he says would you rather a drop of forty five pounder on your toes from chest height be miss the dumbbell rack and smash your hand into the rack with an eighty pound dumbbell see walk a six plate squat out of the rack and then slip on a banana peel and then there's an extra question which is what's the worst gem accident that you've ever seen so yeah i i i i i would get to that one but we have to get through the ABC the ABC i would rather smash my hand on the rack with an eighty pound dumbbell the plate i i've seen people drop plates from like hip height unloading a leg press break a foot and have it break multiple bones in their foot like surgery required to put their foot back together i one of the craziest things ever saw was a guy it is kind of daring i'll never forget because that might hold jim and emiton he pulled a plate off the leg press i've told this story before a drop it and it hit landed on his big toe oh yeah he got just crushment so he limped to the front said hurt like you know ten out of ten walk to three run three you saw the last episode of jamey you'll understand we're trying to get nice to the other i'll be aware so he drops it on his toe goes to the front long story short starts taking a shoe off and his sock is all soaked with blood like hit like he doesn't even get a shoe off his foot and he realizes his shoes full of blood he's like oh put it back on straight to the hospital he popped his big toe right off his foot oh my gosh he had to pair of vans on he was wearing vans the plate landed right on the knuckle of the big toe and just popped it off his foot didn't cut his shoe didn't cut his sock but the pressure hit right on the knuckle blew the toe off the only thing still attached was the skin on the bottom and the tendon on the legament on the bottom so the skin and the legament on the bottom were intact but the bone was open white knuckle bone on bone completely open when they took his sock off they cut it off and it was hanging by skin and legament so they had to sew the top legament back together to put the knuckle back and then stitch the toe on and all that stuff they saved it and saved it yeah he kept his toe he had surgery on his foot and it was like a rehab time but that 45 pound plate popped his toe right off and it was kind of a mumble I think I beat the computer on and well actually the robot will heal the story and feel they're justified I mean if you wish I was the first one yeah so yeah that was so when he says drop it from from chest height I'm like no way I saw my old training partner we were squatting once in high school and we were bad asses we were squatting two plates we're repinout with two plates no problem getting up to three plates and he's got two plates on his back and he stepped out of the rack and it was one of those old open squat racks you know where you just stepped back you know and there's still like rails below you but as he stepped back he tripped his neck to heal and he fell straight back and landed on his feet between his knees oh and it just bounced off of him so like his shoulders hit his knees folded him in half and then he just sprung off of him and like the two plates flew behind him and he like sat back up and he looked at me and I was like are you crippled? like are you completely broken and he was like sat there for a minute and he like moved around and he got back up and he was like I don't know how I'm okay he was like really shaken up and scared but he didn't like didn't crush him the plates like I don't the plates like they didn't touch the floor right because he folded in half they like bent over his back and sprung off behind him it was crazy that was close call how about you dusty what would you go with first and what have you seen in the gym definitely in the hand because I've done that before and it's more like that's like an adjective you're like mother who did who came up with this design to have even if you've really broken it once now they actually don't have the hole in between you can there's actually a place your hand would still hit metal but so yeah that's for sure the one I would take there the worst thing in the gym and this is something that people should make note of particularly well people they don't have a brain I guess we'll say actually saw someone doing a dumbbell press off of a ball like a ab ball you know not thinking that that ball has a maximum amount of pressure it can handle his body plus the weights so when it popped and his elbows were bent at a 90 and hit the ground spiral fractures of both forms just exploded his arms but was it loud when it popped oh yeah yeah and it was a disaster and the only amazing thing in Ron can appreciate this the only thing the gym had to pay for because he would have owned him even though it's his dumb fault they gave him a free membership he literally paid for his own like using insurance to his own thing I mean he could have railed them over that he didn't he just was like I'm gonna do it yeah the surgeries they gave him a free membership and that was it yeah I mean so I actually then since then saw two guys when I got back actually when I moved here on a Smith machine with two 25 aside on the ball and I was like you know what and they're older guys and I could tell that they were gonna be a whole yeah and so I decided all right I'm not gonna walk right up and tell them because they'll think I'm a mass so I'm the front desk and I said hey this is not my job but I promise you this gym name will change if that ball pops so I suggest someone go tell them that this is not a good idea yeah you Americans in your lawsuits oh that's the truth I was actually just saying this yesterday I want to have my own lawsuit you have waivers not like and this is why so flannel shirts is a big thing as Scott is wearing one of the things I really enjoy a good flannel and Costco makes great flannels okay I've seen a $1 yeah they don't make them for fat people like me there's no three XL no they go to two XL they go to two XL this is the two XL they're fat shaming they're fat shaming and I'm coming for him and so I talked to a friend about it and he thinks that I need to think that I'm a tranny possibly because that'll help my case so I'm a woman that just happens to have junk you're an obese woman obviously that wants a flannel but Costco's holding me down and he thinks that based on our country that'll and I don't need any I just want them to make three XL so they'll probably just make you three XL you cheaper all of them than paying the yeah they should go through because you gotta remember like I got to buy all these shirts from Rob now Bailey and I pay like $86 for a flannel and it's a great flannel don't get me wrong but I've got like $600 in flannel's upstairs and that means I have eight of them yeah yeah yeah yeah you say so the reason this came up last night is my mom text me and says does Daniel want this flannel it's on sale for $12 it immediately just pissed me off beyond belief then she goes to register and it's on a further sale with $6.38 I want three XL I'm suing in Costco yeah not really people relax there you go and I ran to all that way without swearing once you welcome I'm feeling really good I'm feeling good that's unbelievable I have one story I've told you guys of one story I haven't and the one story I haven't I was involved in now you know the like the T-barrow machine or you stand up on the platform and then you pick the handles up we had that set up with the way this machine worked we had that set up with a plate sitting on it so that the bar didn't go all the way down to the floor and you know what I'm talking about yeah yeah yeah you put that between the foot plates and I can't remember what we were doing but it was a long set maybe there was like a strip set to a kind of thing and I'm rolling away and I have my eyes closed and I get to the end and I just let it down now I didn't look but my training partner had wanted to adjust that plate and he reached his hand down and had his hand like holding this little ten pound plate and I let that thing boom land right on his hand just splatter just thumb it wasn't changed it wasn't yeah I know man I had no idea I had headphones on you know I'm not thinking about his hand at all like nothing should be in the way there while I'm training worst case scenario I'm taking it goes down to the floor if that plate falls and that's fine too which you know anyway I felt so terrible he still trained too he didn't it wasn't like a devastating like destruction but it was it was enough to make his thumb bleed that that was not good other one though I was not there for it was the talk of the gym and I did tell you guys this about this one a long time ago it was on the hammer strength leg press that's kind of more like a 30 degree angle instead of a 45 and it has like a hundred different you know ears or pegs to put plates on and some guy who had no business probably even doing five plates on each side literally loaded the entire thing up like the entire thing all the plates so there was like 20 plates per side and when he unwrapped it it just came straight down on him and somebody I knew shot a video like right after it happened he just like turned it on it something the video what ended up happening was the whole sled came straight down on the kid it bent the the stops you know you turn the handles in and there's the stops it literally bent them so that they were broken basically went into the floor and it threw him out of the machine he was on the floor next to the machine when this happened just boom popped him right out and he was like laying face down which they had to take a lot of knees to the I don't know exactly but they had to take him out of the structure he couldn't walk so I got to know what possesses people to just do something like that like I don't need to be told my first time in the gym that I probably can't put all of that weight and do this it doesn't if I were to go I don't know jump on wrongs bike when I'm in Vancouver in two weeks I'm not going to just be like how do I spin this drowned and I said don't get me and just jump like you do how many just try to not fall just like this ride and circles for a few weeks yeah so I don't know if I told you guys about what did I say about the weird kid that came into our gym a few weeks ago? Nope, nope and we had to ask him to leave? No, oh wow so you know you get the odd person at a gym you know our front desk people are great you know they're very nice they're they you know hello how you do and welcome to West Coast you know that type of thing because that's you know that's how you train your staff to be and welcoming everyone and this kid comes in and he's like 16 approximately is like a teenager and he's got these two adults with them and you know there wasn't an owner actually did it was there but he was training right so did it was training and he comes in and he talks to the front desk and and you know they're very nice he says oh I want to work out you know I want to pay a drop in and you know these two people are with me they're just they're my like assistance and the staff kind of got the vibe that he was like like had some had some had some needs but he was very like fluently vocal and speaking and I'm here to work out but they seemed like they were with him to help him out you know what I mean and they seemed like they weren't like friends or family like they were older than him they were dressed like counselors you know that sort of thing like I think the one had a clipboard I don't know but they thought okay well this is a kid that you know when we're very welcoming right like they thought this kid that wants to come training the gym maybe he's you know it doesn't get to go to you know gym like this often so they know let him in the train it was really quiet too it was like early in like mid morning right so it was a good time to let him in they let they let they don't know there's this kind of interesting kid here I don't quite know what these people are doing with them but I think they're helping him you know that sort of thing so did those keep in an eye on him right away he like puts five plates aside on the Smith machine like he puts a plate aside Benches it two plates Benches it three plates Benches it but as he puts weight on his reps get here and shorter right but he got three plates like he's he every side of the half reps like half reps with three plates right so it's like okay he's going to release yeah and always going to four and like like Ditto's like well Jesus this kid kind of looks like he trains and he's like seems to understand how not like he seems like he knows what he's doing but his reps are getting like so he's kind of keeping an eye on him he goes up his five plates on the Smith yeah yeah yeah he goes and puts five plates on the Smith and then like unrax it and holds it and then rax it so we're like okay like Ditto's like okay this guy's trying to pretty dangerous so he they take all the weight he puts his weights away too like oh okay that's over with he goes over and starts doing this crazy stuff with dumbbells that are too heavy and Ditto kind of watches him but his reps are but he puts his dumbbells away and he starts loading up the leg press and at this point Ditto's like okay so he goes over there and he's like hey guys like because the rest of the gym he's going so heavy that people are like what's this guy doing right and finally Ditto when he gets to the leg press and he starts putting plates on Ditto's like okay like goes over and he talks to his assistants he's like hey like I don't quite sure what's going on but we're gonna like he's got to shut this down this is too dangerous like the members are getting freaked out and I've seen some stuff that's not you know not a great idea and they were like yeah he doesn't listen to us sometimes but so they like they talked to him and and they all left without an event and then the one one of our members comes over who's a cop and he goes hey you guys asked that the guy to leave because he had just gotten there so he kind of saw the tail end of it yeah and he's like oh he goes that guy can be very violent oh he goes that guy those are that he's like kind of like I don't know like maybe he's in like a halfway house or whatever and he had like a day release or something yeah but they let him go on a you know let him go do something you know what I mean and he wanted to come to our gym and work out but we don't know the full story but we just know this cop came up and said that guy's like we've had to deal with him sometimes like if he doesn't get his way like I guess he was at the rec center and like they asked him to leave or something and he ripped the computer off and asked him like through the computer and started like freaking out and everything so like he said like you just never know who you're dealing with there's like these people that are on the verge right and they're just amongst us and you know you know you trying to be nice and nice and hospitable to everybody but yeah you just never know so we didn't have any problems with them but you know he was doing dangerous had to leave yeah so you get the odd thing like that you just you never know when it's when you're gonna get something like that he's got to keep your eyes peeled yeah all right so wild move on here I thought that'd be a good one I knew Ron would have something there okay over under sugar free foods putting protein bars catchups ice creams etc well it's a funny it's hard for me because some of them I would say vastly overrated like cookies and stuff if I'm gonna eat a cookie I just want a cookie yeah I want a chocolate chip cookie made by my mom that's what I want right and um but if I'm having like catch up and I'm dieting sugar free catchups like my best friend so I'd say underrated you know what I mean so that's a hard category for me you know I'd say let's say I'll give a flight I don't want to be adequately rated I'll say I'll say generally overrated yeah generally overrated I'm gonna agree with generally overrated um but here's the thing I find that the majority of those things are terrible yeah terrible okay so you if it's shaped like a cookie and has dark specs and it is not a chocolate chip cookie if it tastes like sawdust and I I've fascinated watching people that are like oh it's pretty good for what it is I'm like it's not good you have to be just so hungry and so dieted for that to taste good yeah so but the only caveat to that is this you said sugar free which leaves the few things that I use safe I don't use sugar free but I use no sugar added ketchup yes and I use that even now because I just figure why like I because I do have the cookie probably every day um so I don't need to have my ketchup that's the full gas ketchup and I really do think that like that version tastes identical um but yeah those of you who are looking for ways to like you know not like have all these things they don't exist you know I've had those weird ice creams that they claim were the same I'm like now and you've never had like really good ice cream this is not good yeah so it's certain things in life I want really good ice cream yeah you know like one that blows my mind right when they're like oh it's healthy pizza I'm like just have a pie you'll be fine yeah you'll be a certain things I don't want you to with I don't want the diet this and diet that for certain items yeah agreed can we please get a seat on we need him one episode a year next Wednesday maybe yeah we yeah I said I'll be both he said on Mondays he goes I can't do Mondays I have to get high or drunk by noon to make it through there's too much going on so Wednesdays are better cool yeah all right I can make Wednesday we're dead we'll figure so no we got a seat of coming you know and next one was um do you think that of Dorian listened to Mike Menser 100% he would have lasted long enough to battle Ronnie well um he did battle Ronnie and he beat him 97 Ronnie got ninth there you go just not the Ronnie you're thinking of right pretty damn good Ronnie you go back and see ninth place Ronnie you're lucky to admit though like do you think that he just like I hate I hate when they say overlooked but he was getting he was losing the guys that weren't better than him then he wasn't ninth place in that show he was not I mean his his waist was so timing and the shoulder was so wide Ronnie was getting a bit of the shaft before he got the LNP I'm definitely going to go out on a limb and say that he was really good those couple years before the oh really good yeah no bonkers um no I think I know Dorian did what Dorian had to do and and um in fact if Dorian would have listened to Mike Menser less he might have lasted longer that's a great answer actually that was very true you just nailed it that's that no one could say anything else now we're done run just close it up all right JM 15 he says um if an Olympia level athlete like Nick Walker James Ian hunter approached you to be their training partner for the year do you think you could still hang with those boys day in day out through an off season and through their Olympia prep without question absolutely I would have to just want to do it that's all yeah you know what I mean I mean you know like I said there's you know I already trained with a very serious competitor you know my training partner is already a guy who's you know working really really hard relentlessly to improve and has already done extremely well at his first two shows um and has also changed his physique radically in the last three years so you know everyone's seen us training in the gym the last three years and you know I've been pushing the shit out of him to improve and it's the the results have been obvious so I know I still have it in me to train with a serious competitor obviously raising the bar to an Olympia level competitor you know you've got to be a little bit you know I mean every shows the same everybody will just trying to get you know trying to train as hard as they can so not a lot changes but within a Olympia level competitor there might be a few little things like you know there might be the odd day where I can't make it because I got something going on or I asked Braden hey can we move our training time on Saturday like the odd time whereas maybe with an Olympia guy that's off the table yeah like you never know right so but yeah I'd have what it takes easily to jump in training intensity wise no no problem I'm taking plates off if that's what they think it means then that's not really what a training partner means though people who think that hanging with someone in the gym means using the same weights are completely missing the point yep of what hanging with someone in the gym is I've had people hang with me I've had people where I was struggling to keep up with them and they didn't train as heavy as I did they were using less weight but they're paced and they're you know volume and this other thing so there's not less so many other factors but the weights isn't what I judge a training partner on some of my best training partners some of my my very best training partners were natural guys that you know bench to play an half a side you know so I literally just had that conversation yesterday run I've trained with a guy John on the weekend on Sundays for legs and I realized it through my entire career I never trained with someone that was stronger than me but I had people that I'd be noticing there because we always trained obviously progressive overload I'm like oh he's progressing from his weights faster than I'm progressing from mine right so he's pushing me and I think that that's the weather mine's 405 and the barn years 315 if you got 315 for 6 last week out for 9 today I added one rep you're closing that gap you know that is you know that's the kind of push I enjoy is that plus the verbal side you know it's funny but he was training last Wednesday I'm watching and you know I'm sure you've had this before run where you're supposed to train with two guys and a couple more guys show up and then you guys just say I screwed wall training together which is a terrible idea um I saw that and I would never do it I'm watching these guys all train and I laughed because he the guy I'm training with is doing a satney misses a set on squatting on a Smith and I couldn't help myself I like I mumbled it under my breath but the way I do it where everyone can hear and I'm like man five guys deep and not one guy ready to spot somebody I blew my mind that's that they allowed him to miss yeah with four guys standing there I'm like that's your sole purpose so it's I just told him it's funny because I'm like I can't when you train with me I don't care how strong you are but you need to be here same thing if I'm under the bar I see on your phone I will literally try to get out of my damn gym yeah get away from me like no yeah you're here with me I'm here with you that is it so don't get distracted because even if you're warming up you're distracting me yeah I see it I'm like what what's happening I got three fifteen oh my next weight is is training weight so yeah I agree with you 100% that it's not I think that there are guys that would like hell I'd love to have James talk me through a workout when I was in my prom and I'm training with me because I'd love to know what his sick mind would say and what he could get out because he would get stuff out of you you know or when I trained with Dorian that time he was he was not the Dorian he used to be yeah he was whipping my the whole time yeah yeah yeah yep yeah training with someone who who's there and present is is a big part of it you know yeah and you know wow what else please get a question all right let's see here uh question for the next episode can you give some cues to activate the hamstring in the back shots thanks yeah it's it's um it's all about the floor the hips it's all about the floor people think they have to flex everything you don't you just you create tension by sweeping your foot like you know behind you you put your you put the ballier foot on the floor flex your calf and then just create some backwards tension and everything should just flex it posing was posing the legs was always so easy to me it was always really difficult for me to understand why people couldn't understand tension through the floor up through the hips I mean we talked about the quad things but the hips I have that rant and it's the same from the back both glutes and both hamstrings should be tight and your calf should be flexed I don't see how it's so hard and you don't have to think about any of it you just have to pull your feet together on the floor you know like it's it's through the floor you're creating tension it's like you it's it's like high green I was talked about but the the main thing that I the reason I think I learned it is because of martial arts I think in martial arts every single position we were taught your feet have to be exactly in the right spot every time or it's wrong do you know what I mean like you're learning your forms and your feet have to go there and you're sitting on your you know your crouched down semi crouched all the time so your glutes are always tight and and there's all this sort of like movement that I think taught me a lot of that because it all came so easy to me what about you Dusty any cues for backshots the only thing I was going to add that I learned early on um which might be hard to explain uh without saying next to someone but I got told me same thing plant your feet turn your knees out or you know turn onto the side and then you said with your back leg the one that people tend to shake with because they're squeezing their hamstring you're not squeezing your hamstring act like there's a string on your kneecap going straight to the ceiling and just pull up on that and just feel your knee come up your hamstring just literally fires and you do nothing like it it's night and day you don't actually lift your foot I like that you don't actually lift your knee just feel it pull up and all of a sudden your whole hamstring will pro there's so many things like that same thing or like a tricep you know if you take your hand and take it for the damn thing if you do that your your tricep naturally wants to pull in a direction because all your your muscles and tendons are connected so a lot of things are just a matter of moving the body different not necessarily squeezing yeah and squeeze honestly the worst thing you can do like you know same thing with like you said with it with your hips rod it's like you're not squeezing your quads like you want to pass it on stage lock your knees it'll be exciting quickly I promise you know but planting the ground push it on your feet push it on your knees a little bit and then things will go up all the way so I think the biggest thing that I used to practice when I was trying to learn my body was being able to to fire muscles in any positions like sitting on the couch with my legs were straight excuse my hands yeah okay now sitting in a chair with my feet flying the ground I can squeeze my hamstrings because I squeeze my quads I used to do that just just to see and I think more than anything it transferred into training because you see people moving weight and I'm like I can visually see that you're not doing what you think you're doing you know and and back to that what we're talking about the last episode simplifying things is the magic if you're feeling the muscle that you think you're training you're in a good spot yeah yep I'm gonna pose in coach if you can't do it yeah that gives help a ton good posing coach will give you the cues real quick you know yeah yeah all right question for Dusty I heard you speak on a four day DC split that that was your favorite split can you tell us how that would look it's actually a three way done in four days so it's the most common one all this is essentially a push pull legs so the reason that they are confused is because you're doing the full body in three days but you're training four days a week so the fourth day is the Monday repeat so like ice train Monday Tuesday Thursday Friday yeah this week's Monday became this week's Friday again and the following week what was you know yeah everything moves around so it's it's only a three way split but you're training four days a week so it's chest shoulder strides one day back by one day legs one day that's it what do you do probably knew exactly I just so it's the other thing I altered it around because I'm not trying to I don't really need to get certain body parts bigger so like my back day I'm doing two movements for back and I'm training hamstrings completely with them so that way quads can have their own day I'm doing chest and shoulders by themselves then arms by themselves so just training four days a week okay I always grew better if I trained less so the first thing I had to do when I decided to grow again was train less yeah how many days were you training before that five okay I like to go to the gym I think that's the thing a lot of people forget is we train more because we want to go to the gym but the moment I put a goal to it I was like oh damn I really feel like you're four days again yeah because then you're standardizing everything and you're just gonna and then you can always go up and volume if you have to or you know like that sort of stuff yeah I know what you mean yeah this sort of you know I just need a base for with the with the rest and then because there's certain things like I did decide like I was like well if I'm gonna do this I don't want to just get big wherever I'm like I'll get my legs and arms bigger again so they're like the focus um because I like to with my arms were bigger like they're not small now but I look back at small pics I don't even remember them being that big I said wow I forgot about that like I mean literally there there's something came up on YouTube from you and what are doing clothes one year like upstairs in your gym and like you know I see my arms I was like how would remember them effort being good what is that happen yeah it's fun because I see some guys there's a local guy that um I really like but he had put up a number attached to how big his arms were and I mean there was like no because I knew what mine were and I'm like no you're lying yeah I love that I get feel bad because I'm like ah no no no no no I love that viral clip but you see that that classic clip of Jesse Ventura and Arnold talking about their arms size for predator you ever see that well I didn't see it rings about so Jesse Ventura was like yeah you know I went in to see went in to wardrobe you know for the movie predator and I saw when the wardrobe person put all my measurements in I saw that my arm was bigger than Arnold's and I was like oh man he's gonna get it right so I next time I saw Arnold I call him out in front everybody I was like hey looks like I got a bigger arm than mr. Olympia you'll pro x pro wrestler here's got a bigger arm than mr. Olympia and Arnold's like I bet you about to the champagne that you know in front everybody in my arms bigger and Jesse's like oh I got you I got you so they whipped their arms out and they measure them and Arnold's his bigger and he goes how the fuck and and he goes oh I told the wardrobe guy put my arm smaller to make sure that Jesse's his bigger so that he thinks his arm is bigger than mine so Arnold was like I had him he was baiting him he baited him that's so funny he baited him a number written on a measurement sheet he just left it he knew he would see he just knew Jesse would check his measurements he just knew there's no amazing look at my measurements so he pre said to drop that the couple inches put it with much smaller than that and he Jesse's arms are looking it's classic it's totally around too right Arnold goes to the mental games they work on everybody even even someone like Jesse it's fantastic we got a run play in mind games play in mind games with a navy seal just imagine I never gave a fuck did Ron ever get into fresh metal not just Metallica like slayer testament if so when did he stop following the evolution into death metal etc so I was into slayer a little bit like I had back in the day when we used to make mix tapes I had like a metal mix tape and I had like a bunch of slayer on there with I think there was a little bit of testament and I know there was a couple Exodus songs in some antrax but it was all like the you know the old school like you know the stuff that came out of the 80s and Metallica crew you know the big four and so I was into that stuff and it just you know like slayer I liked them but they were too heavy for me to like really groove too unlike you know normal everyday type of listening you know it just um yeah but you know huge metallic of fan and stuff stuff just got a little too heavy for me I'm just not into like the stuff that yeah yeah yeah what a great song yeah but I mean yeah it's like when slayer comes on the radio now because I listen to serious satellite so everyone's in a wild slayer comes on Aussie's bow and yard and I crank it but um but I never got into like the the evolution of death metal I really enjoy for for those who haven't seen that documentary um a head a headbangers journey metal a headbangers journey I think that's what it's called but it was made by Canadian guy and he he you know goes to all the festivals and stuff and he has got a documentary crew and he he he does an evolution of metal it's a documentary on like the evolution of metal and um it's really well done and he breaks it down like he goes all the way back to classical music and he talks about how metal has roots in classical music and he talks about the first classical musician to use a base that was so tall that you had to climb a ladder to play it and it was really low right so like it made like a rumbling sound and it was Wagner I believe it was Wagner did that I if I remember correctly so they sort of say like this is maybe where metal started it was with Wagner like getting that heavy low low end sound that no one else was getting out of some of this stuff and and he talks about how metal actually has a lot of classical roots like the song structure listen to those early metallic albums are like sym symphonies in a way especially just as listen to the songs on the justice for all they're very symphonic like multiple parts and lots of times signature changes and two guitar solos and one song and the songs are like eight minutes long and there's a whole bunch of connections to classical music and how complex the stuff is and how precise the players are like people don't realize that metal players like metal guitar players are some of the greatest guitar players on a planet like you know they see punk rock guys that you know it's kind of the opposite into this spectrum it's all emotion and telling stories and you know expressing yourself with your guitar and your three chords metal guys aren't like that metal guys are like precision scale wizards that know their music theory inside and out they're like their their brains think and math they're like there's some of those guys at the next level and and that's very classical music oriented and so you know it some of that extraordinarily heavy music like you know go jira and michigan stuff you listen to the guitar players and that stuff that's their distance it's not even like it's not even uh it blows my mind you know but i like music that has a little bit more space to it I guess it's the difference you know a little bit more like head bob and groove and stuff and the death metal doesn't really do that for me most of the time i couldn't really get into a lot of the death metal but when i was about 19ish years old i met this guy became a good friend of mine named Matt mat millington he had a radio show it was like college radio it was called radio apocalypse and he was meetlacker mat and his partner was juggiler joe and nice all they played was like the darkest death metal there ever was yeah met was a character we had a coffee house by me that we would hang out at and i'd seam up there we'd meet up there all the time and talk and he drove a hers he literally took a job at a funeral home so he could get a good deal on a hers and then he implanted these spikes all throughout the hers i think or maybe no he wanted to do that and then the police made him take them off or something i can't remember but this whole thing was like just a carnival on wheels and guy was a attribute and i remember like just the craziest stories you would have like you know over in like eastern Europe those people love death metal there's a whole other culture of people out there that just loved death metal and there was these two girls from Poland that were like visiting chicago and they knew of their radio show because at this point like you know internet radio it started to happen so these things are getting put out there and people in Europe knew who meetlacker mat was and these girls wanted to come out to Detroit for a metal show and they like they wanted to hook up with these girls and they just like told them like the darkest story they're like yeah we live in a band in a warehouse and Detroit and you know that's where we like we play our music there and everything and in this in that and they're like in the girls were thin they're like we want to come out to Detroit and see they show with you and they're like so he was like so what we ended up doing was we we took them that was like downtown at harpoise which is like really cd little club like slayer got banned from harpoise for several years for doing something crazy but they took them the back way they're like yeah this is how we get to harpoise and they like drove by like all because like at the time Detroit was just a mess like everything was abandoned if you went down the side streets so they like took the side streets all the way to harpoise what they could have just like gotten on the freeway and guns from the suburbs straight down the harpoise they like made it like it was this though this is what we have but it's all like right yeah match it as a character I'm still friends with them is good really added to the effect yeah did you guys ever see the old the cartoon metal aquilips i never watched it but I know what it is yeah metal aquilips was great but that was like i i watched that at the time i watched you know few seasons of that but that was good it was like about a metal band that you had these adventures and the government was like trying to get them because they're their music was too influential and you know like it was it was funny but the characters were great and and just the stories were ridiculous you know they they're metal saved the world you know that sort of thing but i enjoyed that that was a great cartoon and then when you go deeper like i learned stuff from that i would have never known like there's the long-haired metal guys and then there's like the shaved head tattooed metal guys and there are two different they're kind of like two different genres of death metal so there's a lot the warring factions yeah yeah okay does dusty not wear shoe laces with his chucks yeah i have the same i have the don't have laces they're called laceless chucks they come that way so they have the whole but they're looking exactly the same but they function because the tongue can't like fall out to slip on so he must have saw a video of you wearing those you have a pair of clothes you keep an eye shoes yeah i wore the black ones they are yeah let's do it yeah it's a mine that i can't say mine frank um i'm free i'm gonna drop a couple got a test you already did i'm letting you handle that you've got it under control i got to be over here walking the path of righteousness like usual i'm over here with a sus in heaven how is it the dust he's the good guy how is that it's been this one of the whole time i get the bad rap because i'm american he's Canadian that's all it is i don't know i've never happened all right there's a couple more in here see those we have what we did that one there's one more then oh and it's not even a it's not even a question it was a comment from page who we all met at the Olympia she's awesome oh yeah i was listening to the audio podcast but when Ron said about showing dogs i had to come on in see the youtube hello hello is so cute oh yeah we had a great we had a great nine days with three dogs in the house it was a little exciting and a little exhausting and walking three dogs is like a different task i know dusty like just has a yard so he just opens a door so it's just cool right now it's like a one pound each so yeah even when i had like even i had the condo like i didn't use leashes because i just listened so let's go back home yeah yeah that's not gonna fly um tell you guys those separate subject the other day at the gym i thought you didn't enjoy this Scott the guy came up to me and he gets hey i had introduced myself i was like oh he was i've been listening to your podcast forever but i've never watched it he goes in something happened i watched when i go oh that guy trains at my gym he didn't know who any of us were he just falls apart cast you're kidding me so he was that's amazing he saw you around the gym and he didn't know you were the guy he was listening to yeah so i've been in the gym for i mean you know he seemed to have many times i got the same time as him but i've been going there after noon my youngest likes to go train like five okay man um yeah but yeah that's you know i draw i'm lost but anyways i thought it was so funny to us like that's so amazing because it's like talking to a world like the the game has changed so much because Ron and I were talking at the Arnold last year how it's like we've been retired for so long i was like we hadn't been to a show in two years i was like i don't know if anyone's gonna care that we're here to be honest um and there were people obviously knew us from before and from the podcast and people only knew us from the podcast yeah and now we got someone who knows me from the podcast it doesn't even know it's me i was like yeah it's amazing right right you assume that you assume that okay there's all these people listening that's cool yeah but if they're listening because they came here to listen to us yeah but there's people that didn't come here to listen to us they came here to listen to a podcast and they might actually live close to us and they don't know or they're at the same gym and they don't even realize yeah didn't cross my mind it didn't cross my mind that anyone would ever listen to me who didn't already know me i think that's the greatest part because i'm like i was amazed i was like so i guess he i didn't ask because i was in the middle of them like so he stumbled on a podcast and enjoyed it instead but it was always audio yeah so i was like that's pretty freaking cool i mean i continuously realize how tiny the world is with things like that you're like you know because yeah i see all the time i'm like oh wild i got a wild a wild compliment on the show uh from a member of the gym the other day um i'll say his name i'll say his name George from the gym great member i think he's in his sixties okay George i think i'm not sure what George jizzie the late 50s or he might be 60 60 something i think he told me but i didn't know he listened to the show and he just comes up he goes great job on the show and i was like that's cool oh and he goes yeah you know he goes you know what i used to like about Johnny Carson and there go what and he goes was funny it was like chit chat you know sometimes it was informative there was the odd serious moment but it was a lot of fun made fun of himself made fun of the other people on the show gave the guest something to laugh at and he goes and you guys do all of that and i was like did we just get compared to that oh yeah no kidding yeah was a huge compliment i was like okay thanks George appreciate that you know you could have me could have tuned the he could have tuned it down he could have used like Jimmy Kimball or somebody yeah like yeah like you know like kind of like third tier compliment you know but he went john Carson he went like the kings you know with legend yeah yeah and i was like oh damn okay well we'll see if we last 30 years yeah that's the trick stop we're here in two years that's impressive yeah yeah so you know as far as like all time ridiculous comments go i think being compared to Johnny Carson was like the highlight of all the show compliments i've ever gotten so solid let's go you guys don't get it though because you you know i came to this as a podcast fan and like there's times i'd listen to podcasts just to get through my work day like oh this is a terrible work day but at least i've got this show to listen to that i really enjoy and i can do what i got to do to get through this but you know it's nice to have this podcast on and and hey i learned something in the process it's it's you know that's a cool thing it's cool thing yeah to do that yeah it's cool and also did you guys see that message we got on Instagram where's that one group message we got like a thank you you know i i know that it was a group message to all of us because i was like oh i got to send it to the guys i don't see it and i look at it because i don't open the other messages so yeah yeah and then i saw it oh yeah so here we go this is from one of our listeners i don't know if you want us to say his name or not sure to who else in the group so this is from Peter okay this is from Peter one of our listeners he said i've been listening forever and just lately i'm seeing the influence of your shows so if someone asks me a question i find myself answering an overrated and underrated format my wife asks me about going up to do something and i might tell her that that's overrated and then explain why i have that opinion we just to say it's not going very well with the wife these days oh man that's amazing that is that we're helping to change lives and and ruin marriages it's overrated that's overrated it's why i have that opinion yeah so wow i thought you know this is this sort of stuff that i never thought i'd ever have so i'm fact on other people's lives like that just start answering everything with an overrated and underrated format i i think the reason so funny is i'm literally visualizing this happen i could just see or she walks in and he breaks it down he's like well you know for the price of that stake that i got to go out of here it drast i mean i can i can work so we had to go out too yeah and then i could see him he annoying her on the underrated stuff like come on babe it's actually technically an underrated thing we should be doing it's cheap but but blodges listing all the reasons why they should do this underrated activity that she doesn't want to do i could just see it get into her yeah oh so it's okay i'm happy to know that you know so okay is that it for the Q&A guys that's all we got to go we haven't the other news i'm still desperately looking for an indoor spot to ride my bike oh i saw you wrote in the and your is that your apartment or your car oh oh it was your right in the back my no my condo park hate is like not rideable it's its way too packed with cars um that was the super store by my house and they're just happened to not be a junky there so it was right so it worked out yeah worked out that's my last resort absolutely must go because i'm losing my mind spot but it looks better than it is it's actually kind of slanted down from the middle and it's just it's the best of the worst it's the best of three it's the best patch of the park aid and the rest of the park aids kind of like just a cesspool of urine and vomit and whatever else happens to be there maybe I have homeless person in the corner making noises but that little piece there is very low traffic to it's in the farthest back corner so the cars don't drive through it all very really often yeah so it's like yeah so that's my last ditch effort spot but it's still kind of blows so right yeah but i'm grateful to have it you know gotta have everything that makes it what do you what do you go ahead does that one of the you went out one of the one you guys were possibly going on the guy turned down or what so yeah the guy's wife didn't want any traffic because he had a he had a really large it was almost a three car garage detached yeah so it would have been easy I could have just like and he had like she had quite a bit of space between his house and his garage too but the wife didn't want anybody coming over strange men like bringing their bikes over in the middle yeah whatever and I thought I thought I had an answer to it because I have a nexus card for crossing the US border yeah and I have a restricted firearms license and I showed them both I showed them both did you show me your gun? I like to because no no no no I'm like you know I was like hey look I've been like like criminal background checked you know like rigorously you can't get these two cards if you're any kind of like you know yeah yeah but the wife was like I had storage only yeah so yeah wow if you didn't want to do it I would have said it was my wife too be like I want to let you buddy but I would have been operated and underrated it to her and maybe work to be like no it could have reason we not coming here could be very you know underrated if say it's an explosion would have happened in your house after you say yeah well I thought I thought the best part was that it's been posted for two months and he's asking 800 and it's been empty for two months yeah and I was like well I give you 500 cash and I'll do a month to month so if you're rented on me for more he just tell me and I'll stop coming yeah like so I give you a good stuff out yeah like there's nothing to move you know so he was like oh that's a good deal let me talk to my wife but the wife isn't now what if they feel like you can't pick the people do that by the way so now every month now here's a thing this is what I like to think every month it goes by we're no one rented for eight he knows he's losing 500 cash out of his fucking pocket because his wife didn't want anyone fucking coming over and the resentment will build and the marriage will fall apart you will get that spot you will get that spot yeah and then once he's out of the house I'm sure she'll be happy to have me over for 500 dollars a month I don't I mean for real though I don't understand and this is always been my thing I don't know why you would have that conversation with your wife because I wouldn't I'd be like I raised you out the spot for 500 yeah that's why I think it changed his mind you know yeah I don't look you like you want the keys right now like forget I really don't know honey there's someone in the yard yeah that's a guy that rented the shed leave alone okay yeah and so yeah and here's your $250 do whatever you want with honey yeah you can buy something with that go yeah yeah yeah I don't understand how these life decisions people make I don't get a dusty I bought this house without asking I went home I was like I bought a house she was like what I'm like yeah you'll like it I don't get it this is ridiculous I know you don't have to google it but I already bought it anyways I thought yeah definitely it should have said buddy yeah yeah I just just hung up I just hung up I just put them on the wall took the whole back wall of the office and now when she's doing her client calls my shit's on the wall behind it we have her own offices so Victoria has her background which is very like zen you know some plans a couple of crystals well you got that you got that space because you live in Detroit where properties like five dollars yeah yeah three dollars yeah American three five can I use yeah yeah so it's is is property still really cheap down there it's not anymore so I got my house for a fairly good deal and if I were to sell it now I could do like really good really good on it yeah plus when I got it I it needed work so I'd like put it in a new driveway and all this so like so people didn't want it so I got a flat the what's that what's that drive way yeah you're gonna use your space be careful yeah I know 500 I know 500 I know for 500 yeah just gonna start parking our cars in the street for 500 I'll take it let me do the end of snow you know yeah fuck it that's like a legit paycheck 500 dollars to do not yeah the literally do nothing you know yeah yeah just shut your mouth woman yeah Margaret's been screwing him for years without question you probably didn't have the he probably doesn't even have any gel center ice package because she said no yeah I should have asked in that right off the bat that's wild yeah that would have answered everything if you have the NHL center ice package you have to ask permission to do things never mind I'm gonna go yeah oh I have I have one thing we could talk about real quick yeah I I use my GoPro for the first time what okay saw that how did it go yeah far as like loading it up and put on YouTube or on Instagram stuff so it's unbelievably awesome the new app and everything that go with it just like fucking awesome so fantastic I just realized after I made the video I should have done one more thing to kind of zoom in on myself better all right okay like I can see it I put it yeah so yeah so I the thing is you know I just I just turned on my GoPro and I let it ride I let it run the whole session right and then every time I pulled like a decent trick where I kind of got one of my tricks because I was pretty rusty right yeah but every time I pulled one of my tricks I would just go press stop start and then you know that the the end of that clip is where the kind of the good the good version of that trick is right so I just did stop start you know for the whole hour I wound up with like a bunch of clips and I just chopped them all off and put them into a story format and then just made a real out of it I'd never done that before from a GoPro and it was really easy but I realized now I didn't do my one step where I I screen record the video and I move around and follow myself so I'm always in the middle I have this little trick and then I use the screen recording as the story clip and I can play it is this it yeah yeah I made a real yeah okay so you know I'd never made a real before using multiple clips I've only just like you know taken a video off my phone and put it into real format you know what I mean yeah so so so doing this I just let the GoPro my GoPro wasn't quite I was kind of off to the side on everything because it wasn't quite centered but I was figuring it out and I did chop myself accidentally when I edited these clips a little bit but but yeah it was really easy it took about an hour for me to put the final the final version of this this together and you know it went it went really well it was the end parts good here I like the little wait till I you know the good little bars been right here boom there we go and yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah get the mutant in there right in everybody's face so so yeah it was cool and I just never bothered buying a GoPro before and now with the app that it links to on your phone it's just crazy how easier it is to edit and chop easier to stay on with your GoPro than it is to the podcast on this program I guess everybody's gone I guess that means that we close things out what do we say like share subscribe comment and and of course go to mutant guys use our codes big round 20 or dusty 20 they both worked the same of course and yeah go to our Patreon guys we appreciate you for everything you do watchin us here support us through Patreon for another episode of uh oh they're back what happened I don't know but I was closing the show out without you an or dusty it is you lost everybody and then dusty left so I was like I already told him about mutant I already told him about big round 20 I told him about dusty 20 I told him that short period time I told him to like share subscribe comment and ring the bell I didn't thank you I couldn't I didn't have anybody to say that yeah okay well we're good right good up okay thanks thanks everybody remember it's just bodybuilding

I'm going to run 20 Anniversary in 2 grams of test. What do you think? First cycle. What's up guys? We'll come back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McNeely and all of our programming. It's brought to you by evalblotanalysis.com. You can get your lab work done by Dave if you're in the UK. And if you're on cycle, you should definitely be getting your labs done. We're also brought to you by stromspore.com. That's stromspore nutrition. If you're in the UK, you can get some great health stacks from them. Especially once again, if you're on cycle, you need to hit up strom. If you're in Canada, you can go to supplement source.ca and get great deals that change week to week. We are also brought to you, of course, by true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there on high quality supplements here in the US. They've got literally every protein powder you can think of. We're brought to you by Patreon. We have a Patreon question today. We're going to talk. You guys asked, so we're going to demand us there. Today we're going to talk about Dave's pro charger. We had the gear heads they're called, which are completely something different than I thought Dave gear heads. They want to hear about the pro charger. So we're going to get to that today. And we had a bunch of questions. Do you have like, we gots. What's that? That's it. No, no, no, no, say anything. That's upcoming program project you're working on, right? Maybe. So what it is? We guys can roll that back. Freeze frame it, blow it up. And you can get a little hint on Dave's upcoming project. We did do we had a lot of great feedback on the last episode. We had a ton of questions. So we might need to power through some of them. But we had one that's come up before. And I thought, you know what, this is probably make for a good lead topic. He says, and by the way, once again, if you guys want to take part in the next show, then definitely come up below, we'll try to get it on the next program. If we don't come in again, bus comments like so, this stuff helps to boost our show. He says, some people preach that PEDs shouldn't be used by people who don't compete. I disagree, but where would you and Dave draw the line for the Jim bro living lifestyle, but not planning on stepping on stage? Trend, insulin? What do you think, man? And we have, like I said, talked about this before, but it's never been the main topic of the show. 10 milligrams of anava. That's it. Yep. That's all you get. Yep. What about TRT or you allowed to do your TRT with that or you have to stop it, too? No, you have to stop it. Oh, that's not much, dude. Yeah. Yeah. There's a few compounds I would definitely be wary around and then there's some compounds that are a little bit more. If you want to do it, then fine, but just bear in mind there can be some, I mean, trends and obvious one, this like I personally wouldn't use trend with a client unless they were not a less they were covered. There's a few occasions I'll use it with lifestyle sort of clients, but generally I'm not a fan of putting it in unless they are competing. What if they ask though, what if they're like hey mate, I don't know if they're trying I want to run trend and work with it. If they want to run it, that's fine, but obviously we go through the caveats of look, you know, this kind of cause anxiety can be long term. So as long as there are my big stand pipes always being the same, it's like do whatever FNL you want, but just be aware of the risk you're taking so you make a decision based on all factors and that's the bottom line. But I would have said things like, amp is a drug I wouldn't go near unless you're competitive and even then I'd be wary of it. A down-assine manifest fit. Yeah. And what is a down-assine manifest fit, dude? Well, it's a vent redrogue. Two, it basically makes you super super fascular. Yeah. I mean, what advantage is that to somebody unless they compete and even then it's not advantage, but it's just to look there's some people like to put on stage. It's cool. It is cool. But it can also be a bit nasty if you get it wrong. Not permanently, but it can give you some fucking might you had aches. Dude, I heard it makes you feel like garbage every after you take it. Yeah, I can't do it, I really make you feel rough. The over one, I'd be wary of round is so... For God. So you'd say well, I think of it. OK. So here's a thing. I never. So I feel like years ago I wasn't clear on why I would say I don't want to use these. I don't think a non-competitor should use fill in the blank. And it's interesting because I feel like there was some pushback that people thought, like, oh, well, you're gatekeeping that you think that only a competitor deserves to run X-compawn. And that's not it at all. My thought is that if, so with a contest, with a contest prep, my mindset is completely different. The reality is, like stepping on stage, you're kind of creating an illusion. Yeah, absolutely. You're getting peeled, oddier, freaking head. But what you're trying to do to look the way you look is something that we only hold for literally like one hour of one day. And I don't think that that's beneficial to anybody who's going to be doing a lifestyle type thing, non-competitor. You know, more so I want to focus for a non-competitor on how can we get you looking really good and then hold you there. Like, say the care like, hey, I want to be in shape for summer. Okay, they date a book. Yeah, I mean, Tina, look, how can we do something that will get you looking crazy and also be able to hold that long term? Now, yeah, if we were to say, turn a few knobs, maybe we could do the same thing to get you reaching that contest, you know, peak look. But like what benefit is that going to be, except for like, I'm going to the beach that day? And it's like, you hold this for one hour and then once you drink water, it's gone. Like, you know, it's not reasonable. So things that I'm considering are compounds like Halo doesn't make as much sense to me. If I'm looking at, you know, I would much, and it does work. And it can work in my opinion in certain offseason situations like to push through strength plateau's intermittently, not taken every day. Compounds like trend sure we could use trend in a non-competitor. But it's definitely something that, you know, if we don't have to, I mean, yeah, the less we can, my opinion is always this, is that the less we need to use to get you to reach the look that you want to achieve the better. You know what I mean? The more sustainable it is, the more sustainable it is, the more sustainable it is. I would prefer, say, it kind of tests, prep cycle just as an example. Might be test and in mass, and maybe it was, as massed, probe and then trend in the last six weeks and then wind strolling the last four and then Halo in the last 10 days, you know, so that you can look a certain way on a certain day versus for a guy who's doing a, you know, a non-competitive program, it might just be like, test and long-acting massed, and maybe we add in a small amount of trend for the last eight weeks. You know, but it's something that you can just like roll with in keep the look is more what I'm thinking, not taking things that are going to be so toxic that, because once you start taking compound two, you're on the clock as to how soon you have to stop taking that compound. You know, I'm completely, yeah, I'm completely with you. I would said that it's a whole class of drugs I wouldn't consider a non-stiatetics. Yeah, yeah, there's a great example, you know, like that it's not going to do what you want in any kind of, you know, this is not the same fashion. Yeah, it's just not sustainable. Men, I would be a little bit more cautious around. I'm not saying he can't be used. I think he can be used, but it's, again, it's, it's that rich reward element. It's not a compound, you're going to be on for very long periods. It's not a compound, you're going to be able to visit on a regular basis. By all means, try it. See how we get on with it, but just have that reservation that is not something I can build into every cycle or have for long-term use and buy Scott a bib. Yeah, I might need one. Thankfully, I always were dirt close, so if I spoke coffee, I'm wise. He sounds like it's a top anyway. I mean, just using to mock the TLP doesn't really matter. Does it? And then, you know, yeah, so that's definitely one I agree. Hey, those are the one for some of the reasons I still can't think of the compound. I'm thinking of, listen, Orals in general are something that I'm, I'm not as fond of for a non-competitor to be used in a longer term fashion. You know, I, I feel like if we're adding an Oral in, we're getting to the end of the cycle. Okay, things have been going good last four weeks. Let's add in this, you know, or maybe intermittently in and off season, push, you were trying to bring through some strength. But, yeah, you know, because especially Orals, man, it's like that toxicity is just going to keep building up once you start it. So, you're on your, the first time you, the first day of your oral is one step closer to the end of your cycle, you know? Again, it's a compound that needs limited exposure. It needs controlled exposure. The compound I was thinking of was more of an exotic and it's a growth peak. No, it's a growth factor compound. Growth factor compound. And it's not, you would have said, I, G, F, I feel. Yeah, no, it's not I, G, F. To be honest, I think with I, G, F, it's, if you run it at the dosing you need to run it to get real muscular results. Yeah. It's not a pleasant compound to run and it's really cost prohibitive. Yeah, my starting suppressants, they're just a work unless you spend $1,000,000. Mostly the high sea surface is just garbage. But, oh, it's, it's going to annoy that shit. You'll think of it like 10 minutes after we finish the show. Yeah, it's going to annoy the hell out of me now. Growth factor. Yeah, it's a growth factor, Asian. Yeah. Yeah, you know, okay, if I give you the side effects, when you take it, it aspirates through the lungs, makes you an immediate shot, it's a breath and causes a smooth bowel contraction. Oh, peak, peak, peak, peak, peak, peak, peak 141. No, that's, that makes you horner. PGF28. PGF28, I knew it was, I couldn't think, yeah, okay. I never thought that. That's, that's definitely a drug I wouldn't be messing with. That's your competitive, even that I'd be questioning it. Yeah, didn't you see you used that one time? Mm. And how did that go? So PGF28 is, it does a couple of things. It's actually, as a topic or it can be used as a fat loss agent and it will spot reduced fat. Okay, yeah, yeah. It, it, it kills fat cells effectively. As an injectable, it's rumored to to actually promote side growth. I can't say whether it doesn't, but God, it makes you feel like dog shit. Yeah. It's horrible, you feel like crap on it. I don't really, any of these specific, just a general that, did you, look, no, be honest, did you have to have a change of your pants after you took it? The first time I took it, I was actually sat on the toilet just to be careful. Just to preemptively be ready. Yeah. The, actually, you can, you can get to a point where you control that side of it and, and where you don't pass. But what I found is when I got to a point where I was controlling it, so I could take it whenever I wanted. I wasn't going to shoot myself. Um, I'm doing a really good. I'm not going to crap myself today. Wait, I'm doing a little drug. I ended up being constipated. Oh, okay. So it, it was like, I can't win it. But yeah, PGF2A is a rather unique little thing. I don't think that's it when you start getting into those real quirky sort of exotic things. Yeah. You know, from an experimental point of view, it's okay in the sense that if you want to sort of play an experiment, but then just not in any way long to have some sustainable. It's not to be honest. I do think there is an element of gear use that is like, hey, I just want to know, you know, D&P, I just want to know, you know, it's like there's no real reason to have used it. Otherwise then, you know, I can't think of any contest, perhaps that I've worked with somebody or my own where I've been like, man, we got to hit the D&P now. It's always one of those things where like, well, I want to see what it does, you know, same thing with insulin, same with GX, same with everything. And the more exotic you get the less we really needed it, like, you know, truly needed it, you know? Ascecline, oh, another toll. Oh, yeah. So accecline has not been around in my time of bodybuilding. No, so I always see novital or whatever it is, I kind of remember I said. We talked about that years back, it's from Spain, isn't it? I thought it was from Russia. Okay, I thought we saw it or maybe it was like it was legal in Spain for up to a point. And it's a site, everything. Because it's localized, smelling, and muscle which makes it appear bigger. I wonder what that does to your inflammation markers, you know what I mean? Probably it's what's in through the roof. But you look jazzed. Yeah. There is some size to support a smaller amount of site, growth with it as well, but again, it's just not. That there's usually two reasons you can't support the exotic stuff. It's either cost or it's side effects. Yeah, it's and it's usually one of those, so it's even just that due to that expensive or it's the side effects, it's just too harsh to tolerate. Yeah, I could see that. All right, well, I hope that answers the question. Anything else you can think of, I think? Because I don't, I have no problem with any. And try and. Okay, well, I'd put that in the same category as the individual, honestly, or, or Halo. Would you? Yeah, well, maybe not quite in a draw, but I put it in the same category as Halo. Don't you be disinoxies now. Don't you come on this show and stop being discreditation against all seas you. Oxi. Horrible individual. Maybe intermittently, you know, toward the end of a phase where we're really trying to focus on strength, a small, small dose, say, on like day and in, you know, pull day, something like that. And that's it, you know, two times a week, something like, I can see that. I never used it. I know you had, I never used it because my always, my thought had always been. Contest prep. I'm already on trend. Why don't I do something completely different like Halo, Halo? I, I never really, really read it. I'm trying to be fair. Now, we could have been crop quality drugs. I don't think it was, but we never know for sure. Yeah. But it never really did anything for me. I found it complete waste. And I, I went up to two, two and a half milligrams. Yeah, that doesn't sound right to me. Yeah, that's what I hate. I, I remember the oral at, I started it 250 micrograms, oral. And then I went to 500 oral. And then I, this is the one time. Why was I taking it? Because I learned a few what it did. And I was dieting. But I had the same with trend. I didn't get a huge hit off trend either. I found trend very, yeah, I was, I was actually incredibly disappointed with trend because of all the stories I'd heard and all the, you know, are these shit's rocket fuel, it'll do this, it'll do that. Hmm, not really. Guys, I think they have got some fake trend vote below. Comment below if you want to see Dave run a real child cycle. All right, all I can say is that, um, and I won't say his name, but a professional bodybuilder was running the same lab, same batch. Doesn't mean the world and I get that and I, I, I, I fully appreciate that. And it was that kind of. Even though it was destroying him. Okay. I was like, oh, I don't get what you're feeling. Yeah, I don't know. Well, I, like I said, I started 250, went to 500, went to 750, and then basically had heat stroke because it was summer and I was like, I, it was bad man. I was like crash and now like trying to work outside and in hot wear houses and stuff man, I was like, oh, this got to go. This is not for me. Yeah, no, I never, I never really got a huge amount from it. In fact, that might have been the only thing I threw out. I've given away a couple things, but that when I think I just tossed it, or, you know, what, no, you know, what I did with it. Ha ha ha ha ha. I had, I did a P.J.F.2A out, but I did off like a bowl of these sides, because I bought it from a veterinary center. Oh, I, it was like, half a leaf or the stuff. I hit it. I hit it in my apartment, like just a stash at somewhere and I think it was like, I can't remember where it was like by the furnace or an event or something like that. So one day somebody's going to find these little yellow triangular tabs of methyl trend and they're going to think it's something else. They're going to think it's like, you know, that probably's like rap voices. I hope we can throw it for real. Yeah, right? Yeah. All right. Well, listen, I think that that maybe covers it. You guys tell us where's your line as a non-competitor. What do you not want to do? You know, and like I said before, leave us questions. Because Dave, I got to tell you, man, we have a lot of them. We all know that creatin is great for muscle building, but where you aware of its benefits for brain health. Uh, I think it's problems creatin. No, it's definitely pronounced creatin. No, it's definitely creatin. I'm positive. Yeah, that's pretty much what I said creatin. Pretty good. Well, regardless of what you want to call it, creatin plays an important role in brain health. Research demonstration, your brain needs a significant amount of ATP to perform difficult tasks. Supplementing with creatin will improve phosphocreatin stores, helping your brain produce more ATP. So if you're not on creatin now, give it a try. Check out truenutrition.com. Use our code, think over there. They got all your basic health supplements like creatin, protein powder. Everything else you can think of. Use our code, think to help support our programming, get some additional savings and get a great supplement. Yeah, this is definitely creatin. There was one on Patreon. I really want to make sure we cover today. To paraphrase it, Guy has never done a cycle before. He's starting us first cycle. He's going to run. I can't remember the duration he said, but here's his dose. It feels like I'm going to run 20 anniversary in two grams of test. What do you think? First cycle. Holy fuck. I mean, it doesn't make sense because the antivirus, like, well, I want to watch the liver. You know what I mean? You know what I'm saying? I look, do what you want, but that's a lot. I mean, that's a two-gram test only cycles a lot for anybody. As a test only cycle, but I agree that one compound, but I would be much further down to 400, 500 bucks if I was you. Dude, even 300, 350 even, you know, like, leave yourself some room. Well, at least, yeah, two-gram tests sounds good out of our as a bit overboard. Thanks, Ty. We appreciate your input, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, he's like, I'm getting a wardrobe, a big, a big, a big, a walker, whatever meal it's cold. And I'm going to have a diet coat because I'm watching him wait. Right. Yeah, I'm wondering if it's a circumstance of that he just doesn't have enough education, yet, which in that case, I encourage him to leave. I mean, he is a Patreon subscriber. Honestly, and this is no, like, no knock to him, had it been somebody who just commented blankly on YouTube, they really did, we didn't know. I'd be like, oh, he's pulling our leg. But, you know, he, I'm pretty confident he means this. That's all I would say, so that is a lot of drug particularly for the first cycle. I think you'll be surprised how well you respond from a quarter of them. Yeah, yeah, endless sides. Easy, you're like, a managed going in, imagine going into your first cycle, having to try to manage the sides of two, two grams of task per second, you know. Yeah, well, I mean, to put it in this something relatable, that's like going from a 200 horsepower car and suddenly jumping into a thousand horsepower and expecting to be able to drive it competently without any previous experience, you know. And we do have listeners who will appreciate that analogy now, let me know. They've got some gear heads on board. I like my car analogies. I find it a good way of explaining drugs for some reason. It seems to work well. Yeah. I use that car analogies too sometimes, like talking about like nitrous. Like we don't. We don't hit the nitrous in first gear. You know what I mean? Let's let's just get the, oh, we're going to get to be really speedy. Yeah. All right, let me see what else we have here. And yeah, you guys are freaking awesome with all the comments and everything your positivity, we appreciate it. Oh, wow, this guy's name is actually gear head 157. He says, but I think he might mean the other kind of gear. I'm on 750 test C 600 mass, 260 anovar per day. Oh, no, excuse me, 60 anovar on and work out days. 20 milligrams of MK67, 25 milligrams of GW501516. I just got retratroutied. Should I drop the MK as I feel as if I'm not cutting as fast? I'm using the MK because GH is more expensive, hello, hello. I, from a GH point of view, I don't think the MK is particular. We discussed this last week, actually. I don't think the MK, I don't know if we discussed it on or off air, though. I don't think the MK is going to be particularly effective. And if anything, it's just increasing your appetite. That's definitely a compound. I wouldn't be looking at it. If I was looking for a cheap alternative to GH, which GH is relatively cheap, these days particularly, if you're only running a couple of IU a day, then you could look at the GH app, but I think even then you're probably going to be more cost effective at just sticking to IU a GH and even if you did it every other day. Though I appreciate that the initial outlay is higher in that you're going to be spending a lot initially to get that true. Not a big fan of cardery myself. Don't think it's having a huge impact in your total antibiotics. It's a bit like the 20-an of hour on the two grandmage. I've been, you know, it sort of seems a little bit like, is it? I do get a third fat loss benefit from it when I have used it. I've noticed a good benefit from that regard, but cost to benefit, you know, Scott and I, and I maybe I should go back and find it. I always said it is a little cardering end you. I think that was the title of the show. Was, some because somebody said they were like, you know, you mentioned that cardering could cause cancer. There's a study to show that it actually stops cancer. And so Scott looked at that study and he was like, yeah, so this study shows that it will actually help with this kind of cancer. And this study shows that it will cause all these other types. So, you know, this is, yeah, exactly. I just think there are better fat burners out there. You know, if you're going to add something for a fat burner, I'd be looking more at T3, playing that sort of stuff than I'd be looking at cardering personally. Yeah. Where I think cardering is a little bit unique. It's around its lipid effects. And it's cardiovascular improvement. But I think that's a very specific effect for a very specific situation. I know a lot of people were keen on cardering to try and offset the cardery of us with down regulation. You got from trading in sort of strong and sort of which where I can see, okay, yeah, I can see something there when you're top of your field and you're wanting something to mobilize it, I'm not a fan, but so, even if it didn't commonly contribute to cancer and I know the doses in this, these would generally much higher than what we'd see in recreational use. Yeah. I'm still just a bit wary about that's the bottom line with it. Yeah, yeah, I think it's great for endurance. But, and like you said, cholesterol, but cost to benefit, I like that word, weary, you know. Mm-hmm. Let's see, Chris says you mentioned people who want to stay on your round for an interesting topic, what would be a good year round cycle of people were interested in going that route, Cheers fellas. Dave, follow up question. If you do it year round, is it still a cycle? Well, the benefit is no, because the cycle is a brotherhood, Hacer word cycle. You know, you know, easy, a fuck it as an A-B-shitter about it, but it's cyclistic wouldn't mean Rotatory. Yeah. It comes back around which is not doing because it's permanent. Of course. Mm-hmm. Thank you, but I still like the word cycle because we are back to where we started. T-be-I think common terminologies are useful because people understand them. True. Whether that technically correct, I'm not that buffered about, but I get why he has a book better on it. Well, mostly we're coming back to where we started. No, not necessarily to- Well, no, necessarily we're both people. We're going like a 4RT, you know, like we're coming back to T-RT. So, you know, the course is over. The cycle is over. I think if your kid be using an elevator dose year round, I would be reluctant to anything above just test. Yeah. Just what is the simple reason that the body coats with so well. I get the benignness of something like pre-moving and it didn't, but then you've got that cholesterol suppression issue, which is difficult to manage with pre-mo. So if you were looking at a secondary compound, I'm probably leaning towards mass personally. I don't agree with it. I don't think it's a way to go, but if someone was helping on doing it, I would be test only a test of mass to push. Yeah, look at your labs. I mean, that's the reason people come off is to get their labs back in order, right? Yeah, I mean, I've seen people with surprisingly decent labs at long-term exposure to elevated levels. It is from a lab management point of view, it's doable, but there's things that labs don't pick up. And you would need to be. I think for me, the benefit, I think isn't there. I don't think you're going to see such, I think you'll see more accelerated muscle growth from two good, solid cycles a year, with a correct TAT in between, then you would from running a TAT plus year round. I 100% agree with you and I had even seen it in my own life, honestly, because I went through a phase of not dropping below 300 tests and I didn't see any additional, like, I honestly should have just done TRT, because then I ran into other issues. My himatic rate got higher, and then I had to do full about me and blah, blah, blah, blah. Yeah, and I think when you start a stacking in the extra management that comes into play of running an elevated level for an extended period of time, I think the costs and I don't mean the financial costs, I mean the preventive costs end up being greater than the benefit you get. You know what I'll see if I mentioned before, and I think it resonates true here too, you're only going to like, we can all push real hard, you know what I mean? But we can't be like, you know, foot to the floor, gunning it, 365 days. You can for 16 weeks, right? And you know what I'm saying? Yeah, this is like, I didn't mean to you in the motivation to take advantage of, you know, because before you know, you're kind of like, yeah, well, this week I'm just not doing as good. You're not taking advantage of it then, you know? Yeah, and I think there are a few people that can maintain that level of consistency, but they are there. Yeah, they are. And so I think because most of us live a life, the having periods of time when we can be a little bit less on it and spend time with family and do social things and all that sort of stuff, you know, down time is easier to accommodate things like that, whereas full blown cycle, I'm wanting to get everything I can out of that because I don't want to be there for super long periods of time. And I mean, I pushed it on the length of time I stayed on and that's what caused a lot of the problems. That, I'm the overall size, but I mean, I wasn't being shy with my dosing either. So I get that as a very extreme example, but yeah, I think these days, I think time office is not just beneficial from a health point of view, it's beneficial from a progress point of view as well. Yeah, it gives you a chance to like, stop, regroup, you know what I mean? Figure out, okay, this is going well, this isn't what am I going to do to change that to make better progress, you know? Yeah, stuff like injury management, things like that as well. And I think it all comes into play, you know, you cannot hammer your body 24, 7 because it breaks. Each, each, just a simple side, it does break. All right, this guy says, so Scott, you mentioned when doing test EQ cycle, you're like running MPP at the beginning. My question is how many weeks until you would drop the MPP out. And when you drop the MPP, would you raise the EQ also how long of a cycle would this be overall from start to finish and what milligrams of each would you do also in cillaries? I think the dosing would depend on your experience at the time, you know, I'd been using more gear. So the doses were going to be higher, would that apply to everybody listening to the show? Absolutely not. Everybody's at their own place. There might have been some people here that would be like man, I'd take more than that, you know? But, you know, basically at the time, I think it was like 1.25 grams of test, 800 EQ. And then I think I initially would do like 300 MPP, but even found like even 50 every other days seem to be beneficial. And I would run that for like the first eight weeks. And by then the aqua poise was really built up. And I felt like it was really coming into its own and I didn't need the EQ. So I didn't change any of the other dosing. But that point I might have added in some injectable debaub or something for the last, you know, six weeks, something like that. Something that you might just happen to have lying around in your box that you found? No, back in those days. No, those days. Those days are the reason I have things left after that today. It's got cycle design. What's there? Scott's 60? Never would've guessed. Yes. There's people who still think that, okay, yeah, I'm just, yeah, some 60 guys. No. Hi. Hi, my name is Nick. Hi, my name is Nick. Hi, my name is Nick. In 18 months blasting crews, my CRP is very high. What can I do to lower it? I'm currently on 550 test and 350 EQ. Oh, that shit blast is not particularly aggressive. So I would be, but for 18 months, he said blasting crews for 18 months. So what's your cruise dose period? How long have you been on your blast? But I suspect the CRP might be coming from something else like infection. I wonder what kind of gear he's using is this super soft and that could be a problem with the mission records up. Now, it could also, it depends is what's your definition of super high CRP. I mean, an infection is going to put CRP. Could easily put CRP into the 20s. Oh, that's true. He said my CRP is very high. It's 13. It's high. I wouldn't say it's very high. That could potentially indicate infection or inflammation depending on them. That's the sound things like, hey, fever can spike CRP as well. Are there any symptoms of illness? Is there any allergy symptoms? Is there anything else that could explain the CRP? Or is it most definitely going to be gear? I wonder, I do think there are more products out there now with super soft. It's a guy in message me yesterday who was like, hey, what would you suggest they do to cut my test for 100 because it's causing a lot of pain? And if you have test for 100, there's no question you've got some very cost-exolvency in there. And just running that gear alone, you could see elevated inflammation levels. But he's actual push yourself doesn't seem to be. Yeah. Someone wants to talk about movies. I'm down with that. Let's talk about movies. Perfect. That was the perfect pairs from the last week. Guys, I got to take a break to do the whole lecture, subscribe thing. But I also want to say thank you to you. The internet's kind of a weird place, at case you didn't know. And I'm glad that we've put the community together that we have. I'm grateful to read your comments. In fact, I know a lot of YouTubers that don't read comments. I read all of them and I try to get back to everybody. So if you comment, I will see it and I'll try to get back to you. Also, the like button is absolutely free of charge. You don't have to pay anything to hit it. And it does help us out a ton. It's not going to like push us into your algorithm, but it will help other people to hopefully find the show. So if you like our stuff, please try to help us out. Question for a day. Is there a problem with having too much free testosterone? If you run test high, three grams with the high-free test mean that you're having spill over from your testosterone. SHBG is crashed. Astridol is in range with Primo as an AI. 3 grams of test on your running Primo as an AI. How is fucking Primo, you run? Oh, free gram total test on Primo. It says, if you run test high, three grams. Now understand too, there's no punctuation here. It's just if you run test high, three grams does the free test around. No, the free test I said I wouldn't be concerned about, but I would be, I mean, I'm assuming if you're running free grams of test, your Primo is going to be, yeah, your Primo, I mean, I've done free gram of test. It's definitely impacting. I would say, think that your Primo is going to be 1.5 to. There is a point where the estrogen, so the estrogen conversion of the test isn't linear. So as the test goes up, the estrogen conversion starts to, you know, ease the curve. It's so much a rummetic enzyme in the body, right? Yeah, there's only so much you can produce. Irrespective of how much of a fat fuck you are. So I would suspect that whereas if you were running 500 of test, you'd probably need 500 of free motor managed that if you were in free gram of test, you're not going to need 3 gram of pre-mode, you're probably going to be a gram of 1.5, maybe 2, but I still are fucking big cycle. Yeah. Um, so, but yeah, no, I wouldn't say there's an upper limit to free test at the end of the day, but you are going to produce more engine receptors as a result of you to lies what's going on. But it's the downstream stresses that start to become limiting. It's not that I have an inner faith eye to engage with the test. It's the amount of stress you're creating downstream that becomes limit factor. Normally I'd say I could hold it, but I got a piece so bad. I got a taken break, Dave. I got to go. I got to go, man. Oh, well, do you want me to, people were asking about what I'm doing with the car. So I'm not, why don't I give you another question, because I want to save that. Or the end, or, you know, as we get, as we finish up the questions, I'll ask you this one, and I'll be back in a minute. Question for Dave, okay. I said that he used to drive 20 IU of GH. How was his experience with fat loss? Um, did he do any kind of potassium consumption, etc. Did he get leaner? He was that he was full of water is clear. There is a rumor that if you take so much GH that you can't get fat. GH, so when I took high doses of GH, yes. Right. So the time, the time staff is 42 minutes and 18 seconds run. I got to go. I got to go. Um, no. What retention was definitely a problem, but the time I was running particularly high levels of GH, I was also starting to creep into the kidney issues. So it was a very mixed bag of what my body was doing and water retention was a continual issue. Um, I was leaner, however, than I thought. Now, when I went into hospital with my kidney failure, I was 415 when I came out a week later, having been on IV diuretics. And I was 355 with some visible apps, not fully out, but you could definitely see whether it was supposed to be and what was going on. Now for a period of time, prior to that, I had been trying to reduce what I thought was excessive body fat. Um, did the GH play a factor in that condition? I presented when I dropped the water. It may well have done, I don't know for certain. Um, but I had a combination of obviously high GH high insulin, which is going to drive a shitload of glycogen and water into the cell that was definitely spillover. But I was also dealing with renal issues. So at that point we'd have been 3.3B, so we were in the EGFR's of 40 each. So I had a growing amount of water retention from that as well. But all I can tell you is that when I came out of hospital at 355, I was significantly mean it on a thought I was and I had a visible sort of up definition coming through. So was the GH effect right now? Could have very well been. All right. I didn't want to miss the pro-terger talk. That was the other thing. So I went, okay. That was actually incredibly quick for a piss. I'm quite impressed. Oh yeah, yeah, I just went in the corner and just didn't even leave my office. You know, ball. Yeah. And then just ran the floor. It's fine. Yeah. Oh my god, I had to go so bad. I chugged a bunch of water. I drink one of these bottles before the show. And I was like, I really have to pee right now. We'll just record. I'll be fine. That's a decent wall ball size. What's up with you? That's a good water bottle. This one is, uh, someone's 32 ounces or 40 ounces? Most silently, metric, yo man, speak to you. I think it's a, I think it's a leader. Major little point two. Two point two. It's a good. All right. So we have a guy who has one three out of three of his classes in masters. Well, he's going into the fourth now. And he says he's doing something different. He's got no coach. He's doing this on his own. He says he's already qualified for national. So this show is for fun and experience and experiments. Okay. Then 2026, he's going to do a national show. He says, love you guys and all the knowledge. So here's the experiment. At three times a week, he's going to do 225, excuse me, 0.75 test, 225 a week, 0.75 mass, 225 a week, 0.5 pre-mo, 150 per week, trend ace, 30 times a week. 3.3 milligrams. And that's going to be 100 milligrams per week for a total of 700 milligrams. Poll, everything a week out and add wind stroll. Is this a good plan, guys? I wish he told us what is original thing was. Like what was he doing before? What have you really massed? Does it? Because this is just pure experimentation. So, but it would help us to understand. You know what I mean? What if he says that like, oh, before I just was running T RT? That's not the I'm sure he wasn't, but you know what I mean? It's like, then it does seem do seem sensible in the sense of total milligrams. And the split, the drug choices, I don't have any issue with it from a point of view of comp prep. So yeah, I don't see anything there. Now this used to be a big difference between the UK and the States was the UK. Going back some time, we used to always pull our injectables 10 days out and just running on all our own way. And as a result, we tended to come in drier and harder, but not as full. Well, Americans used to always run their injectables right up to the show and they tended to come in fuller, but maybe not quite as granite the hard as the UK counterpart. So I think he'll probably find that he's as long as he's lean, that he might look drier and harder, but he may see some change in fullness from that. Over the night, I don't really see an issue with it to be honest. I mean, I tend to pull injectables out of stronger or at least lower them a week out. So they come in fresher and less drained. My main thing is to work very, very well. Sorry. Yeah, go on. Sorry. I thought you're a finished. I was just going to say that my main concern is getting lumps on stage with injectables close to the show. So two straight-to-date ones. It's usually the last time I would take a shot anyway. And sometimes we might even pull the test out. I don't usually go. It's funny because I don't know. I don't know if I'm alone in this now. I thought that a lot of people did this. But Andrew said on Blood Sweat and Gear the other day, who was like, well, traditionally most coaches, skip and I will both go to probe, like fast acting test at the end. I generally keep it at long acting test and never have a problem with that. As long as you're managing estrogen the way you want. But, you know, my thought is that it's most of this gear is still going to be in its system. Yeah. You know, so it's not going to make a difference. You know, guys who travel to shows and they're coming in several days early all-time, like, you know, really don't just take your last shot before you leave. And then the orals are more important. Managing orals when you're doing four shows, that gets interesting. You know what I'm saying? So I definitely, I have no problem with anything he's doing here. No, I think people forget. I think I see people last this a lot. The, you know, stop the injectables. Yeah, but I'm going to have enough of it in the system. It's not leaving that far. Even even as a prop, it's not leaving that fast. You've still got this so much. It's two hours, you know, it's, it's not going to get out your system that quick. So, you know, when you, when you are dropping injectables, don't think a week later there's going to be nothing there. They're still going to be a hell of a lot of gear circulating. Oh, yeah. I might have people not take tests because we already have all that tests. So like maybe we cut the test out Sunday before the show. And then still run, um, masked and trend. I always go with trend ace. So if I can get that a little closer to the show, it's a good idea. I did have day one time and I may have told you the story before. I ran out of trend like Sunday. I ran out of trend. And I just needed to take that additional shot on Tuesday or Wednesday or whatever. And thankfully I had a body at the gym who told me, oh man, I have some really good trying to make it myself. It's real smooth. I'll bring you some guess what do I took that shot and my glue freaking swelled up like a tennis ball was on it. See it on the stage. Obviously, I don't judge anywhere near as much as I used to. So I don't see how much as I did but used to see it on the stage all the time. We had limping shoulders to fly that. Yeah. Yeah. Judges don't look too kindly on those things. You know? It's got no angry. Love all the shows. Sorry. Produce a question about any of the shows. Acne scars and what to do about them. I thought he had something to do about getting on stage. But I guess not. Question for any of the shows about acne scars and what to do to help them. Oh yeah. And not affect your look on stage. So if he's talking about discoloration, you know, like it recent acne and now there's like a red spot, generally the tan is going to cover a lot of that up. You know, your skin is going to look more even with any discolourations. Would laser help? Yeah. Yeah. I had a pale still for the things like that potentially. I don't know enough about skin care to really know what you could do for acne scarring, but I would have thought some is because met a dermatial type stuff. My my help. I was very prone to acne as a kid and it wasn't until I ran my second course of the acutane as an adult that I actually got my skin to clear up. And I did do a high end laser treatment. It was my friend. It was VJ. My friend partner in in crime VJ. His wife does that stuff and she worked at a place where she had this like real fancy machine and they went in 10 years ago. And I think there was some change some improvement. What do they do? Look into derma rolling. That could be something we're looking into. They're like it's like these little tiny micro needles on a roller Dave. And you basically just basically breaks up the surface of the skin, calling for new collagen and it puts on scar tissue over time. It's a long-term process but you know I'm confident with where I'm at at this point. But those are options. But yeah as far as the discoloration of like newer acne scarring a lot of that is going to get covered up with the tan. Why do AAS negatively impact lipids in cholesterol? More lipids slash cholesterol. So from a five year of increasing LDL we use cholesterol as a raw material to produce hormones. We're not producing hormones anymore so we're not using it so we end up with an excess. HGL adulteration is more significant in drugs that lower each of your skin. So AAS with the exception of a rumours and drugs like Master Primo have a significant impact on HGL because they lower estrogen and liver and liver is key management system in support in our management out cholesterol levels. So there you go. That's especially get out me today. It like basically there's an enzyme that catabalizes and breaks down HDL. Right? Something like that. Yeah, it's a lot of these around estrogen levels as well. So as we lower estrogen that has a more significant impact on the HDL management as well. So there's a couple of processes going on. Okay we've got a guy who wants to do his first cycle. He's on TRT at 200 a week. I think that's what you're saying. Ben and TRT 200 milligrams a week for 15 weeks and planning to ramp up to 500 milligrams of test increasing by 100 milligrams each week. I'd like to add Master Rounds starting at 200 milligrams up to 400 milligrams and possibly and of our for the last six weeks. I also have Proviron but unsure if I should include it. Proviron you will need to amassed for this simple reason. He's not going to do a rise mild AI but the lowering of HBG is going to be significant anyway. However that's a total dose in a 900 a week which I think is excessive for a first cycle. I would keep total antibiotics to 500 at the max not including all rules. I had a little bit of an oral on top. I don't see any real benefit to the progressive. Yeah, that's a lot of a part of. Apart from maybe a reduction in total, all metabolic exposure over the period of time. I'd be dependent on how long he's planning on running for. I would even go to 300 tests to 200 master or just go all test. Personal. Yeah. Yeah, I think that people think they're going to take that test and all of a sudden, whoa, I'm feeling good. I'll try a little bit more and see how I feel on that. You know, but it's a process of you take that more. You take 100 milligrams more and it's like you're not going to really actualize that for a few couple weeks of repeatedly doing it, you know. Yeah, and I think, you know, if you're a nature, more is better. It's a base sort of thing we seem to harvest humans, is more is better, more is better. And it's not always the case. And as doses get higher, you'll find that the increase, the increase required in doses significant change in effects is much greater. The difference in effects between one gram and two gram total is not the same as the difference in effects between two gram and one gram total. Even though you've got a gram each time, you'll see a smaller change in effects from two to three than you will from one to two. And that gets progressively worse as the dose gets higher. So the change from three to four is significantly less from two to three and again from one to two. And so on and so forth. Oh, I like to this time. Now, Dave, you missed out on it. And being in the UK, you didn't have the experience come. You would have, I'm sure you would have if you lived in the US in the 80s and 90s going down to Tijuana to get your supplies. But this guy says, if you're desperate for real gear, just go to Mexico. Mexican and pharmaceuticals come from legit labs and they love American money just saying, I used to personally know the largest supplier to the states. She supplied the chargers, the raiders, 49ers, cowboys and the Rams. She also supplied WWF, WCW, Ohio and a host of other areas. The state of Ohio. She was the sponsor for gear for Ohio. She got busted because of two girls I knew that got caught walking across the border. She was extradited for to San Diego for six months. During her time in the clinic, those athletes suddenly got noticeably smaller and softer. There were still pharmacies willing to sell real stuff even without prescription. Or there are doctors down there that are willing to give prescriptions for whatever you need. Generally down there, the pharmacist will tell you, you tell them that you have an issue and they'll prescribe whatever you need. At least that's the way it was. And I guess it's not that way anymore though, Dave. I guess there's a lot of fakes in Mexico. You what? I have no idea. It's completely inappropriate. I spoke about going down to Mexico in the early days to buy stuff. There's a lot of fakes now in Mexico and there are underground labs that are on the shelves and some of them are fake underground labs. So it's especially at the border towns. And if you get away from that, you can get real testosterone, real provider on. But not a lot. It's not like it used to be. I knew people too who used to do that. I had a friend former training partner, Dave, and he told me stories of going down there and loading up on the injectable debol. He actually showed me a vial. It was like a long skinny vial. And it was water based mixed in B12. I forget the name of it. Yeah, I remember there are long 10 mills and 20 mills that were like really stupidly long skinny things that were weird. Yeah. Yeah, I suppose it's very similar to Turkey, it was for the UK. You used to be able to go to the Turkey, go to the pharmacist, they had catalogs on the on the cowards and you could just go through and pick what you wanted. Yeah. And some still do that, but then again, there is much more fakes of creeping into Turkey. I actually know someone who went to Turkey for some surgery. And the hospital prescribed them growth. Oh, okay. Yeah. And the growth is fake. Oh, you're kidding. You're kidding me. Because he message me and it was it was Lily. And I know Andrew does the investigations for Lily and he message me. He's got this Lily, but all the reference numbers all of serial numbers are the same. Oh, I said send me some pictures. I said send him to Andrew. I said, look, this guy legit, through a script, through a pharmacist and he's concerning a single a bit. And Andrew looks into him and no, that's all fake. We've flipped that. We haven't produced that. Wow. So yeah, it's much more of a problem there as well. So it seems like it's a very similar scenario. So I recently heard about Turkey. Now this is nothing I've done any research on. This is her second hand that a friend of mine has a client that was in Turkey for some other business thing. And she said, hey, you know, while I'm here, you know, should I pick up my my prescription estrogen and anything else? You know, because I can get it at the pharmacy. So then it turns out she tried in there was no place that would give it to her without a prescription. And I guess once again, guys, I'm not trying to spread rumors here, but then having regulations against trans that they don't want to be responsible for facilitating that type of thing. So that because of that, there has been crackdowns on the purchasing of hormones in Turkey. Great. Well, thank you. But no, you guys tell us, you know, but that's what I heard. I haven't spoke to anyone that's been over there for the source in for a while, but I do know that fakes are definitely much more prevalent than they used to be. Okay. So yeah, wouldn't surprise me. Alright, we had some other questions too. We can't get to all of them, guys. I wish we could leave them again, though, if we didn't get to your question, we'd be happy to tack along. We had a bunch of questions like this. Dave, what size protractor are you trying to get? And what platform are you running it on? Fellow gear head here? So what the plan is as each stands? So I have a Dodge Ram 5.7, hammy 2013 and I have replacing turn also. It's forge pistons, for the rods, everything else, a up he stood were forge crank, then I've added a come, which is heavy on the exhaust side. So it's more compatible with supercharging. I've added a 6.4 intake manifold, 6.4 throttle body and 6.4 calder intake and it's been tuned by FRP. And he's a hammy guy, if anyone knows it, he's an American, so it's a remote tune. It's got long head is, went enough to market custom system going back from there. Just a truck, you're telling us, there's a truck. Right, so that's what that's what the part I understood so far. There's two truck projects, so this is the first project. Okay. I'm going to be adding a upgraded fuel system from MMX and then I'm going to go with a stage two project so it will probably be, I'll get the code wrong as somebody will pull me, but I think it's a D1SC. So it's slightly above their standard project. Okay. We're going to call a balancer, etc, etc. That should give me in the region of around 650 rear wheel horse power. What do you need that for? Because it's fun. Hi, I'm going to do a transmission rebuild. In fact, the fucker was supposed to run you back in the accident, I'm just reminded me. So it's going to get a transmission rebuild, but the stock is got a 78 HP unit, so the stock transmission should handle the power as long as I'm not a decade with it and I don't enter me now. A lot of people said, why didn't I go with or want to go roots, why have I gone pro? Couple of reasons. Don't want those of high end to low end talk because it's not going to hook anyway. It's a big up, there's no way over the actual, so there's no reason for it. So it's more what I'm going to end up doing with it more likely than not is. I'll speak American, freeway cruising. Okay. When little people in their M3s and M5s think that they've got power, were they going to suddenly realize they're going to be embarrassed by a 12 year old pick-up truck, as it just did shoot soft and destroys them. So that's the base, it plus because it's my daily, a pro charge, it gives me much better fuel economy at normal driving. Okay. Guys, I gotta tell you, I've been in the car with Dave driving. I'm not going to say terrifying, but I'm looking for a little bit less than terrifying. That man who's T-shirt you're wearing, Alex? Yeah. Oh no, he's terrifying. He's terrifying. You guys, so the other thing is too that when you're in the UK and you're on the freeway, their fast lane is our slowly. So they cut over to the right and then just brick and hall. And it's kind of terrifying because I'm used to that being the lane, you want to be most careful on because I'm used to traffic coming in that side. Yeah. So it's very, it's very interesting. I did consider pushing things further, but I don't know how much power I can shove through a stock transfer case and difts. You know what? Well, I don't know if there's an aftermarket transfer case. I'd love to take the truck up to a thousand. Oh, but not real wheel crank, so a thousand at crank. I'd love to take the truck up to a thousand at crank, but it's what I'd need to do transfer case, etc. Difts in order to handle that sort of power. Obviously, a transmission rebuilds an obvious one, but I don't know what I'd need to do down to that power. And then the over project is the Nova. So I've got a 72 pro street Nova. That's cool, car. I like it. Which is a 427 big block. And that's what I thought of the pro charger was going to be going in. I think I know. No, no, no, no. I think I've got something up or something. I want to root charge around that. I'm going to put a, um, the blow around that. Okay. Now the truck is going to be running about 10, 10.1 10.4 compression, whereas the 427 is running 11.4. It's running T SW up here. I've got a few pistons. So 4, pistons. It's got Ohio, Ohio, crank, ARP heads, studs and everything. It's an overhead. It's already been ported. I don't know what the cam is. I need to try and find out what the cam is in that. But I want to put a roots type, blow around that. Okay. I don't even know this stuff you're saying, but I can imagine what it was so that's the thing that sits on top with a big belt. That's what I thought it might have been. The mad max looking thing. Yeah. Yeah. Um, so I want to put an 870 one on that. But the issue I have with that is that's only a two-bought main. And I don't know if it will stand it. I'm sort of of the force that will solid it put it on anyway. And if it tests, if it tests, they're making better than it's now. Then we, we, we, we, we need a new block anyway. So, well, as we'll break that block and get a new one. Um, but I don't know, uh, I'm moving an hour in on that weather. I go that far. And hey, shout out to Derek for helping you with the try to get a pro charger. Derek has been amazing. He has been really, really helpful and shout out to him and his boss. Just two seconds as well because I did want to say that, um, and don't know me do this sort of shit, but he stepped up and offered the support. So it was. So I did want to say that, oh he hasn't mentioned the company works for, but if he does, then I'd love to, uh, I'd love to give big him up because he's been really, really helpful. Do you think that they want to be mentioned on our show? I don't know. That's the point. I never thought that. Yeah. Yeah. So that's that's today. We'll find out because I know the website to his company, but I will find out before you, you know, maybe they're like, well, things a lot, but can you erase that? Because we don't want to be tidy. Yeah. Yeah. That's the case. I'm glad I haven't said the company knows. But yes. So that's that's the basic plan is is a stage two pro charger set with a DS1C. So in a cool, uh, Voverly sponsor. Um, what is the idea? Something here. I want to try to make a nice power. Let me ask you. So what's the, what's the average speed limit on your freeways? Seven to seven to you. You guys are miles per hour too, right? So I'm just trying to get a feel guys to explain to you a little bit. So we can all understand how they drive. So if the speed limit is 70, what's a good average speed limit or speed to do in a 70? I generally drive at 75. Maybe are you being truthful? No, if I'm on the boat, where I'll generally do 75, I do go quicker, but I will generally sit on the cruise control at 75. If it's quiet, I'll push you up to 80. Just depends with the speed cameras are. And what about what about if you need to get around people? Say there are some people doing things. You're like, oh, these guys are going slow and I need to zip. What's a reasonable amount to go in a 70 to get around people? You know, when you have justification to do so. Hey, oldy pens. Uh, I've been known to click 19 a hundred before now. I mean, there's when I run out to the lab, I've been known to to click one for you going there. Because there's no speed cameras or couple on that road very often. That's what when I drove with Alex, they were like, go real fast, real fast, and then all of a sudden slow down. Yeah, go. Yeah, see that box up there. That's a camera. I, if I know I'm on a camera road, I'll generally just sit at 75 because the camera is 10 to give you 10%. Okay. So I'll sit at 75 and that way I don't get a flash. If I'm on a long camera road, yeah, if oldy pens on what I'm doing and what I'm going, I'm quite happy to talk along some days of a day, so I'll give it some shit. I, uh, there was one one point when I was going to school in, in Erbor and there's this long stretch of country road and there was never anybody on it. And it usually was like a 25 minute drive from where I lived to get to an Erbor. And I found it and it was like a 50 mile an hour road. There were times Dave that I was getting to Ann Arbor in like 15 minutes. This is years ago when I was like 22 or something. Oh, I mean, years ago you could get away with a lot more. I ended up getting to take it though 140. I deserved it to. He was shocked. He was like, do you realize he was like a new copy? He realized how fast you were going. I was like, oh, he must have been paying attention. I don't know if you have it over there. We have what they call an average speed cameras. We might. I don't know. So what these are is cameras that are set up with a set distance in between them? Oh, so they take a picture when you pass the first one of the take a picture when you pass the second one and they time difference that to work out your average speed. So they're like, there's no way you could a gotten here if you were. So you can't speed. Where does a stock speed camera all you do is slow down for it and then you can speed back up again if you wish. When an average, you can't do that because it's based on the time difference between the two cameras. So you have to stick to the speed limit throughout. I could see that for sure. Well, we generally have about a 10% leeway. So I usually will sit so 5% over the speed limit. Yeah, we're 70 as well on the freeway. So you can do 75 all day. You really could get away with 80. A lot of people are driving. Nobody is driving 75 or nobody's driving 70. You know what I mean? It's all 75. I mean, I came back from Wales on Sunday and I pretty much not 75 most of the way. Okay. Yeah. But then I had to go to the Labs on the night. I'm very mind-adowned and driven about 500 miles at this point. And so I want that trip to be sure. It's like good. Yeah. So I sat 88. You've got most of the stuff. Your truck is not a lot of people have full size. US made pickup trucks out there. I wonder, so here pickup trucks are not going to stand out. They blend right in because every third, second or third person has one. Is that going to just, does that stand out on the road? They're like you think cops will notice it? Well, I said, we don't tend to see a lot of cops on the roads anymore. I've used it. We have, it's just the cameras. We have these traffic offices who are not police and therefore arrest you. They can record it. They can record evidence and recover their death. The traffic management and accident and stuff like that. Wow. Actually, highway cops which we used to have a fair chunk of. We don't see them very often now. It'd be honest. I mean, I say in that 600 miles I drove on Sunday. I don't think I saw one patrolling police car on the motorways at all. What about local? Like city and stuff. They tend to not bother unless you're one because they're not quick cars in the car catch you anyway. Okay. But they will radio it. Radio in. But yeah, I mean, what you can get over here is now the public can record you and send that in and you can get prosecuted that way. You're kidding me. No, now the car prosecuted the car prosecuted you for speed. Okay. Because it's not a calibrated speed check. So the car, but the car prosecuted you for driving like a dick. Oh, okay. Yeah. So people who use webcams to get people prosecuted for driving my dicks. Wow. That's rotten, man. I need to get somebody else in trouble like that. Keep to yourself. I mean, I don't have an over on the motorway before now. Quite a few times. I don't hope so. That's what is made for, right? But I've only just, you know, they will short blasts and little traffic light runs and stuff because I don't take it out of the strap because it's just a fun car. There's these guys that I saw online that one of them got arrested as name, he called himself speedbends. I think it was. And I might, I might be wrong on that name, something bends. But he was intentionally getting chased by cops, any of it is super car. So these guys will drive very fast cars and get into situations where then they outrun the police and they're like talking about like even outrunning, like you can outrun a helicopter in our Lamborghini if you have freeway, you know, that you can continue driving. And they've recorded all and then upload it. That's how one of them got caught. There's definitely young lads out. Maybe I don't have any some much now when I was growing up. There was definitely a lot's out here that would get a chase off the old bill. So they could test their driving skills and try and get away from it. What's the craziest thing you ever did on the road? Never really done. I've driven it speed, but I've always driven it speed where I felt it was safe enough to do. So I've never been one. There's particularly being one foot swimming in and now. Oh yeah, I played chicken with a mate of mine. Never did anything really, you know, but I did it. No, this is one thing. I played chicken with a mate of mine on the mo away and I pushed him off effectively. Yeah, did I actually touch him? I probably because it was full of fucking gear. Oh, so I'm hoping that during this first of all in my 20s. Okay. Yeah. And I pushed him off to the side of the road and looking for him that happened to be exit ramp. So we just went up there. Okay. Yeah. And that's as a friend. This is a friend. Don't me shit. I've done. Yeah. But generally my driving is not being super stupid. Good. And these days I use the speed when it is sensible to do so. Yeah. Yeah. I did one really dumb thing one time and I had my it was a Nissan little Nissan and it wasn't like a nice car or anything. And this is I was coming back from the gym and over on our fast lane, it was backed up because there was an exit on that side. And so you had to like stop and then go and then stop and then go. And when it was time to go, I tried to leave space and stuff. This guy tried to cut through the line and he had this little convertible car and he pulled right in front of me and pushes his way in. Like to the point right to stop on my break and all that. Dave, I got so mad at him and then he gives me the finger because I honk at him. Right. So I wait and went, you know, we're now we're stop and go and stop and then go and and when it was time to go, I drove around him on the shoulder and then pushed my way back and in front of him. He had so mad. He was like, he pulled out next to me. He was like pull over, pull over. He was like some 50 year old dude. He was like, dude, he was upset. I don't, I, I like, I would hit hit. Like it was one of, I guess kind of chicken because I was like, I'm going to hit him if he doesn't move. You had to let me in. Yeah, there was, um, time to go. There was one, um, it was raining. I was in the fast lane. There was a car in front of me. So it wasn't like I could go much faster. Yeah. All right. I wasn't right up the cars. I also was giving him plenty of room. I was giving him plenty of room because it was pissing down my rain. Yeah. And these cars all came up the back of me and started riding my bumper. I just take no one. It was like, I can't go anywhere. It's the way you're going to go. So you undertook me. So he pulled it, took me on the wrong side. Oh yeah. Yeah. And then started hurling abuse. Okay. So so he got it back. So he's signaled to come off the motorway and I was like, yeah, you're fucking right. So I followed him off and he pulled up on the label. And on these guys got a young kid in the car with him as well. This is the bit that I thought was just ridiculous. So I pulled off and he gets out being the big one. So I got out. So he got back in his car. And you're big guy and tried to get me to follow him is like, yeah, right, dumbfuck. So he drove off and I just got back on the motorway and went on the way. But, uh, yeah, I, I, I don't, I don't. Shall we suffer as a roadway? She's terrible for it. Well, and for me, I doesn't bother me. He's like, you want to be a dick, be a dick. I, I just like, you be a dick, you know what I mean? It's pointless. I let it go nowadays too, man. There's, I just tried to, yeah, there's no sense, dude. And plus here you will, you could get shot. You don't know what to say on this. Well, yeah, I mean, to be honest, it may be not a shot, but getting attacked is definitely something that I'm more conscious of these days, because little ticks carry knives and then they, they, he's not that they're brave enough to use them. They're just super enough to use. They might. Yeah. Yeah. Um, but yeah, I mean, the other thing is it's just like, okay, I mean, yep, you end up, and this, this is sort of makes a little bit of life a vice for today, actually. All right. You end up creating more stress and negativity for yourself. Yeah. By getting wound up by this situation, then you do for the person that's causing it. And if you just let them go, let them run and rave and fucking have that anger day and just, yeah, what a fuck off, I'm interested. Yep. And then it doesn't cause you any harm. Does it? Yeah, dude. Either way, you're going to, yeah, I'm 100% with you. I try to do the same thing nowadays and not get involved in all that stuff, because yeah, I mean, it's the, okay. I mean, it's going to be nice having a trope with that soda power that if somebody in a semi quick, uh, thinks they're clever, you can just go, oh, so you're going to be able to be faster than most of those cars on the street than just what you're telling me. So I, it's a box on wheels and so that's a not way, but I will have 650 horsepower going to the road. And what do you, well, like, what do you currently have now? 300, uh, a bit. Okay. So literally more. No, no, even that actually needs 400 of cranker and later that's a stock 5.739545 of the cranker. So what you're going to remember, I don't know, I, yeah, the power coming out of the engine is significantly reduced, but a time it gets to the wheel. Okay. The more mechanical you links you having that, the more power you lose because my trucks for wheel drive, it goes through a transmission, then it goes through a transfer of case, I lose more power. Yeah. So a 720 McLaren, it's a 720 McLaren, because it has 720 and 20 horsepower at the crank and puts somewhere between 650 and 680 on the road. Okay. So I will have the equivalent power on the road has a 720 McLaren, which is super car. Yeah. Yeah. In granite you're selling the light, little supercar, but but can you imagine a man that's spent an excessive 150,000 pound on his supercar to have an old American truck keep up with him. That is going to be funny. Yeah. What have you got? You need to get those dash cams is what you need so you can record this stuff. 3D, what do they do? They have the 360 cams that float behind your car. You need one of those. But yeah, so a silly things like that will amuse me. I appreciate that. Guys, we appreciate your tuning in. Thanks for hanging with us. And of course, go to evelbladinalesis.com, get your labs done by Dave. Go to supplementsourced.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week the week. Strong sports dot com that strong sports nutrition. There's a little comment section there when you place your order. You can tell them that Dave and Scott say hello. We're just giving some crap. Tell them what should they say to Richard? I don't know. Something something me. Something awful. Something get on his feet. He's just telling the MMAs just to excuse to sniff of a man's crutches. There you go. That sounds good. It's just, you know, you can't argue with you, you're his customer. The customers always write. Also go to truetutrition.com. You're going to go over there. And we appreciate tuning in and leave us questions for the next show. If you haven't subscribed yet, guys, what are you doing with your life? Hit the subscribe button, hit the bell. For another episode of the podcast with Dave Crossland, we will see you soon. Thanks, guys. And thanks, Dave. And don't forget to contribute to the supercharge of funds because the cart forward it. So I need to save up so any help or poor money, you know, need speed.

What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with coaches. Skip Hill, Andrew Barry and myself, Scott McNaley. All of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys for joining us. Thank you for all your support. If you're new to our content, let me encourage you to subscribe and hit the bell guys. We have several bodybuilding podcasts that come out each week today. We're talking with Skip and Andrew. The three of us have been coaching for a long time. We're going to try to show help share our education with you. We've also got a bunch of other stuff. And we're brought to you by treenutrition.com. Use our code, think over there, and supplement source.ca for our Canadians. Let's jump straight into some late training. We didn't talk training on the last episode. So this is from James. He's over at Patreon. We try to give part priority to Patreon people. He says, when it comes to conventional squats, is it more beneficial to go parallel compared to the old asked to grasp depth? I've noticed when I've moved past parallel, I end up getting really sore, like injury kind of sore in my right hip flexor for the next several days. But when I go parallel, I don't experience this at all. Also, oh, and then he had a question for Dave. So that was something else. What an Andrew? I mean, I guess I go back and forth on this because I think it just depends on the person's anatomy. Right? Since if you're a really tall person, it's probably not a great idea to go ask to grasp. If you're a really really tall person, like a basketball player, you're probably not doing back squats. You're going to be doing front squats because you're femur length. So that plays a role in do it as well. There's so many factors. And then we're talking about the hip pain. Okay. Is that something that you need to be working mobility-wise or is it just directly related to going as low as you're going? So what's the last thing most bodybuilders want to do is mobility work, at least when you're young. When you're in your 20s to 30s, that's a foreign word. Like you don't even understand what that means. You have no idea what warmups mean or mobility or pre-hab or any of that stuff. You get the 30, 32 that you start to perk up and start paying attention and doing all these little like different exercises, stretches, warmups. You get the 36, 37, 38. That's a good 20 minutes before you even start lifting away. And then you start going to the Swiss, right? It's good. Exactly. And the kids understand why the thermographic is happening. It's a good thing. I'm listening to Andrew. That's exactly what I'm thinking. Yeah. Are there were there any 22 to 25 roles in that audience? No, we're. But it was a limited, and it was a concern of theirs. And they were trying to reach a younger demographic. And I get it. I understand that the people who are in tune with that type and that quality of information are people who have dealt with injuries or they seem coming down the pike and they're trying to be preventative or they're trying to fix injuries that they've already had so that they don't have them again. So it's an experienced audience. Let's put it down. We'll put another way, too. If you're a 20 to 25 year old guy and you don't have a ton of injuries yet, but you also don't have a ton of money to spend on education for that kind of stuff. It's either like, hey, I could buy my next cycle for the next, you know, for months, or I could spend that same amount of money to go to somewhere where it's a valuable information. It doesn't necessarily apply to me yet. Like if you asked me when I was 22 to 25, I ain't going to, you know, I'm not going to Swiss. I'm not paying 4, 500 bucks for a ticket. Even though it's going to be valuable information for me in the future, there's just a lot more things, other things that I have to spend that money on. Yeah. And it definitely will put you if you are in that younger demographic going to Swiss would put you ahead of the game. It's your and team. It's just I agree with with what you're saying in the Wander. It's just not something that had an priority list gets pushed to the top. It's like, oh, go next year. Well, if you wait long enough, they may not continue to do it, so it not do it as frequently. So there's that. You know, the hip pain that got me, I was almost waiting for it because ultimately depth comes in. I agree with everything and you're said, ultimately depth in the squat comes down to like he's like you said, flexibility mobility. It's that pelvic tilt that you have to watch out for as soon as the hips start to tuck under and they basically pose the turn posterior. You're in when you're young, you can get away with it because you know, your SI and everything else is kind of rubbery. It's a little wider. Yeah, exactly better. Much better word. I like rubbery though. It's anyway. Probably a little more reliable. Um, if you're going to get away with a lot of things that you're not going to get away with 10 years later, 15 years later. So I say go to the depth that you can get before your hips start to turn under. And that's not just for squatting. That's for leg pressing. That's for, um, it's a reason not to do vertical leg process because of any leg press or leg compound leg exercise that you could do. That one is usually going to provide the most vulnerable because, you better use a short range of motion on that. In fact, I'd go as far as say just use it for calves because it's great for calves and a huge vulnerability for any type of quad training. But that's, um, and mobility because if you do have tight hamstrings or, you know, you have tight hip flexors, piriformis, whatever. It could just be that you need to be more flexible and then you can get more depth. But I don't think anybody's losing. And if you ask me this 20 years ago, I would have had a different answer. I don't think anybody is losing leg size going to parallel versus dropping below. I really don't. I think that one of the biggest mistakes made was squatting these days is that it's more of a power lifting. Um, or people who do more power lifting squats where they're, they're more, better, better, better not as upright and what that does is I think it's one of the main reasons it glutes an ad-after development has gone out of control in my opinion. The quads are arguably, you know, they could be better. But when you factor in the ad-haters and the glutes and how much bigger the ad-haters and glutes are, I don't think the legs are that much more impressive. It's kind of like this. Like saying, would you want to add eight inches to your chest back measurement, but add six to your waist? I don't want to keep my glutes in my hips as small as possible. And building my legs is big as they can get. And I don't think squatting is, and I know that I'm kind of going off on a tangent here. So I'll try to keep it from doing that. But I think that the squatting is overrated for bodybuilders as far as high-perjury fees concern. I said it. I stand by it and that's what I have. Now there are some people who can squat and they'll get great light development from it. But I think it's kind of more the exception to the rule and that those people are more outliers or they accept you rule. Power? Sprint? Great. What do you pick? What do you guys pick for, say, like you're looking for overall quad development? What's your go to? I want more quad down in an exercise for pressing. And if you get into a Smith machine, you can play with your foot placement so much more. That's it. I was going to say things like that. There's just more control over the angles in the foot hip position than when you're free. You know, free weight? No, not about squatting. Also this because I mean, you guys have both commented on Nate's Spears leg development and how he's really brought him up over the last couple years. You know, we still go very heavy. But the weight is not the important factor. I mean, we're still trying to be progressive with the weight, but feeling it in the quads on our quad day. That is the important factor. You know, so like, you know, with the hacksquads, you know, we're putting our feet in the position where we're going to get our knees over our toes enough that it's putting the tension on the quads. We're not using the glutes. We're not using hamstrings to lower back to help. Same thing with, you know, even something as simple as the lunge, you know, making sure you're biasing those towards your quadriceps versus your glutes and hamstrings. You know, because you can lean forward a little bit and you can get a little more ham glue development or activation, or you can keep your chest upright and then purposely push your knee over your toe as you're taking those steps to get that quadric activated more. So yeah, I think like you said skip, it's, you know, picking exercises, but then doing them in a way that's going to bias them towards the quads. That's, that's the most thing. It doesn't, I don't think the exercise selection necessarily matters. It's making sure your bias in him towards the quads. Yeah. All right. What else do we have here? Well, this one won from the live stream. He says, you ever get tired or disappointed working with competitors. I find that when you have someone grateful willing to learn hardworking and respectful, it's such a rewarding journey. But unfortunately, I often see people with egos, especially when they're not, especially when they're not first time competitors, that you end up wanting to, they want to argue everything and tell them, you know, basically the things should be done differently. This is a touch you in for me. Yeah. It is because I don't want to send the message that I don't like working with competitors because I do, but I'm going to be completely honest. I pulled back from it in 2012 because it was getting to the point where I felt like it was the pain of my existence. I didn't like the type of person that I was dealing with more often than that. And what I did come to realize is this, I don't, it may happen more with competitors, but it's based more on that person's personality, personality and and almost character traits, like as an example. If they're trying to be careful here because I don't, you know, I want to be respectful, but I want to be honest. If a person comes to me and has or thinks that they have all of this knowledge and they want to impress me with their knowledge, it is not going to work. I know because I've been doing what I do so long that they are going to battle me. They're going to challenge me and everything. And here's the catch. I don't mind. I have no, my current clients and anybody who's working with me, well, not anybody. There are going to be some who need disagree because they fall into the category of the target mouth, but not a ton of them, but still. If, if you respect the knowledge of your trait, and this is how I look at it, if you're going to pay me and you know my reputation, you know who I am. I naturally assume that you respect my knowledge and my experience or you wouldn't be coming to me. If you have all the answers, then just prep yourself. Or at least tell me in the beginning, I just want to second set of eyes. I want to balance ideas off of you. And I want to kind of, you know, I want to be a big part of the decision making process. I might be willing to do that if the client is willing to accept that if they don't come out where they want to be. I didn't have total control over the entire plan and making the decisions myself. They can definitely get like, sorry, I was going to tell you. I just, I've been in that position and it's, it's a tough one. I had a big one, a big, higher profile pro who I made a mistake and I compromised on an approach. And then was in my opinion, scapegoated and ended up not, you know, ended up losing that client. And it really left a bad taste in my mouth. And in part, it was my fault, but there was confusion on what needed to be done, what was being done, whether the plan was being executed or whether it was being changed and it was found out later that was changed. And so, and I think we've all had those situations. They're not common. But when you do it long enough, those things do leave a little bit of a bad taste in your mouth. And I, it just speaking for myself, it's like, I think it's more of a personality trait than it is a competitor. Though competitors are more OCD, they're more black and white. They are, they sometimes aren't terribly compromising yet the good ones. The ones who are soldiers and they execute, almost always are better and go further in progress. And I'll leave it at that. I just sent you a message, Scott of a story that I put up the other day because literally everything that Skip is saying was going through my head on that day. Just check in after checking with competitors was just making me face palm over and over again. And you sent it on Instagram or? No, I texted it to you. Okay, I'm waiting for it to come through then my computer's almost a little sometimes. I thought your phone was upstairs. I might make it a little skip. Oh, I said, no, it says it's that. Yeah, it's anyway. Yeah. Might be on my phone. Yeah, that's scary. I like that. So, I'll just point to execute. Just because you use the word that I've always used and I think we've agreed it when we both spit it out together on the phone one day skip soldiers, right? You know, you're hired us for a reason where the general or commanding officer. And unless we have this arrangement where it's a second set of eyes, right? Now, I have that relationship with several clients because we've been together long enough. Yeah. Can practically come to the same conclusion or the person knows that I respect them enough to listen to what they're saying as I slightly different approach. Okay. My, I just made a post and it said, the longer I do this, the more I realize that when working with the coach, I was a dream client. I literally followed the plan. I didn't ask ridiculous questions regarding unrelated variables that I mentioned. I just followed the plan. Okay. Now, and I got to say that us and podcasts like us and educators out there, we are partly to blame for this because we impart this information that people didn't have. Ten, 15 years old. Oh, dude. It's terrible nowadays. How much there is. It's so much. So much information. And to skip to point about, you know, I think bringing up variables or trying something different. We set you on a plan. It's not that we don't know those variables that you're talking about. It's just that we don't think that they are something that we need to address right now, right? It's we set this plan in motion. And again, we always say coaching is basically reacting, right? We started a plan. We want to see how it's going. And we will make those changes. Like, we're competent enough people to do that because we've replicated it with thousands of athletes on stage over the years coming in and shape winning pro cards, winning classes, etc. So, I mean, I could really go down attention on this because sometimes when I start thinking about it, it just, you know, it's quite like just fall in line, just do what I'm asking please, you know. But so I do think, you know, like I said, we're part of the problem there in a sense with educating people with with some of these answers, but then people get a glimpse of what we're talking about and don't necessarily know how to apply it properly. But I do want to finish with because skip had a, had a poor situation with a top level client who kind of threw them under the bus for, for pulling some autobiles, right? I've had a client where we had a great season last year. We brought him into his best shape. He looked ridiculous. He won his class at the cutler. He wouldn't mind me saying his name. It's Jeffrey Sue. He did a great job. Okay. And he came in a shape. But then he wanted to go into Eastern's and he wanted to try some different approaches on his own. And just kind of, you know, throwing the ideas at me, I really kind of stop commenting because I just like, hey, you're doing this one on your own. I don't want to mess this up for you. Yeah. And it did not work as well. He didn't look as good. But he was the first to say that he pulled these autobiles. He didn't try to throw me under the bus and say, I, you know, I did something wrong. He took full any, send me a great message afterwards. And, and we're working together still, you know. And so, and he's a good coach himself too. So he wanted to try something that didn't work out. But he didn't throw me under the bus by saying that I set him up on this plan. And I respected that just as much as I was disrespecting the client that did that to you, skip because we know who we're talking about. So there is some good. There is some bad there. But I could go off on tangent for hours on this. Just just be a soldier if you hire us. Just get in line. Thinking about this from both of your stories, I think at times it can get, it can make your job harder. It, my job harder as a coach when somebody starts thinking that like, well, what if we did things differently? Especially if they're not at a level like you, like you said Andrew, you know, you're listening to information online. And you get an idea and you say, oh, well, what about this? You know, it could be hard. I prefer, you know, I'll use an example of a guy that I've worked with for over a year now. He's doing really good at this moment. Like, things have really come together and I've seen him really evolve. When we first started working together, he told me, now, I only use these two compounds for his cycle. He's like that that's just what works for me. And he had a very specific way of doing it. It didn't really make a lot of sense to me. And I didn't think it was really ideal for his goals either. And I just, so I was like, okay, I'm hands off. You know, if somebody wants to do that, I'm like, I'm hands off with that. That's fine. You know, we can still reach your goals. So he wasn't getting on stage. Like we still reach your goals and everything. It's just that's what you're doing with the antibiotics. I'll handle everything else. Good. So I finally kind of, next time he was going to run a cycle. I came around to him and I was like, hey, would you be open to trying something new? And it was, it took some additional explaining, you know, but at the end of the day he trusted me. And what's been really cool is to see his perspective opened now because it worked out really well. And it, but it, I'll tell you, as a coach, it takes a lot more investment of time and energy and patience to kind of go through that and explain things. And the thing I was thinking in your story, you skip. I'm just kind of commenting on all this. It's almost like, if I'm the navigator, then you're the driver. And that, you know, the clients, the driver. That's the way I say it. I'm navigating, you know. And if we start having a conflict, man, it can go south really fast. Like it can be. It can go, it can go. It's a question. I used to compare something that I handed the tools to build your dream home. And if you start smacking yourself in the face with a hammer, that's not my problem. I mean, I'm not telling you to hit your faith yourself in the face. But as far as explaining things, I mean, you know, my clients will say, I have no problem. I expect that trainers will give the wise in the house. Like it's like versus oh, it's a guarded secret. And usually a guarded secret means I don't have the answer. So just do what I told you to do. And I've told clients before, if you're not working with me or working with someone else, if the trainer can't explain to you why they want you to do something, then you ought not to be doing it. Because if they can't, if there's no reason or they can't explain it, then I know I would question it. I wouldn't want to know why. That's not the issue with me. I don't have any problem explaining things. What happens though is over the explanations you start to pick up. Oh, okay. It much like Andrew was saying, there's so much information. This isn't happening 15 years ago, 20 years ago. It's not the explaining. It's not the explaining of why we're doing something that gets to be tiring. It's the explaining of why we're doing this and not this, this, this, this, this, this, this, this. I'm selling you. Yeah, I don't want to sell you. If it's not a salesman, I'm just a cook guy. I'm not going to sell you to work with me, and I'm not going to sell you on my methods. This is what you came to me to do. So, and this is why this will work this way. Skip loading works this way. Now, rarely do I get somebody who comes to me and doesn't know what skip loading is. But when I do, then I have to explain this is why. And I have no problem. No problem with that. So, it's, it's just when it gets down into the, oh man, he's, this client doesn't, doesn't trust the process. This is going to be, this is going to be tough. And it doesn't happen all that often. I'll go through phases where it just like Andrew said. It does get to you and it just, it just becomes this giant eye roll. It's just, just do it. Just do it and watch how it works. And there have been other times where those same people go, okay, I didn't think that would work. It worked. But then it's just continued to challenge you because that's their personality. That is their characteristic of them. They're very, I don't even know that it's controlling. I'm sure some people are, but there's some type A in there for, you know, I ended up, one of my, one of my clients and he's a good guy. I ended up that we, on good terms, part of ways because I said, I, you have the knowledge to be able to do this yourself and make the, the, these decisions and these calls on your own. You have been making a lot of these calls on your own anyway and telling me later what you did. So save the money, save the hassle, let's save the tension and just do it on your own. And that way you can own that success and your progress all on your own. Hey, what's off, guys? I've a lot of people who reach out to man, a regular basis who are trying to more effectively reach their goals. One of the biggest mistakes I see people make is that they're not getting enough protein. And there's only so much chicken breast we can eat through the day, but we can easily add a high quality protein supplement to boost those numbers. Triniatrician has just about every protein powder you can think of from high quality weight isolate. If you don't tolerate lactose, then you can use their beef isolate or you could use their P protein isolate. If you don't eat animal products, they literally have everything you can think of. I believe in them for like a decade before they advertised with us. And they never went out of their way to say like, hey, we want to promote our stuff through you. I literally asked them because it's a company that I believe in and at the end of the day, I want to see you guys reach your goals as effectively as possible. So if you use our code, thank you, Triniatrician, you'll get some savings, you'll help to support our programming, and you'll get some high quality products to more effectively reach your goals faster. Hardest training block you've ever had. It doesn't necessarily even have to be the heaviest or the highest volume or the or the one which you made the most progress. But more along the lines of most mentally exhausting, challenging training that you've ever done. I can that's easy for me. The 100 rep defend us. And he's down here in Del Rey, I didn't know that until about six months ago, but he trains people down here in Del Rey. And I was training there for a while with powerhouse in Del Rey, I was hoping to bump into him because he got owned it to my Anderson. He was good friends with John Defendants and then trained with him for a long time, but he ended up getting close down the powerhouse. It never did officially open, he ran into problems, but that John Defendants training. And apparently the guy is still jacked and huge at like 60. 60. There's 60 in his early 60s. See, like real intense, too. Oh man, like he's under arrest. Oh he's like. Yeah. Yeah. And not only that, but high volume. I mean, it's just insane training. That is easily the most demanding I've ever done and I have and I never went back to. I think I did it for two weeks and I just wanted to die. I would say probably 2018 contest prep where it was just injury after injury, trying to work around it. But then also like I tore a verse, he sat off my hip, I tore my thigh system, a day before the show. Two days before the show. But and it was one of those preps where like I've just probably shouldn't have committed that year, but being headstrong. Like I was on zero carbs and very low fats at like six weeks out, two and a half hours a cardio, eventually two and a half hours a cardio. On top of three, twenty minute walks a day. Like it was a very mentally and physically demanding prep. So yeah. So and you know, if your body's not in a great state, that's what made the training hard. You know, because it wasn't like I did a hundred prep sets or you know, I was following one of John Meadows programs. I believe at the time. I just remember going into the gym every day, legs felt heavy. You know, lifting my arms up to do side lateral raises without any weight already felt like I had twenty minutes. That like that kind of hard, you know, so did you feel if you lost much size relative to other shows when you got that week that year? I don't think so. Okay. Well, okay, my legs were definitely downsized by the end of that prep because the amount of cardio I had to do and I couldn't train them effectively. Like I was on, I think I tore the the burse you like a like at seven weeks out. Me and they were doing leg press just on a warm up set, right? And it had been hurting me more and more every week for about four weeks until finally just pop. And like he had to grab the weight and pull it off me. And then of course, being an idiot, I tried to do squats right after that and I tried to go down once and I almost fell backwards. But but for most of that prep, I was on leg extensions like curls, um, add doctor, a abduction, abduction and then some like three quarter rep hacks squats. Like it even then, it was still excruciating. So yeah, I definitely like I wasn't able to train my legs effectively. So yeah, I had one work or one kind of season where that like I got into shape and then I just decided like keep going keep going and I was like, I don't care if I lose muscle type thing. I came in. It would ballpark would have been about 15 pounds lower than I did the previous year or previous season, which was like 18 months ago. And I, you know, I was absolutely peeled, but I definitely was like absolutely depleted. And I definitely came in smaller. I remember that. I wouldn't even call it like the most intense for me just because it was like I couldn't get any momentum. You know what I mean? It was just like, I remember that was one time that like Shelby actually was like kind and like took away for me and racked it. You know, like he was thinking of me when we were training together. Yeah. But I will say this. I remember when I first started training with him that it was like, I wasn't used to the length of the workouts. We trained like two and a half, three hours. And and there's like a good amount of volume. And it took me a while to build up my, it was just like the conditioning to be able to do a workout for that long. And and then after about six months, I could handle it. And it was VJ and I both started training with him at the same time. And after about six months, I could hang with that and I could do that. But then somebody else would pop in from out of town or something to workout with us. They couldn't hang. They couldn't do it. Like you would just be utterly wrecked. And because I remember that first six months, I was like, utterly wrecked. Like just like unhealthy. Like I felt like it. I did the way I used to explain it was after I trained. I felt like I'd been in a car accident. Like not like anything in particular hurt, but I just felt like my central nervous system was just like screwed up. You know, and you get a walk. Yeah, that was a whole lot of what's. You know what I mean, random things are locking up on you. But then after six months of that, I got used to it. And I think I was better for it. So did we really need to do all that? Yeah, obviously it wasn't the best for me. I didn't like turn pro doing it for Shelby. Yeah, worked for him. Yeah, worked for him really well. You know, he just needed a couple other knuckleheads to be able to push him through to make sure he's doing it. And if you're willing to do that, you know, that's the amount of volume and time I need. But yeah, I fucked those other guys. They might be better off in an hour and ten minute, you know, hit type training program where. But for him, he's like, now I just need another set of eyes there to make sure I'm still going hard. You know, two hours in do it. Well, I kept training with him even beyond the point that I knew it was beneficial for me. Because I loved it was fun. You know, I loved the workouts. I started going to more higher frequency except for back day. I still kept for the longest time. I still kept back one day a week every Wednesday. Yeah. What else do we have here? I know we had a bunch more of did the squat question. How about this one here? We did that T3 question. We did that one. We did this one. Skip. Where's your questions at? I said, I'm not sure. You're not a group text. Sorry. Didn't he realize it until later? Got it. Got it. Got it. Okay. So the next one is, sorry guys. That's what happens when I talk at the end of a topic and then I'm not prepared. We talked about melanocindosing just recently. We've been talking about that a lot lately. What are your thoughts on running pre-mo with my T or T at a one-to-one ratio? I have problems with high rumoursization of estrogen. At just 60 milligrams of test per week, my Astridile was 35. I'm hoping that if I run 100 pre-mo in 100 tests, maybe I can get my test high enough to feel good and maintain muscle, but not have to take an AI. How do they know? I'm trying to figure, is insane you have taken an AI with an estrogen of 35? No, but I think he wants to bring his test up, but he's just assuming that he's all going to have to take. And I'm saying, well, if you haven't taken your test up and then test it your estridile, how do you know yet? That's not where I would go. It's not always just this clear cut. If you're on this TRT dose or even this natural dose, your estrogens here, won't you bring your test up? Because we've seen people that they might be taking 600 milligrams of testosterone and no other drugs and their estridile stays completely normal. So I'm saying advice to him, I would bring your test up, maybe another 200 milligrams, and then test it two, three weeks in, test your estridile two to three weeks in, and see if you do require the use of an AI. Are you asking about creamo? Yeah, right. Well, I would do just test theosterone first, so then he get that information. And then if it is high, I would definitely go with the creamo. Yep, man. All right, what else do we have here? Okay, we covered. Yeah, we covered, I was just going to that actually. We covered this on drugs and stuff earlier this week. You read my mind. It really could be either female or male, but it says hey guys, I'm a female from the UK, competing in the US later this year. I'd like to follow my normal gear protocol coming into the show. But I'm unsure if I'd be able to take the small amount of gear with me. It's all tablet form in my suitcase. This would be a few tabs of Winnie and Clint. I take 20 micrograms of Clint per day and 10 milligrams of Winnie per day leading into the show. And I also have a few tabs of Anna Droll the night before in morning of the show. I'm most likely going to arrive three days before the show. Can you please give me any advice? I'm worried that if I drop my client that it will interfere with my car bloat, etc, going into the show, thanks. I would absolutely pack in vitamin bottles and this isn't professional advice. I'm just saying what I would do. I'm going to pack it in some vitamin bottles. No one knows it doesn't say Winstrawly legal steroids on it. You know, and just follow your normal regimen if you've had success with it. No, no. Let me tell you, when we were, we had Nate went to Canada and we had for the Vancouver. And we were trying to, we talked to Ron Partlo about maybe possibly getting some stuff for us. Should we need it? Yes. But we go all through customs and all that. They didn't even look at us. We're like, we could have brought Fracking GH. We could have brought like anything. They didn't ask to open our bags. They didn't look at anybody's. Like there was literally just a conveyor belt line of people. And they just let us write in. They're so polite up there. It's not always that way. I promise you. I know. That was what told me a story where he got like strip searched. And like he had a TRT prescription and they held him there in the office for like three hours until they could get a hold of his doctor to verify if it was a real prescription. Oh, you're kidding. Really? I think we'll get him. I remember John was peel his face. Look like Skeletor. Oh, you could hide that face. You couldn't hide all face. No, no, no. There's a six-convient. There's a six-convient. That looks like like a shredded hell boy. Yeah. It's on the internet somewhere. It was a video when him and Sean, Sean, and Sean, I think it was the Vancouver and John got like fourth. So it would have been 2016, I believe, or 15. And they're all in a limousine afterwards. I think Ford did the show too. And his face. And of course, we talked about the last show about how some people can get in a contest shape and have that moon face still. Yeah. Sean still has the moon face, right? You wouldn't know. He was peeled out of his mind underneath the clothes. But John, like you could see like the different scratch marks on the bones of his body. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Definitely a certain look. And I bet, yeah, you see his face. You wouldn't even have to know if he was bigger or not. But that's another question, though, is how Jack does she look? I'm guessing by your cycle, she's probably not like women's open body building. And she's probably not going to go through wearing like, like, you know, leggings and a tank top. Yeah. You know what I mean? Like, I think there's something we said too about. We'll just don't wear a tank top or a tube top. Yeah. Cover up. Yeah. Play it low key. No thought is to get a, you know, domestic, just talk to people who live here, you know? You mean like, people on the show? No, no, don't talk to people on the show. I'm kidding. Yeah. Hit up skip it, teams skip that kind of. The male. That works too. Yeah. Yeah. But it's going through custom. Yeah. I'd be more apt to just bring it in the models. Yeah. Okay. Because I said the male before, because I've done that domestically is what I always, you know? Domestic, different. Yeah. Okay. Thoughts on growth. I am or sub Q. Yes. I think you're sub Q. I thought you were a sub Q guy, and you're not. Listen, I'm lazy. If I was wearing a tank top in my chest was right here, and I was taking it after workout, I just go like that. If I, my arms were exposed, that's what my tricep. Well, if I should stop. Yeah. Yeah, man. Like, sometimes I do sub Q. Sometimes I do I am. It literally depends on, oh, there's some, put in my quad sometimes. Like, it just, it wasn't a thought out process because GH is going to work no matter where and when you put it. What are you doing? Yeah. I'm usually, I am. I mean, I'll go in my rectus femurus or outer part of my lower quad just because, you know, there's always that part of the train that comes. Just in case. Yeah. Yeah. The three extra cells that want to grow locally. You know what I mean? That sort of weird thing. Yeah. It's usually, I put a lot of shit in my body because it's just so easy. Insulin, everything else. I don't know. I do my insulin right before I, you know, work out usually at the gym and it's easy to drop it into your quad without having to take you shirt off or sweatshirt or something like that, too. So whatever's convenient. But I'm just going to do that. What do you guys took, um, carnitine? Where would you put it? I haven't taken injectable carnitine a lot, but I put it in my quans. I'm one of those guys that, you know, a lot of people hate quans. I've, I've got more scar tissue in my quads, and I don't even my delts. But in my quads, because they're just right in front of your face. Like, I think I get my glutes seven times in my entire life. I can't, I can inject what I can see. Really? Yeah. My kind of inject what I can't see. I have to hold it backwards. Try to punch it with a small finger. My pinky thumb. No. I'm not doing that. You got to monkey arms like me then. Yeah. My wife wouldn't be a lot of shock. So, too. Yeah. I would never, I don't put oil in my quads. That one batch hot was all I needed. Even though I was actually my third batch hot, but to the point where I couldn't even like flex it and I had opposing session with Kenny Wallick and, or she comes up and he smacks my leg. He's like, why don't you flex in this one? I'm like, getting, I felt that one go up and down my spine. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I had an F.S. in my quad one time. I've never been a, I've never been a big quad fan. I'll do out carnitine stuff. I'll do either like shoulder or a tricep. I'll do tricep as well. No. But I've taken small amounts. Now that you can get like the 600 milligrams and I'll do like a half milliliter, something like that 300 milligrams, which I'm going to get back on that pretty soon. It's like number fire. Memorizing. Memorizing. Yeah. I've stayed away from it. I never met you for that reason. Oh, really? Never met for that. I'm not taking a bite of it. I'm not taking a bite of it. I've been taking three C.C. Every day. I was taken three C.C. That every prep. I know I was when it was because it was higher volume. And I just and I will never inject one side and not the other. So it was always bilateral. I always have done that. I will always continue to do that. We had a question here. Let's see. Make it the last question of the day here. Guys, love the show. Do milligrams matter more than the compounds? No. Trying to see what you're trying is a good example right there. I mean, it's just so. Yeah, when you get together with the others like the testing key. Yeah, it could be argued that you know, they go away. They go away. There are some compounds. I think that don't qualify for the milligrams. Total milligrams, you know, think about a thousand milligrams of trend versus a thousand milligrams of testosterone, seven eight. There's the big difference there. What about like say three grams of premable and versus a thousand milligrams, or one gram of trend? Well, yeah, but that's different. I mean, because all, okay, it's just saying all things being equal. Yeah, like a kilogram. Right? Is that a gram of failure? Yeah, that's right. Okay, okay, I gotcha. I gotcha. I gotcha. I thought if someone's like, well, if I could do, I could either do some tests and 500 milligrams of trend, or I could do some tests and two thousand milligrams of mass wrong, which one do you think's healthier? Yeah, it's just like is one milligram of test. The same as one milligram of vantage wrong kind of thing. Oh, no. Not, not the test. No, when you put it that way, no. Scott just did a muscle minds with me, but that we go deep into this idea that all compounds are equal. And there's been kind of a belief, believe it or not, throughout the bodybuilding community, that, like, it doesn't really matter what you're taking. If you're taking pre-mo, or you're taking test, that you're gonna basically more or less get the same effect. And I think there is something to be said for, like, you know, whatever works best for you, like you said before, skip, and we're talking about, like, hey, if pre-mo, we did the pre-mo versus decka, which is better, you know, on the other episode. And you're like, well, which do you respond to, like, do you get side effects? Like, some people, they don't do good with decka, you know? Some people, like you said you don't do really good with pre-mo. So there's that. But then looking at the science of it, the study Scott had showed that, like, basically, like, his analogy, which I thought was so good, was that if you take, like, most of your commercial cars out there, and you drive them all as fast as you can, they're all gonna go like around 120, 130 miles an hour. Like, if I take, like, you know, my mini compared to, you know, Victoria's Honda, you know, like these cars, they're all, if we take them on the free, we open them up. They all kind of might level off at a certain point. If we went to, like, you know, multiple grams, but the nuances are different in the lower ranges, so that you, you're gonna see more difference in various compounds in those ranges that we're more likely to take them. Yeah, I mean, I can certainly see where that's possible, but I, I mean, I'd rather drive a modded M5 than I would have, Kia, I'd rather, you know, I don't know. Well, you're not gonna take them all to, you know, because like, some of those are granted. I was, I was thinking, for we're below that threshold. Right. So we're more, the most power, with most torque, you know, out of the smaller doses, and I think it's still, I mean, I don't think Scott would say that I don't think he would think that 500 milligrams of trends, equivalent to 500 milligrams, pre-mode. No, no, no, he's, like I said, he, that's the common belief is that all compounds are created equal, right? Yes. It's got, we say, if you take a ton of each one of them, then yeah, there's a certain point where like, you know, you're gonna have a ceiling effect for all animal accelerates, but otherwise another analogy would be like that's kind of like saying, all NSAIDs are the same, you know. But there's, there's a lot of variation in difference. In that, you know, the ranges that we use them. But it was crazy to see like, this was really strong. Really natural and had a, like a really good benefit. Like stronger than anadrol, as far as growth went. You guys have to watch it when it comes out though, but what he was saying though is that no, that's not true. It's not true that everything is equal in real world, but the way he's, but he's saying that there's a general belief between the general public of, of users that, like all things are kind of equal, that's not saying that. I'm not, I'm trying to get a clear use. Yeah, you've seen that ask that. Yeah, exactly. We've been asked that. I think there's a, I would disagree that there's a general consensus on that though from the typical PED user. I mean, you'd be surprised, man. You'd be surprised how many people are kind of accepting that all this question is going to grow the same amount of muscle. Yeah. I mean, this question itself kind of, because I see where you're going Andrew, but then even just the fact that the question was asked, what does that mean? Are they all the same? Well, you know, I was pretty quick to go. I don't know. Okay, well, then I will say this. Those that have been taken PEDs for 10 years, or five years experience PED users do not have that belief. So maybe it's a newer crowd. Maybe it's a crowd that is just getting into PEDs in general. And maybe it's also not a crowd that's taken things to 2 grams plus a week, for, say, a contest prep or for, you know, a really big off-season cycle as what I'm going to get in that. So, yeah. All right, that's all the questions we have, guys. Skip, you got any compiles? I got no word in there. If you want to word? Oh, you got a word? I got it. Let's see, I'll throw it. And then this one, people may know, because I didn't have this one plan, but it just kind of struck me. But nefarious. Right? It's, by definition, it's just wickedly evil. So if someone has a, like, they're laughing nefariously, then they're laughing, you know, wickedly evil. Whoah! There's some shit like that, I don't know. Well, the thriller, the laugh at the, what's the guy's name? Who does that? No, that's terrible. It's right there. Fits of ice. Anyway. Fits of ice? Yes, thank you. Then some price. You had to be from the 80s and no Michael Jackson. Yeah. I know the laugh, I just don't know the name. That would be a nefarious laugh, or when the Joker laughs or something like that. So is it just, I know the word, but are you saying it just relates to laughing? No. No. Someone could be nefarious. They could just be wickedly evil. They have nefarious motives. Yes. Yeah. I like that one. That's a relatively common. I'm going to stick with more common words. It can be used in conversation. You know, you don't hear Rotten and Tadding very often. Even though it's a good word, I do like it. I heard that in billions. I'm the type of guy that I'll be watching a show. And I hear something I have to stop it. And my wife will roll her eyes because I'll Google the word. I'll be like, I haven't heard that word. That's where I heard Rotten and Tadding and like, oh man, that's, that's good. I like that. So those are the shows. The billions is a good example that the had the more intellectually superior. I'm watching the soprano. I've never seen the soprano before. You're kidding me. Shut up. Shut up. I'm not a choral. I'm only like two seasons in, but I'm like, how cool. Watch this. It's such a great series. Have you seen the wire? Already years old. Have you seen the wire? I didn't watch it. I showed it. And there's a little bit too much of the hair out. So I was like, I don't want to do it with us. Yeah, but they're fighting against the hair on. Yeah. They're getting it off the streets. You guys yellow stone fans? I've seen it yet. I heard it's her driving. They're arriving for filming for the last half of the last season. My client who has the gym there in Derby. She said that they are starting to roll in now. So they'll be starting production in May for the last half of that season. It's been almost three years. It can also be a another 1883 series. And that was big too. It's just a really good job. Just really disappointed that it is taking three years. I think that's pretty crappy. But those are did something similar. And I think that's terrible when it's not the top priority. Because it's really important to the fans and the people. They've been paid. So it's kind of crappy that the owner is so busy with projects. What's his name? I guess. He. Huh? No, no, no. I thought it was a kind of Kevin Gassner because of the, Who's the owner of the show in the whole series? Oh, the panel. No, no, no. It's Jesus. He was on broken recently. I don't know. No, so he's an actual far, a rancher who's all played on. He's a owner of a ranch with no, no, no, no. He bought the ranch after he started filming Yellowstone. But he put he has experience as a real cowboy, but he's also a writer and he wrote Yellowstone 1883. I didn't know that. I didn't know that. He wrote all those shows. Yeah, I mean, he's a freaking genius if you ask me, like with some of these concepts shows that he's come up with. I don't know why my brain is not Taylor. He's got Taylor shared and thank you. He's he can give me. He's one of the main characters in Yellowstone. I haven't seen it. He's the one. He's the one that drives. He's not like always on the farm, but he's the one that he's like a horse trader. And he comes and picks up the horses and he drives him. He's really good on a horse. I can't remember what's seen or whatever, but the dude's like a genius for like taking something he's interested in. And then blown it into this mega empire. Did you guys see a guy richy TV show called The Gentleman? I believe I did. It's very good. It's very good. He's a guy who inherits his family property in the East places. He's a Duke. Yeah, yeah. Oh, dude. We're finishing up to one of the best. Oh, we got one up. Oh, we got one. We got one. We got one. We got one. We got one. We got one. Yeah. Yeah. You guys watch Westworld. We just started that again. Oh, yeah. Thanks to Niggs. It's not available anywhere. So Niggs is like, I got a service. Oh, get it for you. So Niggs got me a Westworld. Thank you. What do you mean it's on HBO? I don't have that. Do you think you can. You got five bucks on. You got three people on there. You took your cell phone company. They might give it to you for free. I should have watched a YouTube TV. And I think I watched like two baseball games a year on it. I'm about to buy YouTube. And it's going to be part of Patreon. It's going to pay for YouTube. Because that way we can do reactions without getting commercials. Okay. Nice. Westworld season one is incredible. Just a four-worn. It goes downhill from there. So I saw season one before. And I'm prepared to stop watching shortly after that. So. Oh, you got to see it through though. Like if I start a show, I'm going to watch it with a very last. That's like even if it absolutely sucks. We stopped watching house accords. Did you guys watch house accords? I did. No. We liked the beginning. We liked it all for the first couple seasons. And then we call off for that. Well, it's because it's like basically what you see in the news with like congress and the president every day as it is. So it's like we always got to do as a watch. One of the news stations. And that's what really happens. You know, it was like putting all the murder. What's that other one that another presidential show, the designated survivor. We watched that. That's Kevin Costner in it. No, it's got to be for southern. Okay, they're suffering. See, I don't watch show. So I think that's basically the same guy, isn't it? I'm based on sure. No. I'm based on sure. I'm based on sure. I'm based on sure. I'm based on sure. I'm based on sure. I'm based on sure. I'm based on sure. I'm based on sure. I'm based on sure. I'm based on sure. I'm based on sure. I'm based on sure. It's like a little present of the United States. He was good on 24, 24 kept my get my attention for go to here. Yeah, it's kind of got like that thing going on it first. Same idea. Same idea. You got to like reach flat diners. I think I mean. I think a spa that's a better actor personally. Oh, his father Donald Southern. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I think he's a better actor. He doesn't get a lot of big roles. But I feel like he's always a good character for whatever parties plan. But we should just do a show talking about shows sometimes. Yeah, no kidding. Yeah. We did a lot of those. And it's just bodybuilding at the end. We might talk about it. Well, as we say, I remember Ron always talking on any of the shows back in the day about the shows he was watching at that time. And I always look forward to it. Well, what are you guys watching right now? I just finished Mancult. Yeah, it's a proud of us. You guys seen Mancult? Uh-uh. I don't know. I'm sorry, man. Mancult. I'm sorry. It's a story about John Wilkes Booth. You know, I have to tell you. Oh, it's a really good story. And it's not, it's actually fairly, it's pretty factual. I've read like three biographies about John Wilkes Booth and about that time period. And it's pretty close to like how he really was. What's it called? Mancult. It's on that TV. It's on that. Okay. Yeah. Mancult is like eight episodes. Oh, you guys want to see the best show I've seen all year. Master's of air. It's about the 19th or the World War II US air bombers over in based in Britain bombing Germany. Like you want to get an idea of what it was like for those guys to be in a bomb or ship and have thousands of peoples and strap and all going through their bodies and going through their ship. And then, oh, they got flug and hit by a German wig. And then, you know, oh, time to ban in ship. And do you have in the mindset? Like, I'm going to jump out of this airplane and maybe my parachute's going to work. And then I'm going to land in enemy territory. And I got to somehow find my way back to France like mind blowing. So that's another TV show. That's another Apple TV show. Yeah. Yeah. You know Victoria, if you know Victoria or public persona, you wouldn't think that she likes fishing shows. Really? Yeah. She likes not like the old ones that were on ESPN. Like where is like, you know, how am I named? I'm about to. And I'm going to catch up with that guy. I'm going to stand on its 80 degrees outside. Hey, watch it. It's like 50 today on the first day. It's like 50 today on the first day. But no, like the, like the, um, what do they call them like the river monsters type shows? Or like today we're going to tie land and we're going to try to catch this particular fish kind of thing. That's pretty cool. Oh, it's fascinating. I'm into it too. It shows that are good. Like that genre are shows where you can find like these professionals that are very passionate about like what they do and they can explain to you the audience like what they do. Like, like I sent you some stuff the other day. Scott about this guy. I watched the Bill's house is built up. Oh, I watched that whole thing by the way. That house is a credible man. That's like the 15th of his video that I've watched. They were kidding. Like I get in these videos of people that go out into the woods and they literally bring an axe and they build log cabins like scratch. Yeah. Well, that's not my thing. It's. Yeah, you also like, you use like instacart and stuff too. So like, you're into that ease of life. This is work with my hands. Yeah. Look at this house. Good. Guys, that's totally cool. And I would pay him to build one. Yeah. We're like, well, you're saying Scott about building like a man cave like studio. Like, I don't know if he's all the inside, but I did like that. You could totally deck that out and put a studio in there, right? You could. Good. All right. Let's wrap this thing up, guys. Leave us questions for the next show. And if you're still watching and you're not subscribed, we'll shame on you. Now we're happy to have you. And definitely subscribe because YouTube might not show us and you're algorithm ever again. That's the case. You don't hit the subscribe button, guys. It was nice to meet you. Take care and we'll see you in 2025, random way. Something like that. Anyway, yeah, subscribe at the bell. And also, too, I appreciate everybody's been sharing the shows. You guys share the links and stuff on Instagram. That's freaking huge. You're helping. That's how we grow this thing. So thank you very much. Go to bodybarry.com to reach out to Andrew Focaching. You go to teamskip.com, reach out to skip over there. Take now the diets at gmail.com, hit me up. And of course, supplement source.ca for Canadians and Trinutrition.com for our people throughout the world, especially in the US user code, thank you to everybody from Patreon. Anything else, get? I don't know.

I a lot of guys that are like maybe they're 205 on stage or 207 on stage and they want to be 260 on stage. There's only the route there is not straight to 260. The route there is a road to like 310 multiple times and 320 if you can force down enough food to get there. That's just what I'm saying. I just don't believe you get there without doing it for at least the first 10 years. Right. And how'd you get so big, so young? Because I was like 300 pounds and I was like 24 or 25 or something. How'd you get? Well, I was just a machine of consuming food and lifting heavy weights. I did not give a single. Everybody welcome to it's just body building. Of course we're all here. Your host Big Ron Partlo, Dusty Han Shah and the producer Scott McNally is gonna swear. I was gonna say that F and Beth is a producer ever and then I thought that will upset him so much. Oh yeah. You have to get it. 10 seconds that he's a guy. Yeah. I appreciate the emotion behind it. My restraint has improved. Remember to like share, subscribe, comment and ring the bell. I am mutant.com. You guys are killing it by ordering off the mutant website. I see it in these emails come through all the time. Your code is used, your code is used. So I imagine Dusty's code is probably 10 times of what minus so he must mini-mari. Yeah. So he finds the only one that works in North America. So Dusty's getting. This is getting renewed. I'm getting dropped. And but I do appreciate that you're helping me as I head out the door. You can see in the show. Yeah. Yeah. We need you. I need you in the middle. Big Ron, 20 and Dusty 20 are your codes. I recommend you alternate them. Just like two dusties, like two dusties, one Ron. The ones around. Yeah. Do dusties. Wait a minute. What was it? 10 Dusty. Ron's. Is it two runs. There we go. To only one Dusty. I don't know. I forgot you had that shirt. Look at this thing every time. Oh my shirt. Look at this shirt. I got big Ron. Right. Sometimes I train with Ron the good old days. See I got pretty good shape once. Look at this. This is not bad at all man. That's a great shot. Beautiful. Yeah. I'll show you where to round town because people like you got like a freak on your shirt. I think they think it's you with no beard. I have had that a couple of times actually. Is that you? I'm like, oh, look at my arm. Almost. I appreciate. I appreciate that they think that I used to be that good looking. Imagine if Ron wore a shirt around. How about that if Ron wore that shirt every day? Is that what you're most like to say to you guys? Yeah. Similar perversions. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that shirt comes from Richard and Lindsay. Yeah. Jesus Christ. And it's really great to have that shirt and that shirt back on the way up to you. Yeah. Two members of the gym at West Coast Island. They're fantastic members. And Richard also happens just funny little coincidence. Also happens to be a BMX rider. Oh, he he's a racer and his families into racing. Like his kids racing everything. So. So when he saw my flat land videos, he'd stop me at the gym. He's like, hey, I raised BMX and he rides like, you know, totally different bike. But yeah. And he's made a few of these shirts or hilarious. And he came to the gym with one of those on one day. And I was just like, oh man, this is crazy. So he gave me it at the Olympia two years ago. And I didn't tell Ron, I just went in the back and put it on. And then we like, I came out. We took a picture with a few people. And I was like, this is cool. You're the first person. You get a picture with two runs in a dusty. And he laughed, but it was like a courtesy laugh. Because he had no idea what I was talking about. Yeah, yeah. I do a lot of courtesy laughs at that. And then he looked at me and he goes, oh. So yeah, I will I will run on the shirt for the rest of the day. It was fantastic. I had way more fans once he was with me. So yeah, it was popular. So that the funny story behind that photo, because you know, I can't let a story go. Sorry, guys. I have to tell this story. So Jason Breeze took that picture. Okay. Our good friend Jason Breeze. You know, we all know. Oh, no. Yeah, she shot everybody. You know, and shot everybody from like everybody. And he took that photo. And what happened was we had a photo shoot at Gold's Jim and Edmonton. And it was the day after Nationals in 2012. And I went 6 a.m. Mutant photo shoot. And we went and did the shoot. And it was like shoot went really well. I looked great. I was, you know, but I felt like I could have looked better. I felt like I was actually a bit flat. And it was the morning after the show. But that's because the show went till midnight. Like I literally came off stage at 11 30 the night before. And I barely ate. I had to go to bed. And I didn't really, you know, I didn't do the gallon of water through a pizza and wake up crazy huge. I just like, I don't know, I ate a little bit of food went to bed. And I woke up in the morning and I didn't really feel like I'd had any, like, I thought, felt flatter than on showday, really weirdly. So I was kind of bummed out. Because I was trying to drink at the photo shoot. And it just wasn't, it wasn't hit. It wasn't sticking. You wasn't sticking. I had some donuts and just, you know, nothing really went crazy. So we went and we had a huge meal at Ricky's, which is like, Denny's. It's like better than Denny's though. But when had a pancake, I had a big waffle with whipped cream on it and I digs and steak and we just ate. And we're sitting there for like an hour and a half chatting all the guys from the shoot. And everyone started kind of leaving to go home and Jason Breeze looked at me. And he goes, we got to go back to the gym man. Oh, I'm not going to go really. And he's like, you're covered in veins. I go after go take some pictures. So we ran in real quick when we went back to the gym. Like one in the afternoon, he put one light up and we just look like like 50 pictures in one spot. And I grabbed some dumbbells again and I kind of read it some stuff. Yeah. And then he sent me that photo and I was like, oh my God, it's like one of the best pictures I've ever seen of myself. So so yeah, Jason Breeze. There you go. That whole life of body building for one picture I like. Right? That's pretty much how it works. Everyone's got this. You got your like five photos that you're like, all right. So there were five moments in my entire career of 15 plus years that I thought I looked okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And then I hate my triceps. Yeah. Back to self-loathing. Yeah. It never goes away. Okay. What are we talking about today, guys? We all did a bunch of questions. We kind of did our own question box. I tried it in the in the post today and it worked phenomenally. I wasn't sure. I was like, I'm not going to. I'm not going to Instagram post, right? Mm-hmm. Yeah. Yeah. It's the only place where old people go. Old people were there. So wait, Facebook used to be only for old people now. And just, I just made a whole people's parents. This is a whole. Okay. Instagram is now just old people. Okay. I'm just trying to keep up here. Okay. Yeah. It's tough at our age. But so anyway, Ron, you had a great one about body building around the world. So yeah. I had a good question. My question box, I had a good one. It was the body building philosophy different around the world. Like, is the training style, that sort of thing. How does body building vary from country to country? And what do you notice? And I thought that was a cool topic because I think that's always kind of been a thing that we've talked about in body building. Mm-hmm. I remember, I remember back in the day hearing that like, you know, the California bodybuilder's train twice a day. Remember, like Arnold's day. Yeah. And then like, you know, the European guys did this or, you know, they did like, you know, Serge New Bray was in France doing like 30 sets of chests with, you know, light weights, but doing all sets of 20 and stuff like that. And I remember hearing like, there was like, these are pockets of people, even back in the day that trained a certain way. And then, you know, fast forward to Dorian, you know, Dorian. And now when I go to England, I feel like there's an extra dense culture of the heavy duty style of training. Oh, yeah. You know, really, his legacy is just woven into the culture of bodybuilding there. More so than anywhere else. Mm-hmm. And so, you know, what do you guys think? There's also like, you know, the legends of Kuwait, you know, like, what's going on in Kuwait? You know, like, all the oxygen, like, lower, you know, so like, I don't know, what do you guys, what other examples can you think of? Well, so here's what I think too to break it down even further. And why I think it's this way is in the states, I think there's different training in different states. And I think there's a part of the reason that that takes place is because of who's around. Yeah, you know, if you train, like, for example, where I do now, South Carolina, a little, you know, big box gym, you would be blown away if someone dropped you into Metro Flex for a day. Oh, for sure. So, you know, when the likes of Branch and Ronnie and Johnny have built a gym, and then you go in there at 17 years old, well, what are you going to train? Like, at least try to emulate. It's going to be them. Um, so I find that that's kind of what starts to take place as well. You know, you go into these places. I know Ron, you're not both going to some of these hardcore gyms in New York and you walk in there. And everyone trains like an animal. Like, and you're talking about guys in like jeans and t-shirts, and then you look over and he's rapping 405 on an incline. You're like, what is happening in this place? You know, crazy stuff. But you know, then you come somewhere like I said here, and we have a lot of pros here. Actually, I believe in them, and there's probably six or seven at train at my gym. And good, you know, good pros. I mean, Jeremy Poppin train series been top 5 of the Olympia before. And it's like, but that being said, intense training does not exist. Like, there's I put up a post about it today because I see people who I speak to and they're talking about wanting to turn pro and this and that and I watch them training them like, oh, you don't want to turn pro. I just reposted it. I said, but you're really, must read. Yeah. So those, you know, those are things I see, but I will say to piggyback on Ron, when I went to the UK for the first time. And I mean, coincidentally, I was training in Dorian's gym, but I was like, there's more of us because everyone in the place. I mean, like, guys, they just go there, but they weren't there for the show. They trained there. It was awesome. And then I did a couple, I did a couple guest appearances at shows in the UK. Yeah. At everyone. I mean, this sounds Blake and like a blanket statement, but they get sliced. I mean, the top five or any level is disgusting. They're like, like, here you've got a few people in the states, you know, for the most part, unless it's a huge show, there's a couple that come in and shape over there. Yeah. If you're not inside out, do not go on stage. You'll be impressed. Yeah, there's some screws loose in the UK in the UK. I love them. You know, there's a lot of people. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I feel like I feel like Jordan Peters has really brought like influence that. Oh, yeah. You know, it's a second that, you know, there was like Dorian and then, and then that, like, that next wave came through of guys, like, you know, I mean, Luke and James were peak two of the mountain, right? Luke, Luke, Luke, and Sprening. Remember when they were training together, it was like, oh, this is, this is like round two of UK in your face, right? You know? And so yeah, it's, I love it. I've always said repeatedly that I love UK bodybuilding and I feel at home there. And I've, and everyone's just so cool to me there, like, like, this is so awesome at the gyms. You know what I mean? Yeah. So when I was, when I went out there to the FITX FITX bow, it was, I guess, two, two years ago now in Liverpool, you could see. So you see it here, too. But there was a much higher density of people that were wearing T-shirts that were like three to half sizes to buy. Yeah. You know, and when you see those guys, you know, you don't even have to ask, you know what you know with my mindset. I call it the progressive overload uniform. And there's a few different uniforms. It's kind of like, like all uniforms, like they don't all look the same, you know, like, but there's a uniform. Yeah. And so there's a few different types, like you might be sweats tucked into your socks with a lumberjack shirt on, right? Or you might be the Trinby GP sweats with like four X T-shirt hanging down your knees. Literally, same, same, same, not the same company, but the same uniform. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, he knows exactly what he did last time he did this. Yeah, he's got a rock book somewhere. You look like a waste of what's in there. You're looking around for it. And they're not doing this because they want to, they're, let me put it this way. They're not doing it for the superficial reasons a lot of times. Yeah. They're doing it because they have something wrong in their head and they're trying to fix it. They're trying to fix it with really heavy weight. And they know it's not going to work, but they know they're going to get really big in the process. I guess I could just put a normess pressure on this problem. Yes, I was, I was just, I don't think anyone's trying to fix it. It's gotten, yeah, we're just trying to find it out. Oh, wait a utilize it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, harness the dark light. Oh, it's, you know what I like to see, you know what I like to see. It makes me think like, ah, I think a real like deep, deep body builder. Like this is coming from inside. And when you see a guy who's big, he's got like some real street cred in his physique. You know, like maybe it's 250 looks thick. Looks like he, you know, he's based put some real time in. Big thick guy. You know what you can tell he's squatting heavy. You know, you're like, guys, moving weight. And he sees his forearms and they're not shaved. I'm like, oh, that guy is so busy eating. He doesn't have to eat. He doesn't have to eat. He's trying to eat his forearms. He's Balkan hard. He's eating. He's so sore after late days. I can't be bothered to shave my forearms. Yeah, it's me feel like that's a guy to watch. He's going to be like the, he's going to show up at the next show and destroy everybody. Yeah, yeah. That's what I like to think, you know. I like the math, the equation there. But yeah, I think it's, it's great to see. And um, and you can really see it start to build in certain areas, though, because uh, going back, every time I go back to West Coast Iron, it's different now. Like, uh, because what, what I enjoy about that portion, I'm not talking about just bodybuilding anymore, it is it's seeping into your like weekend warriors. Okay. And you go to West Coast and you watch somebody who's, you know, I mean, I'm not saying they're not in great shape, but they don't compete. But you watch them train and you can see they've picked up on the energy and how to train. And and you can also see there because it's a lot of the same people coming every day. Like people helping each other out. Yeah. You see that there's an education taking place in how to train. Not just sets and reps in form, but intensity in that kind of stuff. And it's it's cool to see because you really see in the right environment, how it does. It's bleeds into everything. And and it's wild to watch because we're talking their average member. Like, I mean, just I'd say like something like my mother, she was going to the gym there. What would happen to her training in a year of being there would be absurd because it's a positive energy, though, because they see these, I mean, they got some freaks to train that gym and it's wild to see because you can tell it's all. If there was negative energy, I assume wrong would boot them because I've never seen it. So it's well, it's hard to see there. We've had you. I've seen it grow too, Dusty. You know, because the first time I went out to West Coast Iron was, I think July of 2019. And came out and Braiden was a lot smaller back then. You were training with Braiden still. We got a shoulder workout in. It was probably like 230, not 270. Yeah, very, very different physique back then. Still ugly. Did you? Did you? Did you? That was insane. But the gym had a good energy, but then coming back with you guys last year, I could see it not only was there like more equipment, did you guys knock walls out, move things around, get more stuff. But you could see the energy had changed and there were just a lot more people that were all like minded. Like you could see it had just developed a lot more sense. I wasn't quite expecting that. Like I was like, I've been here before. I know what it's like. But you could see the dynamic head evolved. I mean, if you look back, you can probably, you know, you know, it has. But to have that, it's kind of like when you haven't seen somebody in a while, you know, six-puncillator. Yeah, wow, you gained 10 pounds. You know what I mean? Right, right, right. Yeah, and I really appreciate that guys. You know, it's funny. The other day, I was actually loobing up some race. What? Oh, live. Loobing, loobin, things up. I was doing some gym maintenance. I was just in there, you know, puts in around on equipment. And, and I, I was just kind of watching this one kid do pull downs on one of the high rows, you know, on the banana high row. Yeah. And, um, I mean, he didn't look like he was like bigger anything. He's like 175 pound guy, you know, just in there, right, training. And I was like, oh, he's like totally like driving his L. Bo down perfect body position, right? Like, you know, he even had his thumb on the outside of the handle, which I know, like, a few guys have said, like, really emphasize, you know, like, don't let your hand wander. Like, you know what I mean? Yeah. He just had everything lined up the way he was sitting. And he was going to like, perfect mechanical failure. And then he kind of cheated out a couple of reps. And then he held a long stretch and just sat there in a stretch and then he let it go. And I was like, oh, that just random kid that looks like just a normal gym class, like, just at a high school type of kid, just did like a perfect set to mechanical failure with, like, all the tips that you'd get watching, you know, Joe Bennett's Instagram or JP train, right? And I just saw, man, that's awesome. Like, people are just like this next generation if they just apply themselves, it goes back to how all the tools that we need to be anything are right here. And if you just utilize it in any way, you know, just take it against, we would have had if we would have been doing like all the right stuff the whole time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. Like the guys from the 70s could have said that about the guys. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, but it's all in, you know, it just makes you, I guess we'll see. We'll see then, you know, maybe we'll get a, maybe we'll, you know, I don't know how much bigger physics can get than like, rammy, right? Like how big can we actually get? Yeah. But what I think we will see is a wave of younger guys getting humongous because they're starting earlier, just how everything works with numbers and how long you do it. You know what I mean? Like, you know, the Nick Walker phenomenon where you're, how old was he when he went? One is pro card, like 23 year. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know how. Yeah. So like that Nick Walker thing, I think, I think that's actually going to get more common. You know, the right. Well, yeah, you know what I mean? Just this because of numbers and kids doing everything right from, of the very start. Like if you start at 14 and you do every single workout, yeah, perfectly, imagine, you know, 24, how bigger you, right? So I'm just taking it's exciting, you know? Absolutely. It's, uh, it's funny. And now that we've completely zeroed our topic anyways, I'm going to go with this. Yeah. So I'm at the gym this morning. And you know, the other day I put up a joking, not joking thing with mutant about people throwing gum in the urinals. I saw that. I saw that. I was like, that's what the bathroom in there's here. What am I watching right now? Videoing the bathroom. Yeah. I'm going to end up on what's this had supposed to do. But anyways, um, the, the thing that bothered me in response to it was, every answer was these young kids, these young kids have no respect. I'm like, how do you know who does this? And it's like, and a few people like all these broccoli-haired kids and all this stuff. And I thought the funniest part was, you know, as we're doing these things with mutant, you try to like, you're having fun, but you don't want to consistently sound like a negative asshole. Like everything ever goes. Is bad. Right. But it kind of made me think in reverse. I'm like, you know what I think is, is sad about our generation of people. Is everything has become negative? Because when I'm in the gym now, the one thing I see with these terrible broccoli head kids is they're all in their training, having fun, push each other. If you go to their Instagram posts, I follow a bunch of them. They like support each other and, you know, with each other on. And today I walk in a, in the locker room. And I was, it was like a moment fall back to my passers, four kids in there. And they're talking about their workout. And they're having rice crispy treats to get their palm. Oh, yeah. This is my potter. You know what I'm like? Yeah. It just, it baffles me that, that, that, hour generation decides to only look at the things that bother us about them. And I'm like, it's a good point. As someone who has a 15 year old kid that's in the gym all the time, I'm like, I'm sorry, I'm aware that she's there for two and a half hours and needs to be there for 40 minutes. Yeah. But I'd like her to be there. Where else would one of these? So somewhere else. Right. Like, yeah, hurt me anything. You know what I mean? And it's not bad. It's great to me that at 15 years old with a little bit of muscle mass. When she's done training, she wants to go look at her pumps and take pictures of like, that means you were good. Because when I was 15, all I thought about was how about I sucked and to stay covered up until I had some muscle mass. Yeah. I have no pictures for my first four shows because I said to myself, I don't want pictures until I'm good. What I would do to go back and have my first six months of training like she has in year and year and a half. And the changes are wild and I have proof because she does all this stuff. So I don't know, just something to think about when everyone wants to hammer on these kids. I'm like, plus as someone who plans on owning a gym and like, I want them all. I want the memberships. Sure. Sure. Yeah. No, man. I agree with you. I try to think of all the positives that come out of every next round. You know, we might see some amazing, amazing stuff out of this next round. You know, time is the ultimate factor. Hey Scott, I just sent you on a text. Yeah. A guy actually sent me a question into my, um, into my DMs. I thought it was cool because he sent me some pictures. I was like, what's the girl? Let's do it live. I'm a real great. Oh, thanks for reminding me. I've got a Patreon physique critique too. So I'll pull that up later. You're going to be on that now as well. So you want to do that. The, but the picture is up first. What are we doing here, Dusty? Throw the question first and then let's, um, possible the pictures and, what is he saying here? Question for. Oh, I got, I got the same, same one. I also do it. Yeah. Yeah. With the path should my first real push using compounds. Keep it tight or go full big raw mode for reference, spin body building on TRT for a year, uh, finished a hard cut. Well, I'm going to, you know, we're trying to not put up doses on the screen lately. That's been a, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's been a helpful thing. Um, he says, uh, finished a hard cut and, uh, now on two weeks of a push. She says the up to the test to, from 250 to 500 started 75 MP now, and now it's at 150. Um, got down to 230 was 240 for checking in yesterday. Um, had two big cheats and woke up at 240 eight. Uh, this is normally my weight was, but this is normal for my weight body weight was pretty watery. I'll tighten up again. So what does he, what is he asking here, dusty? He wants to know how to, I mean, it seems like he wants to know what to do as far as growing. He said, keep it tighter, go fill full big raw mode. Throw his, uh, his pictures up. Yeah, that. I mean, he's obviously made awesome change. And, uh, I thought it was important to throw this up because I, I feel like this is the one area in my opinion that things have gotten lost is, you're not going to put on, put on maximum amount of tissue on the lowest possible doses without eating more food than is necessary. Yeah, you know, there, there has to be an excess like, um, and, and I think, and that's a question that Dante put up as well that will answer in a little bit, but it's like, so to me, the answer is simple. Don't get, you know, I get nervous when they say full big raw mode. Like, you get, you get really big, but I think they're confused on like how, like, fat and bigger are not the same thing. So it doesn't water you. I didn't really want to. Yeah, I totally water. It doesn't mean though that you're like, for example, if you're eating a proper plan diet and you're at a, you know, an excess of calories, you now have to be even more aware of extra food you have. Your flat line is above maintenance by quite a bit. So when you start tone in the two, three, five, nine cheat meals a week, you get fat. Yeah, and that's not necessary. But I do think that the, putting on a big baggy t-shirt and disappearing for a year is a great idea. Yeah, people, you know, like, I try to illustrate sometimes the water thing. Like, the everyone now is really like, they don't want to hold water. They're always like, her own, hold water, own, hold water. But, um, and I'm not saying that we were right, but we just didn't worry about that at all. Like, obviously, I'm comfortable or if it was like, somebody, you know, you do something about it. You don't want to hold a bunch of unnecessary water, but we didn't worry about having fluid on our body. So I remember one year the year I worked with Chad Nichols. I was 330 and 10 days later, started the diet 10 days later. I was 308. Okay. Yeah. So I lost 22 pounds in the first 10 days on the diet. And that was just water. Like, my belt came in an inch. My ankles got tighter. My legs hardened up. My waist came down. And I was like, oh, I'm not like full of food anymore. And I was just like, you know, bloated in watery and my face even like came down. Like, I remember at the time everyone was like, oh, yeah, you're like, again, leaner already. You know what I mean? Yeah. But obviously, that's not body fat. It's only been 10 days. It's just fluid running off from being so full of carbs and just eating and eating. You know what I mean? Yeah. So, so, you know, if you start your diet in 10 days later, you're down two pounds. And we get a lot of water on you. So yeah, why think what throws it off a little bit to is who we follow. Okay. Because Nick Walker got to be, if not the the most popular body below the planet right now. Yeah. Nick is not trying to put on massive amounts of size. So when you see him, cross-striated and serratus and all this stuff year round, it's like, that's how you do that. No, first off, Nick Walker's Nick Walker, his genetics are his genetics. And he works harder than anyone I know. So when you factor in all of those things, plus he's already there, that's, he needs to do that. His hit the hand he's been dealt. He needs to make sure he's keeping the waist tight and doing all these things. So part of their plan is to stay tighter. But for you when you're trying to put on mass, that is not the time to play the Nick Walker game. You need to get big. You know, and I will say the figure. I would rather error on the being too fat than too lean if you're trying to put on size. Yeah, I don't want to sound like I do not think I was a great bodybuilder. I was too tall, my arms are too long, there's lots wrong with me. But I was too 65 on stage, was stranded glutes. And I was 330 offseason at one point, 320 many times, like routinely 320 offseason. So I a lot of guys that are like, maybe they're 205 on stage, or 207 on stage. And they want to be 260 on stage. There's only the route there is not straight to 260. Right. Right there is a road to like 310 multiple times and 320 if you can force down enough food to get there. That's just what I'm saying. I just don't believe you get there without doing it for at least, you know, like the first 10 years. Right. You know, and how'd you get so big, so young? Because I was like 300 pounds and I was like 24 or 25 or something. How'd you get well, I was just a machine of consuming food and lifting heavy weights. Like I did not give a single shit. Not vote. About how I looked. Like I wasn't like trying to show off my legs at the beach and I wasn't at the club with no shirt on well, there's a couple times. But I see the budget. Yeah, like we just that wasn't I wasn't I didn't care about anything. Hey, Ron, no, hey, Ron, do you want to know? Hey, Ron, I'm eating. Leave me alone for like just a machine and hey, that's how I got real heavy young. But that's just what I think and that's why I think that because I did it. Yeah, I agree 100. So I think that that's the advice I would give is chase that down and you know, the only caveat to that is I had a couple points in my career where I got too heavy and I knew because the low back pumps were affecting my training and that was because I did what I had mentioned earlier, which was the cheat, the garbage food got a little too high. And as soon as I cleaned that out and was following correctly on an excessive amount of calories of better food, that 10 pounds of junk water fell out. And I'm talking about the the 10 that takes you from 20 pounds of water to 30, it wasn't necessary and all of a sudden that training hindrance was gone. So that was the only thing I would gauge everything on was, am I heavy? Yes, but is my low back bother me? No, okay, we're fine. Okay, because once something is negatively affected by training, it was a problem. I'm glad you kind of explained that though because if you're just to say like, if I got too heavy, I get lower back pumps because I do feel like there's an element of people that can kind of say, there's listen, like outside of that, that doesn't mean that you were like feeling good, 100% comfortable 10 pounds less, right? Like, oh no, it's just that the pumps were ruining my workouts. Like, because there's a it wouldn't let go. So the workout would either literally pause for 20 minutes. Yeah, yeah, it would end. So it's like that did not work. Now, I always had a low back pump because okay, you're at your heavy, but I'm talking about like the billetating where it's like, yeah, put a bar on the ground and it was 135. I couldn't pick it up. Thank you. I couldn't, I didn't feel like there's kind of an excuse built in there. Like, yeah, you know what I mean, don't want to get to have you, you know, back pumps. Or you get one of those crazy lower back pumps where you're like, okay, well, maybe I can leg press and then you're like, I can't leg press. Like it's too tight. You're that. You feel like I'm going to hurt myself. Yeah, like your body's not going to move that way. It's just too so brutal. Yeah, I've had back pumps so we're bad enough that when I did leave the gym because the work I needed to end, I sat in my truck and got back out and stood up and waited because I couldn't even sit in my car to drive the seat to the felt like it was an extreme stretch on my low back. Yeah, it's been in my truck. Yeah, I had a moment the other day. I was training adults and I trained adults with a client of mine and the gym was the gym was pretty busy and we got we got like the good side lateral machine to start and I just felt like doing a bunch of drop sets and stuff on this side lateral machine. That's where going crazy. We did like all sets of 20 all the way up to then we started hitting failure and you know, forced wraps and going going crazy on this side lateral and I was just getting this sick pump and I'd sort of put some extra effort in that day. Got I felt like I didn't eat enough so I clouded some food and I drank a ton of fluid with some salt and aminoazan at night. I remember feeling like I'm super hydrated and I got this shoulder pump that was reminiscent not quite as good but reminiscent of the anodral days. Oh and I had to put my arms up on a machine between a couple of sets because I was standing there and it was funny because as we started the pump started hitting me really quick and I actually mentioned that ago I used to get these anodral pumps where I had to put my arms up and then like a bunch of sets later I had to put my arms up on some machines and I was like oh wow this is awesome. It's like the good old days. You know I'm terrible and comfortable this is awesome. Yeah I just had was like wow you know yeah yeah it was just it made me just realize like oh those those superhuman pumps was just crazy you know I missed those days. That's good. All right I know it does to you get a bunch of questions including some from Dante. I want to hear some of those. Let me throw this up real quick. This is from Dylan. He's got another physique critique here. He says he's seen us do physique peaks in the past and he actually joined Patrons specifically because like yeah we'll try to get it on. You know we haven't done them a lot. We've done for some of the Patreon guys. They're like oh listen man I'll sign up. So thank you very much. I appreciate you signing up and everybody else who's over at Patreon. So here's his deal. He's 22 years old. He says he's been a natural bodybuilding now for four years, five, 10, two, 25. He says I'm going to start my first prep in three weeks. He's going to be coached by just in Harris. He says training bodybuilding has consumed my life entirely and he'll be graduating with a bachelor's and exercise science in May but for him he says then applying to graduate school for physical therapy. In the meantime I'm going to see how good I can be at competing and see how far I can take the hobby I love. I appreciate any criticisms, criticisms, advice, tips and so on. So my first tip for you is to before you send any pictures to your coach you've got to figure out how to send pictures. We've got to we've got to critique your picture, picture taking technique because I'm going to put this up and I am seriously going to critique your pictures. Now if you look at that image, you look at how much of the screen you're filling. I want you to completely fill that screen. I have to zoom way in. Now if you're if I were to say like hey I want to see you know what is what is the your skin looking like laying over that rib cage? Are you getting leaner or you stay in the same you hold and water? I can't hardly see that and then when I blow it up it's just going to be super blurry. So you're going to get it at your skills there. So I'm going to give him that. Now that I've given him that let me throw a couple pictures up and you guys can tell us what you think here. Here's our front double here's our red double. Also I saw I saw one of his videos on Instagram and I told him just based off of like this posing I'll be completely honest looks way better than the video I saw. He's caught the spots perfectly but actually I mean it could use improvement but just even getting into the shots I could see he was really struggling which he's new deposing so I don't fault him there but definitely get on right it would be one thought. Okay well I mean he's he's got muscle on him and he's growing everywhere it looks like he's training everything he's even got looks like his calves are growing you know looks like he's got some quads yeah he's got some quads coming yeah I see him right away I'm like he looks like he's got calves even in a bad lighting you know I'm so I stop talking to him I'm not helping yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah what do you need help for you can just wear shorts and everyone think sure and shape yeah no he's you know his backs got muscle if said he's trained in hard I don't know his weight or anything like how big is 225 at 511 in natural okay yeah I mean it's all common man he's I mean in the fact that he's natty too that's awesome you know I mean he could he could just keep pilot muscle on you know really get his lap I mean obviously his posing needs some work so his lats might pop out a lot more with a few tweaks but you know I'm not gonna start bossing him around I haven't seen him train looks like he's you know on the right track yeah I would say the big the biggest thing uh when you're in this phase is is more of the same um I'm stoked who he hired as a coach because Justin's awesome and we'll he will make sure that the training is the level of intensity that it needs to be to fully maximize um yeah and then the only thing I wanted to add to what Scott said was by a ringlight 20 to 40 bucks yeah straight overhead lighting is the reason that you have spots here by that look really good and spots here by that I can't see it all um because you're you're shadowing yourself out there so get a ringlight that you can put in front of you and light everything up so you can better see uh at this point I'm sure Justin hasn't complained because based on where you are and what you need to do he's not that concerned with it yeah yeah um you only in the habit of having good pictures always so he can see the changes because like we've talked about in the show before there's nothing worse than bumping into a client and finding out there either much cleaner than you thought or much better than you thought you're like oh this changes everything we've been doing and even leaner can be a bad thing because I'm like oh I've been holding you way tighter than I need to because you you're so like some of my clients are really pasty and then they're in really bright rooms I can't even see how condition they are then you bump into them like oh yeah we're like 9% body fat and dead nuts off season we do not need to do that right right so but no I know he's in big things just more the same man just because there's nothing missing on your physique I didn't looking oh you have no dressups yeah you know yeah yeah just jump you know obviously Justin's gonna help him a lot so there won't be any shortage of food or heavy weights you know oh he might not be wait a second he might be self coach he says using Justin Harris's online he says oh and I'm going to start my first prep in three weeks self coached using all okay okay online and he's 22 years old like they have that level development at 22 natural training for four years you know you know yeah you know you know I mean we could get specific and start telling them like oh this body part needs to come up a bit but I mean like everything's gotta come up because he's always in this early years yeah yeah yeah yeah oh people like the physica assessments don't they yeah they do yeah that's something that's just being told don't don't you know it's half my half my job don't change anything yeah yeah it really is sometimes you ever do that I know the guilty sometimes when things are going really well I've had like I did a new client about two months ago and I usually tell people up front like hey in the beginning I'm kind of to do an educated guess and then of course you know as we see what happens I'm gonna change things so this guy's like eight weeks in I've changed nothing and he just keeps getting better and I'm like okay I'm not lazy and I'm also not this good at this we just got really lucky and I had to put it out there I'm like I know it seems like every update I'm like good job send send more pictures in a week and don't forget your money in two weeks but it's like yeah when it's working that well it's funny and I know Ron it was the same when they keep like he sent her plan and she ran that diet for like four months yeah because it was working but it is it is funny because you do have those moments where you're like if it's in someone knew where you're like I promise I'm not stealing from you but so I'll just like send side by side pictures yeah it's been like we're not changing things I've done that you are looking awesome yeah yeah yeah remind them I'm like yeah you were you know you were 250 six weeks ago and now you're 230 and like look at your legs like yeah you know or there's times where it's like you were 250 and you're still 250 but look at these two you know I mean lots like that's like what you know Nikki right now is she's not really like she hasn't dropped a lot of weight the last two weeks but her ever legs have really started coming in like the calves this week hey nice like she walks around yeah and she walks around they must be popping you know popping off yeah yeah I flip her off on the regular you need those on stick yeah so here I got a good question from Dante I thought we should we should get into drugs or no drugs have you ever seen a body below who stayed under 10% body fat who was able to go from 150 pounds to 250 pounds lean again staying under 10% body fat on that journey or have you ever met a body brother who did not have to go outside the box a little bit with eating to gain a hundred pounds of muscle mass it's kind of a little what we're talking about a little bit ago isn't it yeah I think that ties in really well with what we we just talked about and I actually want to take this a little bit further how he put that have you ever met like what was it a good body builder or just a body builder who's someone who put on a hundred pounds yeah and so if you ever made anyone who put on a hundred pounds without going outside the box a little bit with eating the answer is absolutely not like they've all with every single one of them every single one of us who did that did some crazy stuff and consumed some ridiculous stuff that most people like you ate that we can't eat that all the time right and and it also goes it goes every other way though like you know all these things that we hear people do like oh you know when people are dieting they you know put their calories at this much percent under their BMR and they'll get me but it's like and then there's that outside the box stuff that you got to do like those no carb days and like I'm just going to go to the gym and do tours on the treadmill right now because like I need some like there's always a little bit it's not advised it's not something you want to have to do but there's always those little moments when you got to go outside the box a little bit you feel like you have to go outside the box a little bit yeah so yeah the formula stuff bothers me right you know well I think that that's the big thing is is where things get missed in bodybuilding, in my opinion, is we do just start going through a emotion, you know, a process. It's the same thing in the gym. Like when you first get started, like you said, just been able to go around, you need more of everything. And that's, and it is correct. But there comes a point in your career where you're like, as no one told you, you have no glutes. And you should alter your training to fix that. You know what I mean? Like there are things that you need to be watching for. And again, that's when it's like, okay, outside of the box, you know, Dante and I were trying to figure out how can we get my legs to, to grow the way my back wasn't things like that. And, and, and, and, and, and, and, make and shut up. Try this. Yeah. I held a bad dream last night. There was a shark and there was weedies and there were rice crisps, we chased and you were doing all those things while training like those are okay. I'll go buy a shark. Right. But the brain was a little easier. It was just a little easier. Try this. And eventually you found something. You know, and I think that that is what kind of gets missed because we, you know, we do have a habit of just eventually going through the motions. And you're like, okay, it's somewhere you have to, it's like, I found for me. Okay. My body's growing out of control, but my arms aren't going as quickly. They're going to need their own day. Where I know I was doing the typical push pull legs. I've seen guys have plenty of armed development. It wasn't me. So we had to give them their own day. And we left them on the push and pull as well. And next thing you know, they got okay. They were never a strength across the board. I was trying to forget that. It was just okay. Your arms overall are not matching up to everything else. What do we do? So, and that goes with food as well. But I like what he's pushing because the process is this, which is if you eliminate, and he didn't mention this from being another one, but if you eliminate the ability to take ass-killing doses of drugs, you will find that you have to go deeper into your training, your diet, your rest, your over-the-counter supplements to make that muscle grow. And that's where most people are missing right now. I think that was what forced us to do all the crazy stuff that we talked about that we did was drugs were expensive. Yes. And like, I remember this before. I remember back when everything used to be European amps, and it cost what it cost. And to take 150 milligrams of DACA a week was like 100 bucks. So, you're a young bodybuilder working at the bar, and you've got to spend 100 bucks a week for your DACA. That's like, oh man. Those three amps for 35 bucks an amp. It's crazy. We pay 25 bucks for a sustain on and stuff like that. And you know, that's pre-infl like that's, you know, imagine inflation. That's like 50 bucks an amp now. So, you know, drugs are expensive. So, we were on, you know, that's why we were on, you know, 400 tests 100, 100 DACA. You know, and if you want to get the 300 pounds on that, you got to eat a lot. Like, I think there was no, there was no, and I was very fortunate, because I did hire Dante young in the game. And I literally, just everything he said was gospel to me. I didn't look beyond it. So, it was like, this is what this, if this isn't enough, drugs, then you aren't a bodybuilder. That was basically how he would present it to me. Like, you can bodybuild without sacrificing your health. So, if you can't do this with this parameter of supplementation, then quit. Because there's plenty of other things that you can go nuts on with food and training and recovery and sleep and a lot of things that I had to my advantage and that option was not there. And I think on the flip, not to be Mr. like, oh, we don't ever take anything. If you, if you took that attitude at a young age and said, okay, I'm going to do stuff because I'm going to an odd thing is anything wrong with that. But I'm going to take low dose. I'm a max at 300 milligrams of test. That would be the only thing I take. And you find a way to make yourself grow for years on that being a max dose, I promise when you add in more gear because you've laid the foundation correctly with all those other things, your end result, your final end result will be bigger than it would have been because, you know, and I've said this a many times, stealing from Dante drugs, hide mistakes. If you're not eating a question, but you're on two grams of test, you're kind of growing anyways. And then it comes and then you come off and then you lose size and that's a back and forth. But if you are eating flawlessly on 300 milligrams and you're growing growing growing growing, when you go to 500, it's going to feel like holy, this is insane. And I'm going to continue to do all those other things. You know, that's why I found back in the day because we did used to go completely off. You got even more obsessive about your eating, you're sleeping, because you're like, okay, I can't lose the gains, because like you said, Ron, I just invested $700, which when I was poor was a ton into this muscle mass. I cannot lose an ounce of it. Yeah, yeah, you know, so then it was like every detail had to be flawless because you were afraid to lose what you just built. You know, I actually just remembered something like wow, I just had a flashback. It must be, you know, maybe that one time I did acid sort of trap this memory. It had a little closet. But I just remembered that I had a little phase where I was getting a large chocolate shake from McDonald's after every workout. It's the way to do it. Wow, I like getting my truck crank the AC DC post workout drive through the drive through get a large chocolate shake. I wasn't even drinking protein. I was just drinking a large chocolate shake. Groups home, cruise home, net 8, my meal, cook a steak on the barbecue, you know, big potato. Have a big meal and I'd be like, I got a steak in potato. It's bodybuilder meal. I like that. The large shake from McDonald's, I was just post workout. Yeah, that's just, that's the replenishment, my glycogen, that's the way to get it. Yeah, that's how we did it. We did it. Take like 10 I use a hemolog. So I'm going to put it turn the movie on. Speaking of language. I remember about the late 90s where I held a time. Yeah. You know, the late 90s where I held a drug. Oh, the times of time. No. We're rage against the machine to go on tour again. You know, it's loving life. Oh, lip biscuit video. Do lip biscuit. Oh, here we go. Yeah, good times. Okay. What's next? Well, while you look over there, Dusty, I had a bunch from Instagram or excuse me from Patreon and from YouTube. So I'll let me see if I can find one to throw up here. What about pre-exhaustion? Josh Weaver at Ask Dusty said, what do you guys thought? So a legdate using pre-exhaust. He says 43. I've dealt with some knee issues, but still pushing to make leg progress. Instructuring leg day with seated leg curl. Ad dr. leg extensions, then going into hacks, leg press and finishing with lying leg curls, lunges or straight leg beds. Also thoughts on doing hat field safety bar squats. I've been throwing these in some because I feel I can go deeper with added weight. But curious what you guys think of this as is as affected as effective as just doing regular safety bar squats. Think of another show. So this is my one and only Patreon subscription. So thank you very much, Josh. I appreciate your demand. So first of all, just pre-exhaustion in general, what do you guys think about it? Well, I don't want to talk out of my ass here and have somebody like post-to-study, but I'm just going to say I seem to remember. Seeing something where doing pre-exhaustion in a super set wasn't a good idea. But in the context of the workout could be a good idea. And what I mean by that is the study that I was shown showed that if you did pectac followed by bench press in a super set, your pecs were exhausted from the pectac. So when you went to bench press, your body actually sends more neural drive to your triceps because they're fresh. X can't do as much work. So your triceps actually wind up being more activated. That was a study that I saw. So people that superset with the isolation exercise first, I technically this study showed that that would send more drive to the assistant muscles, which would actually not go well. Whereas if they superset it at the other way, where they did the bench press to failure, or whatever, and then did the pectac. That actually took the pecs farther into activation. So again, I don't know exactly where this was, but that's what I saw. But then in the context of a workout doing your extensions first and then moving to a squat, that was different because you weren't they weren't like, like in front of me. You're media. You know what I mean? You're just setting up more fatigue and causing more. It wasn't the same. It didn't work the same as the same way. So I ended just bottom line for me. I mean, I'm fit right into that. That guy's question like, you know, I'm 48. I'm kind of banged up. You know, that's how I train. Like you just listed my workout. So I got nothing against that. If he's got to train that way to get it warmed up and moving good and it feels like his hacks and leg presses are way more comfortable. There you go. I think the only thing I would suggest differently is this a lot of people, if you want to warm up your squat, then warm up your squat. Take it. Yeah. That's where things get lost. You know, when we were kids, I mean, I used to start with 225 on squats because it was just 135 as a waste and it barely pushed me down anyways. So I started to 25, 315, 405. There was no like paying attention to like how did I feel today? As soon as you finish with 315, you put another plate on. So yeah, just for 5, you put another plate on. Now I wish in hindsight, not that I don't knock on one on how many knee problems or anything. But I go in, I mean, when we do a hacksquad, like yesterday, I decided to start with hacks. I did one plate for 10, two plates aside for 10 twice. Then slowly started working in. So I think one thing that gets missed with guys is, don't be afraid to use the movement you're doing as your warm up. You know, so don't be in a rush. Do many, many sets to move that, get that blood in there, get moving around. Because I found for me on the contrary that the most dangerous movement I can do for my knees and my quads is extensions. Because I'm absurdly strong on them. There's not a single stack of every you've taken. I'm all right. I hit a pile of coal on that big stretch. It's just dangerous. I would rather put 10 plates aside on a hack and spend 30 minutes getting up into it. I'm very safer. So, but again, you know, the only thing I want to finish to answer on his question is, don't question whether or not we think you should use the bar you want to use. You answered your own question. It feels good. It feels safe. I can sink into the hole. These are all the answers you need. Saving it as a whole. Yes, I don't get you very often. You want to make sure that you're paying attention to yourself. Like you shouldn't be asking permission on how to train the way that you know feels best. Because I think that that's where a lot of things get missed. We've talked to us before. A really controlled row for me. The next day I feel nothing. Yeah. If I do what I call grip and rip, which is ugly as hell, I'm smoked head to toe. And I've had countless people half my size tell me I'm doing it wrong. It's so rare. Like, and I wouldn't care if they were bigger than either. Because this is the way that works. So if you're comfortable in those movements, rock them and do what you have been. And you're going to see the best results. Because if I said, no, you got to use a barbell on your back. Yeah. I mean, if I followed that advice, I would still be barbell squatting. I'd have no hands, no quads, and bigger ass than I already do because that was the only thing that grew when I squat it. I will say this about that hat field squat. So I'm going to put this picture up for anybody who isn't familiar with the movement. So it's where you're holding onto that bar in front of you, with the safety squat bar over your shoulders. So I decided to mess around with these. I've got the the Kabuki strength transformer bar. And after I'd gotten sick, and I was trying to get back into training, I wanted to try it out. So I thought it was something different and fun. And I used a band stretched across to my rack. So I couldn't really like hold onto the band. You know what I mean? Right, but yeah, some pull exactly. So I used that to balance myself. And I felt like, okay, this is good. This is all right. And you know, I can't remember how much weight I reps. I was getting, but I was like, I'm building my confidence. And after I did that for like three weeks in a row, I was like, I'm just going to go to because I had a hard time breathing. I was like, I'm going to go to regular, just, you know, free standing squat. And when I did, I was so gased. Like my lungs couldn't handle it. So it's different, a little bit different today, but my point being that it definitely changed the movement to make it a lot easier on like my just my overall, like central nervous system and cardiovascular. So it's just, it's a different exercise. But I, I'll tell you what, just like with like what people are saying like, oh, you know, should you use bands or whatever else? I'm like, kind of like what you guys were saying before like, what do you want to do? And I like to keep things fun. So even though a hat feels what might not be the same thing is doing a free weight squat, it's like, hey, if you have fun with it, and you could challenge yourself. And you're in your 40s, keeps you in the gym and you're like, looking forward to your next workout. I say, go for it. Yeah, yeah, you know, I want to, I want to, I think this will be a good way to close this question. Yeah, trained by J.P. J.P. put up a post and just the other day. And I wanted to just read it because it was awesome. And we talk about how some coaches kind of like, at system marketing thing, but you know, kind of try to make all their clients super dependent on them for every little thing and like, you know, what's, what type of vitamin C should I take and like, what brand of right should I eat? Like, all that sort of micro management. Yeah. And this is J.P.'s post. Let 2024 be the year you don't have to ask permission to try a split, try and exercise, a grip, a stance where you put your feet. Let it be the year that you don't ask anyone how long their sessions take or what volume they do because it's so entirely irrelevant to your own training. Let it be the year that you decide you're going to work out the answers to your questions. Instead of asking the opinion of complete strangers who have no idea what you can and can't do. How much sleep you do, don't get. How intense you do, don't train all pointless procrastination. The sooner you start answering your own questions, the sooner you will start really making progress. It's a good point. And, you know, to just completely, you know, make our show a relevant, you know, no more questions. It's good guys. We'll see you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's everything. It's all over. It's great. That's great. And I think that that's good. Like, there are good questions. But then there's a lot of questions that, you know, you don't have to worry about that. Yep. You know, but I like that. You know, stop asking permission to say everything. There's a lot of just over-thinking that doesn't allow you to move. So it's important to do get into a machine or or understand. So just, where do my feet naturally want to go? Where am I the most comfortable? Like, for the most part, unless I was targeting something, people would say, oh, why you put your feet there? That's where I'm the strongest. Yeah. That's where I feel real sturdy and stay in my knees feel good. You know what I mean? Yeah. And I just had that conversation really guy yesterday because he was told by someone to not let his toes point out on a leg press. He goes, I mean, he's hurt. So I watched him do a couple of wraps. His knees were going out whether his toes did or not. Yeah. And I'm like, well, yeah, we're kind of, we're kind of setting ourselves up to a trick to an an ortho here soon. Yeah. It's like just let your just let your knees follow your toes. And soon, you do that. Yeah. Yeah. There's no pain. I'm like, I don't know who told you that or why. But no, like so, so use the common sense and just find what works for you. I actually had seen that post to and I loved it because you do have to learn a lot, especially when you're following greatness, I'll say like if I were to ask all my friends, how to get bigger by some side of been screwed, just most of my friends have great by some. It's like, you know, they were going to have them no matter what. You know what I mean? It looks like going backwards and backwards, you know, if I asked Nicky how to have huge caps, you go, it's never trained them. Yeah. That's the secret. Yeah. You just a little bit of a answer. Shut your mouth. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I loved it. All right. I had another good one here that I wanted to pull up here that I thought was great. Let me find it real quick. We have so many. Oh, that was the one that I was looking for. The would you rather know when you're going to die or how you're going to die? I guess I would say that knowing how I was going to die would probably tell me when I was going to die. Yeah. So it informed you at least wouldn't it would inform me if it was a pretty good idea. So I feel like I also tell me who I was with. Yeah. That sounds like dusty might have been there for a second. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's uh, you know, the the when thing. I would not want to know that. You can do it. If it's like, if it's like, you're going to, your airplane is going to crash. But if they're like, okay, fine, I'm just not flying in your mind. But if it's like, you know, if it's like you've got a choke on a piece of steak or a piece of meat. Oh, that's a little oblique. Oh, blah. It's like I'm just not eating meat anymore. You know, yeah, you can do that. Right. You can do that. Yeah. You can do that. You can do that. You have a heart attack getting a hand job from a nurse in a nursing home. Like, oh, okay. I'm not doing that anymore. I'm all right. Yeah. Yeah. I got lots of things to do anymore. It's like, whatever. Whatever I want. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's a heck of a way to go out. You know, I'm happy with that. Let's get some. I knew this was how it's going to go. Yeah. Yes. You know, yeah, like you imagined if that's how to, you know, how to dad die. Oh, I'm a nurse in the nursing home. You're like, I guess it's when they just went hard at the back. If you know, when it just doesn't matter that, you know what I mean? Yeah. You could plan everything out. Like, you know, the sad thing is it's like the people you see who like worked their butt off their entire life and they never really got to have any fun. And they had all this money and savings. You would know, just get a little bit of a tire. Yeah. Exactly. Right. Like the end. Right at the end. I'm like, we got six months and I got nine months worth of money. Let's try. There you go. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I got nine months worth of money. I'm goated. Yeah. Yeah. I know. All right. I would. Yeah. That's a great question. All right. So this is a good one. And this is a John from my gym training partner on Sundays. The Mount Rushmore of Condiments. Now I want to let this go into off season and like I don't want diet. Because that's boring. So okay. I have it. Here's mine. Look, he's drinking. He catch up. Yes. Sure. He got free catch up. Terry Oki sauce. Mine soy. Yep. Hot sauce. What kind of hot sauce? Like just Frank's Frank's hot sauce. Okay. Okay. And I'm going to say, I'm going to say barbecue sauce, but it's like a Southwestern. Like a taste max barbecue sauce. Okay. Okay. That's my that's my. We talking like full sugar. None of the like. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The barbecue sauce. I'm a little flexible. And what do you have in your fridge? I'll try it. You know, I'm not I'm not going to be like civic on that. But I sort of like, you know, maybe a little bit of a text max barbecue sauce or Southwestern. I kind of like look for that on the label. You know, yeah. Yeah. A little smoky. Maybe. Yeah. So I've never been a fan of ranch stuff in my life. Like ever, right? And then I picked up this it's some sort of like, uh, it's like a ranch, like in a bottle that you squeeze, but it's like a condiment and it's so hot. It's like spicy hot with a spice that I've never seen or I've never tasted it before. And I like to put that on my eggs. It's like 15 grams of fat per table spoon. So you know, you don't like smother it. But like once I keep it in the fridge, and I go through a bottle about how do I get it? God. How do I get it? I never thought I never thought. I gotta tell you how to do it. You had me until you said I put it on my eggs. Yeah. I wouldn't thought do I would or another I would have thought I'd take that when I take the chicken wing that is not quite spicy enough, but I dip it in the spicy ranch. I'm like, yes. Yes. So I could see that too. I don't know why. I don't know why, but that and they have the, uh, the runs check it out. It's checking out. And the other thing I discovered is that Chick-fil-A sauce will be had. Oh, we let the Arnold and I'll put that on my eggs as well. Anything. Boom. That's a sauce can be on anything. That's. I never would have thought that. I always put my own sauce in a presence bro. Two more residents. Oh, Taco Bell hot sauce. You can get that in the grocery store now. And the other one would just be I guess sugar free catch up or like the no sugar added catch up. That's my day to day. Yes. So I back the sugar free catch up, of course. And by the way, I should say low sugar, not sugar free. Yeah. Why do they even make the regular catch up? Because it's the same. There are certain things where I hate when people go, oh, it's a diet cookie. It's good. I'm like, no, it is not. It's not. It's a saying it's good compared to a shitty cookie that's a diet cookie. It's a better shitty cookie. Yeah. Like, no, no, but in that case, it literally is more or less the same. So I don't know why anyone doesn't do that. So sugar free catch up off season or not. Soy sauce because I drown everything in soy sauce. I want to kind of like mold my presence a little bit here because I use taco sauce a lot, but I also love salsa. Can I call those one thing? Because they're kind of interchangeable. The kind of interchangeable. If not, if not, I'll give you salad. I'm doing all of this. I'll give you a slash. I'll give you a slash. Okay. I need a slash. Taco's taco sauce. Salsa. Yeah. Because I, I must dip chips. That is why I'm fat. For sure. And then, you know, earmuffs run. Rank. The white. Oh. I, we had this, you actually this comment came up out of the blue, which happens in houses these days. Suddenly, a teenager goes, what is the greatest sauce on the planet? I'm like, ranch, boom. And then I defend myself like I'm about to go to prison. But I did win the argument. So moving forward. All right. I got one for you guys. Yeah. I don't know if you'll be able to answer this because you'll see why everybody we know was kind of related to bodybuilding. But you, you had to have had a one answered back in, in your memory somewhere. He says, in from YouTube, when you moved in with your lady, what kind of things did you have to explain to her bodybuilding meathead wise? I, I was always, I, I always had, I was data girls that were already converted pretty much. Yeah. And that's like, you're already in the fitness, like, you know, already working out, already healthy, you know, picking up, you know, the right foods, you know, that sort of thing. I never really had to like explain myself. I don't explain myself, tiny women. I've never been in the habit of that. I'm like, this is what you're getting. I do this and this and this. I don't eat this. I do not have ranch in my fridge. We're not putting into the fridge. And yeah, I'm a bit of a pervert. So yeah, you're in your move in with you. They already figured that part of the way beyond their way beyond that's the reason that's the reason they're moving in. They're with that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Don't explain yourself. It's a slid of your little bro 100% because and I think that's usually how it works. But literally, I think the only surprise that Nicky would have experienced my first moved in was that I ate out like all the time. I was just like, that point of my life. I'm like, oh no, we don't need it. Oh, like that's there are five six meals in a day and only three of them are at home. The other three were out. So I was like, you're going to need to make another 50k this year to keep up with me. So let's go. You're a year counts like you spend just one grand at restaurants last year and you're credit cards like all business meetings. Yeah. I do a lot of business meetings at restaurants. But yes, that's the, I mean, outside of that, like I'm with you guys, it's nothing in body, really, and particularly things that most people would think come up. Yeah. You know, I mean, I just let or know that, you know, you're the first one that's not a nurse that's helping with this. Let's do it. Um, it's not a nurse. It's not a nurse. It's not a first one. He's not professionally trained in this. I'm like, now, but I'll go through. Yeah. I won't tell you that the Victorian moving in has definitely, it's brought the womanly touches to our home. She saw this meme the other day and it was spot on. It was like your boyfriend's house before you moved in and it was like a mattress with a cardboard box next to it in a clock sitting on top of it. That was my house. I saw the same meme as it was. It was like a clock and like a glass of what looked like. Hope. Yeah. Hold up. Yeah. On the nightstand. And it was on a cardboard box with an air match on the floor. And then it said, Bro's are fine to live like this forever. I'm like, yeah, this bank, my buddy. See what's like, block on the box. It just put everything in the bank. Yeah. The box works fine. It's a lot cheaper. Yeah. Yeah. If I don't like it, I just get to do it. But it's beautiful. I didn't need opposite though when I was when I was single, I just had a female friend of mine. Do when I house for me. I was like, you have this much money by my furniture. Oh, there you go. That's a route. That's around. So like if someone came in, but it was funny. Because I got called on it one time. So I came away. Like you didn't do this. You didn't do this. Mike. Yeah. That was completely staged. Absolutely done. What do you mean a oblong leopard carpet is not something you thought I would put here? Yeah. Yeah. You don't think I do that. Very specific artwork up on the wall. It's very, very specific. Yeah. I totally get you. No. I just sort of do my own thing. Emily just sort of like sort of like she sort of gave me this room. Because I'm like, this is, you know, going to be my podcast room. So I'm just going to put on my shit on the walls. She's like, oh, okay. Yeah. It's like your man came in now. You know what I mean? I'm like you can put whatever you want on the walls in the bedroom. Like you can hang whatever you want. I don't care. I don't care that's the deal we have. I used to have a couple of pictures hanging up and then they slowly but surely were moved and changed and now it's, you know, I don't mind. And then that's my bathroom. Like we both have like, you know, I let her have the on sweet to the on sweet terms and then I use the other bathrooms because shower in it. But I got all my stuff up on there. I got like concert posters on the wall, mounted in like my Bruce Lee painting on the wall and it's so my bathrooms like very me. Yeah. So got to have your spaces. Yeah. Yes. People come over and they go in there and they're like, that's wrong. It's bathroom. Hey. God. He was given this one. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Hey, I wanted to mention something before we go. Are we in the last five minute crew? Is this last five minute crew? Yes. Okay. Not bodybuilding related. It's cultural, cultural, a beautiful show. Oh, show is cultural. This is heavy culture. So have you guys noticed? I just saw them this. I just realized they were happening this week because I started reading the comments. Have you guys seen all the fake AI generated Joe Rogan clips? Oh, really? Yeah. Yeah. Oh, you know the YouTube shorts. Yeah. Yeah. So a YouTube short popped up the other day and it's Joe Rogan with a, a guess on and he's talking about this pyramid that they found in the Arctic and he's talking about blah blah blah, you know, 1942, something like that. And I'm watching him like I'm never heard of this. And then I'm like, okay, I'm a skeptic. But let me just like, and he's talking and they're like, it sounds very documented and everything like that. And then I looked down at the bottom. I realized it's not Joe Rogan's YouTube and it's not a JRE experience or Joe JRE clips or any. It's got like some other name like my like mind melder or something. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. It's not kind of stuff. And and then I open the comments and all the comments are like, wow, this should be illegal. This AI stuff. I hope Joe can find out who's doing this. This is really dangerous. These clips are unbelievably dangerous. This could get really out of hand. This is completely AI. This was never an episode. Oh, right. This is this was never an episode. He never talked about this. This is all like that sort of thing just filled the comments section. I was like, oh, shit. We're just getting because we're just getting fake stuff. And eventually at the end of the clip, maybe they try to drive into a web theater or something like that, right? Yeah. Then I saw another one and it was a YouTube video and it was Elon Musk on Bill Mar. And it's Elon Musk on Bill Mar talking one on one. But it's AI. And Elon is talking about an investment opportunity. So awesome. Wow. He's like, yeah, you know, I mean, if you just invest like say $200. I mean, within months, it's 5,000 and then it's this and this and he's talking about this investment. And I open the comments and everyone's like, this is this is really scary. There are way too many dumb people. This is brutal. It's got to be like, so I'm just like, oh, so I want to go back and investigate some more because like that one I actually just pulled up yesterday. So I just want to let people know like keep your eyes peeled and like it's can't create. It's going to get crazy. Yeah. I'm looking at it in newsweek article right now, controversial comedian Joe Rogan has spoken out after a series of fake versions of his podcast were made with artificial intelligence. Wow, that they appeared on YouTube. They're not showing the clips where they have a video there. That isn't saying. Yeah. Can we hear them to do clips for us? I mean, I don't care. Yeah, we're not showing it. Yeah. Yeah. Just do this funny. It's funny. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's just just do this funny. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Joe wants to be a guest on our episode without ever knowing about us. That's fine. That would be great. Yeah. We've got lots of hits that we had. How did they get Joe? Yeah. He just have like 30 clips of Joe Rogan, but you never see the actual episode. Yeah, a little like 20 second like laughs. We're all laughing together. Yeah. Yeah. And he's like, love being on the show. You guys are great. Yeah. I'm sure there's something we said the name Ron. So we can pull that right in. Yeah. Ron, you're the best. I told you, Joe says of the best. It's just more fun than have any lawn on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's enough. So yeah, just, you know, we got to be careful this next. This year is going to be crazy. Yeah. There's a lot. This year is going to be crazy. So what what what what do we close a show with? Make sure you got my name. Can tune in and some ammo. And my job business and watch what you believe on even though it's a video and it's right in front of your eyes. I think it's a living. We might not be here for you right now. This might not be it. None of this is real. No. Well, you guys have seen the thing about that Instagram model that's pulling in like 30 grand a month. No. And she's not even real. It's a guy. It's a dude. He's just a young kid. He's like in his 20s and he just A. I didn't Instagram model. He started her a page. And just has like kind of, of course, he can generate infinite content. He doesn't have to do photo shoots. So it's just generated. So he's like real after real after real of her just like modeling clothes and at exotic locations and just like she doesn't have to actually travel. She doesn't have to actually shoot. It doesn't have to exist. So he can just A. I generate like amazing photo shoots on the beach and Hawaii and then and then so then companies. So companies are paying her and the companies know that she's not real. But they don't care because the eyeballs are insane. Yeah. I've seen so many different weird fake things. I found this channel of these like urban explore kids and I see what they're doing now. But they make, they put things together in a way that's really tricky. What I never thought I'd do in this and they'll be like, you know, we found this tunnel so we went down into it and then it kind of cuts and then they're like, and it led to this place and then they go and then they like, and it opened up into this abandoned prison. You know what I mean? And then they're like, yeah. And it's like, but it's believable enough that it seems like it's actually happening. Funny thing is with the second Victoria saw. She's like, oh, I don't trust that. Like your brain was just like, triples above it already. You know, but like she doesn't, we don't believe anything. You know, it's like, oh, there's this beautiful, beacher, whatever, like a drone shot. And it's like, but it doesn't have place really exist. Yes. They skeptical boys and girls. Stay skeptical. No. Don't believe everything. Okay. Love it. Thanks again for all the questions and remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and bring them up. Yes. And once again, your support is really appreciated. I am mutant.com. Get your all in, get your ice of surge and everyone should get on the gear dusty 20, run 20. Of course, run 20. Run 20. Run 20. Big run 20. Big run 20. I remember the, I think big Patreon. Got the Scotts Patreon. So hit that up. Thank you. So there's our home support to think big bodybuilding network. And there's my, you know, who's dancing? All right. We're back in the day when I was big. I used to bench. I used to bench a lot of weight too. Oh, good stuff. Okay. Good one guys. Remember, it's just bodybuilding.

Of course our guest and drink shop for town Olympia Yeah, soon to be five eight nobody touching her see I'm certain to kind of talk like you're now Ain't nobody touch it Yeah Yeah, you know we rollin up on her See you Yeah I'm in that like offensive did I just No, I don't know she was laughing. I just won't be the pass. Okay. Good Oh yeah, my goodness I'm looking at it. Why don't you come and sit down but sure we got a microphone for Miss Olympia Where is the microphone's it on the chair? It's on the chair there and we got headphones for too Head setting up look at this Where is it like kind of like you get to like take a break for a few can you hear us check check We got the pose four time Olympia champion and Raya shot so Andrea the last time You were on the show. I was unable to make it for some reason I don't even remember why but you were on with dusty and Scott. Yes, yeah, and I was an on that day That's right. How do you take that day off the ball day? I was upset. I was upset. I like what do you mean? I remember it being like an emergency of some kind but I don't recall I might have been stuck in an airport Probably yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, he was talking gym off the ledge with the pineapple's and the pizza Oh, we're still like that. Kim we're still gonna we're gonna convert you in That's funny. So four time Olympia champ. I see you're wearing the 20 23 one So let's say let's just create a scenario here It's an emergency you have to leave You get to pack one back pack and you can only take one metal which one do you take the first one or the newest one? That's a question. That's a tough question question. I'll never have to answer I gotta say the first one. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I gotta say the first one I mean, there's that thing like the first we even know each one is different. Yeah, yeah, this one's real special At first one though, I guess the first one and I wanted on my birthday so it was kind of like Good not it was like everything in me knew like this is my day. Hey, here's a question for you Of your four Olympia victories which one was the easiest? I Think of the whole thing the prep the mental situation the actual day of the show which one was the easiest 20 It's a toss of between Noss and this this one 23. Yeah, and why do you think you think you just so in the zone and mentally? It was easier do you think you just knew you were gonna be super really almost impossible to beat how did it work? I knew that I gave just a little bit more to this particular rep because you just got smarter and better And I wanted to give more like the effort was always mass, but now it was more to Go to your coach and say can I die it with just this right extra three days and see how it goes Like we're all here to do it five days in the police, but I'm asking for more I'm like man. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's cool. You told me say listen If you start feeling like you know, you know the energy is just not there If we got to give you something we got to eat carbs somewhere, but I'm like no carbs I'm going to win I got to be straight You hit it hard though like at the end that last few weeks that last month Yeah from between the wings of strength show. Oh, yeah, oh That's what we leaner by the hour y'all's crazy. That was why what were you eating just fat free protein source That's it and Like what egg whites and fish and fish. Yeah, like fish and no veggies even at one point right So when you ask the coach to go on more fish Yeah, or days with no carbs no veggies little veggies do you egg whites? Oh, I'm an egg white. I get a once I get allow eight to nine weeks out than the egg whites go Why do you take them all you just rather have meat sometimes? They make me get a little more gashy. Oh, okay Yeah, so you know sometimes I mean for some of my reason like what I have the enzyme present is good But every blue moon and every blue moon because then I could take the enzyme away and I'm good But last year in this happened last year, which was I know it was like dang what what's what's missing? I've my stomach was just so upset and I had egg white raps. I found me a new Some nudity so I found these egg white raps. I got them from my ear and they're like no calories But it's just the egg whites. You can wrap it up like a sandwich right? I had two of them and I like oh It's something love like my moline egg white fish and veggies So I know it's not the veggies to moline that much. Yeah, so yeah, I mean I mean I crossed it It actually like yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, if I had to pick like if someone was like two months of one I would pick egg whites I think oh, yeah, I just have a hard time with I would like them I actually like them, you know, oh, yeah, yeah, like in for Well, yeah, I say that after six weeks I came home from the Olympian. I still got a few service officials in them like just don't many freeze I don't look at no fish. Yeah, yeah, but the next like six weeks like I did it But then I think go guess those at Sean Rae. Okay, my ankle started smelling so I'm like up go back on the fridge Back to it. Yeah, so here's another question for you So we we found it with the easiest win was Hey, were any of was there a particular the difficult win was there a stressful win or something where you had a hard prep Something came up was there any any win that what was the hardest win? Oh Twenty twenty one and twenty two And don't twenty one and twenty two. I mean I had the pressure of winning the first one from Twenty right the repeat and Repeat man as pressure people like oh, well, it might have been a flu You know, oh, we don't know if she's really that good Well, you know, she's it's all still so new somebody who come out of the woodworks and it was like I got a I got a black pressure Right I got a guy I check into hotel room Like I can't be at home. I got to get away from the food. I got to go away from the laundry I went straight to the hotel room. No, I still do that. Did you do that this past year? I did yeah, I still do it. I asked the year I found out that it works Okay, I literally removed myself from any distractions The only time I leave that hotel room is too tray with my coach and to do cardio That is it everything else is sleep eat and practice every team. Wow how it gets in those home Damn yeah, yeah, yeah, it was it was like the first defending up the title was like Damn, okay, I got to make sure that I'm bringing it and I brought it right but then the next year It was like okay, it was the height and that's when I started realizing I got to turn off the social media a little bit You know, they compare and they try to like okay, well, you know, so on so it's common They say they come and put a title and I'm like oh man, all right, yeah, you know people talking trash You know, it is and I get it I can do some with it. I can make you work and but I never like to show What I may be thinking I will go inward and do it right do my work and that's where I was like all right cool I had to find ways to apply much more pressure Much more pressure and I had a little bit of a scare I took in a little too much caffeine. I was too amped up Not ended up I think Scott. I told him a little bit about this. I mean that a point can talk my a cardiologist Just to make sure that you know everything was good So they was pressure there too. I'm like hey, okay? I was a little too jealous on the caffeine And I got a back off right so I'm trying to do cardio was like a touching go I want to slow down a little bit So what dose of caffeine is a little too much? It's over 300 At a time You're talking like one time. I thought you met your daily consumption was just getting out of pedal That too because I mean I would go and work out. I mean I love training and love working I'll just be an active But I would go and work out then I would come home and teach a class online and I'm taking more caffeine and have all the ladies Then I'm like trying to sleep then I got to go meet coach train there Then I'm like still got to do cardio before bed. I'll use I was getting there and then I heard you do a half scoop Or you have scoop half scoop. I'm like you know what dusty's method man It's fun but it's a more level day exactly right. I go for the level day is important to me now Reality is though if you need to go to sleep just go to sleep So thank God Victoria My my my God and right there she she walked me through You know some good tips on getting better sleep. I mean I add my mind Sometimes that it's hard turning off right when you when you got that okay I'm checking on the boxes or anything else I can do as you As you lay down to sleep and you close your eyes. It's like No And it's like okay, we'll be going to the tomorrow. Okay, we go into this tomorrow. We're going to that tomorrow And we're like you gotta make sure we do the abs this way. We haven't done this. It's like oh my gosh I'm working off four hours sleep Train and hard train and real hard. It was still training hard like everything What did you shoot that leg workout in Scott's basement when was that? About eight weeks out somewhere around there. Yeah, yeah, yeah because I was before the rising Phoenix So that at that point eight weeks out I was Because there's only five weeks in between the two said to be about four weeks out from The rise of Phoenix and she Yeah, oh yeah, oh yeah, oh yeah, oh yeah, oh yeah, oh yeah, oh, yeah, oh, yeah, oh, yeah, oh, yeah, oh, yeah, oh, yeah, oh, yeah The only way she knows that's it That's it She once speed Scott once been 10,000 100% even yesterday. I got I mean I always tired after I train legs like I got off the plane I'm like all right, here you go. Amy something unless it's a gym. We've got to go train right I'm like I'm tired I got done training. I was like I'm awake You know you used to stimulate your central nervous system when you train that hard. Oh, yeah You go in cans right people don't understand sometimes it's hard to bring that absolutely Yeah, it took a minute I had like like three hours before I was like ready to do after we saw you last night or when you go Yeah, but no, no before it was okay. Yeah, I was that was the same in our room I passed out immediately. I woke up and I'm like oh man. How'd you sleep just terrible Like I was up at two in the morning looking to the clock. Yeah, well, you train harder than I was that there you go I slept like a baby In that's supposed to rely on melatonin that much right people are like, oh melatonin I'm like you can really not supposed to take in that much because like you know your body produces it naturally Right, no, I want to throw anything off. You know naturally a crumpled with your body I want to ask you I mean with four Olympia titles and the physique that you have What do you think of the current sort of or how much attention do you even pay to the current sort of chat about How to actually train properly and what we should be doing and all that like Western are you are you into that or you follow in like You know the guys talking about mechanics and foot position and or are you just not like hey I know it works for me and I feel this and I'm just gonna do it I think some of it has a place But I think sometimes you can get so caught up into it You just forget do the basics stuff man Do the basics stuff. I'm about old school body good I'm not tell clients when I take a man I'm not that trainer that's gonna give you razzled apple tricks We're not about being jumping on boxes. We about to do straight up old school body good And we about to do T-bar rolls. We're gonna squat we're gonna leg press we're gonna deadlift Right, like just get the work done. Yeah, I got it all day I heard a great a great quote the other day I think it was Mike is really Is it tell yeah I think it was Mike Yeah, he just walked back. She just walked back Oh, no, but he had a great quote that I loved it was Everyone's worried about getting the most bang for the buck but sometimes he just got to get the most bucks They still add up I like that That's amazing. It's like well you're getting a 100% return on your 10 cent investment or You're getting a 2% return on your thousand dollar investment. I'll take that right? All that's like and that's like Yeah, so to make sense to me. You know what I mean look how efficient this is But it doesn't do anything. Yeah, yeah, so I How about we be efficient with this time? Right. I think these people get so caught up into the light You know these little Minus-view details and I asked okay, well how long are you trying to arm it to jump two hours? That's not a claim the fame It's so put on a jump You need to be an hour Get out of there if you're training and you're the way you need to be training you try Yeah, man. I get 40 minutes in. I'd be like woof. All right I know that to you you don't have an accent but to Canadian me I Just I just it's like it's right out of a movie My job business And I use it live on the farm so I get the best of both yeah, I can hear it No bullshit Like it's yeah, just it's it's great and I think that's probably one reason why I mean he'll tell you I've been training with my current coach Oh my god long time Showed out showed out to him let everyone know like who your current coach is John right Yeah, I have baby pro John Simmons. I mean you know he used to be with muscle mag Well, I'm old enough to remember John Simmons like Flip it through muscle mag and see the state like they'll photos. I remember when he was a pro Yeah, so when he came to the I don't know where I met him was at the O last year or the Arnold Black I can't remember but I finally met him because he's your coach and he came by and I was like hey, it like it was cool because you know I didn't see him in ages. Yeah, so yeah, and he's still is like we still just do the basics Yeah, yeah, we do we get really good at doing the basic stuff consistently. Yeah, right? I mean somebody's kids I don't know why they just figure oh we got to do all the time under tension and then we got to turn the toes out And we got to turn the toes in and I'm like Just just do it. Yeah, just just get the work done. You know what one piece of advice that Johnson and S. Gave me And this is like years back. All right, so John was the first real pro that I met Okay, and I was I did his show Yes, I remember that it was a spruce my first show It was John's show and I remember being in the gym. It was after that show But I was kind of in awe, you know because you didn't see a lot of pros in the gyms and I said hey John I I got the 90 pound dumbbells on the bench press And he said oh that's good, you know He said how many reps do you get? I said I got 10 reps so I'm gonna go over the 95 next time He said you know he's got instead of going to the 95s How about you take those 90s and you learn to get 20 with them? If you can get 20 reps with those 90 pound dumbbells I guarantee you that you're gonna have a bigger chest And that's what John's all about is just that he's doing full school training Really right and he hasn't changed. I mean he's a hard Marine. He's still in the same Yeah, I forgot about that. Oh my gosh. Yeah, I don't nobody knows how to be like they're never the same Ever the training stuff the training completely stuck It works. I got about that he loves the dumbbell squats for ladies So with me he said you know, I don't want you barbell squat He's like your legs are big enough if I let you barbell squat your legs can be bigger than what we can handle Right, he's like I'm like all right cool he's like but I will let you do godless squat Or like when some people call it please squat basically turn the toes out and you kind of just work more on the glutes and do elevate your feet He doesn't yeah, you don't need to yeah So I mean I'll do that and I'm like all right. Let's get into it. I'm how many reps you want? All right, we're gonna do 50. I'm gonna do it So the next that I'm like all right 65 Thinking my chest. I don't think I'm doing something. He like how about 70 I'm like yeah, stand by boss I didn't know he was going there 75 reps there we go Chocane Chocane. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, but I mean he's just he's really big on like doing a lot over time Right, he's like you know if you can hit 20 reps Anything upper body that you're probably in a good spot right before you start looking to and on a whole lot of heavy weight Right, he's all about mastering the form Right, what if you get into the tricks are you executed with good form now we can start talking about how you won't grow Right, yeah, and it's kind of funny like that's another situation where The old school has actually been proven correct the latest science We've talked about it the latest studies are showing that high-purture free occurs Quite evenly from the three to 30 rep range and they did say that and wasn't at the study said strength did go up more with the heavier weights But the hypertrophy continued all the way to the 30 rep range and you know you see some like I remember all guys when I was just starting out with the gym I remember they were like Chris Quatt and heavy. That's good. You're getting you know you're getting your your eight reps with three plates That's good. Yeah, but let's see. Let's see 25 reps with a plate and a half After that every workout Right, and I remember thinking like well, I want to get big Right, you know, but this is the old school guys that are like yeah, I don't know but it works Like they're just doing that. Why do you think that they they still kind of subscribe to that? Why do you still feel like they're such There people who are still very absolute about you have to do more weightless ribs Well, hey man I trained heavy and hard for a long time I was a Dorian disciple so I did very Dorian based training for a long time But every once in a while we do some 20 reps squats or some 50 rep leg presses or something and I would say that it's by far the worst Are you sure you're so are you sure, but it's just the actual like the actual set itself like the wind Yeah, well, 800 reps sets on the leg press are probably the most mentally like Because you know how mental focus is really easy for short periods of time Yeah, but if you make the set five minutes long your mental focus is now five minutes And and it just like every time you dial that up it just gets harder and harder Yeah, oh yeah, yeah definitely yeah, but I think that if you continue to work that muscle like that It's going to grow yeah your feed net right you're resting it right you get in the proper body work done is going to grow Yeah, it's like with it's the no brain or may not grow as fast Right, but that's where okay. I was still rather having and I asked some people like okay We're retired now people like John how did you manage to stay injury free? Right, and when they talked to me about things like that is like yeah, okay, even he hanging I talked to him two weeks ago He's like yeah trained to stimulate you don't have to annihilate Sometimes to take that stimulation big big yeah, you know I met Lee Haney in a restaurant a couple years ago and I remember I was eating my food I don't remember who I was sitting with for you there. No, I don't remember and I saw Lee walk in it was all by himself And I just jumped out of my seat and I ran over to him And and He was his waiting for a table and I just said Lee I go you're actually my first mr. Olympia because I started training in 1990 Yeah, so he was mr. Olympia So he was my my first mr. Olympia right that's how I see it like that was the era that I entered So I've to finally meet Lee was like really cool because I had met everyone but Lee Like I remember going through the checklist one time talking about I was like the only guy that I really have Met like I met Chris Dickerson and I met like you know what I mean? Samir but new and I met like pretty much everyone But I had never met Lee Haney and it was just like awesome to meet him. How often do you see him? At least maybe four times a year. Oh That's great. He'll limp yeah. That's awesome And he's still just his humble You just posted his show or something you did a show this year We had us yet a seminar down Not to mention he looks like he's 45 years old right? I'm like man you still got traps leaves to got shoulders I'm like man there's something to the old school man telling you and another thing Most people don't remember was that he won his first Olympia when he was 23 and he won his his 8th when he was 31 Wow, then he was out and then he retired with the windrys and still has no injuries and yeah So if you think of like who did it best? Ever the chart beat that it's right to beat that there's one person that does he only won one Mr Olympia title but I don't know Vampire himself yeah Around here somewhere I was taken what is white real ears That's funny that I use the word vampire the other day to describe him that's funny and I realized how many of us have used that word? Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah Yeah, because dude like I don't know I don't think we'll ever see another one like him no That long yeah, I love that I love that meme where it had a photo of Dexter every year his face a photo of his face every year Did you ever see that meme it was like I'm but it was like all 20 Olympians it was his face and it was like It was just it was hilarious, you know, it's like the same it's just got a little bit of gray right here That was the only thing Wow He had the eat to the other one he retired He had said but wasn't he was like he said though only thing and he's absolutely not going to be happy about when it comes to retire Is that he didn't have to eat so much? Yeah, that chicken and rice He's like that tired you know that chicken. Yeah I know I know I can only imagine like I remember he told me once that he would be very happy He'd been two meals a day. Yeah, he still says that yeah, and I'm like what what about you? What you love eat you much We're gonna see show when you know show when 789 10 Olympias and then we'll see your five years later She'll just be 300 pounds That can I gotta figure out a way to mistake That they bring back the master's Olympia think once every three years anything they're gonna do It's like those NFL guys at retire and they just get human this long one Dude you're not doing all the exercise right? We're just still eating that's where I'm like now so you know if I'll fall off season diet I had to like there's no way like that that's probably another thing that made the 2021 to 22 season a little more challenging All right man. You can't be up 30 pounds Yeah, too much yeah, cuz it's too much hard to work to get back down and then you know that means you're gonna need to die it longer He wouldn't have to die harder more fish and then the ship Nancy. I was like not for it I'd rather just eat and it's really balanced right I've got egg whites I've got steak I've got shrimp I've got turkey Yeah, so I'm not starving by 80 minutes. We're gonna sweet potatoes rice Got rice to them so I love the hot rice to you. I brought you guys some by the way You're gonna have some nice I brought more for you. Thank you. No, you know it's nice to have the variety But it's not it's still cut size Yeah, but the joy of it was it this last pass prep I got leaner faster By sticking on the off season plan Yeah, yeah absolutely it makes so much more sense so it is it's and I get one sheet middle week I'm gonna starve and you're not you're not the you're not the whole month of stairmaster off your prep Now during the prep I witnessed a During the prep I witnessed a A psychological trip That John has set up for Dreia And this is how it works, but if you tell her will it wreck it No, she knows okay, okay, I'll take my margin on her She didn't know where I'm going with this. I think so okay, so before she trains Just get ready for a workout John a lettery like one small He's a candy not only like candy That's not crap It's weird It's almost like it's like a diabetic glucose tab So excited boy it's like three grams of sugar. Yeah straight to the brain. Yeah Yeah, yeah the brain receptors just enough to trick them just enough Oh Scott's got a friend. Yeah, we both know this guy. He's a little while ago. I could tell when somebody's Michigan Scott knows everyone in Michigan It's a whole state That's like joy of having Scott though like he can he can film and I told him my man I really want you to be the one to film me because you know you're connected with my crew Like you know exactly what it is that you're looking at you know my coach You know just having him there. It just it like having him there may be feel really really good I went in the capitals moments. Yeah, and plus having Scott film you you're not just It's like one thing to have like a bodybuilding expert and a fan and someone who really knows But training but he's also a coach. Right. Yeah, so you know it's him must feel good like you know You know you're on track John knows you're on track everything, but you know Maybe he sees your two shoots in a row and he's like man. That's what happened. That's what actually happens Yeah, it was like dude. Okay. I just saw you two weeks ago. He's like man Whoa What's going on? See what you can handle to to see what you can handle like because they they cut the sodium early Really and and that blows me away What I would I could tell you I would look like garbage It took my sodium almost one of the hospital. Yeah time to my sodium I was one of the hospital. Yeah, so it just cramping everywhere and spasming But they're able to do that. Yeah, it's very as body response Yeah, and they get what they want on it. Yeah, yeah, yeah, and I mean He gets brutal with it like even took away some of my like organic Kiam pepper and he's like you know what? I really prefer you just be I don't like you just want to see suffer. He just want Like we we found out I was using too much pam cooking spray to saute my work to pan-steer my Fish I mean I was using half a spray bottle for every meal I was like too much. Hey was pretty much He was perceiving yeah It was crazy way I found out I'm like you know how it feels when you we're in prepped. He's supposed to suck Yeah, I'm like you know it I'm like I got a whole lot of energy for some of my reason. I'm like I'm cleaning the house I'm like I just had this fish about 40 minutes ago I bet you I've used too much cooking spray on this fish. How many calories in a whole bottle of pan Right 900 I'm less good. I get away Oh, yeah, but when we took it out with the 24 hours all the stuff was back and full force. I like okay The suck was back Yeah, there's like there's like five grams of lipids in your blood stream disappeared and it was like no Like man, okay, we're gonna we're gonna give you back that's lucky. You really Yeah, yeah, I got a question for you Being in the Olympia champion four times and all that and I know you use you do cardio heavily How how high does your cardio get again like what's a lot of cardio for you an hour an hour okay, so Can you think of a point What like what's it closest to ever gave what's it closest to ever came to quitting a cardio session? Never yeah, well, yeah, I'm not saying she did but I'm saying that internal conversation like Rock I don't talk to you know yeah The first Olympia first Olympia I had the really like I had to go back and finish So it was only 11 days in between the shows But I was I was tired. Oh, you mean the qualifier and the oh no between the rise of being ex Oh, rising for you. Yeah, yeah, and I mean I was I was so tired now I think in a back by mine. I was a little stressed too because we were still peak COVID time I was getting ready travel again. I'm like a nervous this is this show means a lot Yeah, and I was just so tired. That's what I first started noticing like you're in prep I was asleep and not the way I really knew I should have been And I mean I got there because at that time mine and muscle was still open So it was a little 24 hours if that was open because like John really wants me to do cardio before bed So that's the tricky part right doing cardio before bed for me like my body's ready Going to bed with my brain is like what I know Gosh, and it was like you know what I did 30 minutes on the treadmill I don't feel like finishing and I'm tired I could be so much more optimal if I can get some sleep Then I got done and I sat there for a minute. I was like you know what It's important Hey, yep, I cannot lead this building without finishing this And I turned around and got right back up to you. I'm like, I'm care about this walk and I just told him I told him I tried to be real honest with my coach Yeah, I didn't do hard cardio. I walked Right like I did I say it back good. I finished yeah, and he was cool with it But he was like you know I try to pry myself on giving the extra Right, so I prefer if I'm on the hit When I'm in bed, I'm doing hit the whole time if I can Right, yeah all 60 minutes. I'm like I'm hit But then I like coach Human human for a night I need a night also I like that mind and muscle gym that place was cool It was a really hardcore little space and they're gone now, but that said Drania does a lot of her training like we're talking misalmpia best in the world Trains at any time fitness I Do do I mean I assume that you're at I mean I'm assume that you're just being there every day It's a little bit of a different vibe at that particular any time. Oh, yeah Is everyone they do a lot of people there realize like you're a happy champion Yeah, I mean I think you know since my coach owns it We get a lot of liberty like you do right we get to say what equipment goes in there So yeah, it's a franchise right they tell you what how to design the box But they don't tell you what they put in the box So we got a lot of unconventional stuff that you wouldn't find at another anytime there like the vertical leg press I've seen it right and straight right. They don't carry a lot of stuff and a traditional time I had a friend that had an anytime once and he goes you got to see my anytime And I saw by any had a nebula leg press No, I feel a hat yeah all this time equipment and then he had like the basic kit that they made him order like all the pinloaded stuff was all cool Yeah, it was all like life and it's a pre-core whatever Okay, but then he had this other stuff like a row of prime row of all all this and some hammer plate loaded And everything it was awesome And it brings people in the door. Oh, yeah, oh gosh people come in and they're like whoa We've never seen anything like that's why We're doing this way That's the best now wish we could get some of that equipment that we have back in Germany Oh yeah, you like the Alexey equipment. Oh yeah, oh, yeah, oh, yeah, she liked that. Oh, she looks like she's gonna come strong My I'm not even sore champ. Oh, I broke I could barely raise my arms up with the shardone I was so sore like but man at equipment. I can't wait to get back to Kloan It's training in Europe is fun because you see these like when I first started going to Europe and seeing that Be like I've never seen this brand before and then you realize that's like an epic European brand It's an every gym And you start going to other gyms like oh like the old gym 80 stuff all that gym and everywhere Excellent. Yeah, you know all the you know the joke I made was like if there was a nuclear holocaust The straight six Engines right and Jimmy and all of the gym 80 It's your 80 cell line over So construction of the equipment is different you can tell yeah It's very heavy. Oh, it's very heavy. Oh, it's very heavy. Man. I did that vertical leg press over there in Scotland I do the vertical leg press all the time But that one man it was like instant glue pump Is the hammy and I was sore for four days. Oh, like whoa my heart legs blew up to like twice the size Try the end of that That's what it worked I remember I was there too. Yeah, I was there that thing you guys were going okay. Oh, we went back there. Listen as soon as we get there That's gold How's it good gym I like that little great you like we get some of that stuff over here that'd be awesome But you know the state is what it is a good stuff that we have like a down at powerhouse That's the spinners since the 70s. Oh, yeah, they weld it a lot of it back together It's a little bit of a tree done some of that equipment. I'm sure Lendor Lendor trained on some of that. Oh, yeah, definitely. Oh, yeah Oh, yeah, oh, yeah, oh Yeah, same powerhouse So I mean, you know she walks me in every time it's kind of like she knows she's like yeah It's reminiscent of she still goes there. Oh, yeah, she's home. She's right there. Oh, man. That's another she's so That's she's like the equivalent of Leigh-Haney to me. Oh, yeah, same. I think the same Still look forward to right right right. She just had two knee replacements back in 2020 and I'm like Wow, and I went down there to go see her we go on the dinner and she's like I don't know three weeks post up and like you're right, you know you want me to drive up a car I'll drive you. Oh, no, no, I'll drive both these now and both at once I used to work in orthopedics so when the doctors think though you have to be a good candidate for this Yeah, yeah, yeah, she just she does her I've had you know the mindset though I mean, she just still continues to like just wow me and then she walks in like I think her a few months later She's at her show. I'm guessing and she's got her heels on and I'm like Me, okay mama still Sasha in around She still looks amazing though. Yeah, she's still getting hit on down and joined the two weeks ago She said yeah this guy the gas station just rolled up on me Okay, all right She wasn't supposed to talk about that That the term rolled up on the road about I mean yeah, you rolled up on me. That's funny So before we roll we had some quick questions Answers to yes rapid fire Nothing to do with bodybuilding necessarily As most I showed us What is an item that is worth spending more money on Quality brand whatever what is an item you think it's worth spending more money any Jimmy equipment that this Oh, yeah, I'll be Jimmy equipment Jeff weather's cardio like you don't need designer purses you want good leg presses There you go if I had to pick between a two-out like designer persons, but Louis Louis will get shale for a good hammer straight Okay, all right, you can get a couple of leg preces for a Louis person. Yeah easy man That's what I was I kind of saved some of my luxury spending for later I didn't I didn't buy anything luxury or anything like fancy for myself until like at the third title There you go. I walked in the loose. I was like, ooh Wait a minute three-time miscellaneous That's the cost of that stairbail. I want yeah, oh no, let me think about this I was gonna ask you what you bought yourself the first time you were the first Olympia do you buy yourself a gift? Yeah, when he said third time That way, okay, okay, there's how we do it all right, opposite of the spectrum what's something? What's the one thing you regret spending money on you have? My Christian Louis Patons Yeah, yeah, they don't fit well They're sexy but they hurt the man my toes were screaming it I rather hairpired nine West There we go there we go There we go finish the sprays the way to my heart is That was so fast That was alarmingly fast. I'm still worried about you post retirement Yeah, I'm still a bit there's a little check-in You need to really think about this You got a couple you got five or five years left. I got seven to go seven to go Got some time you'll do 10 The check-in regularly okay promise me big bro, okay. I like like yeah I don't think this is an easy as an exit as you're thinking Parker has a surprise She's like lean forward Okay, all right what was your last impulse spy? Yesterday I was at the airport I brought some body body What's the body works buddy? Bath and body shot is shot and it was a strawberry Yeah, I was like oh in the airport spitting $900 for it Yeah, right well Well, but it's huge the worst place to shop It's like right there Work all right this one's a little more difficult but not going too far Would you rather travel to the past or the future future? What would happen there nothing back in the end and nothing fast she just checked the S&P 500 there You got and she looked at crypto prices and she'd come right back and she said dear raw was right time fat We are I was really on a pair No, it was same Say Brian checks in with Miss Olivia You want some month to be sure anything Are you coaching her? No, I'm just helping her not get fat accountability program Don't join us to do anything to do with it I decided to program just for her accountability like the off the wall question I do do that See but yeah, I mean true confession like I like food that's one reason why I went early on and my mom He's the first anyone else kid. I can't keep my I'm ready. We keep eating the bottle You're if I'm not mistaken I might tell like an idiot here But were you obvious you were obviously athletic when you were young right? Yeah, yeah, so you were there was you weren't like eating your way into a bad situation and then you found the weight room You were like you were tracking field or whatever you're doing like toss it Well, let me say I was in a good spot up until my sport of choice ended Then I got to a point where I was like oh man now what do I do Right, yeah the sport was not there so I started off in gymnastics. I don't remember oh gymnastics Yeah, okay, you're a little big for gymnastics now. Yeah, yeah, just a touch Still got a great upper body for gymnastics. There we go. I think that's one reason why the upper body develops so quickly Yeah, because that all those years of being you know the tumbling Oh, yeah, we'll be round-offs. Yeah, I was I still firmly believe I mean the while there's studies and approving it, but you know when you They say the ages I think it's like five to twelve. So pre-prepubry puberty Yeah, those ages have like a ton to do with your neuro muscular development Yeah, coordination and just all that metapolic setup and all that sort of stuff True and if people can they say that the worst time to get heavy is in that because it's so hard You're ready to change epigenetic change Yes, that's when you start to I mean you can kind of see early on what kind of shape or form the body has Right, whether you're echo more into more of mesomorph right and I think that parents should use that Like as a as a gateway, right, especially if they okay something you can't right we start getting a hormone stuff like Bruhlin and left and right You can't you can just start to monitor things but you still should always have them active in something Yeah, you know you've got indecret issues in the family right start to dig in into that and get them active But yeah, that was the prime time. I was in sport during that time and once I got to thirteen My mom started taking me to the gym so it was like there was a complete you know There's a smooth process going over but then it was like okay, you can leave me thirteen in the gym Right, I got it all hot and heavy You know, I was like, oh, I got a car I can kind of go in the want and I'm like, oh, you know, I'm starting hanging out school Oh my god, how go then I write the little freshman year and I was like whoa, oh, okay Yeah We got to step back Right, put the joints down the freshman freshman 15 turned out the freshman 20 Because your girl like biscuits I like girls with biscuits and gravy That's awesome yeah, but I got to a point where I was like all right I know that I'm better than this physically right it was just a matter of being in sport and It taught me gave me something to reference. I'm like all right if I could give myself like a hundred percent to this I could I could turn this around right now I got to take the range right there's no coach. There's no teacher making me do it I got to be under in doing what do you think is something that Maybe you did when you were younger. Maybe it was a gymnastics themselves or something like that. Hey Kenny I'm a coach yeah, that's center man. That's right. It's turned me pro Yeah, I'm sent him I've sent him I've had several girls higher him and get pro cards too So I mess up like anything. You ever get a chance you should talk him about how he started. Oh Okay, I had to know how we got the gift because he's so good Right You master this. No, I've seen him do a quarter turn him sits as pretty awesome There's a point of stoves and everything very spicy that one. I love you much I would not have gone pro without their man. Yeah, yeah, oh my clients Like can you help it pose you like nobody know who can that's right? Yeah, that's right. He gave me such a good foundation Good man. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I didn't record what I was saying You were talking about you're asking me was there something space in time as a youngster Where I recognize oh delayed gratification I mean we were talking I mean a very common topic now as they say the new generation as a problem with delayed gratification That's Instagram application right? Yeah, um is there anything that you can look back on and think huh? That was good practice for waiting for like you know what I mean waiting for it to come to me if I work hard for it like You know that delayed gratification quality and someone is just massively important Yeah, and I think now like we're gonna run into problems with a lot of people because everything's gotta be right now So it wasn't maybe the way you were raised or it was at the sports or anything that you can think of that That you think really contributes your ability to just focus on the task and believe the result will come oh Yeah, I would say I probably got a two-fold benefit from my mom and my dad so with my dad living on the farm You know, they we have that time where you plant But you don't harvest right away, but you have to keep going out there and I mean I'm nine years old And I'm going to 10 the field at nine at all the other kids are in it the pool You're enjoying some around around here at 110 degrees Plow it and pick and It's like man, okay, but it did to taught me you got if you really want to eat you got to work Right, it's gonna require something of you and at nine It was like okay, I get it right and because it was so different from city life Yeah, so different I was like we had to burn our garbage It was like you have to sort through garbage I'm a farm kid we used to burn our garbage Yeah, it changed me I got back to Michigan a completely different person I mean I would get the eggs up to chicken coop every morning my dad that was my duty every day So if you want eggs guess what? Yeah, you're gonna get a you're not giving that sit You can just wash your hands after that's it right and make sure the broom is back in his place If I didn't go get them you know if I was out of town or went to Bible college or something Or Bible school we had that over the vacation Bible school. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah Yeah, at least they knew exactly where to go getting because we had a little room that you lived the hands off of the eggs with Show them off and then you go get the eggs Right, but then when I got back to my mom my mom went back to school and I think her going back to school And she always told me because after my dad passed away she's like listen I'm gonna get you what you need But you're gonna have to give a little bit more for the things that you want Right, and she was very clear about that I'm not here to create a school brat out of you And I'm all right cool. So I went got a job I'm gonna get you that's a quote in a day. I'm gonna give you what you need But you got to get what you want that's it. I love it. That's it. She still sticks My kids are so pissed you I'm not a drain sorry I'm not a drain sorry And if you really break it down shelter food water that's it. I provided your basic essential needs Everything you else you want Go work for back when I get home. That's it. Oh dusty dusty needs to read that doesn't mean that things can't be earned Yeah, four oh because me a mom we listen. I became the great negotiator Like I got all a That's working a different way What what can you give me yeah? I think this work now what's the payment on this? Let's just talk to about you know some some things that aren't available I get back that up She did she did a pretty good job with making sure that if there was something that she could do for me getting good grades at school She would make sure that I earned it Right, that's awesome. I got one more for Andrea absolutely. I love it. I got asked is on my story and I was like, oh It's actually a good question because I I wonder what year is it doesn't it could be anything but what's your biggest In your whole life Biggest fan girl moment Oh that's a good one. I remember what you met me Star yet was it 12 years old a back street boys concert or was it? I would have to say it's probably the first time I met Jay Really I mean I met Jay and I was like wow Because I mean let's be real nobody is doing it like Jay is doing anybody is the king. I still look up to Jay Today like when I look at Jay's work ethic I like Jay's got his hands is so many different pies and by the time I because we got a friend day Believe her man does the show down in Ohio and that's when I first met Jay and first I'm like okay Jay Let me just talk to you. I'm missile that be now I'm don't shoot you straight What is it that you doing what kind of advice can you give me right for me to take and really live by to be successful in this And he's I listen don't switch up on people You started out one way don't switch up on people Right, he's like you know if if somebody had me They bite me down and I wasn't charging in then. I'm not charging them now Right, he consistent. Yes, or you build the relationships in his industry the better off You're gonna be because they though relationships themselves will serve you that's great Don't switch up on people switch up on so Jay Yeah, that's completely Jay that's so Jay and it was like wow, but again Jay Jay need more money Let's be real. Yes. You know what not one person has ever said to me that Jay Keller's changed You're right. He's always been consistent. Yeah, always and now it all makes sense You know to me yeah, I mean if for him to give me that piece of advice right it was like once I started to really embody that Mutant came along grindstone came along right wings of strength added more you know things that they wanted to do It just became a recipe for or an equation to just be successful right yeah Don't switch up tell people what the expectation is early on. I mean obviously if it changes right You need some some different things from them. You talk about it. Yeah, but do your best not to switch up And I think that's one thing that when I did meet all of you I got the same vibe and every time I wish all everybody's still the same All right, we all still work the way we were when we started I went more mature right in certain ways some of us But yeah Jay me need to scold and every now and then mama show over here Don't go on I have news for you He does dumb stuff on purpose just so you'll scold him Okay No, they're engineered no, they're first engineered No, we need to impress he likes for me to entertain him Milo see you we are gonna have a chat my friend I want you to do some very strange things with his diet That's incredible. I'm so happy that I got to chat with you like this because like I said I missed the episode And I remember being like pissed because I was like It's an Olympia champ Yeah, they brought me on a life. What do you mean he's not here? Yeah, I'm not gonna be here either Yeah, no, he's in my guy. I'm not gonna do that too. Yeah, no, that's awesome So yeah, thanks for coming on. Oh, any time I helped to sell to law. He's ready for Germany. Oh, mate. Wait. You okay? I got you okay first We're doing balls you okay first Yes, because you weren't there last year We got to have so many we're doing Germany. Oh my gosh We'll talk I'm in brushing up on my German. Oh Wow, you said my word you need to learn Help me all send you a little yeah, I'm doing a little doodling go so I do one session a night That's a phrase you need extra me No, the big steak One coffee. Yeah, yeah, we'll get it for you. Yes, okay? Thanks Yeah, thanks for joining guys For a time, Missile roll right into number five. Yes. Are we gonna wrap the show up? Are we gonna wrap this up? Do we have anything else? No, I think that's a perfect show We don't want her to get up and leave we Stop it. I'll show it. You know when you're watching the Definitely stuck with me. Remember when they watch remember when you'd watch like a letter Menor something and the guest would get up while he was still exiting the show and then like walk away And you could tell Dave's like stay till the commercial No, yeah, like you could tell they're just nervous so they're like I could get out of here Right, we didn't say cut. Yes, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, no, but it's great to have you on a draft and Or we're doing another one later or tomorrow. What are we gonna do stuff? I hope you're doing one later We've got a new new beyond board. I really want you guys to I think we gotta we should get we should get everybody Yeah, you know bring everybody yeah, yeah, we'll pump up you up That'd be good and now that we got it working we could pump him out we could wrap it fire If we want to so yeah, yeah, yeah, I'm gonna have you that okay, so I'll do the wrap up Okay, remember I am mutant calm 20% off dusty 20 big run 20 For Olympias or my promo code And remember get your all and get your eyes will serve and everyone should get on the gear Remember like share subscribe comment and There you go Scott the producer dusty hand charm myself big run parlor and of course our guests and drink shop for time Olympia Soon to be five eight nobody touching her see I'm certain to kind of talk like you're now eight nobody Yeah, you know we rollin up on her I'm in suddenly offensive did I just I don't know Okay, so thanks everybody and remember it's just body building

Green beans, like 100, you know, a couple hundred grams of green beans and I'd steam this out of them, right? And then I'd put two cans of albacor tuna in the mash it all out of the pot. That's disgusting. Right? Then I would take, like, how many grams I had, say 50 grams, of those mini barbecue rice cakes? And I would just dump them on, that's just mash it all up. Yeah, texture and flavor. It's he had like this crunchy barbecue tuna, the like casserole sort of thing going on. And I would just, you know, the judges sandwiches. He had just sandwiches. This guy just got sick. Hey, everybody. Welcome to it's just body building. Of course, we got Scott McNally, a producer, dusty handsha, my co-host. How's it going guys? Like share, subscribe, comment, and bring them a bell. There we go. Make sure you're bringing a bell. Make sure you're bringing a bell. That's the best, the best way to totally, yeah, one or three times. Yeah. All odd numbers are your only options. Okay. Yes. And remember, of course, we got a lot, we just had it. Let's just give them the recap. We had the little mutant we care. We got a shout out to mutant. Thank you for making that live podcast possible by bringing Scott up. Dusty was already coming up to shoot all that content. But they thought, you know what, if you're going to have Dusty up your jam one and we bring Scott up, and you guys can do a live show and we'll just have fun with it. You know, it turned out really well. It was happy with how it went. No technical issues. Everyone was on board. Lots of people listening. What did you think Scott? It was cool. It was like a wild four days of heading up there. And usually any time I've ever made a trip, it's something I'm planning for months and months and advance. And this is like we talked about it on a Monday. We got the tickets. And then I left Sunday. So like it was incredible, man. That was really cool. And it was cool to see how everything worked. Like just just the whole thing, man. I made a video of it because there was just so much to talk about with my personal experience. I just shot, you know, on my phone through the whole thing. And I put that together. And I I sent it over to George because I wanted him to see it first before I put it out. But hopefully that'll be coming out right away now. And it's just like a little serious like a corporate editor or something. Yeah, exactly exactly. I just wanted to be safe. You know what I mean? I'm a guest. I guess, you know. So I didn't want to overstep anything. And can you cut out the scene of like Dana, you know, whipping this thing around? None of that. None of that. Yeah, again. It was cool, man. It was cool to see a look into like the world of what you guys do in an event like that. Like everybody was awesome too. Like I walked into a house full of people that I didn't really, I mean, I knew you guys and I know Jamie, but you know, like the whole group I didn't really know. And everybody was like super friendly and having a good time and just really professional too. Like everybody really knew what they were doing. So I had a great time just being a fly on the wall for all of that. I feel really grateful that I had that opportunity. Yeah, I'm not really sure like, you know, I've been with mutant for so long and we've done so many shoots and you know, I don't really know how other people do it anymore. Like, you know, I mean, putting everybody in the same house so you have that sort of like, you'll get in a big Airbnb with all the bedrooms and put everybody in the house and having everybody cookin' together. And it really does like generate a team, a real team feel. And you know, they didn't like, you know, dusty and I said, you know, they could have scheduled us a little harder. You know, they could have worked us harder. But also too, you know, they, they, they got to, you know, with those types of trips, you got to have like those, you can't pack the day too much because you're gonna be running 10 minutes behind on everything. You know, like, yeah, if you, you know what I mean? Like, you know, if you just brought up one athlete or two athletes, you could probably plan to shoot that out of them a little bit more. Yeah. But with all those moving parts, you know, I guess, you know, like, because dusty and our, you know, dusty and sandy is like, yeah, I'd quite a bit of free time like you did a lot of shooting. There was two things that day to shoot. But there was plenty of time to get your needle in, have a little nap, relax, you know. We weren't overworked, you know, but it was a lot of fun. Yeah. Yeah. It's cool. So just to like give everybody a rundown on what I saw, it was like, you know, there's this big, beautiful home where there has enough bedrooms for all the athletes. It's definitely run because we were in town in Vancouver. So Ron got to sleep at his own house. But you came over all the time and hung out. Yeah. Yeah. And, you know, everybody just wake up in the morning and do their own thing, make their food. They mutant took like grocery lists from each athlete and they shopped for all that food. And by the time, I, so I was there for like four days. And they had shopped at least a couple times while I was there restocking everything. And it was just like everybody, you don't get their food together. People doing coaching, you know, and their computers, me and Jamie were up at like 5 a.m. working on our computers and stuff. And then, you know, just everybody packed up in the cars and drove to the gym. And you see multiple shoots happening at once. Dusty is doing this video. Wow, Shelby's doing these photographs. And then, you know, there's a team training video over here. And it all kind of happened at the same time and break for lunch. And then again in the afternoon and then go out and have some food and stuff. It was, it was really cool. Obviously, though, a lot of work, too, for for everybody, you know, but it didn't, it didn't seem like anybody was having like, it didn't seem like work for anybody. You know what I mean? It seemed like everybody was having a blast. That was a really fun time. Yeah. Yeah. I'm really glad with how it went. And what did you think of the gym? I mean, you'd been at West Coast before, but then a couple years. So I don't need a number. It's all right, I guess. I don't think there's been a lot of changes since you were in before. I don't even, I don't even remember like, you know, how long ago you were in or what equipment you changed. You knocked out a whole wall. You knocked out a whole wall. You knocked out a whole wall like behind the stairs. Like there's a whole other section now that you're filling up with equipment. And there's people training over there, people training everywhere else. The upstairs was bigger than it was before. I saw that as well. Just, I mean, there was so much more space and more equipment. You just had, just, it was nonstop, man. You know, and you had everything split up early in these two. Like, off by the window is all that leg equipment. You know, how to like a bunch of back equipment by itself, chest equipment. You could see the method to your system. And it's always changing too, right? Because like that last day came and you're like, oh, yeah, we just had a new piece brought in over here. We're moving these pieces out. I'm selling the, you know, the prime row and all that. You see that one, that one piece was on a pallet. Did you see it on the pallet? Yes. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. You know, ready to ship. Yeah. It's always something going. Yeah. So coming in going. It was cool to see how it's developed, man. It's, it's definitely. Yeah. And the energy of the gym, too, you know, it's, uh, the, the, everybody was so excited. Plus we got to meet listeners that are at the gym. I wish I could have met more. I know there was more in the evening. And I wasn't ever there in the evening. So, you know, and you get a chance. But I will be back. There's no question if, if not with you guys, I'll be heading out there with Victoria at some point. And yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's definitely a destination. You know, if you haven't been to West Coast, Iron, it's like, you got to check it out, you know, and I would suggest training at prime time, like five, six p.m. to really see what that energy's like. Just to see all the listeners, right? Yes. The listeners. That's what we're calling them. Those ones are listening. Uh, does he wasn't listening to what I said? He was busy. He was busy. I forgot what I was supposed to be doing there. It was the weirdest thing. No, it's, what are we doing? No. Oh, yeah. The body is all right. Yeah. It was really cool though because the one thing that's nice is when you go to a gym with experienced members. I mean, we're in the way. Yeah. Yeah. Like there's, there's three shoots going on all day, five days a week. You know, I mean, we break here and there. But I mean, we're talking, you know, no less than eight, nine hours of shooting going on in the gym. And the members were, you know, they were awesome. There was never a point where I was like, you know, when you know you're in the way versus when you feel like you're in the way, I'm like, I never felt like God really had to gather here. Like we are these people up. Which was great because they were very, you know, not just the, not just your owners, not, you know, but also the members, just thinking about it for a lot of people who don't know or don't care. Yeah. You literally disrupting everything being there. So, you know, it's, it's one thing. I don't think a lot of people understand when you come into those as how appreciative you need to be. To the owners, the staff and the members because, you know, when I'm taking up a corner to do, you know, shoot new clothing or whatever, it kind of sucks. I because they'll wait. And then they'll look at you and you're like, go ahead and then they go in and do a set and then they step back out, you know, we got, we got really lucky, except for Joe, which is an old climb. I mean, he spent hours on one in machine. I was like, whoa, I got to say it out loud just to give it, I was literally laughing. I was 35, but that's on an inclined press. I mean, I got, he's got big tits. I guess it's working. What are you going to do? There you go. There you go. So, but it was fun. And I'm glad you got to see you guys got to get somebody a hard time. I have to. Why did in person, too, but it's better to publicly do it. Yeah, that I know that more than three people listen, there you go. But it was cool that your perspective Scott, because you do, it does become something you just do. When Ron and I show up, for example, you guys a laugh about this, but when I went for that year away from you and I went to condemned, they were sending me like tax before I flew into town. We're going to do this. I'm going to do this. And I kept saying, yeah, okay, okay. And they had two athletes that were new come in before me and they filmed all us like one at a time. Yeah. And then like the night before like the night that I landed, he said, right tomorrow we're going to do like a product review and I need like one minute on this or 30 seconds on this. Like, yeah, and he was kind of laughing at me because he just watched multiple people fumble through it for two days straight. Oh, you know, then you hand some mates, but I'm doing it for 12 years and everything was one take and he just looked at me goes, oh, okay. I'm like, yeah, I've been doing this longer than they've been bodybuilding. It's fine. Right. How do you do lose track of how exciting is, but Scott, you actually made it more exciting for me because just watching you like on the in the airport because you left before me, yeah, I got a little more amp to go. I was like, this is so hard for God. That's cool, man. You guys are both really good at that, too. And I think it is something you can learn. Like, I know that I, you know, when when I first started podcasting my ability to communicate it was different, then it is now, but that said, I do think there's some some natural ability involved there, too, in the way that you communicate, you know, and I think you guys both have that. It was cool because I got to see that firsthand in, you know, like I've said before, I watched mutant on a mission, like long before we even knew each other around, like before you knew who I was, you know, and I got to hang out and watch the next mutant on a mission from one of them for the season, get filmed at West Coast. So I actually have some of my footage is like behind the scenes where Ronstein and their talent dusty, he's like, okay, you know, you can open it up how you want, you know, do what you want. I just want to make sure we get around the gym. You guys kind of game-planned it together and then boom, like one take and you're just, you just say what you're going to say, you know, it's like, you guys have a good, good skill at that and you've spent a lot of time developing it too. So I can see how it might look easy, but it was nice, it was fun to watch it unfold, I guess is what I'm saying. I think one of the main things that you have to do when you're on camera is you have to realize, well, we're also have the luxury of look who is shooting us. I mean, we had Schmidt films who's awesome. He's cool. And then we had Nick and Constantine out from Texas. Those guys are great. Yeah. So those guys are all great editors. They make great videos. And so I think a lot of newer people, they stumble and fumble and they, oh, stop. Wait, I'll redo that. Oh, that wasn't good. And they keep breaking their pace to review and read. And because they don't realize how good of editors these guys are. Okay. Like, yeah, you don't, you don't have to be perfect. You can just flow. You can just like, you can be talking and then you can just go into the next. You can just change topics mid sentence. That would be in the video. Like they'll edit around. Like, you don't have to be so worried. Just relax and have a conversation. Yeah. And you know, I said some stuff where I was like, Teneco was like, oh, actually, that wasn't accurate. I misspoke there. And he's like, outcut it. Like, yeah, he's like, you know, like, don't worry about it. So if you just relax and just let conversation flow and just let them worry about the edit. You don't have to deliver perfect descriptions of everything to them. You know, yeah, walk around the gym, bullshit with dusty talking about equipment. And I'll just see how it turns out. When you got to hand that stuff off to someone, right? You can't try to micromanage that before it's even edited, you know? Yeah, that's a good point. People are scared though of how they're going to be seen or perceived or, you know, and I think that that holds a lot of people back. Even even people who aren't doing what you're doing. Let's just talk about making an Instagram reel or something. You know how many times a guy is trying to teach you how to do like a simple pull down. And he doesn't ever get that video out because he's like, man, I just look stupid. You know what I mean? I feel uncomfortable doing that, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. It was wild. It was wild. I asked, I asked George about how he knew that you would be a good fit for mutant when you think. I didn't get that on video. It would have been a cool little clip to add in my little vlog. But he had said that you, you just have a way of talking to people that he met you, you know, you guys talked and then he saw you again later that evening and then there was like, Kai Green and then you're just like, hey Kai, how's it going man? And you're like, hey, what did you think about how they portrayed you in a generation of you? Yeah. And then he answered and then a little while later you saw a fill. And then you're like, hey, what did you think? And it's just you just got them talking about themselves and that you put people at ease. And he said that because I was wondering, like, what did they see in you to get you connected with with with the company? Because you could have been, you know, the had that not happened. You could have kept doing what you're doing and not been like big round part, well, that you're today, you know what I mean? But it's cool to see that. I have a habit of accidentally interviewing people. It's awkward with just our waitress. I'm like, why are we doing this? Let them ask me where they can. So how was your summer? What'd you do? Do you know what? It's not just true. Well, I'm glad that we went well and we got it all done. And the members were awesome. We didn't even like, you know, you're expecting someone to complain like, how long are these guys going to be in here? You know, like, you're expecting at least one of those. But we had none. But everyone understands, like they see, you know, they know that mutant is a local company. First of all, so they know that and they know that mutant, you know, has like, they, you know, they see, they're part of the juice bar, like all of our shakes, you know, we primarily make them with mutant. Because they, you know, they sponsor the juice bar. And they know that I have a relationship with them. And, you know, there's, there's several other brands like any brand that's on our shelf. We're very courteous to them. Like, we let them all shoot at the jam that's, you know, that sort of thing. Gotta have those symbiotic relationships. So, you know, it just works out and the members knew what's up. They all know what's up. You know what I mean? They're happening to some action around the gym. And I think a lot of people understand they're like, you know, they're like, oh, well, this is good for the gym. And this is my gym. Yeah. So there's like a pride to it. You know? It's good for the gym. I train at, you know? You know, it's, you see it as a positive. So yeah, it's awesome. Fun. You know, it's all fun. So, what are we, well, what else we talking about today? I do have some questions. Cool. I don't know if we're going right into questions or if you had some YouTube questions, you wanted to pull up or if we're just going to dive in. I have a couple of YouTube questions. I didn't, I didn't have a topic to. I did a topic. What's your topic? Look at you. Have you guys been on chat GPT yet? I don't even know what that is. Okay. It's the, it's the AI, the artificial intelligence that was uploaded to the internet a short time ago. I might have done. Yeah. And you can go on it. You can talk to it. And it's not, it's not perfect. Obviously, it's the early stage AI. I don't know how earlier, whatever. I don't know any that shit. Don't come at me. But what I do know is that it's pretty crazy to have some fun with. So it has access to the entire internet right. It's, it's an artificial intelligence that can read the entire internet. So it does get the odd thing wrong. Like, because, you know, it just, it can't put everything together perfectly. But it is pretty amazing to play around with. So for example, I, I asked it to write a song in the style of AC DC about owning a gym. Yeah. And it just spit out a song that is so great. And I could literally, as I'm reading the lyrics. And of course, you know, when you read like random lyrics that have no music, it all lyrics always sound cheesy, right? Yeah. But because because I asked it to do it in the style of AC DC, I was sort of like, I could kind of hear like, I was kind of trying to put like some music behind it as I read it. Yeah. Basic, you know, typical 4 4 B, you know. And I was like, wow, it did a pretty good job. Like, right. You know what I mean? Like it did a pretty good job. It was like pump it up slam the iron. Like it was like the, the lyrics all rhymed and there was verses and choruses. And, and it was structured the way an AC DC song would be structured, you know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. And then so I asked it to do one in the style of Metallica. And it came out, looked very similar. Verse chorus, verse chorus, you know, bridge, a stroke, you know. But the lyrics had a different like they were more Metallica. You know what I mean? It was just funny. Like I'm reading the lyrics. And I'm like, these are words that had field would use. Like it was, it was just, it was different. And then I asked it to do one in the style of a rock ballad. So I said do a rock ballad about owning a gym. And the first line is like standing at the door with my heart and my hand welcoming the members in. Like, and it just writes to a song. And, and it was really crazy. And then I asked it. I said, hey, write me a workout in the style of Dwayne the Rock Johnson. And it just spit out a push pull leg split that had a bunch of stuff in it that's clearly like you know how the rock gloves belt squats and the rock gloves is 20 rep safety bar squats and the rock loves, you know, certain exercises they literally had no kidding. Like belt squats were in there. So it hit, it's gowered the internet for everything that the rock has ever put out the regarding workouts. Wow. And it wrote one up. Wow. And it was actually a pretty good workout too. Like it wasn't dumb. Like it wasn't stupid long. It was actually a workout I looked as like you could give this to somebody and they'd do okay on it. Like it's, it's a workout. So it's push pull leg. It makes sense. Everything's there. And then it even had a little thing at the bottom. Please consult a physician before exercise. Like if you're in through that in there. That's wild. So yeah, I am familiar with this. I used it to mess, I messed around with it as well. People YouTubers were talking about using it to write their scripts. So I punched in like, you know, write a script for the costs of doing a bodybuilding contest. And he just had like this whole, you know, if you're considering doing a bodybuilding podcast, there's a little or a contest. There's a lot of costs that you may need to consider. And it just, like, listed them all out. Yeah, it's crazy. Yeah. And you can, it's it, so people go, oh well, how was that different from Google? It's, it's completely different. Because Google simply gives you links and access to information. This, you're having a conversation with this. Because you can say, like, I asked it to write, I was just thinking of like random stuff, right? I was like, uh, write a punk rock song about driving across Canada. Yeah. And it wrote like these punk rock lyrics like, you know, jumping in the van, cranking the tunes, we're head and know, like, it was like, you wrote a song about driving across the country. And then I said, but it was like long and had like three verses and everything. And I said, making a lot shorter. That's all I put. Yeah. Make it a lot shorter. And it just won't shrunk it down to two verses and a chorus made the, made the little bit faster. And then I said, add more psychedelic references. And it rewrote the song and it put in a line about making sure you got a ball on and your mushrooms. Oh, my god. Like it's like, you know, got my baggy of shrimps and my balling in my hand. Wow. And it dropped, he's getting in the van to drive across the land or whatever, like, it rewrites song with a psychedelic reference in there. And then I asked it to add a reference to Empire Strikes Back. Of course you did. First of all. And why would you not? It rewrote the song and it added a line. It added a line about running from a bounty hunter. I was blown away. That's why I was like, of all the references from Empire Strikes Back, it figured that one would be the best one because we're driving across a country. Like, it decided it could have wrote written a reference to any part of that movie. But it picked a bounty hunter part, right? Real sophisticated. I just saw it was crazy. You can do like this conversational stuff with it. Yeah. And it, and so my point is that people are already getting laid off apparently. Oh, no, it happened. These laying people off because you can say, like, I used to sit at my desk at mutant and they'd be like, hey, Ron, we need some new copy for ISO surge. We've got a new ad coming out. Okay. Some, we need like, you know, we all paragraph about this long and then some key phrases for the new ISO surge flavors. Yeah. And I'd write stuff up. Like, you know, are we going to use a word creamy? Or are we going to use the word tasty? And you have to decide like, which words are we going to use? And you're taking time to write this copy. Yeah. But you can just go write me a copy on a delicious tasting way isolette protein. Yeah. And I'll just go, you can just copy paste and it in. Yeah. No, make it shorter. You know, make it longer. Make it shorter. Change one word yourself edit it yourself handed in your done 10 minutes instead of sitting there for an hour. So there's people already. They're like, yeah, we don't really need you anymore. Sorry, bud. Yeah, I could totally see that that's wild, man. Yeah, I had it right one about some a gluteide to see what we'll have to say, right a speech about some a gluteide. And it popped one out. Three paragraphs. I'm going to say, uh, make that longer. And it popped it out. No, it's five paragraphs along. It's like, wow. And I read through it. And I was like, okay, this is all legit. But then there were some things you couldn't do. Like I said, um, semi gluteide for body builders. And they said semi gluteide is for, you know, insulin control. It's for a diabetic medication. Body builders would not benefit from it. Right. Right. Okay. Okay. There we go. So so there, because I was looking for how to break it, basically, you know what I mean? Definitely. So they have discovered there is definitely some, I don't know if you'd write them as safety's written in or whatever, but there's some bias written in for sure. Yeah. Because one guy, one guy on Instagram, he, uh, he put up a post. And it was, what was it was a screenshot of him asking chat GPT. What are, what are five things white people can improve? Okay. And it, and it listed five things. It was like, what were they? I want to know. And you know, one was one was a canic knowledge. They're privileged more. And then the next one is they can share space better or whatever. And then he said, what are five things Asian people can improve? And the answer was, this is not a fair topic. This is not, it's not a productive to have conversations about people like this in this way. And then he asked it about how to study people. And it gave the same answer. And then he asked it about black people and it said the same answer. So wouldn't list any criticisms of anyone bought it, did list criticism to the white people. Oh, really? Um, yeah. And then, and then I asked it. I wanted to play with it. So I didn't give it an opinion. I just gave it a topic. I said, write a song about mask mandates. Okay. Say, I didn't say good or bad. Right. There's just think of all the information on the internet about mask mandates. I figured it would be able to pull something. And it said, uh, it's not a good idea to divide people on topics that could result in death or something like that. So it wouldn't write a song about mask mandates. Maybe I could word my question just right. And I could trigger it to actually, I don't know. But but there's certain things that have been written into it for sure. Somebody is got their own little. Because, you know, in my opinion, an artificial intelligence should just literally be giving you straight up facts. Like, yeah. Like, oh, you want a song about personal source? Okay. Here's a song about purple dinosaurs. Like, it shouldn't have opinions. But it's definitely some opinions built into it. So it's, it's not dating. Let me ask you this. Dusty, if you were to write something right now, well, like, if you were to think of a topic, you would like to have something written about right now, because I'm sitting here at Jet, Jet, G-P-T. What would it be about? Oh, man. Any, any random talk it to me is it would be I'd like it to get some questions. No, you know, it's funny. I would go deep in that, because I would like to hear a topic that I didn't know a lot of the answers to, like, you know, for example, I just started that David Goggins and he reached the book. I would love more information on what makes him a super freak. Because there's a lot of things beyond just what he tells that they're out there. I think that I haven't seen. How do you spell Goggins do it? G-O-G-O-G-I-N. Okay. Oh, also you can make, you can make like small spelling mistakes, and it'll still understand you. Like, it doesn't make you correct them. That's great, because I'm terrible at spelling. Let's see here. You could say what makes David Goggins such a super freak. Let's see what it says. It's doing. It's doing it right now. It's writing right now. David Goggins is often referred to as a super freak due to his extreme physical and mental toughness. He has a retired US Navy seal in a former ultra marathon runner, no one for his incredible endurance and ability to push himself to the limit. He is completed. Numerous, grueling challenges, including running 100 miles in under 24 hours, and has a reputation as one of the toughest people on the planet. This combined with his unorthodox training methods has earned the nickname Super Freak dusty. So imagine if you're a zombie person. Imagine if you worked at somewhere in your boss was like, hey, we're putting up a thing that we need a thing on David Goggins. Can you write something about to go with this little article for David Goggins? Yeah. There's copy and paste that. Yeah. What if we were to ask about us? Like, um, it might not have enough information on us. I asked it about a few people like, like, tell me about this guy and it's like, oh, there could be many people with that name. Okay, we'll first see dusty handshells because I'm not famous enough maybe. Right about dusty handshells. The body builder. See what he is. Yeah. I'm sorry. I don't have enough information on a body builder named dusty handshells. How about you? Yeah, dusty handshells. The horror. Okay. Hold on. Oh, we, it's too long. I can't read it on here. I'm in a commission. So so much David. So I asked it to write a 300 word essay describing Dorian Yates training style. Okay. Yeah. And it wrote this 300 word essay that explained how Dorian trained and it was really accurate. And then I said, make it 500 words. That's all they put. Make it 500 words. I didn't refraze a question. I said, make it 500 words. And it just rewrote it with like extra paragraphs. And it was longer. It's crazy. Yeah. I asked you to do something about hitting this well. I could have just printed that and handed it in as an assignment or something if I was in college and I was writing an essay about something. I just fucking do that. What's it going to do to us? You know, or, or something. It's going to make my. There's already a lay in school. Yeah. Yeah. There already talking about how teachers, there's, there's all sorts of teachers now that are like, I don't know who's right and what. And what's actually being done. I can't tell. Wow. You know, and there's no plagiarism because it'll be a different, you know, you could have so 100 people ask that and it learns too. So it, it actually changes. So like if you come back six months later and ask it the same question again, I might give you a different answer because it's learning as it goes. It's crazy. What if you're the new version of us who wrote the same question right now and hit enter, would we all get a different variation? Yes. I don't know. I don't know. Maybe because I've asked it the same question multiple times and it pops something out differently. Oh, right. I do have to throw in. So I know guys, we usually go a little bit longer than this around had some tech issues and we have another show within interview that we're doing next. We only have like 15 minutes. Should we switch topics? Maybe jump into some stuff? Yeah, yeah. I got, I got, really. I don't show them. I just know. Yeah, we sure did. If um, okay, do, do, do, do, do, nobody had anything just me. I got some stuff here. Well, we start with this one while you look. I have a bunch. There are a lot of them are for my Instagram, but I can find there's three here that would be good. Okay. It's Jimmy Doppel. He says, uh, uh, the answer to my question really got me thinking. Thanks guys. He says question for the next episode. Uh, uh, what's the grossest food you have eaten for body building? For example, have you blended meat into a drink or have you eaten old food? So at the time it was delicious. But now going, I couldn't eat it again. It was just so dieted that you know what's good. You know what I mean? When you get really dieted and something tastes good. And then afterwards, like you're like, whoa, that was, yeah. I would take green beans like 100, you know, a couple hundred grams of green beans and I'd steam this out of them. Mm-hmm. Right. And then I'd put two cans of albacor tuna in the and mash it all out of the sauce thing. Right. Then I would take like how many grams I had, say 50 grams, 60 grams, 70 grams of those mini barbecue rice cakes. And I would just dump them on. That would just mash it all up. Yeah. Texturing and flavor. And see, had like this crunchy barbecue tuna, the like the casserole sort of thing going on. And I would just, you know, the judges sandwiches. Yeah, judges sandwiches. This guy just got saying, just disgusting. I'm hanging up. I'm hot in my hair. Yeah. Think about that for a minute. Think about what you just heard. All right. So, so Ron, what would you call him? I'm flying up. If you were in a restaurant, what would that, what would that meal be called? Because I know you don't like anything sneaking up on you. It would be the barbecue tuna crunch. That just sounds terrible. Because he didn't. Yeah. It's like, maybe. But so you didn't, you weren't there for this. Scott, but what bothers Ron, I'm going to make him explain this. Ron, what bothers you about reading what something is, you don't want any surprises. What does that mean? I don't want surprises. So I don't want you to say, um, like for example, steak and fries. What can I get for you? I'll have a steak and fries. Sounds good. And then the plate comes and maybe you got steak with a giant glob of garlic butter. No, all over it. And then you got salad with like salad dressing that's been poured all over it. And it's kind of running into your fries. Yeah. Then I'm okay. Right away, I have a whole bunch of problems. Yeah. Like this is not what I ordered. I know you think you're giving me a delicious meal, but you I said, steak and fries and you said, gotcha. Now I got a plate full of fucking, dude that I do it. So I don't like, I don't like, I want you to name the meal. You say, yeah, it's the steak fries salad and butter. Do want the steak fries sell them butter? Nope. Right. No, this is what's taking fries. Yeah. I didn't know about, you know, I've had some, I just don't like surprises, you know. You get, you know, and and restaurants do funny things. Restaurant do things to try to stand out and be different, right? Yeah. The like, oh, everyone does take in fries, but we're going to put this awesome giant like inch square cube of garlic butter. Extremely strong garlic butter on top of the steak, which just looks cool for a photo. Yeah. And then in about a minute, it's just running all over the plate and now your fries are like soaked in garlic butter and you're like, oh, I don't even like garlic butter. Like, yeah, I'm picky. Yeah. It's a problem. How about you dusty? You got anything? You know, I don't have anything like that because I never had a hard time putting my food down. Like, I didn't need to make some big thing, but I will say, I think everyone has done this where you, I was, I went to the USA as the first time with Chris and he didn't know what we were going to eat. So I literally made enough chicken enough fish and enough steak to cover every single meal for three days. Oh, yeah. So you got a lot of flitterly. So I bring a lot of food and I said, whatever I don't eat, I'll eat after the show. And I meant it. Like, I'm not going to waste any food. Yeah. Well, we ended up literally eating steak pretty much every meal. So I had all this fish and I was chicken left and the Monday or Tuesday after the show I went back home and I packed up my fish and my, you know, my rice and went to, went to the office and I'm working. Oh, time to eat. I took one bite. I was eating this garbage. I mean, as soon as you eat, normal food, for two days. So it's over. You realized that what you were eating, it was so delicious. You were just starving. Yeah. Fish is just fish now that it's traveled in a cooler. Several states has been in a hotel room for several days and has been traveled back home. You know, yeah. That's questionable. That's that all on zone solidity. You get, you start eating and you're like, okay, throw all this away, send an employee to go get me lunch. This is a mess. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's a lot of little recipes and things. Just basic. Not even like psychotic like sandwich man here. And like you can't eat them after the fact. So Oreos are still Oreos is all I'm going to say. But yeah, those are a weird one. It's not really gross, but it's weird. And I don't see people doing this. So when I lived in Mexico, there were there were three seasons of avocados. So they had three every no matter what time of year it was. Like there was always avocados in season. And the place where I worked we would get this lunch buffet and they would set out a half of avocado peeled the pit taken out and a scoop of tuna fish plopped into it. And I was like, huh? Okay. So I grabbed a couple of, I grabbed one the first time. And it's like really creamy avocado. You know, it's a cut of piece and it was like really good. So when I started dieting and bodybuilding and I had fat, I started using that instead of mayo to mix my tuna fish. So I'd eat fish and I would mix the avocado and just like blend it in and use that in place to like turn it into like a tuna salad. It was actually really good. Put a little salt on that and not bad at all. But I didn't have a mix. No. It did. Yeah, for a little while. Yeah. Yeah. I stopped. Like 2003. I lived in Mexico for a while. When I worked in Metagraphs. No, when I worked in photography, we went down there for a while to work on some projects with the Santa Fe Photo Workshop and National Geographic. It was pretty cool. No way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think they know about Scott. I didn't know. Yeah. I, there's some of those stories I've never really told on the show before. I know those. I'll tell you guys some of that stuff sometimes. It was in this little town called Sammy Galdeliente. Jack Kerrwack lived there for a while when he wrote the book on the road. He talked about going to a bar there called La Cucaracha, the cockroach bar. And they were fights there. They were fights there. They were fights there every night. On the weekend. And the weekend was Wednesday through Sunday because the farmers would work like Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday and after that, they'd come into town for the next few days. And literally, they'd be in that bar drinking until the sun came up. They didn't like close it to a, or anything like that. Yeah. And there was a fight there every night. It was a long, narrow building. And they would, you know, start midway back and literally that fight would roll out the front doors every every single night. I'd been there for one of them. I know. I know. I know. I know. Fight of farmer in Mexico. Drink. Yeah. Yeah. I don't want to fight. I don't want to fight locals in a sketchy police state. Yeah. Yeah. You know, the police show up in the locals know them by name. And you're like the man out. Yeah. Yeah. The locals are like people. I'm not what he says. Yeah. Look at toes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Keep the races about it. I just like that. It's all. Yes. Well, for accuracy, the farmers more likely to be named Jose than Bob. So you're just being accurate. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Do you got one run? Yeah. If you could press the big red button and delete social media, would you and why? With that include the podcast. Exactly. What social media? I consider this social media. It's on YouTube. I wouldn't delete it at all. I'd be broke. Yeah. Yeah. Just destroy my life and my businesses. Yeah. Literally. I think I love when people get on this rant about social media. It's like, it, it's exactly what you said, Ron. Or I mean, Scott last week about bodybuilding. Social media did not do this to you. You did it. Since like you said about bodybuilding, like there are so many things now. You have changed my entire life. Scott with that line. It's amazing. There's nothing like social media is not bad. Stop following assholes. There you go. Handled. Someone's talking trash ignore them. Maybe don't screenshot their comment and put it in a story and wine about it. Yeah. Yeah. I would never just disagree. Just disagree. Just disagree. Just didn't happen to us. This engage. Here's my advice. If there's anything that comes through your feed that makes your anxiety go up anything. Like someone you, someone that kind of irritates you with the way they present themselves. Or someone who's kind of like maybe there's someone you know so you follow them and they follow you back. But their post saw was making you go, oh, it's fucking guy. But if there's anyone like that, just either if you don't want to unfollow them because you don't want to like, you know, you see them at the gym every day or you see them at work or whatever, you just mute them. You can just mute them. So you never see their stuff. I have so much muted on my Instagram. It's mind boggling. I mute everything that irritates me. If you even slightly irritates me, I just mute that person forever. Because I'm over it. I'm not taking part in this. This, I don't want any of that. Like that's what gets people. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's true. Like what do you think? Scott, I mean, obviously our entire business. The three of us here would all be homeless if there wasn't for social media. Oh yeah. Yeah. We could like do only fans, but only fans wouldn't exist. So there's that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I know I'm with you guys 100%. And I, I like the line dusty because it is true. And you know, we, we can't, we engage with what we want, you know. So if you, if you, it is, I know people who are like, oh, I got to stay off social media because I get all involved in the politics and I get arguing with people, like Facebook for some reason, it's Facebook that people like, I gotta stay off of that, you know, because that's where all the arguments take place and whatever, you know, let people do their own thing and just do your own thing. You know, we have people, they come to the Facebook group for think big and they want to start trouble and I'm like, okay, listen, you know, maybe you don't belong here. But I don't have to say that because everybody else does in the mail-eaf, you know, they, they figured out, you know, pretty quick, same with, same with our comments, you know, it's like if you're going to be a jerk about it, it's like, well, we don't have to listen to you, you know, go, that's it. Yeah, you're in trash for me, I think it's funny. Yeah, don't be afraid. I don't even know for you, I don't even be afraid. Weird. I didn't even mute the hell out of your feed. Just mute everyone that irritates you. And I mean, it's mute everything that makes your blood pressure go up or, you know, that's something I, I have a couple of friends that every time I talk to them, I'm like, yeah, I was going and the first thing they say is like, oh man, you know, the government doing this and this and this and I'm like, okay, fair enough. But the fact that that's the first thing you brought up when I asked how you were doing, means you're like, you're just way too focused on stuff, you don't have, you shouldn't be thinking about this. Like don't you have a, you own a business. Like you have a family, I know you have kids. So why is the first thing you said when I asked how's it going, just so I got to do this and I heard they're going to do this and I heard you're going to do that. Like, man, there's there's certain amount of things I just got to get this engaged from like when Gary says like when we got, we got Terry. Okay. And the greener when when when when Gary V says like, we have been complaining about the rules, you know, quick complaining about the rules of the game and just win at the game. So yeah, that's my take. Okay. We got Terrence. We're going to wrap this one. Yes. Remember everybody like share subscribe comment. And now Dess has got a mute for his Rook the bow. He's muting the ring the bell. That's okay. And ring the bell. The ring the ring. They got for him. And remember, I am mutant calm. Big Ron 20 dusty 20 20% off for you. Hit up the website order your stuff. These new beanie's and t-shirts are going to be on their soon. So there's lots of, and the new two got five X on the shirts. Yeah, up to five X on the shirts. They're going big time on the shirts. So and I want to end too. Thank you guys so much for having me out. That was just an incredible thing. And I I can't even, I don't have the words. So I'll leave it at that. I will say thank you. Awesome. Thanks everybody and remember it's just bodybuilding.