? I don't know. It's 100.B. Point B. Okay. And we're going to talk about body building science. You should know the nutrition edition. Is that correct? Yeah. And the nutritionist gigantic and talk about protein and batches of million different topics. I just picked some interesting stuff that are sort of in my wheelhouse that is I can ask about a lot that he even talks about. So it's just sort of like things that kind of occur to you like, what's good stuff to know? What would be a nice thing to be aware of? Can I, I don't want to spoil anything, but will there be talk about cereal? We can talk about cereal all day long. Do you want to take me off on a cereal tangent or anyone who's watching what we're just do cereal? I'll just ask you like the next hour. What is better oatmeal or cereal? And then after you answer that, I'll be like, real. What is better steak or cereal? cereal. Okay. What is not? Just go out and out. I'm going to say cereal whenever you just start the question. It's always cereal. The answer will always forever be cereal. Yeah. Yes. So actually one of the slides we're going to get to near the end is from that cereal gauge nation post that's on Instagram. Okay. Folks can go this. It's a second from last one that I put up because I still get quite. It's funny. I get so many questions about which is better as this is why you're starting to say that. And then I get questions. So what's this cereal gauge nation thing about? I'm like, check the post. Okay. I didn't look. You know, so it's nice to have put together the whole post, but still then the questions about. It's like you can't, there's no way you can have a complete and encapsulating answer that will answer all questions about something that seems like an Instagram because either they won't read it, which is okay. Then they could go read it, which is great. Which is why I wrote the post or there always be something. There's always, anytime you open the can, the worms will come out infinitely. It's like a hydrant. You cut off one worm and another worm pops out of the can. You know? Yeah. It's hilarious. Well, we appreciate your patience with us going over. Because listen, at the same time, I'll say this. Anytime you're teaching, like I think that repetition helps me learn. You've said a lot of the same things. A lot of times over the past five years since we've started this podcast. And some of it finally started sinking in. So, you know, there is that aspect. So I appreciate your patience with me and everyone else. I just did a podcast a couple days ago and people say, oh, you're so smart. And all this sort of thing. It's like, I'm curious. Yeah. And I forget, it should a lot. But I just am so curious that I keep looking up again. So, then I sort of stay ahead of the way of my amnesia. My dementia, some people might call it, by continuing to repeatedly look up the information, remind myself of what I want to do. So, with some people says, well, he's forgotten more than you know, it's possible. Because I forgot as much as I know. So that's almost true for me, except I barely kept ahead of the game. So repetition, absolutely. That's the thing is, it sounds nice when you can just rattle off a bunch of stuff. But that's only because I forgot in those things probably 10 times, then just remind myself 11. Yeah, man, I can see that. I realized I forgot and like some whole concepts that Victoria helped me understand after having been sick. Like it was just like gone. And I completely needed a refresher, like go back to square one. You know what? I just really remembered this. One of our listeners, because we do get this from time to time. Somebody commented on YouTube, oh my gosh, you guys are too smart for me. This is like your way above my level. I'm going to tell you what. I feel the same way as that listener does. But what I've learned is that when we get into some more complex ideas on the show, which I think we have, you know, that's kind of what this show is, I don't always get it all the time. But I did through, I continue listening. And by the end, some of the pieces come together. And it doesn't mean you can't go back and listen again. Or continue listening to the show, because Scott will talk about those same concepts again down the road. And you'll hear it in a slightly different way. But I think the key is, is just being open-minded and continuing to listen. Don't shut it off. You gotta see it through. And you may not get it all, but you will get more of the pieces than you had going in. That's the way that I've looked at it at least. Yeah, I like that perspective. It's interesting that if you look at Facebook, social media, discussion boards, everyone likes to find their biases being confirmed somewhere in what other people have to say. So sometimes you'll hear people they're talking about, meaning the topic, and birds with feather will flock together so that they can, they can reify their own beliefs or their own thoughts, sure, or their own arguments. I said, like to hear that. So some podcasts will go. And you know, you listen to someone who is quote unquote at your level, who's saying things, you almost know, you know, 99 of 100 things that are said they're already. And that feels great to have pretty solid. You know, they're confirming for me what I already know. But that doesn't necessarily make you better. So let's use the the knowledge that I think everyone listening will get. It's like you can bench press 135 pounds for 10 reps. And you just keep going in the gym to confirm that you can bench press 135 for 10 reps. It feels great, you know, I know I got this, but you're not going to get any stronger doing that. Yeah. There was, there was a guy with the shoe mine. He was a guy went to high school with Play football with. And he was strongest guy on the team. I think or had the best bench. And he was big genetically gifted. But he just didn't have, it just didn't like to work out really. He liked to play, but he lost season of like, so he would just, he come into the gym. And he walked in, everyone was really impressed with how strong he was. And he would just do a little bit of warm up and then max out, just to confirm that he can, you know, do five on the bench. Look at that. And then he would leave. That's all he would ever do. He could have gone. It was really, I mean, amazing. Like even then I caught onto like, you know, he's not getting any better. He's still better than everyone else pretty much, at least on the bench press. So hopefully this, the podcast does, does something to help people improve. And I intentionally teach in that way, using the medical terminology that sometimes people aren't familiar with, because that's what they'll see. If they go on the, the read the research, or they read, you know, other people who are posting it a really high scientific level, and try to bring it back. But I try to like push like a good trainer would, like you try to get people to exceed their current ability level. They're what they perceive it to be. And that's how you get better. That's kind of why I knowingly don't intentionally try to dust anybody, but like, you know, speaking with these half-alooton terms. But I do like to try to raise everyone a little bit if it all possible. And I thought I'm doing that for everyone. There's plenty of people understand everything I'm saying. And then there's somewhere maybe like, oh shit, you know, I got like 2% of that. But that 2% maybe 2% you would have gotten anywhere else. So that makes me happy. Exactly. That's the kick. Exactly. So where do we start today, Scott? We'll start with the beginning with the slide one that opening slide just so people know. This is part two. Look how fancy that is. Looks cool. OK. Yeah. So again, this is just sort of nutrition stuff. I just, in fact, I'm going to say this term, people will want to call me in this. I'm going to head them off the pass that this is somewhat of a cherry-picked number of studies, at least the initial ones. But think back before I've been getting into these studies, that we saw in the previous and part one, the actual 100th episode, the Domus at All Studies where individuals were training one leg five times a week, three sets of nine to 12, we're roughly 10 reps. Versus two or three times. And on average, there was no difference in those conditions. They'd make a difference. Until they look at the individuals, you will see the same thing in studies as well. Some studies will show one thing, some studies will show something else. So from a scientist who's trying to predict the future in subjects who've been sampled from a population of resistance trained individuals or the population could be untrained individuals or could be men over the age of 35, or whatever it might be, you want to be able to from the previous research in fur that you're going to find certain kind of findings in the next study you might do, or if you pick someone from that population. So if you're a male between the ages of 20 and 35 with six months of resistance training and roughly, we're less than three, let's say, which studies might have been done with, you can have a good shot at predicting that they're going to do what you found on average occurred in the study, which might be nothing. But nobody's, nobody, there's no average person. So to speak, everyone's a little different. So what I think, and one of the ways that I think science can inform us is one from those averages, that's the way we normally think about things. What can you predict with reasonable accuracy, what's predictable, so to speak, from the research, is what's also possible. What we're trying to do with bodybuilding is exceed what we sense is maybe possible. It's do something extraordinary. So if you want to be an extraordinary entrepreneur, a business person, a medical researcher, a teacher, you don't want to be average. You want to be better than average. You want to look to those individuals who are outliers, those individuals who are the black swans is the term that sometimes use for those, people who are innovators, who are the early adopters, the ones who sort of are a little bit different, and that demonstrate that a certain thing is possible. So what I've done is at the beginning here is cherry picked some of my favorite studies, not just because of the ones that confirm what I've seen personally with clients and myself, but also because they're reasonably well done studies, actually. They're well controlled, and I'll talk about a little bit as we go through. So let's switch to the next slide. And that's the last slide. Oh, great. I started things out. I thought I had it going, Scott. I thought I, yeah, maybe I have it in the wrong orders. And they were ordered in that, let me take older ice cream. Yeah, let me take a look here. But sometimes it puts, yeah, that's weird. Sometimes the order things differently like that. So we look at for the one that says body building science worth knowing part two. What is? We just had that one, nutrition. This next one has, yeah, it says at the top as well. And it's loaded with text, like just a boat loaded text, which is kind of intentional. Is this it? Yes, that's the one. So I guess Scott will only see one of the change slides we'll have to do. We're going to have to do a little dance every time to figure out the order because I didn't get them right. They're proper order apparently, but we got them on. That's all good. Yeah, cool. So this is the nutrient time that's perfect. Yeah, we can move around a little bit. So this is the nutrient timing topic that is banter back and forth. And first and foremost, the thing about nutrient timing is simply to make sure the nutrients is very, so you can time it, you can have nutrient timing at bed. You can have them in the morning. The car backloading thing. People call out every once in a while. You can have timing that's around the workout. What I call Perry workout recovery supplementation. This is where I'm going here with this next set of slides. And it's interesting because there's the quivocal findings if you look at the literature. And some of these quotes are actually from a series of articles, three part series that I did on nutrient timing. We're lead FTS. Oh, can find that. So the interesting thing is that if you look at some of the literature and look at some of the reviews, you'll see an opinion that it doesn't matter so much. But if you look in the upper part of the slide there, people may have to pause or zoom in to see this, what I've got in red highlighted there, kind of illustrates the main point is that it's actually very common. If someone says, well, the research shows that there's no point in having nutrient timing around your workout. Look at the actual literature. Look at what people are actually doing. If you read the method section, you'll find very common things like what is in the upper left. This is a study from 2012. This is from Stu Phillips Lab. Mitchell was the first author. It's Stu Phillips. I'm going to tie this together later. It was actually mentored in part, worked with a guy in Kevin Tipton, who did a ton of the early and is still active, I think that some degree, the early muscle protein, synthesis research, the protein requirements during a resistance exercise. So he's a big dude in the protein world that comes to training. This is a study out of Stu Phillips Lab. And this is just from their methods section. They made sure their subjects had a meal before, 480 calories, two hours before the training session. And I didn't put it in highlight there. But if you look about the middle that bottom of that block of text, they had them take right after training, a power bar, protein plus bar. So they ensured pre and post exercise training. That was part of their study. That wasn't something they were studying in this particular study. This was actually a heavy load, versus light load study that I'm referring to. They're I can get the reference. Anyone who wants them? That's just what they did in the methods section. Because they think that it's important. Or maybe even more importantly, and this is the thing that kind of goes back to is, is it going to harm you in some way? So if it might work, and there's no negatives necessarily, and the big one with resistance training with food in your stomach could be that you don't train us hard, you get sick or what have you, then use it. So some people want to be kind of research notchies and say, well, the literature of this meta-analysis or what have you says, it doesn't work. It's like, well, might it work for somebody? The chances are from a practical significance. In one of those studies or some of those studies, there was at least one person for whom it worked. Could have been a pure placebo effect. But if that works for you, and there's no negatives that you know of, or there've been documented, then why not? If you have the money, if it's a fine, this is sort of a luxury hobby, so to speak, go for it. So the next one and out for myself, I'll have to look closer. So in the upper right, there's a, in the white text, their white background text with a red, this is from a study that Brad Schunfield did. Same topic, actually, heavy and light load training. I just kind of picked those and went and dug in and it litriture because I've read those studies a little bit. And this is to facilitate recovery. So I should have provided a supplement on training days, containing 24 grams of protein, 1 gram of carbohydrate. It was a hydrolyzed way protein isolate. So what they called it there, I still 100. So this was two years. So I presume this data was collected after, they put this together. This is two years after the publication of this well-known, we was really kind of controversial, reviewerical that Brad and Alan Ergon did on protein timing around the workout. So just seeing that on average, there's no effect. It doesn't really matter. You need to get as much protein as you can. So they write that review. That's the bottom line evidence from the available studies at that time. And then your later probably Brad starts his study. And they still include that protein, most workout. Just to make sure, because it's not gonna hurt. They've already done the training. They put the protein in, you're good to go. So on the bottom left there, you can see this is from a article that was published in 2012, looking at the same idea. I've tried to bold it some of the bottom line quotes that I pulled from that article. They said, they believe it's larger irrelevant whether the feed is given pre-during or post-exercise. New treatments, submissions you have enough per se, rather than timing them take is more important. And I would agree with that definitely. But they really sit and have a time he doesn't matter so much in that article. In addition, the addition of carbohydrate to protein affords no greater anabolic effects on protein turnover. That's probably technically true. Maybe at least who knows. Actually, I don't think it is. That's given what I'll show you later on in all cases. But that was their conclusion. So they're focusing there on essential amino acids as the primary macro nutrients required optimized antibody responses on protein turnover to exercise. So if you could slide our pictures over to the lower left. So this is this. That was in 2012. The Dillis literature had already been put together five years later than international site as Fort Nutrition puts together a position stand on nutrient timing. Pre-exercise and gesture of essential amino acids are protein alone increases muscle protein synthesis. It's been shown to produce as intermediate and greater levels of muscle protein synthesis. The addition of carbohydrate at all time points especially post-exercise is well tolerated and make promote greater restoration of muscle glycogen. They're focusing on the possibility of carbohydrate being important. Ingesting carbohydrate alone or in combination with protein during the exercise increases muscle glycogen stores, offsets muscle damage, and facilitates greater training adaptations after acute and prolonged periods of resistance training. So they're like throwing the carbs, throwing the protein. So there's lots of bearing opinions. Some of it depends on how you interpret the research, how you weigh it. And whether you sort of have, I think that perspective of, if we see evidence that it can work, that means it can work. Does it mean it works for everyone? Absolutely not. Does it mean it may even work on average? Perhaps not. Again, think back to that Domus-edal study. Five versus two to three times per week on the different legs. On average, did it matter? No. But for those guys, you grew much better on one versus the other training regime, which is about one-third of, you're going in either direction, heckediat matter. So two-thirds of those individuals found a difference between five times versus two or three times a week. That's the majority of individuals. But on average, using the means from the original study, they published with those data, it didn't matter. So for two out of three people, it matters. What an average, it doesn't matter. So rapid, not going around that. Second. Right? That makes, that's kind of difficult. So that's why I really think looking at the individual studies is see what's possible. Makes the most sense. So let's go to some of this. I'll try to move more quickly here. The next one is, says, do carbs help quote cherry-pip studies? There we go. Boom, got it. Good man. All right, let's see. Yeah, that's cool. So this will publish a long while ago. Very cool set of studies. The tar pennings have been involved with some of this other literature that I'll talk about too. I think this is what's from a dissertation that was done. And with recreational trained individuals, they gave them about 50 grams of carbs from Gatorade. And they're in the workout. What that did, elevated insulin, and reduced cortisol. So cortisol, sorry, it's raining here in my little suitcase shuddering from the funder. She's very scared. Yeah, I don't care a little, Roo. So if my arms moving around, that's because I'm patting on my little baby doll. I would not, it was the world. I would be shocked if you didn't have a dog next to you. If not three dogs. You know, they're all here. They're all three are here for sure. So carbohydrates will tend to reduce cortisol. What cortisol is doing in part is making sure that there's glucose availability. So if you provide the glucose in the blood, you suppress the cortisol. Cortisol is a steroid hormone. Sterids have long lasting effects when they go in. And they bind to their nuclear receptors as they're known in the cell. They're effects will last for hours after the workout. That's when you're growing is after the work, you don't grow on the gym, you go afterwards. But taking in carbohydrates, in this case, and the extent to which cortisol levels were suppressed during and after the workout was very important because that cortisol doesn't just fade away relatively quickly. Like lactate wood, for instance, you get a nice burn in the muscle, and then your pump's gone in 5, 10, 15 minutes later. The cortisol is lingering around for quite a while and what they found. And if we can slide the pictures maybe as far to left as possible, I guess. I'm gonna look at those two, right? Yeah, that's close, good enough. So what they did is they, oh, guys, I think I lost Scott. Hey, what's going on, guys? Thanks for watching another podcast here. I think Big Bodybuilding Media. And thank you to our great sponsor, True Nutrition.com for making this all possible. True Nutrition.com is owned by Dante True Del, the creator of DC training. He wanted to create a supplement company that offered high quality third party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders, just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors, plus health and performance supplements. Check them out, True Nutrition.com. And hey, if you use our code, advices, you directly support our podcasting. Thanks, guys. Let's get back to the program. All right, cool. I show, turn it back over to you. All right, cool. So what they did then, so what they found when they looked at their data was that first and foremost, right above our pictures there, you can see the cortisol elevation. This is over the course of the beginning, the middle and the end. In the open bars are the control condition. So no carbs. And what you can see there with those, they don't even look like bars. They'll just sort of black small black lines. And there's actually a negative bar on the far most set of plots. Is that the carbs? This is just 50 grams of Gatorade. Essentially eliminated the elevation of cortisol. Really? Do you know that during training? Yeah, just completely blocked it. Typically you'll get some elevation of cortisol. The harder you train the more cortisol you get, it's a stress hormone. But you can, of course, according to this study in the way they train here on average, there's some variability of course. That's the next slide. You'll see a major suppression. And of course there's variability in the extent to which cortisol is raised in some individuals who aren't even taking the carbohydrates. So some people have a greater cortisol elevation. That's one thing that seems to be predictive in general of growth. So what they did is these right, most plots here. What's they correlated? The changes in fiber size with the change in cortisol. So on the upper, the wide axis here, and you can't see as I'm swiping your with my mouth with it if you can see where my mouth is. Used to being, the presentation of front of people they can see my mouth. Yeah. You'll see that the high elevation of cortisol in the upper left meant actually in the case of one person there at least a loss of fiber across sectional area. That person actually did too much. They were overtraining literally in the body and building in any sense. But as cortisol levels were suppressed and were lower and lower and lower, you found that there was a greater greater and greater increase in fiber size. So those who reduced cortisol the most, which on average was much, much more so the case and those who took in the carbs, experienced the greatest muscle growth. And those two plots are in type one and type two fibers. So just about 50 grams of carbs is a really, really nice way to ensure a substantial reduction in cortisol levels. And the more you're in your cortisol, according to this study, the more you grow. And that's simply from that acute effect you're having on during and post-exercise cortisol responses. But that release of cortisol isn't something that's gone after an hour later when you're having an exc meal. That cortisol because it's a steroid hormone has a long lasting effect on altering, in this case, protein synthesis, changing, acting in a catabolic way, which is one of the things cortisol does. So carbs alone, quarter this study, extraordinarily important actually. The correlations there were negative 0.86, it's negative just because the cortisol was the greater the fiber size. So that's why it was a negative number. But negative 0.86, negative 0.72, those are really, really strong correlations. The negative 0.72 suggests, and that's the lower of the two, that was for the type two fibers I believe, suggests that about half of the reason, half of the variability in fiber size was a function of the elevation of cortisol. Cortisol accounted for half of the variation in fiber size. The other half could have been genetics or what have you, but the way they ran their stats and what they did in this experimental paradigm, suggests about half or even more for the type two's about half, for the type ones even more so, except to which they grew was matter of cortisol. Carbs matter, this was 50 grams of carbs. So let's go to the next slide. There we go. All right, so this is a shout out to Darren Willaby. This is from his lab many moons ago. In this case, actually, what they used was a carbohydrate control. So, the air control was just 20 grams of carbohydrate before and after training versus 20 grams of, so sometimes people would, because the general assumption, as I said before, is that carbohydrates are not insulin-symusical growth. So this study actually, in light of what I just talked about the tarp headings study in the previous slides, like, maybe they should, if they really want to look at approaching versus nothing, they shouldn't have used carbohydrate as they're quote unquote placebo, because it's not necessarily placebo. So, but again, and the reason we can wrap our head around that is if you look back at those correlation plots, there were some people who were losing size and some people gaining size. So on a given program, you might have some people who thrive and some people who get buried. And that variability is something you'll see. So, in this case, they were comparing 20 grams of carbs before and after training. So almost 50, almost the same amount, which we know in some people can be effective, but that's a function of the training regime and the individual versus protein. And what they found was protein was better than carbs, and they didn't have even a pure placebo. So, flavored water, so to speak, that was disguised as being one of the other two conditions. And all these plots and the lefts, all they basically show, these, this is the messenger RNA, which is sort of the signal coming from the nucleus, to produce myocin of myocin heavy chain, one of the components of the contractile proteins, the type one of the type two fiber types, and also local IGF1. So, the local release of IGF1 is one of those things that's very important for turning on the satellite cell activity, having it's on anoboc active. Everyone knows about IGF1, the big deal. The big question in the research literature is whether injected systemic IGF1, IGF1 per se, or the locally produced stuff in the muscle itself, acting locally as a messenger, or as a signal transducer is important. And we know that's the case. That's pretty certain. So, in this case, protein did a better job on a turning on protein synthesis and upregulating the IGF1 expression. So if we slide the, our slide ourselves off to the left, there you go. And what you saw here, the seaboverse's protein is that they had better gains in bench press and leg press strings. And in this case, they measured thigh mass, they sort of did a measurement of the thigh size. And the way it's maybe not, they did do it MRI, they did do a CAT scan, then do a DEXA, they actually did a circumference measurement and use skin folds and instead of another anthropometric kind of measurement that is one of, in a way, it's kind of old school practical bodybuilding. Who got the biggest legs out to the end of the training regime? Yeah. And yeah, they had increased size gains in the protein group. The pair do in this case, remember the carb group, which we would expect some of those individuals would have made gains, maybe not. So much as hard to know, because different trainers are in different study, different people, even though they're the same, these are untrained subjects actually. So not quite the same. But what we see here is protein in it itself definitely can have an effect. So we got a wind for carbs, we got a wind for protein, protein medium better than carbs. That's why I generally send a say, if you had to pick one of the other, choose carbs, excuse me, choose protein over carbs. But carbs are nice too. And there's some nuances there, maybe we can get to if someone asks questions about that. Let's go choose the next slide, which this one just, not quite as noisy. Okay. Sure, it picks studies, nutrient timing. See here. The upper left is the third, out, yep. So now we've got some, let's slide our pictures off to the right there. Probably even go to our here, maybe. I'll just put it in there. Yeah, that's cool. Okay. See you in this one, yep. So in this case, this is, I love this study. It's really well done because they compared pre-work out nothing, a placebo, 40 grams of carbs, six grams of essential amino acids, which has been shown to increase protein, just six grams. And this is the thing you commonly find in over-the-counter supplements. Absolutely. John Meadows, that comes from the original research, some of which Kevin Tipton was involved with back in like 1999, 2000, 2001, they were doing these studies like 20 years ago. It just takes a small amount to shift things in the positive direction in terms of protein synthesis. So they did nothing, carbs only, essentially amino acids only or both. And if you take a look at over the course of their training period, you see sort of a very nice, graded response. So the bottom left set of plots shows body mass in the leftmost placebo, then carbs, and essential amino acids. And this only six grams of course. This is different than 40 grams of protein, what have you? And then the combo. And what you see there, of course, is the body mass increases, not so much in placebo, then carbs and essential amino acids about the same. And if you combine the two, you have a superior increase in body mass, more importantly, if you look at fat free mass, same kind of pattern. So you saw some fat loss in all the groups. So that's the furthest, both set of bar graphs there in this particular figure. But same thing, placebo, you got some fat free mass. It wasn't affected training program. Carbs, then carbs versus essential amino acids only about the same. You combine them, you get some synergy there. And that's the other chart to the other graph, to the right, correct? But no, we're still on that leftmost one. You're still on that leftmost one. Yeah, I'll guide you to ask me. So what you see there, if you look at the bottom of the left, this is body mass, fat free mass and fat mass. So those are the, I know this is, that's why I try not to ask you much. This is kind of a crazy plot. I see. So those are the changes in mass of the whole body weight, body mass. And then the fat free mass and the fat mass. So everyone, the nuts in which weight gain the placebo, but in the other conditions, they got a good increase in body weight. And they got a, being increase in fat free mass in all conditions, but more so in carbs and essential amino acids, superior in the combo group. And then all the groups actually lost fat mass. It even looks like the carbs versus essential amino acids, they practically speaking, they definitely were ahead of the game, but there's some good variability there, so it wasn't significant, I don't believe. So you're getting better gains when you use either carbs or essential amino acids and you're getting the best gains in this particular study if you're using both. So the next, so the bottom right there, and you can, we've our pictures out of the way, it's not so important you can see most with there. Yeah, that's fine. So this was a little bit more difficult to interpret, but it's arranged differently. They've got the groups and those sets of three bar graphs, placebo, carbs, central amino acids and the combo. And they did a nice job, they were being honest here with their presentation. So rather, just showing the changes, the bottom part, each one of those bar graphs is the actual fiber cross sectional area. And the top open part represents the increase in size. So if you look across all of those bar graphs, you'll see there's little open boxes kind of sitting at top, like the top floor on a skyscraper, those open boxes, and there's little percentages there. People would have to kind of dig into the c-dose on their screen, and the zoom in, pause, and zoom in with their phone. If you look across the top, you see those open boxes for the placebo, carbs, central amino acids, the combo. You see them all cases. And those are for the three different fiber types that they analyze, like even called it 2B to study with so old ones and the two type 2 fiber types. And what if you look at the numbers and there's a whole bunch of little dots and things to indicate what was different among the groups. But the basic pattern, there is exactly the same. You got some growth in the placebo. You got better growth in the carbs, better growth in the central amino acids. And the little boxes at the top, the original fiber sizes are bigger in the combo group. You can just look across there, imagine, like if you had triplets of skyscrapers to choose from, the placebo, carbs, essentially an acid, it's combo. And you want the one with the best, biggest penthouse, which the open boxes are there. The biggest penthouses are on the far right one. Carb is plus essentially an acid, because they got the best fiber growth in all the fiber types. It wasn't always significant, because they're comparing all these different conditions, but on average, definitely superior. So the combo is good. So let's go to the next slide. All right. We're developing the theme, and now we're gonna... Is it this one? Yes, sir, you're on it. We're back at order and I think. Another cherry of a study. So this one's even a little more practical. Sometimes people say, well, people never do the shit that people actually do in the studies. So how relevant is it? Well, that's one of the advantages of a scientific study is that you can isolate all the variables, and you're not concerned about whether this did it or that did it, because you only got one difference between the two groups. That's the supplement they are given, or the type of training they did, or when they meditated in the morning, or they visualized, or any of the number of things you could study. Well, in this particular study, they had a supplement, which was taken as a substantial one actually taken before and after training, which had 40 grams of protein, 46 grams of carbs, seven grams of creatinemenohydrate. So there's some creatinin there, which we know works from other studies that have just compared creatin. This is sort of like in the trenches, are you gonna put creatin in your pre-in postwork out drink? Well, yeah, probably are. So here's what happened. And the nice thing about this study is they took resistance, trained individuals, and they familiarized them. Think for six weeks, four or six weeks. So they got them past those neurological gains. That kind of evened up the playing field with everyone, because sometimes someone's kind of trained, they're relatively untrained, it's like, ah, they start a real good training regime, they're gonna leap ahead. Sure. And other people, it might be detraining for them. So that creates variability, and that makes it more difficult to pick up, statistically speaking, on changes between groups, because you've got, you know, some people are detraining, some people are actually getting a training effect. So they even the playing field, before they even started the study, and we saw the same kind of good stuff. So if you look at the leftmost plot there, you see better body comp changes. So, oh, let me ask, let me ask that one more thing. This is very important too. So they're treating the group, the one that looked really interesting and seeing if something happened, took this supplement before and after training. The other group took the same supplement, but in the morning and at night. Oh, it wasn't, they didn't time the supplement around the training. But overall, they do the same supplement taken in, and the same macro, same calories, nothing was different between the two groups. So there was no accommodation like one group, you know, eight less because they had the work out the supplement before and after the training, or because they had the supplement in the morning and in the night, they all were nothing changed overall, dietarily, there's always the same for both groups, all the way through the study, of course they could tell. So this was just timing, and individuals had been familiarized to the training regime. This is a really well done study because some people might say, well, shit, they spent like four or six weeks just sort of taking trained people and training them, and they didn't really use any of those data, like that's a lot of effort. Yeah, it is. But as an example from my master's thesis, we used fire fighters, and we compared them, their performance during some called a combat challenge versus during a rolling or geometry. But firefighters don't inherently know how to row. Most people don't inherently know how to row properly. So we spent six weeks familiarizing them to rowing. I brought in a crew member from the university, and she trained all of my subjects individually for six weeks. Like three or four rolling sections a week, I think it was. That's cool. So we had a stable measurement from the things that we tested during the study. So they sort of stabilized. They got rid of those sort of new begames and switching to their training regime by pre-traumns. So this is a really nicely done study. And if you look at the left there, you see better body comp changes. The leftmost is a lean body mass, so fat free mass, double the gains when they took an assupement around the training. The fat mass was pretty much unchanged. And the body fat percentage actually went down in with the nutrient timing. Who knows, you know, that things do happen. And it was significant. You look at the fiber-type growth. No differences is the middle plot. And so there's a better body fiber growth. It's actually better fiber growth there for that plot. That's right there in the middle. Yep. Thanks, sir. And type ones, no difference, but they got greater growth in the type two A's and the type two X's. They called them there. So in the last, the rightmost there is the strength gains. They measured the big three, bench press, squat, and deadlift. End up getting better strength gains in the bench and the squat, but not in the deadlift. But practically speaking, they went up, looks like about 10 pounds more over the course of training. So well, really well done studying. This was a pure timing effect. Wasn't more protein, wasn't more carbs, it wasn't more calories, just timing. Yeah. So there are some data. There is evidence that nutrient timing matters. But let's go to the next slide here if we could. All right, and what's that one? It's got the big color, colorful pyramid on the left. Yeah, okay. There we go. We cannot forget the big picture. So it's interesting. Let me see if I can find, I forgot the jack name, but if I can look it up real quick. The name of the study that I've got, a block of tech support from there. You see how you find it? I'm just gonna do it. I have to reload to be out for everything crashed. We'll skip that for now. So this is from a review that Kevin Tipton done did with Wittered in 2007. So early on, and Tipton's wheelhouse is protein metabolism. This is this thing. So he's going through the ins and outs of protein metabolism. This is studied so much. How many grams of protein do we need, et cetera, et cetera, et cetera? And what he says there, this is what I got, the red lines indicating the where I'm reading, is this is a passage from that particular review article examining the importance of overall energy intake. And he writes, energy intake is likely to have as much of an influence on protein requirements as does protein intake itself. So what he's saying there essentially is that how much you're eating overall has a substantial effect on how much protein you need. So in some of the studies now come out from Stoophilips lab, it was mentored by Kevin Tipton, and showing that having really, really large, like three or four grams per kilogram per day, so almost one and a half, two times what you typically see as the protein requirements for people who are weight training is beneficial when you're dieting down and you're dieting really hard. So there's a relationship between the protein needs and your calorie needs in terms of what protein is best to hold onto that muscle mass when you're training. So on one of the coin, if someone's eating, it would be very tough unless you intentionally did it to take in 6,000 calories a day and not get a gram of protein for pound. That would be, you know, 800 calories, let's say for someone who's 200 pounds eating 6,000 calories today, which would be extraordinary, you're gonna get the protein almost accidentally, even if you just ate, if you just ate, I think if you ate potatoes, you wouldn't get complete protein but you get pretty close to that. So if you definitely get your RDA, oh yeah, you definitely get your RDA. So I have to go back and look at that. So they write that and then the other line you'll see in that and this is on the upper right of what we're eating the text here is that during resistance exercise training, resistance exercise training has been shown that positive energy balance is more important than increased protein to elicit gains in lead body mass. Interesting. So they're kind of throwing this out. So here's the thing. You get the question so often, like how much protein do I need, blah, blah, blah, to gain, it's like, how much are you eating? That's the important thing and that's why, if you look at the pyramid there, this is my nutritional hierarchy of importance that I put forth in my be your own bodybuilding coach book at the bottom, the base. What's most important is your total caloric intake, the law of thermodynamics does indeed apply. So you can worry about some of those things higher up and notice I've got nutrient timing is in the maroon, sorry for those who are colorblind, but second from the top block there, that's a fine tuning thing. How important is that? It's sort of a low importance. But your total caloric intake is the most important thing. You're not gonna manipulate all the macros all you want if you don't have a negative caloric balance then you're not gonna lose body fat. You don't have some sort of a positive energy intake, you're not gonna gain those things need to happen. So if you could slide the slide us off to the left there, Scott. All right. So the question then becomes, you think about the things that you know, chipton and wittered wrote many, many moons ago, like how often do you see studies like the serial gains nation posts that I put up not long ago on my Instagram where they're examining, like how many calories do you need to gain? Like how much variability is there? You don't see those things done. It's like, well, why, but there's tons of protein stuff that's being done. Why not so much literature on energy surplus and energy deficit? We're starting to see some really nice things looking at toggling your diet, refeeds, those sorts of things are starting to come out. That's nice. It's very easy to bring people in to a study and say, here we're gonna help you lose body fat. Yeah, in one of the beautiful groups. But you take someone and say, okay, well, here's what we're gonna do. We're gonna overfeed you. It's you're gonna be miserable. You're not gonna eat the food. People who've, like really pushed the size gains, no, and I think the, I would be, I would wage it a bet that eight or nine and a 10 guys are in the same opinion that I have that I'm trying to gain weight and over eat as much less as much for difficult. Yeah. And then trying to drop weight and drop body fat. Of course, at the end of the spectrum, it's difficult, no matter how you weigh it. But so it's gonna, you're gonna have a hard time pulling in, especially untrained individuals. One of the issues with untrained people is they're gonna grow really, really readily anyway. So they don't even need to overeat necessarily. But you take in train guys and say, we wanna make you overeat, you're gonna gain some body fat in most cases. It's gonna happen, but at least for most people, not necessarily everyone, but many people. So this is a hard thing to monitor and measure. You've got to use dietary recall, which is notoriously valuable. Doesn't work very well. People underestimate the mystery court, not even consciously necessarily, what they're actually eating. So to ask someone to put down something, you know, a massive amount of excess calories is a difficult prospect. People won't do that in large part. And there was actually study I was partially involved with just doing some pilot work for it. At university texts that Austin, where we had a giant, an intro workout, or they had a giant meal supplement, we had to take in. And it was brutal to put this thing down. It was very difficult. Yeah, we had to actually add the slam so they could measure glycemic responses to the thing. So it was like, I don't know, some 1000 calorie thing, literally we had to drink it in 10 seconds or less as possible. Oh my god. Yeah, it was like drug pick jug, it was like running my college days. So this is a very hard thing to do what it may mean, body fat gain. So you've got, you're gonna have difficulty recruiting subjects, but this could be according to what Tipton has said there. And what I think most people, which I think Dante would agree with this, I think the people who have, and know how to put on large amount of muscle mass on individuals, recognize that you have to have the core excess. So let's take a look at some research to kind of demonstrate it that, because they're out there. Not much. I found those actual two studies that are cited in the passage of us. Let's hit the next slide, which, it just is even enough to grow. Got it. This is, there's a lot of data here. You can leave us, actually take us to the back to where we were, it's probably better. Okay. And I've kind of like made this a little bit easier. They had a, some what complicated, experimental design here, but they had actual six groups, they had groups that didn't do any training in the groups that took these different supplements in. They had one that was a placebo. One was an arginine lysine combo, because that increases growth hormone by itself. Didn't really do much as far as they could tell there. They measured IGF1, didn't change. Wouldn't have expected. The important group that was in this study, which is why it's so important to kind of recognize, someone did a good job with this was, they had these individuals taking a meal supplement, exceed, it's kind of like an assure meal supplement. And the idea was that they were taking enough calories to ensure about a one pound of weight gain per week. Okay. That's what they're going for. And they ended up getting about 8.6 something like that. There was a 10 week study. So they did pretty good. If you could raise this up to the upper left, maybe see that. There we go. All right. So in this exceed group, they're only taking about 330 calories per day on average. It varied, because they were sort of titrating the amount of the supplement they would drink. One and a half cans, one can, two cans, depending on the person. But they're shooting for it at one pound of weight gain per week. The other group just trained, and they took in arginine lysine and also had a placebo group taking in nothing. Arginine lysine was like nine grams a day. That's enough to get a growth home on release, because those are amino acids that will do that. But they just wanted to test that. I think they probably got the supplement for free from a company sponsor them. So why not they'll throw it in there. The real meat potatoes, in this case, a supplement of this study was when they had them gain it one pound a week. It's a nice guideline to use. Someone wants the game. Try to get a pound a week. You're not going to do, if you do 52 pounds in a year, you're going to get some muscle mass out of that. That's a tremendous weight gain. It can be done. Did that with Jordan Peters, even less time, but Jordan's a monster. So he's a sixth-door scenario. And when you look at the, you can see the percent body fats are there. That's not what's so important. The fat free body mass, which I have an arrow pointing to, the bottom of that column in the chart, is they got about 2.1 kilos. So you know, 1.5 pounds in the placebo and that arginalizing group. And they got 3.6 kilograms of fat free mass in the group where they were shooting for waking. They were ensuring they're gaining weight at about a pound per week. That's the ticket. When they did that, they got about 70% better gains in fat free mass. Just for taking an extra 330 calories per day in the form of the supplement. So they were using the supplement to ensure the weight gain. That's not a whole lot. That's one seventh of a pound. That's about seven. Oh, you got four and 54 grams in a pound. So divide that by seven. You know, we've got about, it's about 65 grams of body weight a day. It's not very much. Out of tonne, but that was enough to keep the moving rate direction. A 70% increase. That's an extraordinary difference. You look back at some of these other plots from the nutrient timing studies. We're talking about maybe a 50% difference, not a 70% difference or a smaller amount. So this is the substantial gain. They weren't messing. They were taking in 22 grams of carbs, 14 grams of protein, nine grams of fat in average, 3 and 30 calories a day. There's nothing fancy about it. It wasn't quite an isocoloric type of supplement. Little bit car focused, extra 14 grams of protein, nine grams of fat. It wasn't like they jacked up the protein by 70 grams a day. It's only 14 extra grams. But what they did is made sure they were gaining weight. And they got a 70% better increase in fat remas over just 10 weeks. So let's take a look at a more aggressive study. The one that is the poster study for serial gains nation, which is the next slide. Does it? Going for it, 2000, yep, that's the one. So this people can find the details of this on my Instagram. So this is the Rosinet study for 2002. And they gave two of their groups, one in a little bit more protein focused, one basically car focused. A, well, I mixed up the order of those kind of flip-flop, but you can tell which is which. I put the macros there in the middle of the plot and red, but I've got them flip-flopped as they're how they're organized and the legend for the chart. Basically, 2000 extra calories a day. That was not accommodated for in their diets. So they did dietary recall as best they can tell. The extra 2000 calories a day in these mega supplements meant about an extra 2000 calories a day and those groups of got those. One got basically carbs, 450 grams of carbs, a little bit of protein, 14 grams of fat, a lot of carbs, not a ton of protein, the little extra fat. The other one got 356 grams of carbs, 106 grams of protein, 18 grams of fat. So that's the more protein. But what's the major thumper here? The entire thousand calories a day extra. Over the course of their training period. And if you look at the increase in body mass in the open and the completely filled, the dark black plots there, the bar graphs, you're seeing about double the gains, much more than double the gains in body mass, actually. But double the gains in fat free mass. Those groups that took in the, those are recreational, or beginning weight trainers what they called them. So they were had some weight training experience, recreationally trained, but we might call them now. They didn't get fat. They changed them in body fat. And fat mass was nil. And both of those groups, pretty much close to zero. It dropped down a little bit lower because a lot of times you'll see this in people who take on a new training regime that preses gains, they'll repartition, they'll get some fat free mass, loose some body fat. That's what happened in the control condition. But it wasn't like the control group lost. It's not even one kilo on average. It's like 2.2 pounds. Wasn't like they got shredded. And the other group didn't gain any body fat. But they basically doubled their gains in fat free mass when they really pushed the calories. In this case, they only got about 12. Looks no, yeah, it's an actually about eight pounds of seven or eight pounds of increased body weight. And basically all of that came from fat free mass. So again, different studies, variability crossing individuals, who knows they did use dietary recall. So it's kind of actually amazing to me, I'll admit this that they took in the extra 2,000 calories and nearly doubled their chloric intake and still eight, everything else the same, which they had been instructed them to do. They did it, apparently at least they reported they had either way taking in a massive and extraordinary excess of calories led to about double the gains in fat free mass, which we can see. It's going to be a muscle mass here. It's awesome. But that's aggressive. Yeah. That's a lot. So I found this study because I remembered it. I started doing the serial gains in ancient things because I cereals a great way to put in food afterwards. Tase good. You can put in a lot of food. And each box of cereal is just about 2,000 calories. So that carbohydrate protein group is pretty close to what I do as my postwork out meal. And this study actually shows basically documentation for very close to what I've been doing lately, trying to put on size now since I have kind of time for a real off season. So that's an impressive, that's an impressive increase in size gains just from eating enough. The bottom of the nutritional higher are important. You've got to get enough food in. You can put all the protein in you wanted. If you're a little bit low, it might help. But if you want to make sure things are happening, get the food in first and foremost. If you're eating enough, you're probably going to get plenty of protein. Notice, too, that the group, same amount of calories, the two groups, the carbs, carb focus supplement, and the carb protein. There is a substantial difference in the protein component there. So they had plenty of protein in the excess caloric intake when they took the carb base supplement. It wasn't that having more protein, as they did in the carb protein supplement, made a difference. Actually, mathematically, it was a little bit less in the carb protein, so that's basically the same. So it wasn't adding the protein that sealed the deal. It was the calories. And as was noted in that passes from the tip in a littered review article, is that this may be of more importance to the caloric excess, a positive caloric intake, may be more important than protein per se. And it varies as a function. Your protein needs varies a function of your caloric intake. So they got an extra 24 grams of protein along with that carb base supplement, but they also got an extra 2000 calories. That's important. So if you got that many calories, you've got such an and a ball of environment that you're going to make much better use of the protein that you have. And that's what some of the nitrogen balance studies have shown. Very rec qualitatively. It's not a good quantitative measurement. But you see this that the, and you see this in the, in the steward, the soups fillups, studies that have also been done with low calories, but higher protein. The protein needs various a function of your caloric intake. Very, very much so. So let's go to the summary slide. The last one here. And it's really pretty simple. Eat to grow strict, strict nutrient time, it may not matter or it may matter with unlikely to hinder. I've shown some studies that you're showing that nutrient timing can make a difference. Some people opinion it's not. Many studies with protein for instance, suggest it may not make a big difference. But nutrient availability during training can come from this pre-imposed intake. You don't have to use an inch of workout. You don't have to buy something fancy. Some of these studies gave us up four and then one after. Give it before it's going to be around for most of your training. So you've got, you've got that, you've served that purpose. You if someone, some people might do better with a one or two hour before work out meal. That's substantial. You eat 800 to 1000 calories an hour and a half before you train. And it does enough set your, your GI, you can train just as hard with or without that. Doesn't, doesn't impact you. That's going to be around your system for quite some time. You basically serve the purposes of nutrient timing by making sure you have nutrient availability when you're creating that stimulus to turn on muscle growth. But the big, the big, the big mess is here. The big take home is a positive energy balance, rules the day for muscle gain. So rest of it's sort of, to some degree, it's, you know, bells and whistles. It's icing on the pyramid, icing on the cake. Get enough food in and you're going to grow. Obviously, you may have to titrate that based on the relative gains in muscle versus fat if you're just getting fat. And you've interviewed people and you've talked about this many times. Sometimes you're just gaining fat. So you have to monitor those things the more advanced you get. You're not going to get gains like this if you've been training for 10 or 15 years. But you're going to need to have a positive energy intake. If you want to make gains, and that may be the most important thing above all as long as you're not obviously deficient in protein or or essential fatty acids or what have you. So stuff worth knowing. Nice. Nice. That's good. That's good. Cool. Let's see if I can bring us back to just us. Boom. There we are. Please. No. Yeah. You know, can I ask you a question, add a curiosity? Yeah. I run into people sometimes that want to train fast it. You know, everything we're talking about is it sounds like you can really make a difference with timing your nutrients, putting protein and carbs around your training. What are your thoughts to training fast it and not just in relationship to what we've learned today. But just in general. God, there's just a chat of them so much there. If someone, first of all, would say if someone having some food in or eating the breakfast beforehand, if they feel so much better, training fasted, yeah, that's what I'm telling. Yeah. Then stick with that. What I think has happened and I what I've seen most of the times is people will try and interwork out and maybe it's glucose, which will tend to pull much more water into the GI, they get bloated from that and they try it once they don't like it. They don't start small. Note the six grams of essential amino acids from that's all it took and the bird at all studies. That's not very much. You're not going to know that's in there. You could make your own placebo drink. Have your chicken with other your training partner someone to give you like, okay, here's the flavor water and here's the flavor water with six grams of essential amino acids. You sort of a citrusy flavor to cover it up, you won't even know. But that's been demonstrated. Not that, no, there's a law diminishing returns. The more advanced you are, the less likely you're going to be able to get these kinds of larger effects you see in less trained individuals. But six grams of essential amino acids does have an impact on positive protein balance. You could feel that any you wouldn't even know it. If you're drinking, if you're drinking something, you would know it if you didn't flavor it. You've braised it. Hopefully that would throw you off too much. So that's the thing is that I would never want to do anything that would sacrifice your training efforts. Yes. In the same way, don't do things that sacrifice your sleep. For instance. So you eat so much where you go to bed, you can't sleep. That's not good. You're kind of shooting yourself in the foot. So there's that. If you're dieting down, if you're somewhat fritz or too doesn't care so much about muscle mass and you're dieting down and you can end effect taking less food by training fasted and the training itself has a negative or in this case we consider a positive impact on your appetite. Meaning it reduces it. Someone might be able to get up, have their cup of coffee, you know, futs around for a while, go to the gym at 10 or whenever they can and then they train at 12 and they don't feel like they need a first meal until one. That for them and then that means they eat less throughout the day. If muscle mass isn't a major priority for them, but getting lean is, you know, that could be a great strategy for that individual person. Okay. So that's. Yeah. Yeah. It was just something that kind of came to mind just trying to apply things into the real world because not everybody wants that. I think for the vast majority of us though we're thinking about how we can squeeze in, you know, food around and in our training now after hearing this. Yeah. You know, the one thing that I would suggest folks try, you can do like I, I didn't even talk about like the ingredients I've done so many talks and we talked about here I think and several of the podcasts I've done. Use a hydrolyzed way. Use a highly brand-cycliced action. Get something that's going to have the least potential for GI distress. Start in small amounts, work your way up. You know, easiest way to kind of see whether it's making a difference for you is give it two months shot. Work your way up to, you know, 30, 40 grams of protein, maybe 75, 50, 75 grams of carbs, something like that substantial that you're drinking, starting before, throughout and by the time you're done with your workout finish it up. Get used to that. You know, and then remove it. Okay. You want to elimination and see how you do. See how you feel. Yeah. Yeah. And that is the most substantial effect that I see in many, many people is they will travel somewhere or they will they have forgotten it, they blanked out, they ran out accidentally if they had another bottle of X ingredient or X pre-made supplement and they don't have it and they go to the gym, try to train without it and some of it could be here, which is fine. Hey, you know, what works works whether it's your total placebo or actual physiologic effect. We want to figure out what works. If you can hypnotize yourself into being huge then you do it, right? Yeah. Of course. But when you eliminate it like that, that's where people are like, oh man. Then they see the, yeah. I just got blanked, you know, I just like things that I could have done easily. I could, it's like someone like took another, took a gear away from my, from my ability to train. Right. Right. No. That's a good experiment to do. Yeah. Yeah. That's a good question though. Hey, let's wrap this thing up then. Cool. If course guys, if you do want to check out any of those supplements, we'd appreciate it if you used a sponsor of train nutrition and you can even buy these things individually. So if you wanted to buy some hydrolyzed way, you can pick that up on its own. You can pick up highly branch cyclic dexterity. That way you would have the ability to kind of, you know, put your own concoctions together at whatever doses you wanted to do. Same with EAA or you can get those things all together. I know I believe last I checked they were currently out of Perry MD, the, the mountain dog formula. I'm an intro workout, but they, you know, they do carry that regularly. I'm sure it will be back. So there's a chance if you're, if you're not seeing this right at the release, then it may already be back in stock. So check out true nutrition. Of course, check out be your own bodybuilding coach. You can get that at Amazon. You get the hardcover there or you can go to be why OBBCoach.com. That's Scott's book, which will take you all the way from the beginning of your off season. Hopefully before that, it'll help you plan your off season, carry it out, run you through your contest prep and your peak. In fact, I know somebody who's using your strategies in your book right now, Jerry Jason and Facebook. And he was just over yesterday. We were working on some posing together and he's looking incredible. Natural guy, very, very lean. And I believe he's doing his trial peak this, this week. Now he's going to be competing in a couple of weeks. So he's done an incredible job. He's coaching himself and he's using the book. So definitely check that out. And of course, for the two training that net, guys, we'll see you soon. Thanks as always, Scott. You're welcome, man.

All right. My collagen here and my coffee. Man, it makes us so well. The hydrolyzed beef collagen. It's just, it's so thin. Tradition? Yeah, it just like should just dissolves right into the coffee. Uh-huh. I love it. You're just taking that without any other protein source, just mix in the coffee. Yes. Yeah. I mean, I ate breakfast and then I, but I usually mixed that into my coffee 29 grams, which, you know, I don't taste it at all. Okay. There's no flavor. Yeah. I get the one thing. It costs per pound. Expensively $25. Okay. I wonder. But it works, man. So, you know, I've seen a difference in my life. And I get, I get side effects or effects that one would expect from growth hormone. Like, you notice that your nail start growing at a much faster rate. Um, I notice that my hair starts growing more quickly. Uh, my mom has been using it. She said that her skin has been improving. And, uh, she notices the fingernail thing too. So, I, and, I mean, I think, even if you're using growth hormone, it's probably giving you the raw materials to upregulate that production, right? You know, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, to, it's giving you the building blocks, if you, you know, you, you, you, if, if growth hormone is somehow giving you more workers or BPC is giving you more workers, then it's giving you more bricks. Bricks. Bricks. The growth hormone is, there's more like the, um, the contractor on site who's directing the construction process. I like that. So they're cracking the wood. So that, the growth hormone, that's the thing, it, it preferentially turns on, how to, um, connect with tissue protein synthesis, okay? Um, as opposed to muscle, myophibular protein synthesis. So, if you look at a muscle, we're gonna go with, just dive right in here. Yeah, it sounds good. Yeah, so muscles and organ. Each muscle is actually considered in organ. Um, and I've mentioned this before on, on, uh, on the show I believe, but we've got that nervous tissue, muscle tissue, that pathology tissue, and connected tissue. Those are the four tissue types, anatomically speaking in the body. And so that's, you know, we have cells, and then we have tissues, and then tissues combined to form organs, and then organs can find combined to form organ systems, and then we have the whole body, that's this composed of organ systems. So each muscle is actually part of the muscular system, which is composed of all the muscles of the body, each of which is considered technically an organ. You don't think about that way. Like you think, you know, your renal system, you've got two kidneys, you know, most people do. That's the typical. So there's the two organs, right? Or the gastrointestinal system, there's different organs, the liver is considered one. Obviously the intestines, the stomach, et cetera, et cetera. But the, each muscle is an organ, made up of different of those tissues. So muscle cells are one type of, skeletal muscles are one type of muscle-tissue, muscle cell in muscular tissue, but you've also got within there, epithelial tissue, and the endothelium of the vessels. You've got nerves, obviously, the nerves have to get in there too. So you've got nervous tissue. You've got connective tissue, so that outer fascia is what, in some muscles, if you're like a chigreene person, you have those that appearance of striations, which aren't individual cells, the cells are much, much, much, much smaller than that. The little ripples that you see is a quote unquote striation on the external surface, the muscle that's surface to the body that's just under the skin. That's just the shape of the connective tissue. Those are probably the facicles of muscle fibers, actually. So hundreds of muscle fibers that are sort of grouped together in kind of a unit. So if you look, then across section of muscle, you see a whole bunch of massive amount of fibers and they're grouped into facicles. And you've got nerves coming in there and blood vessels going throughout. And so growth hormone, this is why people like that growth doesn't make, as a turn-on protein synthesis, it doesn't really produce muscle growth, at least in people that are already fully formed adults. Because it doesn't really do, there's a little bit of research suggesting it turns on skeletal muscle protein synthesis. They've done stuff like, people can find these studies, they will feed in, like an amino acid tracer, I think you use phenolalanine in these particular studies. And they feed it in our curially and then they know what's going in and then they measure a vein coming out on the arm, on the forearm. So if you apply growth hormone and you see how much phenolalanine's coming out in and the less is coming out when you apply the growth hormone that means some of it's staying in there. Yeah, and that means synthesis is turned on because it's being incorporated into, in this case, skeletal muscle proteins, what they're assuming the phenolalanine's representative of. But generally speaking, you see the growth hormone turns on connective tissue protein synthesis. So like things in tendons, things in cartilage, for instance, so those protein fibers as opposed to act in an mice and in skeletal muscle. So that's why people like to use growth hormone for the joints, joint integrity, and that sort of thing. It's also not a really, this is sort of an aspect of growth hormone that's interesting. Is what you see too is after you train, there's just a couple studies if I recall that sort of point in this direction, but they're consistent at least, is that you get this highly variable to you get an x amount increase in protein synthesis and skeletal muscle. So let's say you turn on skeletal muscle by 100 proteins and it's by 100% after you train. Which time in that, of course you keep doing that, training session after session, and eat enough energy, then eventually you're gonna grow, connect your gonna grow skeletal muscle. So you're building up the myophibular contractile protein. Yeah, we're going right in deep, right off the morning, man. It's good, everyone needs coffee, probably. Yeah. So that's good. But what happens in terms of, of, connective tissue protein synthesis. So it's not the same extent of protein synthesis, so it's a potential for that to lag behind. And meaning that you're not gonna strengthen the fascia and the tendons and maybe not even get the strengthening the effects that happen in the cartilage and the joints to the same extent at the same relative rate as you do in increase in the muscle fibers. So this is why potentially this is an explanation, at least for what you see in guys that have grown really, really fast is that they, you get, you have an increase potentially increased risk for muscle tears. Yeah, I've always heard the, the idea that muscle strength would be a couple of weeks ahead of the strength of your connective tissue thus you don't want to go up too fast in weight. Let's say you're on a cycle like trend and anadraw. You're probably gonna, obviously we got test in that too, but test trend and adraw. You're gonna gain a lot of strength real fast and that if you're more likely, let's say you're benching 100 pound dumbbells and the next week you can do 110s and then after that you feel like you can do the 125s, you might be better off going up in smaller increments because that's the connective tissue can't handle with that muscle's able to handle. Is that, is that kind of what you're talking about here? Like this is the reasoning behind that? Yeah, yeah, so, let's part, yeah, that's definitely, so there's your, your, your, your, your, your, you tied in the nervous system. Oh, which, okay. Allows you to get stronger and much faster than the rate at which you gain muscle mass. So you might see someone who increases their strength over a year by 100% on all their lifts that they double their weight they're using when they start off as a newbie. Let's say. Maybe they, maybe they go on gear and they just curl like a motherfucker, you know? And they get strong, they're really, really strong, stronger than ever before. They're not going to gain 100%, they're not going to double their muscle mass, but they double their strength. And a lot of that is the nervous system learning how to move that weight. So you still got the same motor, you're just in terms of the muscle mass, to move the weight around, but you now you know how to, you're engaging in more. So you're redlining your motor so to speak more so than you ever could before. Because you'll learn how to do that because you're practicing it with training because you're training really hard. Yeah. So this is a more a matter of the fact that you've got the, my, acting in my instant and the muscles that are involved in the actual force production. So the myofibular proteins. And then you've got collagen and elastic and those connective tissue fibers that are the support structure that basically they're holding the muscle together. So it's kind of like the engine is the acting in my instant. It's driving the vehicle. The nervous system is the driver sitting behind the wheel. And then the frame and the wheels. And you know, all the components that literally give the car structure is the connected tissue. So it's like as you grow and in this case, at a myofibular protein, it's steroids would do this. And just training does this in general. You get this this greater relative rate of myofibular protein synthesis and connective tissue synthesis. You're adding a bigger and bigger engine. So you're putting like an engine that is, you know, looking more like it belongs in a Mustang whereas the vehicle maybe at the beginning is more like a pinto. Yeah. So you don't really have, you know, it's kind of like go back to the electric bike. What would say a fiat or a smart car for those for the, for the new generation watching. Yeah. I've got this electric bike we talked about yesterday and I told someone I was like, and it goes really, really fast. Yeah. And people imagine you're riding like this, you know, this, this, this wimpier little 10 speed with skinny little wheels. Right. That's what I'm doing. That's like that bike's not made for those speeds. Guys, scum, you're running into this. Goes 60 miles an hour. Don't tell the, any law enforcement about that. Keep it under your hands. He's got a bicycle. Go 60 miles an hour. Okay. Sorry, I just had to let that know. I'm in a aerobic machine. You're pedaling that. That's hard. It's arms stung and you've got shit on me. Right. Oh. So that's a scenario. And then you've got this, then you've got, so we're actually adding up some interesting things. So you've got the, the fact that someone gets on gear that's saying they're doing the, the anodrol and the trend situation and trends sort of renowned for like putting on strength really fast. Tell you. Yeah. This is, this is very likely a nervous system related phenomenon that's probably being, if we look at the different anodry sectors, this feels membrane, bound anodry sectors that, the ones that let you know that oh shit, I just, you know, there's super draw, I just gone into the system and I feel like an asshole. And I want to tear shit apart. Yeah. It's been like 30 minutes. That's an immediate response in the nervous system in your brain. So you've got, you've got trend in there. Anodrol has that thing, the same, the old saying you can't spell asshole without anodrol. And the role has a cognitive effect. I'll tell you what, too. I have seen the majority of people I've known to tear a pack had been taking anodrol. So I'm just gonna throw that out there. Yeah. And that's, and here's where I'm going, too. So anodrol gives you water retention, right? Okay. Yeah. And so there's a scenario you take anodrol and actually you're, you're, you're big in your full. And this is why people will kind of go for that water retention. So I just, anodrol like the day before a show, to fill out the whole system times. Yeah. If timed or just someone starts using anodrol and they start holding water. And if your lien looks good, you know, eventually you can come a water bag, you know. And then you've got glow back pain and all the, you know, that you do a set and you got light on the couch and leave for your back pain to subside before you can do it stand up again and do something else. Yeah. But you've got that water retention. So now this happens after show is, too, if someone has used dioretics or for other reasons, they just eat like a butt head and they rebound poorly and they hold a lot of water. Now you've taken the muscle cell. So imagine like the cross section of the muscle cell. And everything is fuller. The muscle gets a huge pump. So now you've stretched all that connected tissue. Yeah. So now it's under higher tension. So it's kind of like using the car analogy. Now you've loaded down like your, you're loading capacity, your payload capacity of the truck and maybe even beyond that. So you're, you know, the back ends like hanging, you know, and now you're going over bumps and you're stressing all those connected tissue structures. All right. The springs, the airbags you got in there, your axles, everything else. That's all being stressed. This connected tissue. And if you got the scenario where someone's grown really fast and their nervous system is driving the system really hard. So they're driving like crazy and they're, and they're looking heavy heavy weights. They've got a fully loaded bed of the truck. The connected tissue, which has been lagging in protein synthesis. And this is where growth hormone could actually be helpful because it does turn that on more so than the myofribeular protein synthesis. You've got this scenario where everything is pointing towards we're going to have a breakdown of the connected tissue. Yeah, it sounds like it. Yeah, like you've got an overloaded truck bed. You're driving over bumps because you lived and massively have you ate, you know, that water retention, which is the overload, you're driving like a maniac because you have no regard for what you're driving over, you're just nailing it. You're just going bonkers. So that's a scenario where someone can very easily pull muscles. And then there's also the possibility and the research is mixed here that if someone's on gear, you end up with connected tissue or at least the mechanical elastic mechanical, like non-contract on, we're not talking about like force velocity curves, things in scale of muscle, but simply how that connected tissue produces force when it's lengthened or stretched changes when someone has used gear. So whatever's going on when the ender's stuff will be binds and turns on protein synthesis in both myofribeular compartment as well as connected tissue because it does do that too. You get connected tissue that doesn't have potentially the elasticity and the same mechanical property. So it's more likely to tear. And the evidence is mixed there. You know, actually there's, and it's hard to know exactly like this is, this is animal stuff, it's hard to exactly what that really translates to in terms of really a relative risk because it is, the connected tissue, like totally brittle, it's going to just tear like very, very easily or so it doesn't have any elasticity. You know, I don't know, that sort of, that's an immaturant interpretation I think. But so that is where growth hormone, that is where collagen could come in handy. Then it's to kind of wrap back to where we started where I was saying, hey, I'm taking my collagen. Right. Right. Yeah. So that's why growth hormone, if you can balance out that relative rate of myofribeular to connect the tissue protein synthesis and growth hormone would help there, it might help beef up your suspension so to speak in your, in the muscular truck that you're driving down the road to massive gains. It makes sense. Well, we've got a good topic today as well. I mean, obviously we already, we already kind of covered it's topic. It was good. It's good. It's a nice little kick off here. Guys, I'm hanging out with Scott Stevenson. Check out B-Rome Body Building Coach. His book in the back there. I'm Scott McMalay. Of course, you're watching muscle mines here at Think Big. And we're presented by Trinutrition, who I kind of already mentioned inadvertently at the beginning of the show. Use our code to think if you're in Canada, check out supplementsource.ca. And of course, let's see, what do we got? The topic was, Scott and I were just talking on the phone yesterday as I drove back from Canada. And I was explaining to you after I pulled a whole trunk load of effort in. Yes, bringing it all back. No. I was telling Scott about something that I learned in body building that I wish I had known sooner. When I was a kid, younger, when I was younger, it was always thought that in order to grow a muscle, you needed to really just like a power shove food. You needed to push the food, push the food. And I see people doing it. And I don't think it's the most productive way, especially for newer guys. You don't have to do that to grow muscle. And in fact, what I've discovered over the years is that with people, if I can get them, I want to get them almost into a dieted state. And that's where we start out. I mean, number one, you want to be able to have low enough body fat that when we do add food in, you're not going to be obese by the end of the bulk. So there is that. Because body fat is probably going to occur if you're adding a lot of food in over a long course of time and pushing that. So being leaner does help. We get asked all the time. How lean should I be before starting a bulk or is it true that I need to be lean? I will tell you this. If I can take somebody and let's say that they're an average 15%. And we get them into a deficit. And we get them tightening up. And we can get them to the point where we start adding in some food. Maybe it's a two high days a week. Maybe we're trying to grow back in legs. And on their back day, later in the week, their leg day, we raise the carbs up, let's say. And they've been consistently dropping, dropping, say the guy started at 190 pounds. We've died at him down to like 175. And now we're adding food in a couple days a week. But guess what? Now he's 173, the following week, when we check back in. But we're eating more food. Maybe we had in a third high day. And we get to a point where you can see they're losing body fat, but they're gaining muscle. They're getting stronger. And that the food is doing so much more. And I always say that an effective cheat meals, a cheat meal that goes to the muscle. You think average people, we go to McDonald's, you get a cheeseburger, red robin, or whatever, is just another meal. It doesn't do anything. But if you take a guy who's like the extreme, let's say contest dieted. And you feed him a burger and fries and guess what? And 15 minutes later, I remember sitting at the Arnold Classic and Dorian Haywood was a couple weeks out from a show. And Dave Calick was with us and he was like, you know, he'd a burger, he'd a fries, and drink a regular coke. And 15 minutes later, I look at Dorian. Boom, everything is bigger. His veins down his entire body and he's sweating. And he looked like a different body builder. And if we can get that kind of a response to food, you know, that's the golden window for growth right there. And to be able to then just continue riding that, I find that if I can do that with somebody, they're gonna make so much more progress than just taking an average guy who has an average response to food and just feeding him more and feeding him more. And feeding him more. For a lot of people, I feel like that we're missing the boat on how to grow muscles, God. You said so much there, man. Yeah, that was like those gigantic. So I'm trying to think where is the best place to start? Yeah. One, like the power-shaving idea I mentioned this yesterday when we were chatting, is something I think that comes from, which is sort of a logical approach is to look at those who are best at body building and see what they do when they're at their biggest. And for someone like him, we mentioned J. Cutler when we were chatting. I think Chris Asido has said that J was of all of his clients, the guy who could take in the or needed the most food, especially with the peak of his offices. There's some crazy amount of carbs who's eating carbohydrates throughout the night. I think J trained late at night sometimes too. And when he's living in Vegas, he would go into one of the goals. Maybe the one on Sahara, which was where he trained that. And he trained it like two a.m or something. He did like the late cardio I remember. I asked him about that. I don't want to get a sidetracked, but he had told me I asked him in person one time. And he said the reason he did that is because he knew that his, his, the fellow competitors were watching him. And he wanted to do something that they weren't doing so that they would be afraid. Because he, they would see the reports of him doing this three a.m cardio and they'd be like, oh shit. Yeah, exactly. That's what he said. Yeah, I think the thing too in Vegas is it's so damn hot. I think a lot of people do black outs on their windows and their houses. So yeah, you can, you know, black out and sleep till noon. But yeah, he was training a lot. High volume plus his body was already like so maxed out. He was doing, he was at a place most of us will never see as far as muscle mask goes. Yeah, the absolute size that he had. I mean, he's, I mean, J. looked like a Mr. Olympia when he was like 22. You can look at some of the pictures, you know, early on, it was like he was already top 10 of the world. Just, you know, when he was barely out of his team. Yeah. So you can't, so that, but that, but still that's we see and and advertising that's what we see as the general mentality it makes sense like what are the best people in the world doing. And so the idea that I need to eat like J to look like J is something that, you know, just you connect those two dots and so people have this idea that in order to get big, there has to just go right into massive eating. And of course that doesn't, that's not necessary. And that doesn't make sense because well, first of all, you're not J cutler. Only J is. And you're not Ronnie or you're not many people are trying to do that who, once they're sort of talking about who, who kind of go astray and gain a body fat unnecessarily are the ones that don't have the genetics that what makes sense to do so. And they don't have that size yet. So that means they don't have the metabolic demand. They don't have the chloric demand to eat like that. The other thing that's, so very interesting too, there's a lot of pieces to this puzzle is that when you die it down and you reduce your body fat, you've got two things that are kind of going on simultaneously that can, that you sort of have, I think you have to consider hand in hand. So you don't make this mistake of just saying, now I just eat like a maniac. When you're die it a down and this goes back to the idea of a set point or a setting point in terms of body fat muscle mass. And there's actually some data from the Minnesota minestauration study actually where they've, where muscle mass may actually potentially play a role in this polmiostat in terms of what your, what your hunger levels do and how your body regulates body weight in body fat and I'll get to that in a second. Okay. But when you're die it down and lean, the average person. When I talk about someone who was an anorexic, some of the early data was, we're an anorexic with loss massive amounts of fat-free mass and you add calories and start regaining weight. You tend to put on more body fat than you do muscle mass without any training. So your body is very receptive to regaining those body fat stores. So it can bring itself back up to where it's got a safety margin survival-wise, so to speak in terms of body fat. So excess calories can very easily be stored as body fat. But those studies mostly, there's very little that have training involved and that's the key key piece here is that we're adding training in so that you have a demand for those extra calories. But only so much of a demand. So eating, I think we said, you know, to gain like a pound every month is like, you know, like 500 extra calories a day, something like that. Pound a muscle mass every month. Just a fuel that process. There's a re-ordical by slater where the numbers are in there and I kind of calculated a layman's way of understanding what that really means. That's a lot of calories. So you have to make sure the demand is there from the training. But when you're lean like that, you also see this effect, which has to do with insulin and vasodilation that you saw in Dave, or in a not-and-date calica, and like in his name, Dorian. And Dorian, yeah, not Divity. Dorian, when he had that meal, had the sodium and the water he filled out like right there before you very eyes. Yeah. So someone like Poe show, which is the perfect examples are super lean. And the ETHE's meals and for the first four or five days, maybe a week, they're having that effect and they're just filling out their looking really, really good. They think, ah, it's just massively putting down the all-eak-neat meals as the way to go here. Yeah. Well, they're so lean that they're able to see those visual changes, but that won't last forever. Even the treating low-low fat, you can go maybe four or five days and then the denogal life-led genesis from the carbs, we'll start to kick in. And how many people have you seen who, you know, basically, it's amazing. You can completely undo months of dieting in a matter of couple three weeks of eating like the butt hit. Yeah, I think all of us who have competed have done that at least one time, if not more, you know? Going into the show, looking shredded two weeks later, you don't even look like you did a show anymore. And it's a shame too. It's hard to stay on track after I get it, but yeah. Yeah, yeah. What's the most important thing? But you see that from those meals and that gets in your head. And I mean, that's a really cool thing to see. Like the talk about feeding your rewards center with dope beans. It's like, wow, I can get a guess meal and like, well, I'm just full and you go in the gym and everything's great. So you do that. It's kind of like using Coke or this is, I'm not trying to make say the bodybuildings like using Coke, but it's like it has a drug like a fact on feeding your rewards center to your brain because this is great stuff. Yeah. But that's not sustainable. Just like using Coke on a daily basis is probably not sustainable. Well, with people, it leads to an addictive down spiral in terms of your life. Eating like that where you're just massively power-shuffing the food isn't going to keep on having that effect that it does when you're at 5, 6, 7 percent body fat because eventually your body fat gets, goes higher. And now you've got this body fat where it's still below where you're settling point is for most people, 12 percent, 50 percent, maybe for a guy. So your body is still ready to soak up those calories and store them so you get back to a nice, even homeostatic place where it's a plenty of body fat. Now, for the next time this guy does this shit to me and tries to dive me down to, you know, or there's a famine, you know, because our bodies don't realize we have ample supply of food. I think it all goes back to like some real ancient stuff, you know. It's highly variable. Yeah, that's the thing that's so variable. One of the toughest things is that most people can really, really lean, but it's very, very difficult for some people who just have, they just have the, they have poor genetics for that. And the best example speaking that I know of from the research literature are the quote unquote Pima Indians, I've talked about them before on the show, Tahona Odom and tribe and they're locally in Arizona. So I, you know, I know, Pima County is where Tucson is where I live for a decade. So they call them the Pima Indians but Tahona Odom is the name of the tribe the way they say it. And now in modern day times, like seven or eight out of 10 have diabetes and like nine out of 10 are more bibliobiques. Because the news of this is, or those, I think mainly those have been studied living on the reservation. They're eating, they've got this Americanized food source, the standard American diet. Yep. And there's actually a poverty issue there just in general too. So there, you know, if you look demographically at people who have less money, they buy the cheapest food which tends to be the most, the tastiest and the most at a positive generating type of food. Like it's just not even food really. It's just like how to get, how to get fat 101, just eat the stuff that's the cheapest. Yeah, yeah. And these are individuals who are, from that genetic lineage where they're in the desert. So there's water is gonna be scarce but shit doesn't grow in the desert. So it's hard to grow things. There's not a lot of animals running around. Like it's hard to have enough water. So you have agriculture. There's gonna be, there's a difficulty in having food. So they're literally drought and famine is, was a real survival threat for centuries. And there was a selection process that led to the current lineage of those, the Chinese and the Chinese of those tribal members. It was too their advantage 100 years ago, two years ago, to be able to store, whenever there's food around, store that shit because there might not be food for months. And those who have that, like, those, they're called thrifty genes. Sometimes in the research literature, because there's, there are some other, they're, I want to use the German word. They like to save things. Yeah. They're thrifty, like, oh, fat, food, let's make fat. Like food, that's not fat. They're way at one end. I've never, I've never, I've never, I've never, I've never, I've never, I should've just looked when I was there to see if there's someone who may have been native, American Indian, who was from that local tribal group, who got on stage, because that would have been a hell of a journey I'm guessing if they had the average and the next for the tribe members. So have a question I can tell. Well, I just wanted to make sure I kept steering us on the right path here. I had, there was a term you used, and I wanted to bring it back up was, you said, create the idea of creating demand. And I think that's what I'm talking about by getting that dieting down process happening, being able to feed somebody food. I mean, it doesn't have to be a cheeseburger. I just use it as an example, but we could do that a high day when somebody trains back or legs, big body part that we wanna grow. And it goes where we want it to. We get this great fullness. They get these great pumps. And we can keep, I guess, the trick then is maintaining that response. That's where you really have to watch somebody because you could burn that out quick. Like you were saying, you can eat that cheap meal once. You could do it again the next day after the show. Sometime in that first couple of weeks, you're gonna turn around and not be in stage shape anymore if you keep eating that way. So I guess that's where the trick is is that it's not gonna beat. I don't know how much we're gonna need next week and based on space stuff, how you look. But I still try to keep those low days in, you know. On a day where we say we are not training, we might bring the food back. And maybe try to do things to keep that insulin sensitivity high, you know. And then exploit it on the days we want to. I found that I get about a good eight weeks out of that is about where I, my guy seem to tip out. We get about a good eight weeks of riding that wave back up. You get a lot of weight in the process, a lot of good weight. Yeah, this is the notion of nutrient timing, which is a mixed bag in the literature. Get a big ass. It's still, I think relevant, a big ass, a review article, three part, re-york, a lot of the elite FTS site with people haven't seen that. Okay. And there's some good, very well put together studies, showing an effective nutrient timing, where literally you made that demand, you've increased insulin sensitivity speaking of, and you feed the food then, when you've turned on the protein synthesis. So you're timing the nutrient intake to meet the relative demand for, and the relative stimulus that you provided with the training to turn on protein synthesis, so that as opposed to, let's say, I always use this example just sort of as a way to kind of, imagine if you just intentionally train at 80 am and eat all your food at 8 pm. Okay, so you're like, you did the opposite of nutrient timing. Oh, Bench, you should see someone do like an intermittent fasting type of study where they intentionally time the training around the, you know, within the feeding period, and then as far away from the feeding period, it's possible and see what happens by the exercise. And potentially kind of a proof of concept study to see that, you know, if you really screw up the nutrient timing, you've got an issue. So yeah, I think there's something to say for that, and basically what you're doing is, you're setting yourself up for the best amount of success, because you can only grow muscles so fast and you can, depending on the person, many people can put body fat on at almost an essentially unlimited rate. That's calories. You know, literally, you can, I mean, you can eat an extra 1,000 calories a day and you know, go back and do the numbers and you can do that for 30 days, you may have put on, what essentially is 30 pounds worth of body fat, you know, containing those, most of those extra calories, you can account for it. There's a peanut butter study that Jose Antonio did. Thank you for tuning into another podcast here at Think Big Body Building Media. If we've provided value to you today, then please consider contributing to our show. You can help support the show through Patreon. Every $5 helps to pay for the software in the hardware and everything else that goes into making a podcast. You can also contribute by using our code at True Nutrition. True Nutrition has been our title sponsor for several years now. I'm super grateful for them. And I've believed in true nutrition supplements long before they sponsored our programming. You could use our code, think for health supplements and performance supplements, feel free to hit me up if you have any questions. And if you're in Canada, check out supplementssource.ca. They have free shipping over $99. Huge discounts on overstock, short dated, in label change products plus they have all your normal supplements, too. Thank you guys for listening to the commercial. I hope you're having a great day and that your body building is going well. Let's get back to the show. Been a few years back now. Were they? They had a group that was training and they had standardized diet and training and they watched the muscle growth and changes in body composition. And then they added, I can't remember how much. 300, maybe 500 calories a day, chest from peanut butter. So everything else was the same. They did the dietary recalls. It wasn't, you know, they didn't lock and do a clinic so they could watch everything. So there's some issues there with diet or recall always. But they just added extra calories from peanut butter, which is obviously just fucking delicious. These were calories that were to be extra. And there was no nutrient timing involved. I can't remember how I have to go and look to see if they were they put those relative to the training. But all of the extra calories went to body fat. No kidding. Now I'm not sure if they did training this study. I'll have to go and look and I'll have to check that out. But the main thrust of this was the extra calories from peanut butter. Despite it being just nectar of the gods for some people and like a horrible trigger food, it all went to body fat. And I've mentioned the study to people before and who would love peanut butter. I think, I'm rebounding. I need to put some weight on the extra calories. It's some peanut butter, at least from this study was just a horrible choice. It went right to body fat. And literally they could account for. Like it was almost like a 100% of the extra calories were counted for by their estimates of body composition in terms of body fat that was added in the peanut butter group. So not a good thing. So you have to be careful for that. But if you take your extra calories and let's say as carbohydrate, which is much less likely to be stored as body fat. And you're doing that like you say intermittently on certain training days. So you don't have this excess on days when there's no demand. Like you do it like back days and leg days. You're going to maintain that insulin sensitivity, which probably plays a role here. And you're taking advantage of this nutrient. So you're pairing your nutrient demand with the nutrient supply. It's coming from your diet temporarily. So everything's matched up. But then eventually you reach some point where you're adding in order to keep moving forward and growing. This is what you alluded to. Like at the eight week mark for some people. That's on how you stretch it out. You can longer than I've seen gone for months and months and months with people. Yeah, I hate how you stretch that I have. It's, I don't know, I'm just going to say, I use eight weeks as kind of just middle of the road spot where we're going to, we probably don't have to change too many facts. We don't have to work too hard to keep this going for eight weeks. I think a factor, too, is how long is somebody willing to sit in that place? There's some psychological factors to it because I do think that with this, you start creating more hunger, too, with those high days. And then you get the higher insulin levels and then lower insulin levels to follow. I think there's some psychological aspects that are maybe some eliminating factor for some people. It's very hard to reverse diet like that for many people. Yeah, yeah. I think you're doing it the way that I've, it's in my book. I've been doing this for like 20 years, basically, as a general strategy for most people, as you just add calories around the workouts and progressively increase those. So you kind of maxed out that and then targeted towards days where you're training week muscle groups. If that's part of a priority or a goal that you said. And then eventually you start to add on, but those other days you're hungry. And I actually want, and my client's going to test this, I want some hunger on those non-training days. I want them to feel a little bit ready to eat so that when they finish that training session and they're going to have a post workout meal, they're ready for it. Don't want them just suffering like complete food focused all day long. No, they can't do anything to think about the next day and have the meal that they're just day dreaming about eating. But it's a tough place to be. And this is where, this is where coaches sometimes, they're doing much better at this. I'm so glad, and this is it's in the book, here over my shoulder. I've got the post-contest period first in the book, because it's an important one. Because if you think about what are we going to do, we do the contest, you sort of reach the pinnacle, but it's like going to the top of the mountain, it's like, okay, I got enough food and supplies to get the top of the mountain, and then you're like, oh fuck, I'm at the top, how do I get down on my food? You know, or run out of everything, like you need to figure out how that's important too, because that's your chance to potentially make improvements. Absolutely. Slowly reverse diet in the way you've done with your clients. So when you get to that point, let's say, you know, four or five months later, and a really good scenario, where your food is back to, you're not having like, you're not hungry on non-trained age, you're sort of out of that post-contest period. And now your eating may be more calories than you were at that relative hunger level in the previous year, which you've got 10 pounds more muscle at the same amount of body fat, or the five pounds more muscle. You've got yourself to a better place, size wise, you made those improvements. And then you move to the off season, and if you're someone who's going for massive amounts of size, then you've made end up, oops, you may end up in a j-cultler-like situation where you're having to, like, really push the food, you know, and you're really like, it's become a short eat. And that's a different scenario, but that's months down the road. Absolutely. Yeah, and that's the trick to know that temporal context, that historical contracts of like, oh, if you try that, like right afterwards, what you eat, that's the thing so crazy, is that what you eat may be eating 10 months later would have a completely different effect on you two weeks after the show, as opposed to, you know, 10 months, like deep into your off season. In terms of your GI would be able to handle it, you'd get fat really fast, eating that food. And now you're not putting on body fat at a super rapid rate, because you've worked your way up to that, you may be regain some muscle mass. Various thing, your knee is probably different, you're moving more. So you're not defying any laws with thermodynamics, but your metabolism is changed, your activity levels of the change, your fat remaster's changed, so you're reflects that. Maybe you have the train with higher volume too, so you've got a greater epoch, the capeting post-training, so you've basically, you've got a totally different diet, you're thinking like, man, in my off season, I was eating 4,000 calories, I think there's a hop right into that, right after the show, it's like, no, don't do that. You're missing a gold knob opportunity there. And I'll toss this in now, I alluded to it earlier, and then I'll shut up for a sec. An interesting thing from this Minnesota of many starvation study, so they basically, they're familiar with this study before, I may have mentioned that. We've talked about it before, yeah. But maybe give a little bit of background, so people understand it. Yeah, this was like in the 40s, they took these volunteers, and they just basically, put them on a severely caloric restrictive diet and brought their body fat down, really, really, really low. And then they refed them and watched their body fat and they basically found that one of the major conclusions was that body fat is a major regulator of your appetite and your metabolic rate. And at one point, this is where I'm going, I'm bypassing a bunch of the earlier, kind of the main finding, because there's an interesting one at the end. So I think they sort of reverse diet, and there's no training involved here. They just restricted their food as they refed them and watched these very, watch variables as they got back somewhat close to their original body composition. And then you 16 weeks later, they got them back to their original body fat, but they weren't back to their original fat-free mass, which is represented in muscle mass. So their muscle mass was low, compared to where they were before they started the diet. And then they had, I think, give them four weeks, and they gave them a free, just a free for all, eat whatever you want, which is what coaches, okay, we got the show, pre-input, we got the show picks, we're done, you only paid me through the show, you're good, and then they just let their client just wander off into the willand of buffets and they just destroy themselves, right? Quick. So they let, and they, and you, remember, I could see the plot in my head when they did the free for all their, their caloric intake just went sky high. Yeah. And for about four weeks, it was really, really high. And what the pattern that emerged from that was that, they, free fed like that, in order to get their muscle mass back to its original state, their fat-free mass, back to its original state. So there's something about this homeostat in the body that regulates your own body fat, but also muscle mass. So these individuals, when they got done, they got, they, they died, I'm slowly to get their body fat back to where it was previously, and then they lit them free feed, and they free fed until they got their muscle mass, back to where it was previously. But what that meant was that their body fat was higher. Oh wow. So this is one of the concerns people have with yo-yo dieting, for instance, you're gonna end up losing muscle mass, and then having this sort of effect where you end up free feeding until your muscle mass goes back to where it once was, and that leaves you with more body fat and less muscle mass, or the same muscle mass. Yeah. So back to someone who's come off a dot-up post-contest diet, and they start, they start just massively feeding, you've got muscle mass, which has only come back so fast. So let's say, let's say you lost, just making, like let's make a 10 pounds of muscle, just to get the numbers easy. So you lost 10 pounds of muscle during your diet. It wasn't necessarily successful diet. If you lost some muscle mass, that you're gonna regain. You're gonna regain that so fast. It may take, let's say, two months. Okay. That's a massive rate of muscle mass gaining. So but in two months, you could put on that so that's a body fat. Yeah. So that person, if they're just kind of going by their appetite in this case, would refeed until their body fat got back to its setting, set point or settling point, it's where it wants to be. And then they would just keep on going until the muscle mass, if this phenomenon occurs and them got back to where it once was. And that could mean that their body fat is who knows where. Way past where it once was. So they had a fat, or than they were, before they started their contest diet. But where they would have been otherwise, because they didn't give themselves time, which allowed the muscle mass to come back and then hopefully exceed where it once was. So you have to keep that mind. That's the key thing here is that my muscle mass is going to have to come back as well for my appetite. It's going to take some time for that to happen. So just give it that time, feed it well on those training days with the pro-chure using, which is, I think it's just, it's kind of common sense, but it works brilliantly. I mean, you've, like you said, people are getting leaner, or so it's like literally, this is what's kind of cool. Is it, you start adding calories in people, look like they're at least getting leaner. Yeah. And their body composition is going the right direction. So relatively, they probably are. They may not be losing body fat where they're gaining muscle mass, but although that's a complete possibility. It certainly happens in the studies and in real life. It's not that the studies aren't real life. But you're ex-regaining muscle at a relative rate that's greater than the body fat, and you are technically getting leaner from a percentage standpoint. Yeah, so you'll look at, you'll see it, like what you've seen in your, in your, in your check-in pictures. So yeah, it's a very fascinating phenomenon. It's, it's just a hard thing, psychologically, to wrap your mind around. It's like, we're not done yet. And there's no dangling carrot waiting for you necessarily, unless you've done this and seen it happen, like, oh, like, I want to be assessed by the judges in 10 weeks, how well I did my rebound. It's like, not, you're gonna just have to do this and have you have a coach that supports you or maybe you have Instagram pictures to kind of keep you accountable. Something like that that is akin to the motivating force that the contest once had. I think is nice to employ psychologically to say, I'm not just out in no man's land, like battling the same dietary battle against hunger on a routine basis throughout the week. And I did nothing to show for it. I'm just like, oh, this diverse dieting is just sucks. And I'm getting fatter and it's like, not that great. It's like, no, you're doing the right thing. So having some way to track that, present that, be accountable for that, or make that akin to whatever drove you during the pre-contest period to get leaner, so that you have a good adherence, I think, makes sense. Because that's, that's the hardest part. That's hard. You know, for a lot of it, that's harder than the diet. Absolutely, it is. Because you don't have that tangible, concrete date that's now looming ahead of you. And I think it's difficult, too, for people, people that come to me and that they say, hey, I want to put on muscle. And I say, okay, and then we pull the food down and put them into a deficit, it's like, it does take some patience to get to that spot. But if you've just been eating like whatever you want and you're not gaining or losing, if we just start adding food in your 15% body fat, I can guarantee you that over time that body fat's probably gonna go up more. If we get you to that place where you, the term you use is created demand. I wrote that down here, create a demand, then you're gonna be on a much better place to be able to really utilize those nutrients. And you feel it, you know? But it does take delaying that gratification, you know? It takes delaying that gratification to see like, what's gonna happen with that, the bigger picture. But hey, look at this way, you know? You're gonna be hopefully alive a year from now. And especially for guys that have tried to grow and try to grow, and maybe they haven't made the best progress. Maybe trying to first get the body fat off, get that yourself in that position where you can add a high day in. Maybe you could try something different this year around. And you know, see where you're at, you know, in six months from now. I think it'd be a good challenge for people. Yeah, folks are just gonna be gonna talk with this. I think there's a psychological boundary that people get to. When your body fat gets too high, you're just sort of physiologically, it's gonna resist. You going higher, appetite, your GI, tell you all this things, and then it's like, a lot of things like, I just, I don't wanna look like a big round, you know? And not, that's like sloppy powerlifter. I wanna look like a bodybuilder, you know? That's the other, I think, aspect that can be helpful is that, you know, the versus the power-shaving food, what we're talking about here is, and initially I said it can be a difficult part. You increase the hunger, you know, you've got to deal with that hunger. So that can be difficult to do for months after a month, after a month, but at the same time, I do think that being able to maintain hunger while you are trying to grow muscle is important. I never thought about the importance or the value of keeping your appetite high. I just, in the past, when I was young, younger, and trying to grow, I just thought, you just got to eat. I don't wanna eat, but I got to eat, you just do it. There were times that you just like, I would chew, chew, chew, throw water in my mouth from my gallon jug, swallow, and repeat until the bowl was empty, you know? But nowadays I try to keep people hungry or to the point where, you know, they're wanting to eat that next meal. There's stomach feels empty, you know? Yeah, and I'll toss this in there too, because, I mean, in this bodybuilding, competitive bodybuilding isn't as we know from events of late, bodybuilding is not the most, it's always sort of no, we're also doing it. It's not the most healthy endeavor. Sure. And trying to push your bodyweight and your muscle mass and everything, you know, to its genetic limit, so to speak, is not the healthiest endeavor. So, there can for some people be situations where the food is a struggle, like putting down the food, like that happens a lot. Like, during the Chuchu Chu, you know, you got no salvation, because your body doesn't want this, and you're having to use water to bring the food down. The point where that would make sense is if someone is, and this is, I've got this in the book too, it's all sort of in one of the earlier chapters, because you're paying attention to all your markers of muscle growth. So maybe I always suggest people kind of do a dexif, they can, and then correlate that, produce an algorithm or a regression equation with skin folds that they can sort of get an estimate of their muscle mass. So, you realize that, you know, I want to get to this muscle mass, because this is what I need to have. I'm going to step on stage of the weight that I want to be at, the top of my weight class, at 4,5% body fat. That means I need to have x amount of muscle mass. Currently where I am, I'm 5 pound shy of that. So I'm going to have to eat to 10 pounds body weight beyond where I currently am, in order to get that muscle mass, because I'm probably, and there's a possibility someone gets their, if the EEDs are involved, they may put that muscle mass on during the prep. Unless they have a history of doing that, or they've, you know, they're going to use PEDs for the first time during your prep that's not something you can probably account on. So generally, getting the purpose of the off season is to get that muscle mass. So you may end up in a situation like, okay, I'm 5 pound shy. I'm paying attention to my body fat, I'm paying attention to my muscle mass, I'm getting stronger and making progress. The food is not going down easy, but I'm struggling with it. I'm doing some of those things, and I'm taking upon myself the fact that this is not the healthiest thing that necessarily do to push my body, because it doesn't want to do this. And but I'm still making progress. I'm still going the right direction. As opposed to blindly saying, no, man, just fucking hardcore, just knuckle down eat that shit and just go. And you just end up like, and you interviewed people, like you've heard this story some times where people just pushed, I just want to weigh 300, you know, or just in the one-to-weight, you said you could just put it in the scale. They're looking at anything. And literally they're just putting on body fat, and they're just pissing in the wind. And they're doing themselves a disservice, creating massive amounts of information, probably like literally they're not helping their body out. Maybe of impeding recovery, getting to the point where the body fat's so high, they can't train the way they want to. So their training stimulus is going down. They're basically reached, and gone past the point of diminishing returns, or maybe even could go, be on it going backwards. So they start over training over reaching more easily. So that's not when you want to be, you know, like saying, now it's time to power shut even harder. It's just the fact that it may make sense for some people to push the food in a way they haven't, but you need to know that you're doing that with some positive benefit coming from it, not when you're not just blindly pushing it into the unknown. And that's where, you know, monitoring what's going on makes sense. So, and that's where, you know, a seat was looking at people, like he's got this, you know, magical genius eye. He's looking at Jay and he's like, you know, add 50 grams of rice to your six to meal, or what have you and like he does that, and he sees the difference three days later. He does that, you know? Yes. So, a seat was assessing those things, and he's got Jay putting that food down, or named the body builder who's had eat a lot of food. They know that that's working, that's going in the right direction, things are, it's a productive effort. Yeah. But just mimicking the effort without knowing that you're getting the same productivity, doesn't, isn't the way to go about it, unless you just want to give his fat as possible, which I don't think most people do. All right. That's a whole other endeavor. Yeah, no kidding. Yeah. So, I had one more thing. I had a question that Matt Levins sent us. This was over on Patreon, and he says, and by the way, shout out to everybody who's watching live today. We had, let me say, we had a few people who were tuning in, Steve tuned it for the first time. So, what's up, man? And Andrew Nolan's with us. Steve Parker asked, why do I crave peanut butter now? And Danny Vance could relate to the getting fat part that we had talked about. But yeah, so Matt had this topic that he wanted to ask you. He says, question for Scott Stephenson. Have you heard of too many injectable antibiotics causing stomach issues such as nausea? And then he speculates. He says, like maybe too much nitrogen retention, I know too much is a very person, is very person dependent. So, basically injectables in digestion. I know I've seen my share issues that were related with those factors, but that you might have some science on what we might be seeing with this. Yeah. First, we'll go into the nitrogen retention thing because he's tossed that in. So, people use it as a fancy scientific term. But what that means, that term comes from a way to assess to what extent the body is incorporated protein. Proteins about 16% nitrogen. And it's not very, it's interesting enough for sort of mysterious reasons. It's not a very quantitative way of assessing and predicting body composition changes. So, what you can do is measure the nitrogen in from the protein that's going in. So, your nitrogen that comes into the body comes from protein, it's about 16% nitrogen by weight. So, you eat a 100 grams of protein to get 16 grams of nitrogen. And then you can measure the nitrogen that's lost by the body. So, that would be in the feces. That would be in the urine. Your reas of big source of that. That's a big way in which you lose nitrogen. That would be in then body tissues that are sluffed off some of it in the feces. Skin, hair, nails, and then nitrogen that's lost in your sweat. And like in the original studies, they usually estimate some of those other things based on the, usually just measure urine and they estimate the others as some percentage of what you see in the urine. But so, that's nitrogen loss. So, someone's taking in, let's say, 32 grams of protein, 32 grams of nitrogen per day. And so, that's nitrogen in and nitrogen out, collected from all those sources is 16 grams. So, that's equivalent to 100 grams of protein lost. That would mean a positive nitrogen balance, 16 grams or equivalent to 100 grams of protein. So, the idea would be there that someone is accumulated in 100 grams of protein in the body per day. And if you're in the weight training situation, you presume you've created the demand for protein synthesis and skeletal muscle. So, that protein is going to skeletal muscle mass. The thing is that the nitrogen balance studies don't predict that you're gonna get the muscle mass changes in the body, that doesn't pan out that way. There's a particular kind of cool study with the Mark Carnipolsky the years ago where they had graded levels of protein intake with people who are resistance training. And they saw this positive nitrogen balance with the higher intake of protein. And it was a, maybe 12 weeks study, I can't remember, the time. And the highest protein group had this awesome positive nitrogen balance. And I don't even think they addressed this in the discussion if I recall, but I'm like, let's cool. So, I went, like, look, took the number and I'm like, so what's that mean in terms of what should happen muscle mass-wise? As muscles roughly one quarter protein three quarters water, they should have put on like 12 pounds of muscle mass, which would have shown up in the body comp, nothing. So, the nitrogen balance things that's used in Starveate is used in various studies and it's an old school method that was used to evaluate protein needs, protein recommendations, all of a lot, but it doesn't really pan out in terms of body comp, because it's some changes unfortunately. Okay. So, that's what people say when they need nitrogen balance. It's not that the nitrogen's getting like caught up in your GI tract, you know, like, all this, the other nitrogen sludge, you know, this, you know, concentration, or cognitive diarrhea, or something like that. The nitrogen balance idea is just that the nitrogen's being is a representative of protein that's retained in the body and we'd hope it be muscle mass in our case. Okay. So, the thing there is that although they're not sort of renowned for this, gear has to be detoxified by the body and the liver is our main organ to be toxication. So, just like with the Orals, you can cause liver hepatic stress. And you do that, you've delivers one of your organs of the gastrointestinal system. So, you can, you can end up causing, you know, colostasis, which would give you, like, potentially fat, malabsorption issues and other liver stress, which you'd see typically in the liver enzymes of your blood work, GTT, ALT, ST, and this goes beyond just the Orals you're saying, correct? Yeah, I mean, you can clear percent. Much more, yeah, yeah, you can use much more, but there's, like you said, you said it right off the bat there's variability as to how well people tolerate those things. So, and there's a possibility too, like there's difference, we've gone to this before on the show. I think we had a whole show, we kind of dedicated to liver detoxification, a huge component. So, I've covered it before, but there's P450 enzymes that are involved with the detoxification process and, you know, we know some of them that are used, and it's, but it's not clearly delinited, at least that I could find, which ones specifically are responsible for each specific steroid, steroids have different structures. So, there's a possibility, for instance, let's say, someone, let's say someone's doing a cycle where they've got some liver stress from Annivar, not thinking it's gonna be much, and they're doing test, and then they add Deca, and they had no issues with their GI, and they add Deca on top of their test, Annivar stack. And now, the Deca and the Annivar together create liver stress that neither of those would have individually, because they end up overloading the P450 enzyme that's responsible for both of them, or there's a synergistic effect that amplifies the toxicity, and the apatotoxicity that the Annivar was bringing about. Or simply that they sort of get past their threshold for toxicity from the injectables, because of the amount of doses they're using. You go to three or four grams, that's a lot of gear. Yeah. Yeah. I saw years ago, someone had estimated from, and I wish I could find this again, took the sort of the rough estimate from values and rats, or mice as a rodents, at least, that were given injectables. That showed that up to like a grams worth of testosterone in humans, the relative dose, relative eyes based on body surface area, and not just for kilogram. Was something that at least rodents could handle, the humans could handle a gram of testosterone per day, or something like that, without apatotox stress, based on a rodent study, using the equivalent dose for extra number of weeks. So you can handle a lot, according to that study, that's the closest thing I've ever seen to someone trying to look at like a dose response in terms of toxicity and injectables. We know that you try to do a gram of anodrol, or a gram of superdol, or whatever, like one day, you're not a happy camper. Because the methylation there was designed to make that difficult on the liver, that's the whole point of the modifications, is that the liver can handle them very well. The benefit is that you have a steroid that is orally available, the negatives that you have a steroid that's patotoxic. I think a factor could be too, is maybe not the steroids at all, but like when we had vigorous Steve on the show, and he was talking about, yeah, solvents and inflammation that stuff could cause. Yep, absolutely. And then he can look back on that, or Steve's got a whole, she's got two podcasts, I think, or two videos on YouTube where he covers that. Yeah. He's even an article on his website. We have one more big team up, and this is gonna be, this is one of those moments where we're like, you know who we should ask? We should ask God's Stevens and Scott would know. It's come up more than once on Blood Sweat and Gear, skip, you know, this gives Ben around forever, and he's figured shit out by applying it in real life. But that doesn't necessarily always answer questions from a scientific perspective, and sometimes that's what we wanna hear on podcasts. You know, as listeners, I'm not even sure. So, this is the question. He said, ask you, ask him about what happens to the oil after it's injected, if it's metabolized or what? So, skip was thinking, if you put that oil in your body, you know, you gotta think. So, a tablespoon of olive oil is about 15 grams of fat, right? So, I mean, how many grams of fat are we injecting? And then, skip's question is, is that being metabolized just like an orally consumed fat, if there's a guy running two grams a gear, is he getting, you know, an extra 100 grams of fat per day and his diet? So, all right, so two, that's just, just do the rough numbers. Two grams a gear, he's doing, let's say he's doing 200 milligrams for a meal. Okay. All right, so he's doing 10 mills, which is about 10 grams. Roughly, I mean, 0.9 grams for a meal is which is what the density of fat is. And if we're not even looking at, you know, if it's 200 milligrams for a meal, it's actually 0.8 grams of, and then we have the BA, we have the solvent, we have all the other added it. So, we're, we're actually, it's much less, let's just make it 10 grams a week. Okay. That's someone doing two grams. It's actually probably more like six, if you do the numbers. That's, what is it? Six times nine, you know? Six grams of fat, times nine calories per gram. Was that so? Sixty, three? That's 63 grams. It's six, six, six, three calories. That's, that's nothing. So, we're talking about 100 calories a week. Okay. From, from the actual. So, it's not that much oil, then, is really what it comes down to. Yeah. I mean, yeah, if you're doing, if you're doing three C Cs a day, right? How many milliliters are in, how many milliliters would be in a tablespoon? That's what I, I wonder. 12, 12, 15. Oh, shit. I didn't realize it was that much. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, one, one milliliter, gram, the density of water is one gram per milliter. It's 12 degrees Celsius or whatever it is. Fat is 0.9 grams per mill. So, three mills, if we presume that, like, if you just injected pure fat, there was no gear in there, which is, you know, 200 milligrams per mill or 0.2 grams per mill. Okay. So, this, that leads, you know, 0.8 grams of other stuff. And you got, let's say 20 percent, benzal benzoyed and 5 percent, benzolacol, it's 25 percent. So, that's actually, that accounts for 45 percent of what's in there. The other 55 percent is your carrier oil. Okay. So, in each mill, you've got 550 milligrams, or a little more than a half of that, is carrier oil. So, a three, C, or three mill injectable has three times 0.55, 1.65 grams of fat. So, that's 0.65 times 9, whatever that is. You know, 15 calories per day. Okay. Times. Times seven days, you know. Not a lot, but is that, is that processed as fat would be that you ate, you know, early? Yeah. Yeah. It'll, I mean, it's going to, it's going to just slowly leak out, dissolve out from the depot where it's been injected. Okay. And then up in the bloodstream, you know, and, you know, it'll end up being metabolized as fats that would end up in the bloodstream, just like you eat a fatty meal. You can measure blood triglycerides, or it'll be taken into the lymphatic system of metabolizes fats would be. So, okay. Yeah, it'll just be, but, but it's, it's pretty minimal, you know. It's not a whole lot like, like, that's, that's, that's, that's almost like, you're digging into that peanut butter, you know, and you get a little bit of, you know, little fat, like a little, like, you're sloppin' it so fast and get the money in it and you just stick it in your mouth. Like, yeah. That's, that's the 1.5 grams of fat. Right. Yeah. That much. It's very, very little. So, so not much. Yeah, it's a good question. But it does absorb, okay. We weren't sure. We had, we had somebody, of course, somebody came on YouTube and was like, that is ridiculous. The fat do not absorb if you inject them. This, this, and this happens. Somebody had the answer and said, no, you're wrong. Of course, you know, the... Where did he spend it go? I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't remember. Did he just, you know, was just one of those things sort of like, yeah. No, this was like months ago. It's been an ongoing, like, often on conversation. I just wasn't on conversation again. Yeah, recently. So, yeah. Yeah. We're glad that we finally know, though. At the end of the day, it's not very relevant to our gains or losses either. I mean, you can get, like, if someone gets like a sterile abscess or an abscess, like, you know, where they literally have, uh, welcome. Where they literally have any capsolation of the depot, because you get some information, which could be a function that, that carry oil, or the solvent. Then you can have a situation. There's, there's some gruesome ultrasound pictures and pictures of, of, of, of, of, of, medical in case studies of people with abscesses, body loads of abscesses where they've had that, and the guys who do synth all do the, the, the, um, SEOs, you know, that, that have the severe body dysmorphia that just their arms or, you know, 30 inches. Yeah. And you see eventually they get to the point where they have to have that shit cut out. But they have situation where the SEO just stays there. Mm-hm. So the body's like, this is a foreign body. Yep. And I think that is what, you know, potentially could happen with some of those more inflammatory inflammation producing, um, carry oils that we talked about in the podcast with Steve, and that those get injected in those cause pain, which is indicative of something. You got inflammation going on in that area. And the body is going to do, it's going to, it's going to, it's going to try to do something to, to sort of ward that off. And that's when you get in a encapsulation situation where you've got, you know, literally connect the tissue scar tissue in up with a, you can end up with, um, and there's pictures that people could just put in, I think they can probably go to Google Scholar Scholar Scholar.google.com and put in sterile abscess bodybuilder and probably find some of these case studies. And there's, there's one like it was like, I remember seeing the cross section in the glute and you see the glute tissue as it normally would look me who's in MRI and they're like, there's little, these little pockets of like sterile abscesses where they were, you know, injections that had just, there's just state and those stayed there. Yeah. Those little pockets of fact that were there that, you know, that were, I think probably very painful and those need to be drained, you know, or excised cut out. Yeah. So, but yeah, otherwise it just, and it's a slow process. That's like, you know, with the cast royal that's so thick, right? It stays there for a long time. I could imagine. But eventually it'll just be about, you know, so it's got such specific gravity and so dense. All right. Listen, let's wrap this thing up. Scott is good to be back. And, you know, like I said before, you know, the earlier in the show, check out Scott's book. So, over who's shoulder there, they're Scott Scott and Scott. This is, you're set up currently as kind of trippy because that picture of you in the background is almost as big as the, like, it's very, like, like, there's a one to one almost going on there. And then there's little Scott, first trip Scott on the cover is book, be your own body building code. Yeah. You can go to bbyobcoach.com to pick that up. You could also go over to, just Amazon, check that out, get the hard cover there, go to our sponsors, www.trust.com. Yep. Barnes and Noble as well. Nutrition.com user code think for some great savings and high quality supplements and supplements source.ca for your Canadians out there. Scott, it's been a pleasure as always, my friend. Likewise, this is her.

can you do a J in personation oh it's like can't like do it on the spot it's interesting again again again you know you know you're running into it's like a J Chris kind of combo okay yeah it's a new England thing and I don't know how to do it kind of again into the little yeah yeah yeah yeah there are so many t-shirts on the garage you know all the way to the garage I mean like it's crazy and these guys they're ordering the shirts and I go to the expos and I see the shirts and I just they're just awesome you know but J did you know you know well you know I train the loan a lot and you know I had I had Eric there all those years hey everybody welcome to it's just body building big wrong part of here with dusty handsha and the producer Scott McNally remember to like share subscribe comment and ring the bell ring the bell I got my pulp fiction cup this is my serious gourmet we're good to go remember I am mutant calm get your all in get your ISO surgeon everybody should get on the gear dusty 20 big round 20 save money and support mutant they support the show born hard core patreon think big body building on patreon yes and remember even though none of us are wearing them to go and click the link on where do they click the link on this big youtube channel the description yeah go to the description yeah but if you want to know the first things you'll see mutant click the link I think big uh t-shirt or it's just body building t-shirt and uh we love seeing them we love seeing them on people the expose it's awesome you're going to expose someone walks up then it's just body building shirt that's just a coolist and we signed a bunch of them signed a bunch of them in Columbus we've had people tell me that they go to their gym and then they find out somebody else says oh my god you listen to the show too and then they say which programs do you like I'm think big these people are you know ships passing in the night not knowing but actually playing in their headphones and then you know we're bringing people together they're finding each other yeah oh yeah yeah it's it's been really cool and uh and that's that uh like kind of sense of community that you know you hope for like you you know you just start talking at a camera and then you like some kind of just imagine like 30 years ago how ridiculously narcissistic we would think it would be to just talk at a camera and put it out on a video for everyone to like you know that you're well once for my thoughts yeah you're welcome for my face and voice yeah yeah and and and and and now we do it all time but but it just it's uh you hope for like you're a little bit of community it's like when you open a gym you hope that there'll be a bit of a community you know you when you open any sort of business you kind of hope you get a community with it so it's a good plus gentlemen yes I'm just uh you know forcing myself to think positive on this Monday morning is it working but I could work so far too and a lot of people have to do that charade from Monday morning till around noon they have to just pretend as best they can and then you get rolling we record on Monday guys just to let you know yeah yeah you can show gets out on Wednesday so for them it's the middle of the week they are already long beyond that and they're looking for a week they're already on Tuesday yeah they know they're getting action tonight right when they get on the work they know it's hump day they know the miss is knows it's hump day or the mister knows it's hump day yeah yeah and I am also like them looking forward to Wednesday so you know everyone's got that day just kind of works out you know like just kind of works out well with everything you just uh we're both still awake at 9 p.m. that's amazing that's a problem with you this the separate wake-up time is that ruins everything at your house yeah we have about an hour but an hour hour and a half she's like she's one of those weird people at likes to get up and drink coffee and watch the sun come up interesting I don't have a time for that because we're we're timing photos with the sun now right it's all about the sun getting that the back double to look at its best you're not staring at the sign you're facing the opposite direction anyways yeah it's very um actually made me laugh because so I've got a client and he's gonna hear this no talking about which is fine um with a lot of clients the pictures just they suck and I look at the pictures and I'm like what do you want me to do with this so I laughed wrong when I came down the wall and Nicky was posing for you at the in Ohio and you're like your pictures look just like real life and I'm like yeah yeah it's how it works yeah so let's just let's touch on that her pictures and video were extremely accurate to how she looked and that just confirmed to me we were doing everything right and it it's made the second half or I guess would be the last one or the third of the prep especially easy because I can rest assured that this is what she looks like you know what I mean and that's the main reason why everyone needs to work on their video you know like I'm just gonna send Scott one picture I won't give too much away just gonna send just a front relaxed i'm gonna so while you said that i'm gonna put this up here and we got can we get Nicky fit mama on the show anytime soon that's her Instagram right dusty yeah I had that same question last night from someone else on my things like what do we have to do i'm like she needs to win she needs to win and we'll talk all right yeah only champions only champions no but just did you get it no what did you send us or run i said i got it no yeah text yeah yeah so you just have not yet anything i got to know the group pictures oh sure do has to let it across the border yeah it came through and my computer here we go boom look at that so when when i saw her in Vegas i was like oh that's exactly how she looks in her pictures you know what i mean yeah just the that's a screenshot by the way i didn't even pause it i just like snapped it while it was rolling yeah so um so that's a shot of a video so it loses something but um but yeah when when i'm like oh great lighting look you can see the delts see how the delts are you so hard the delts are and how they're tying in and you can see the quads really well and just people like look at your photos do you look good in them right you know would you want your coach to post them like think of what you want your coach to throw one up without your permission on his podcast to tens of thousands of people you know a bad screenshot of a video do not edit them because i felt bad before too i got a picture that came like a whole second through one time and i i couldn't see where else i like opened the picture a little bit and i'm like i'm actually my go to chew turn the grain up on this because yeah it wasn't really showing very well i'm like this isn't what you look like they think that the grain oh that just shows more of what was there yeah it's like you're like no no it's like something literally changes the pixelation of the photo it like it guesses it's like guessing you know funny yeah i'm gonna move us along because i know that our listeners when i know what our main topic was and see Scott's good at knowing when dusty and i have no idea what we're talking you guys know what you're talking about i just felt like uh there is probably going to be like i'm always reading the crowd even though i can't see him and i know there's a handful of people the room did you guys talk about this three times now are you going to leave for every show with this extra touch extra touch on it because it's important but let's go to the first topic which dusty actually farmed us a good topic so sure did all right we throw this one up on the screen here it says um if you could change one thing about your approach to body building learned something that you did change and alter it earlier what would it be this one's easy i stubbornly i was way way too stubborn and i trained in way too much pain way too often and i did it yeah i just i just i i didn't i didn't listen to my body when i was young i just trained through so many things that probably caused bigger issues later like some of them did you know like you know i trained through sore elbows and my elbows are fine now but like i know now i shouldn't have been doing that like something you know what i mean sore joints tendons at her like exercises it don't feel right for you but you think you're supposed to do those you just keep slamming them and progressing on them and getting heavier and heavier no matter what yeah no matter what and and you know so yeah just i was as way too stubborn and i probably trained in in the in the six to eight rep range a little too often i didn't need to we know now that you know i purchased fees more of a spectrum but back then in you know especially the first fifteen years we trained it was all about the six to eight rep range to failure um if we did twelve reps on a set was like a high rep set like you know there was not there was an any twenty's on the leg press back and like the early days it was all about the doorion stuff so just two stubborn with aches and pains and and being you know just refusing to change that's a good one you just got well i was gonna say i think there's some middle ground in that because run i imagine that you were absolutely extreme with what you're talking about you know and i get it because i think we all did that no yeah there's people now i think that are the opposite and that they you know that they're not pushing hard enough and they're that i think that they're developing an imbalance between my traps and my deltoids and so i need to do these three different warm up moves and i'm trying to feel better activation before i get back to it too much like you know and so there is that that middle ground where you were at that super extreme and well if you were to dial it back by a percentage what percentage would you say you would dial it back yeah like even just five yeah okay right it's it's probably it's probably works like a curve like it probably gets worse the harder you you know so even if you come back 5% you drop way down on that like constant pain and agony scale like you know and other things too is just management of the body we weren't like now everyone's getting all this and massage all the time and like jay really push the massage that was a big thing in the early 2000s with coupler he was all about this tissue work and i i as a bodybuilder i mean other people might have heard it from other people and it been doing it because of other reasons but to me jay was kind of the one that was like ah that level if i want to be there i got like so i remember like jay's videos that's when i was like oh for this year's nationals i'm booking two massage is a week the entire prep i'm spending like thousands of dollars on the massage i don't care about my prep and i started doing that right and that was because of jay but before that you just kind of live in agony for the whole week until your next leg day like you'd be sore for four days and then you'd just limp around and like oh getting in your truck and you're just like but if i could go back i would have made myself do some like like go lay it go roll around on a mat and do some stretching your fucking idiot like i try to like work on it and try to try to move that sortness out of you and get a massage and you know i don't know just i don't know i you just sort of put up with it because you thought that was like it was like almost like oh i'm a huge freak this is how you live yeah gotta be yeah i would say dusty that um for me it would have been getting too progressive overload faster it took me recognizing that i you know like this is my last chance if i'm ever gonna get to the strongest that i've ever been now it's probably the best time because i'm only gonna keep getting older right and through that i found a i found a lot you know i found i and i started developing a lot more like a lot faster in my forties haven't been a guy who by all accounts you could consider it would be like you know just in an old beat up guy who's been training for a long time you wouldn't expect that you'd make new progress and then i did in my joint struggle better you know because i wasn't doing as much repetitive movement i felt excited you know to train again if i had found that a decade sooner to the level i i took it it would have been it would have been a game changer so i'll say that and the other thing would have been when i moved back to Michigan to restart my life and i took a job at the pop company i would had dumped that job and taken another one because it was a meanly meaningless job it's not like i was gonna do something with it and all it did was serve to beat my body up further and all it did was serve to make me need to eat so many more calories to grow muscle i should have taken the like it just it's sit down job you know that'd be my gosh you cost yourself a lot of money because you had to eat all that extra food yeah yeah i was gonna say the the only the thing that jumps to mind to me is i would paid more attention to the results that i got and the results i did not get from certain training so for example you know you you want to work for a long time i know i have a lot of clients that will train a certain way for three weeks i can't get a new program and i'm like why and i don't know because they're old coaches to do that but i squatted for years and worked my way up to crazy poundages and it should have registered at some point that my legs weren't getting bigger like you were strong a shit man i remember that one i force video you did six plates for ten barba you know like that and that's a few time example like it doesn't if that's not clicking like two thousand eight right like for if it's not clicking in your mind that you're doing something like that it's pretty ass and and you don't have monstrous legs that should tell you something you know and though that was something i didn't do whereas other things grew drastically so if i could rewind it would just be to pay a little more attention to the things that were progressing really well but weren't showing me the result i cared about because i'm not a power lifter that wasn't what i was doing so there were years spent where i should have been on a Smith machine with my feet tucked under me going you know low and slow for twenty wraps versus ten with six hundred on a squat which is just working my hips and ass and giant erectors that are six inches deep at that point yeah well that's the other thing too is like with arms it was the same thing right my chyseps grew like crazy and i'm over here heaving barbells for curls and they're not growing and i did the same thing for years and it's like when you in a register that your arms are growing at a rapid pace but it's only two thirds of them that are growing the other side nothing so those are the thing people should pay attention to but also understand while i say that we're not talking about train that way for two weeks and go oh don't think this is working but if you're a year in and you're seeing growth everywhere but somewhere you need to look and go okay what am i doing and reassess that's all yeah i'm i'm very convinced that a great basic way to train is simple progressive overload and then if certain body parts aren't responding obviously you know for a form execution check all that but that those are the body parts that get maybe more volume because that worked for me so like my arms you know for i did the progressive overload i you know put on you know a hundred pounds and got to the national level and all that and my arms just weren't quite keeping up like they were growing but just not like i was growing and it wasn't until i finally just said okay i'm just going to do just going to see how many sets of takes it makes my arms grow and i started doing a lot more arm volume and that's where my arms got to their biggest ever and so just certain muscle groups you got to like like like like just figure it out like figured out you know being stubborn was a problem for me yeah it's it's hard though i think because so much of bodybuilding is kind of like overcoming you know and i mean and and and pushing through it's hard to find that line of like okay well where do i stop pushing through and pull back you know or when do i try something different we're we're it's a real strange you know just think of like in a way bodybuilding is part of like the body augmentation culture you know like like you know people just altering your body completely that's it what a giant task just like a giant weird task that is to embark on you know what i mean it's it's it's uh it's just like you know you hear about those people like it fingers removed and stuff because they want to be like you know what i mean or they get like you know vampire teeth put into their jaw whatever it's like things put in their hands horns in their head like these the crazy body mods it's like well you know i'm kind of trying to become a superhero like you know shouldn't judge yeah like like you know to me yeah that's occurred to me many times you know so it's uh it's a funny thing and you just there's so many little nuance decisions you have to make what else we got Scott that's why we're here to help i was trying to find that video i was looking for the video of dusty squatting 600 well you guys were talking i was gonna say yeah those are those are throwbacks that no longer exist because that channel got closed oh yeah so that wasn't so what what you're with that had been maybe was it 2010 but you were it was a raps going on 10 11 yeah in there do you remember what gym that was oh i mean i did it all the time so not really oh you know yeah you never specific i force video where you were squatting six play you know old red i carry in squat rack i seem to remember and if it was red it was probably at a metro flex that we had out there so right i saw back as far as like six years and at that time you were already on your newer program of using the pendulum and stuff like that it looked like yeah half a brain at that point i had none at the beginning never got to full all right how about this one um what do you miss about competing and competitive body building overall honestly it would be just having like there's those moments when you're when you're getting ready for a show and you look really crazy like you're getting you know three weeks out you just train chest and you go in the you know you go in the posing room and you crank out some shots or whatever in the locker room in the mirror and you just sink what a fuck have I done like this is this looks crazy like those moments you know like we're really hard on ourselves and you know we think their calves suck and any bigger triceps and there's just that constant voice in your head that's just telling you all these guys are way better than you you don't have a talent for this like but then you get those good those really good moments where you just have a killer workout you punch up like the one sixty dumbbells for ten and you know you're just everyone in the gym is like holy shit you look ridiculous you know it's common you know and then after your workout you know you know you take some pictures in the bathroom and you look at your back double and you're just like shit like this is crazy and and it's like those moments because they're just like you know no one else is judging you they're just for you and they're just sort of like like I said that that's cartoon character that you have in your head since you're a kid and and you get to a point where you like shit I did it like this is crazy you're than like the stuff that was drawn in like the superhero comic books like look at my back double you know it's just you know you get those and they're not even stage photos you know because the stage photos to me I always I always I'm so automatically critical of them right like stage photos even if it's a great photo of me I'm like yeah my tan could have been a little you know like we're alright alright I think you look on my faces little goofy you're right it's like we're just so critical of stage photos but there's those moments when you're you know when you get out of the tan bed and you're looking at your quads and you're like this is insane like right like you know like if you cut your leg you bleed to death like to just vein thousand veins everywhere and you just you know don't draw a piece of paper it's over yeah yeah it's not a no I I just I think and then also just knowing that you're insanely strong and and like like you know I see guys do stuff now and I'm like that would literally crush me like and like I feel like way more mortal I'm still obviously way stronger than most people but like just that mortality thing like you know I saw guys squat seven plates the other day and I'm like oh shit like I can't imagine back in that out of a rock are you kidding me like just an appreciation and a respect and I was like man it was fun to be there for a while you know yeah yeah you can't you can't say they're for your entire life on for you know and I'm totally fine with that you know totally fine with that race cars have actually crash or blow up or something you know I feel like when you look back one thing you realize in hindsight is bodybuilding is one of the few like I haven't found any yet in life since where you have come rotty like a team around you like from the very beginning like when I started bodybuilding all the way the end it was the memories with the training partners in the gym yeah going in there meeting at three in the morning four in the morning 10 p.m. like whenever you could get to the gym because I mean we we all were working and I get clients that say oh you know you don't understand this but you know I can only go to the gym at seven a.m. I'm like don't understand this they just go four because I worked at which you know and and meant I had to be there with all my food and the more you know there was a lot of stuff that went into it but the things that I remember you really look back at are the people I had around me for the whole thing in the very beginning and they changed they're going to be wrong but there was always people in your corner and then when you've trained at a gym long enough I know Ron can identify with this the gym becomes part of your crew like when you come in everyone knows everyone wants to see you succeed and in business and stuff it's not that you you know I mean my friends want to see me succeed and things but like there's nothing to watch there you know they don't they have no idea when things are going well or when you're in a different you know stage of it but one thing that I remember that was shocking was my first U.S.s. 2010 and I mean I'm just going here trying to like I wanted to make top five because like this would be a huge goal and so many people from the gym were like we're going to come watch you and it was in Vegas which is about four and a half hours away and we go thanks thanks and obviously I'm not expecting anyone to show up and when I walked out and I mean it was so loud and I realized after the show because we got pictures 56 people from my gym came that's crazy. It drove to Vegas God hotels these aren't even like people I like hung out with all the time but that is something when you look back you're like I mean it blew my mind I mean it was almost me here I was like the new guy and without question the loudest response when I walked out and I'm like oh you know so that was something that you just you won't have another things and you know I know that we all talk about that the journey of bodybuilding is is solo the actual execution is but I had a lot of people pushing me along and it was really enjoyable because of that yeah yeah I relate to that people thing mine wasn't that many but my first show in Edmonton was five hour drive and I went down to do the 97 Northerns and I at the night show there was like 15 people there for my gym a bunch of guys came down in a van that's awesome they got a van and they did like a road trip they came down that morning to make the night show yeah and then we were on stage over a night but I was like I got this picture of like me and like 15 people from Grand Prairie like standard with me at the night show it's just crazy yeah yeah yeah yeah what do you want great memories yeah yeah what do I use God it's not yeah it's not even really the show itself um oh no everything else that goes with the competing shows the last yeah the show like I don't really I don't even remember half the competition days barely yeah I would say I really enjoyed the single-minded focus and the census satisfaction you get each day reaching those goals and I can get that another things you don't I mean because because I will say this on the negative side of it when you get toward the end of a long prep you're like okay I'm ready to get back to normal life because like I got to get things taken care of that I haven't been paying as much attention to you only have so much energy you know what I mean but there is something pretty special about that single-minded focus of being able to put everything all of your energies into this one project and that's one of the things that I've absolutely loved about competing is being able to harness all of that and then it taught me so much you know I know you guys get that too it teaches you like life lessons that you can carry to other aspects so I don't necessarily miss it a ton you know but it is something that I learned a lot from and it's a very special experience that I don't know what else you can get it in because you can be part of like a basketball team and you're still like going out to eat and doing the things you want to do when you're not playing basketball but bodybuilding is that 24-7 every step I take especially when you're getting really tired you feel each step you take you know it's all leading toward this single-minded goal yeah I got to throw one more thing in that Ron will get which is three days before a show hotel rooms with Chris Asito just the memories of like the banter and thing I mean when I look back at shows the only memories I have from shows that blow my mind are that sounds like yeah just hanging out you know you know him moving you around the room had nine hundred shots you know those kind of things I just remember to think man they were awesome I had a bunch of great well I had a few coaches right you know and I I got great hotel room memories with all of them you know I got one I remember in 2007 I won the Super Heavy's at Nationals and and I remember I was like I hadn't you know I've been second a few times and I went to see Scott Abel in his hotel room and I was running through my poses and I was a little bit like like I wasn't totally sure of myself you know what I mean because I've been second year before to food add it was really close and food was great and I was just like damn it was going to be another one and I remember I stand in my front relaxed and you know the coach can say or the right thing at the right time to just like kind of put yiddies and he called a front lats he called a front lats spread and I hit my front lats spread and he's like nobody's got that shot dude that's that's it you're gonna win this I was got that shot and I was like shit and hit never sitting like that to me before and I was like oh okay so then you know went to the show with a little bit more confidence he's like it doesn't matter what poses we all hit or those guys what you guys hit once you hit the front lats spread you just it's too much that was like oh shit and I just had that in my head as like a little bit extra like you know and I remember all day and I was against bend that year because he was in my class and he had those crazy legs and crazy ridiculously eggs at that point right and that came down to one point between me and Ben but I just kept thinking oh I'm just giving up that spread that's all I need you know what I mean and it just says little things that you remember you know yeah so the lats spread the bear claws I mean all the things that they're pronged yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah okay all right so I got I have one here and this is one I save because I thought it would be absolutely perfect for the show best and worst fast foods for bodybuilding oh it's not me so so So one thing that I have to admit, I have definitely macroed in my head and been totally okay with is, is I thought, well, I don't want to have a whole bunch of crappy carbs, right? And I don't want to order a bunch of fries that are deep fried and fat. I'm going to have to accept a certain amount of fat in this meal because it's fast food. So to just maximize my protein and not really, I don't really need carbs with this meal because it's going to have some fats in it. So I'm just going to go to Wendy's and get a lot of chicken tenders. Okay. It's going to get like, I'll try to full order it's a chicken tenders and that'll be good. I'll be more than enough carbs. I don't even need to have carbs with it. And I'll just eat these tenders. And I'll feel good about myself. Yeah. Yeah. See, Ron's speed and from, from better experience days because first and foremost, if you're an up and coming body, we're going to try to get huge and you haven't hit the McDonald's diet yet. You ain't ready yet. You ain't ready yet. Oh, no, I'm just going to stay in shred of it. Yeah, I'm fingers. Yeah. Like, yeah, these were like, there were, there were years where McDonald's was a daily stop. And I could justify the whole thing. It's like, oh yeah. Well, I mean, there's protein and carbs fats here. And it's not incorrect. It was just, it's not nature right. It's just, there is protein. It's not so we had to find. But maybe the multiple times a day, I got a little had a good show. Five times a week, I'd have fast food, man. Yep. Yeah. I always ate a ton. But I will say that my favorite place was Cafe Rio in Arizona was my go to semi-healthy place to eat. And basically, it's just a much better quality chipotle. Okay. All right, right, right. You know. Yeah. So good. Shredded chicken, all that stuff. But plenty of extras. And I ate there every day after the coma until I moved. It was like, oh, so we'd better keep loading up here. I think my probably the most eaten ever bodybuilding fast food meal. This is a subway fast food. Yeah, subway is fast food. Yeah. Yeah. Some people, some people don't like subway because there's no drive through. They're like, nah, that's not really fast food. No, they think fast foods like pre-made. They got them in the rack, like burgers and stuff. But anyways, I probably had subway, like a double roast chicken. I get roast chicken. Yeah. Yeah. But long roast chicken double meat. Or now they have a rotisserie chicken. I'd start getting rotisserie chicken double meat. I probably had that, like probably ordered that meal. Two or three thousand times in the first 20 years I trained. I literally had subway every single day for probably year on end. You basically could have bought a subway if you would have saved that money. Now you could turn around and buy one. It was what you said. Imagine if that money was just Bitcoin. Damn it. Yeah. But a bunch of subway. Yeah. Like, just probably, I probably ordered double roast chicken subway, like more than any other fast food meal in my life. I've had that meal. I had it every day for years and years and years. Yeah. I'm trying to think of the worst one now. Well, I think anything that doesn't have a lot of protein in it. I mean, if we can call pizza, if that's kind of a fast food, then you know, I see some fast food though. I mean, I know what you mean. Yeah. I guess you could do like the quick fire ones. Ron, I just thought of something. I got to jump in because this has been on by mind pizza. Oh. McDonald's used to have pizza. This is off top of this. Yes. Yes. No, like it was that just in Canada or was that in the States? Yeah. There's like very limited locations that ever had it here in the US. I actually, you guys had it. I just saw like a 30 minute documentary on the McDonald's pizza of Canada. I did. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was like, but the things I put on in the background while I was working, and just kind of like, just who's trialing pizza now? Chick-fil-a. Oh, really? Right. So the McDonald's pizza. Definitely had its own taste. Like it had it like you get the pepperoni or they had Hawaiian pepperoni and three cheese, I think. Yeah. I can't remember. But they had three types of pizza. And they had nothing else tasted like it. Like you had it. You're like that McDonald's pizza. Like, you know how every single thing on their item tastes like McDonald's and nothing else. Yeah. Yeah. Last of the bars. That effect. Yeah. Yeah. But like I'm a couple of chicken nuggets done. You have McDonald's and I get your like, that's McDonald's. Your dip it in McDonald's barbecue sauce, you're like, that's McDonald's. That's how their pizza was. And it wasn't like, I remember ordering it. Like we would go to, we had a 24 hour McDonald's where I grew up. So me and the boys would go out, you know, you're driving around in a truck, listen into hair metal, stop and buy the corner store to see if any chicks are going to a party. Like literally that's my high school, right? And I'm drinking, I'm drinking, I'm drinking diet coax, right? I'm drinking diet coax and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, look at for parties and, uh, if you get hungry at the boys, you stop by McDonald's at midnight and you get a pizza and, you know, yeah. And, and we would, we would do that. And I think it was technically a flop. Wasn't it like, because it wasn't on the menu for long. So I think it was actually a flop. Victoria said they had it at their school. Like there'd be one special day in her elementary school where they brought McDonald's pizza. Yeah. And I remember all her one or like a big pizza. It was an individual, but I'm not sure the minute. Yeah. But I remember I saw like a business documentary and they're talking about bad decisions. Yeah. And, um, and they had this guy on these like, yeah, McDonald's deciding to make a pizza was, uh, I thought it was crazy because they're in the fast food business and when they started it, when they added pizza to their menu, I was like, oh, they've now left the fast food business. That's ridiculous. They don't know what they're doing. This is out of their lane. Their fast food. This is not fast food. This takes 10 minutes. Oh, yeah. Yeah. That's a small point. Everything up. That's what the problem was in the documentary I watched too was the amount of time it took to get the pizza ready. Yeah. Yeah. Makes sense. So dust your face already done eating, right? Yeah. What about, uh, so what about something like Taco Bell? Yeah, your name for bodybuilding. See, I want to still yate it, even though it's not actually meat because I could just apply anything like it. I think you probably, you've probably made a valid point though, um, because I was going to say that or I used to eat a lot of Chinese food like pandExpress. And I know there's a lot of like protein in there, but let's be straight. You can fat. When you get like a, when you get a orange chicken, they're ain't much chicken in that orange chicken. Like, this is fried breading with sugar sauce on the outside delicious. I, you know, oh, yeah, I mean, I'm actually probably there. It's so immediately after this, but, uh, but you, I think those are my two that I would say would be Taco Bell because you're right. I mean, anyone who's ever seen Taco Bell's beef being made probably wouldn't eat it ever again. And, uh, you know, the, I love you so much pandExpress. I also made a lot of life decisions based on those cookies. So we're good. Explains a lot, doesn't it? Yeah. Should I or what the hell? Yeah. Well, the subway cookies. I didn't mention those with their three cello cookies. There was three cello cookies with every single one of those subs. I guarantee that there was no, there was no, there was a chicken. I have a chicken. I have a chicken. Chick-fil-A's, chocolate chip cookie. Don't do it. I mean, one of those. You're recovering still. Scott, that could be a problem. Yes. Yeah, they didn't have a material next to apparently that's the only place that I actually go to Chick-fil-A because any other time when I drive by the line is too long, there is no way. There is absolutely no way that I'm going to get in a fast food line that wraps around the building. You have to, you know, the way they operate that line, yeah, they could handle the world. It is unbelievable, the efficient. I don't know what a line. I don't know what a line on the most places. But I mean, probably fake light. I mean, probably fake light. You nightclub, fake. I mean, literally you bone through that line so quickly. It splits into dual lanes. Comes around the corner. They're coming out dusty. Here you go. Get the hot air. Optical. Boom. It probably is. Yeah. You actually drive through a lot of those cars because they're just, you know, not actually there. Right. Fake guard. No, no. It's like a nightclub. They just want to make it look busy, right? Well, that was an important question. I had to ask you guys. And I had one other thing. I wanted to throw up here. This is mostly for Ron. I wanted to see his room. I shouldn't do it. Oh, wow. That's, that's his early as it gets. That's like, what do we like to make? Kill them all while you're looking at Metallica. Like circa 8384. I would say. I would say five is what I read. 85. I could. Clif died in 85. So the so cliff, it could be 85 at the latest. I'm just saying, and Lars Harris, I could pretty short. So I thought it might be a little earlier. But yeah, that's Metallica. Might even be master of puppets tour. If it says 85 on it, then it's a master puppets tour. And Cliff probably died very shortly after this photo if it's taken in 85. And that's probably the bus that they crashed in. I was just thinking that. Yeah, that's probably the bus. I mean, right? That bus is amazing. That's all I have to say. Yeah. Yeah. So Cliff is a guy on the right with the black sleeves and the denim vest. That's probably the most influential base player in metal history. And he died that. That's pretty wild. 25 years old, I think. Yeah. What does he look like he's 16? Yeah, they all look like they're about 16. Yeah. Like I wouldn't let any of those kids drive, except for the kid in the far left. He could drive. The rest of them, I'm like, yeah, you stole your mom's car. Yeah. Yeah. In the book, it's in the book. Life, school, Metallica, deaf. That's the name of the book I read. And the James tells the story of the bus crash. And they all wake up. Like they're sleeping in their bonks and the bus crashes. And they get thrown out of the bus. Like James wakes up in the ditch. Oh, whoa. He like sits up and he's in the ditch. And the bus is like on its side and fucking, but everything is mattresses and pillows is everywhere. Like it's a crash. And their yelling names are like, Lars, Lars and Lars is like, I'm here. Like literally like out of a movie and then they all like gather. And they're like, where's Cliff? And they look down and its legs are sticking out from one of the bus. Good. Yeah. So luckily it wasn't more from, you know, from the side of an column. Yeah. I think the bus driver died too. Yeah, I think the right. I think you're right on that. Yeah. Throwing clear. You got one here from from Patreon. This is from Jim. Jim always gives us some good questions. He says, it's just bodybuilding. What do you all think of protein foods that normally aren't protein foods? For example, protein pancakes. Seems like a regular food that they just added way to. Couldn't you just drink a shake? Like dusty recommends you do before eating a pizza or a cheat meal? Well, technically he's right. I mean, if the mac was the same, then it's technically the same at the end of the day. You know, we've talked about how I just love a good cookie. I don't need it to have protein in it. I don't need, yeah. I don't need protein to be in my cookie for me to feel okay about eating it because I know I get enough protein in my day no matter what. So I guess if someone's really, the benefit is if someone's really, really, really trying to be tight with macros and live like a lifestyle type thing. Then maybe it somehow makes their math easier for the day to have a protein cookie. But I'm totally fine without any of that stuff. I think the only thing because he specifically said, like a true protein pancake is oatmeal protein water. Egg whites. So it is actually exactly what you'd be eating anyway. So that one is one of the few where I'm like, it makes sense to me and it tastes good. I'm with Ron and the other things are like, anytime I see it coming, oh, we got this great protein pizza. I'm like, it's not great. Number one, it's expensive. Number two, it does not taste like this pizza at all. And you've lost me right there or these cookies, these brownies, I'm like, eat a brownie, don't eat a brownie. Those are the real lines to me because when you're, when you're bodybuilding, those things aren't an option, you're at a certain time of year. So it's time to thought. And if you are someone who's working on a lifestyle, part of working on a lifestyle is understanding that it's actually not hardcore to never eat anything. To me, that's actually a sign of weakness because you can't eat anything or you'll go off the wagon. Truly being hardcore is being able to control yourself and saying, I'm having a cookie today with this meal and I'll be fine and I'll be bound by diet tomorrow. You know what I mean? I feel like a lot of people who, you know, tote their horns on being super hardcore with things. It's actually a sign of weakness. If you have to eat perfect seven days a week or you'll lose your mind, hmm, think you're off a little bit. So you're better off to not eat the crappy cookie that has protein at, save that for the day that you have your treat meal and take my advice. Go to the drive through. It's not imaginary, but it's very fast at Chick-fil-A and get the veggies. Scott, I'll have to try it. I'll have to go there. I'll have to drag Victoria along. It'll be like, I know. I'll be just, save a six pack. I mean, think about that, just saying. It's not cheap though. So one thing all I had is, I think a lot of times those like protein enriched foods. I think I bet with the pancakes, he's talking about those Kodiak cakes. Where's the answer? Yeah, the protein pancakes. They don't taste as good as the regular pancakes. And then they have a pea protein in it. I think it's a pea concentrate. A lot of the proteins aren't going to be as good quality as getting a high quality way isolate is. Right, right, true. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. I don't need it. I think it was like, man, they're like these myoplex brownies that they had at Walmart. And when I worked for the pop company, the directions on it is said, you could heat it up in the microwave for 10 seconds. And I can't remember what kind of protein it had in it. But I would eat one of these things and they were so freaking delicious. And then I would just have the worst gas for like three hours. I just the worst. It wasn't even like the smelly gas. It was just like a lot of it. Just like just wouldn't stop. This gas just kept coming. But guess what? I'd go back and I'd get another one the next day. I did that. Like two ones. I was like, I don't care. I took good. Oh, no, I dropped it. I was alone. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I remember when all like the zero carb stuff started coming out with all the sugar alcohols in it. Yeah. Yeah. And we started having like, you know, like, I don't know. What was the first no carb bar? Like before Quest, like, I don't know, like way back. But I remember like the first one that tasted okay. You know? Yeah. No, that's like the chocolate chip cookie dough was like, I was like, oh, like these are good. Hotcakes. But, that's, that's what the ones that made the bottom of it. Yeah, that's the best. Yeah. Yeah. I remember like eat in a whole box of Atkins bars or night. Oh, that's so funny. I, you can even see the logo now that you remind me. I ate a whole box. And they were really small. Like they were really small. They were really small. They were like, you know, 100 calorie bars, right? Kind of targeted at at women, right? There's a 100 calorie treat. And, uh, ate a whole box when you was 20 of them. Oh, man. Like, I remember just being in the bathroom and just taking, oh my God, what have I put in my body? Like, what have I put in my body? Like this is what am I saying? I put it eat the wrap. Yeah. Like, what was that? Yeah. Like, you know, what am I 30 years old at that point? I'd never seen anything like that happen to myself. Oh, my God. That's saying a lot considering the life he lived before. Yeah. Oh, yeah. I remember here's a funny story. I'll just say a close friend. I won't throw one to the bus. We do very successful. He's very successful. Let's say he's a very renowned profession. Very looked up to in his life. Dusty Hensho. And, yeah. Dusty Hensho. No, you lost the renowned profession. He actually told me, he actually told me the only two people who know this story are his wife and me. So I won't say his name. But he said they were in the States on a holiday. And it was when baked or lays. So I mean, first and made. Dusty Hensho. Oh, I'm going to, yeah. So he was a laser ruffles. I can't remember. But they came out with this new potato chip that was fried in an olic acid. Yeah. Is that, is it olic acid? Is that what it's called? I don't can't remember what it is by, I know what you're getting at. Yeah. The synthetic fat that doesn't digest. So just passes through your body. And the FDA approved it. And yeah, he's going to look at it. I'm just going to look at it. I think it's called olic acid for some reason. But anyways, it's a fat substitute. It was, I don't know if it's still approved. But it was approved. And lays or ruffles or somebody came out with this. So it's a fat free chip. But it's still fried. Right. So it's crunchy, tastes like a normal chip. But the fat just goes right through your body. It's a whole bag of them. He shits the bad that night. He's like, he's like, he's like, he's a pretty year old millionaire at this point. And he's in bed with his wife, 40 year old, million, self-made millionaire. The shit's so bad. He's humiliated. He's like, oh my god, I wake up and I'm shit the bad. It's stomach. Yeah. Olesstra. Well last, yeah. Yeah. Fat, no calories. Made from sucrose and vegetable oil. So Olesstra is the brand name of it. But there's also a chemical name for it too, right? Yeah. So I don't know if you can see that anywhere. But, but. That's something amazing. And then he said that he told, he, he, he asked somebody about it. He said, yeah, that, that, that Olesstra stuff. Like, man, I don't know if that's good for you. And they said, oh, yeah, I make sure you don't ever eat a whole bag of those. And he was just, he was already good. He did that. I remember at the Arnold, and Skips told this story on the podcast. So I can say it. But he, it was when, best, forever. They had all the whole food bars, right? And they were like, shelf, they were refrigeratable, stuff like that. And because they were made out of like actual foods, it would go bad. They, they got a deal with like right-aid and stuff. And they made the shelf stable bar. And they launched it at the Arnold. And Skip was just eating bar after bar. And at one point, Mike, Mike Clay, the owner, was like, how many of those bars did you eat? Skip? He's got to get that southern accent. Skips, like, oh, like, ate of them. His face. He said, well, he panicked. He said, I've never known anybody who ate of them. And it's all this like non-soluble fiber in these bars. And needless to say a couple hours later, we're walking around. He's like, I gotta find the bathroom. I gotta get to the bathroom now. And of course, we're in the X-Pos. So he had to find the bathroom in there. And, uh, oh God. He's someone else who just wheat outside the bathroom for like 10 minutes. We're finally, we're like, well, just, we'll catch up with Skip later. Just leave him there. It's over. Yeah. I never see Skip again. Yeah. Yeah. And we're supposed to imagine that at the X-Pos. Oh, dude. Yeah. Dying in the dirtiest bathroom in the history of the world, which, by the way, Arnold UK bathrooms flawless. Really? Yeah. They've got good manners over there. That's the different word. I was shocked. There was always soap. Yeah. Hands free. So dry and washing. I have to say, I don't know if it's just my experience, because I'm such a vet, but at the Arnold Classic, at the Arnold Classic in a whole, I know, hi, oh, and I have, you know, everyone knows my rants about the bathroom there in the past. Yeah. But I had a bit of a digestive situation at the Arnold this year. I remember in the bathroom, I said, did Dusty, I'm gonna have to leave the booth here for a little while. And so I left the X-Pos and I went into the hotel a little bit, like, and then found the bathroom arm. Nice, nice and clean. Yeah. Yeah. No one in there. Just saw it myself. Quite good. Oh, yeah. Yeah. You got to put in the X-Pos. I got to work out. You can be X-Pos all three times. Anyways. Yeah. What's next, buddy? Well, you brought us a physique critique, didn't you? Oh, yeah. Yeah, Nate. Nate is very Nate. Let me see how it's, let's start finding these pictures up here. Let's see. Here's a front last. This is Nate Lift 8. So I got it. Say, you know, I've had multiple people send me messages on Instagram. Saying, hey, would you critique my physique on the show? And I got it, Matt. A lot of times, I mean to save the message. And then I look and I just simply can't find it again. Oh, my gosh, shit. I can't remember who sent me this picture. It's tough to remember. You get this so chaotic. I think I put it on red and maybe I didn't. Yeah. So anyways, however, Nate, I actually realized I had missed his message completely from a couple months ago. So I figured we'd give him a, you know, give him a look. Yeah, absolutely. Nate Lift 8 off Instagram. So this is him currently. Okay. So he said he's about 260 pounds in these photos. Okay. What gives you an idea? I don't know. Throw the side line. Oh, no, no, no, no, no, no, sorry. Sorry, sorry. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. You know, yeah. So these are the currents that are on 260. Um, big dude. No, wait a minute here. Don't be loud. Oh, sorry. No, these photos are he's 237 in these photos. Okay. Okay. Still a big news. He's 237. 237. Um, been on TRT for a while. He's about to start a blast. All right. And he's only 237 here. These were from January. And he's saying now he's hit 260. Because I missed this message. This is okay. Oh, okay. So go. So it's assuming he's a little fatter. Because he just had a blast in better of an eaten. Yeah. Yeah. And then we also. 237 though. Yeah, yeah. Good 237. No, let's see. I know I sent you a couple of shots where he looks like he's died a down a lot more off his Instagram. Yeah. I'm not sure what he weighs. I just to give people an idea. We'll show what he looks like. You know, kind of dialed in. So there he is there. Dialed in. Look, it's got throwing shit up. Boom. There's a bad guy. Yeah. So he has pretty lean. The hands are dug right out. It got some straightions on the glutes. Looks like he could pull the condition in a tad on the glutes. A few more pounds. But I'm not sure how many weeks out that photo was. Looks good. Right. What do you think? I mean, the tricky thing with someone who is at this level for me is we're not going to tell him anything he doesn't know. Yeah. Yeah. And that's the, you know, so this is more when I like to critique these. For example, here's something that I like to point out when you look at a picture like these. Look at his rear last spread in this picture. That word, that word, that word on the screen. Then if you think of the one that just had up in condition, you realize that there's a lot more depth to his back than you would think. Looking at him in the offseason. But that said, that's a one area that I think he could definitely get some more depth in. More 3D tailing there because he's sliced there in the back at least. And I can still see there's not a lot of separation between muscle groups in there. There's not a lot of depth in that shot and that light doesn't get much better. So I would definitely spend a lot of time working on thickness because the width is phenomenal. When he hits you, it's double. Good. Good. Good. So you could see that as well. Like, there can be quite a bit more added in there. That said, obviously the current pictures, the more, the more current are the offseason. So maybe that's something he's already working on there. Yeah. I mean, he's, he's got it. I mean, he's done really well. He got a great physique. He's been ripped that ab-fi looked good. I mean, he looked really good in the end. Yeah. Nice. As medic look in the front. Good quad doesn't stuff like that. But I think to take his physique to the next level, he needs, you know, just size everywhere. Like, this thicker. You know what I mean? Like bigger arms, you know, thicker back like dusty said, you know, more quads. I think he's probably if he's, you know, built like this. He's probably really strong and probably trains really hard. Like, you know, these guys don't, you know, look like, you know, look like this unless you're like, you have to wait and train in hard. Yeah. Um, so I think maybe my advice to him, like you said, Dusty, there's nothing we can tell me doesn't already know, right? Like, we're not going to teach him how to go to a row. Um, but I would just say just really focus on trying to make everything that you're doing in the gym as quality as possible. You've already moved to shit ton of weights. You've already done a lot of bodybuilding. Um, just doubled down on making sure everything is is, you know, controlled and you're getting the most out of every set and that sort of thing. There might be a little bit of room there, who you can pull a little more efficiency out of your sets. But yeah, the physique is on its way. Just a matter of- There's nothing as blatantly missing. You know what I mean? No, like, great. Yes, that's what I was trying to figure out. Like, is there anything, and I was going to ask you guys if there was anything that stood out to you to say, like, hey, he should work on X-body part. But I think there's just quads from the front on that last bread. The one thing I would definitely say is, and I say this from experience, when you don't have a lot of quads sweep, get your ad-after in hamstrings as big as possible, and that will help the size that your legs look like from the front. Yeah, because he's not going to, like, and this is something that people get confused and like, he's not going to suddenly have wacky quads sweep. You know, and again, I say that from experience, that was my legs. It's like, you know, and I guarantee you his legs are bigger than you would think if you may. Because the way he carries it, is just when you have sweep, things look drastically larger, because they're sweeping in and out, you know what I mean? But he can- he can definitely just continue. He's got good ad-afters, but I would just keep jamming to the point where they get ridiculous. It's something that don't, they hammered on me, and it definitely helped particularly from the back because look out, when his hands are carved up the way they get, imagine just a little more thick just in that ad-after, just how much wacky are they would get? Yeah, I can see that in that side shots that you put up for a second there. He's not showing the hamstrings that he has. Yeah, I'm trying to get back to that one. Yeah, if you can pull that shot up, you'll see like, his hamstrings are much better than that- that posing needs adjusted, and he- a good posing coach can put three inches on his legs in five minutes. I would twist that side, chest more too, and bring up, you know, square it out more. Yeah, he's posing small, which is something a lot of people do. I don't know what that is. You are much bigger than you appear in that photo. So like we're on said, you know, twist that upper body to where it's- it's damn near a most muscular from the shoulders across the top, and then you need to hook that hamstring under the leg behind it better, so it drops. Yeah, because he's got hamstrings for days, I saw them. They're corded out at a control. Time-play. Awesome. Time-plats had incredible legs overall, but when I try to talk to people about ad-ductors, I like to pull this picture up, and then I- I'll take my hand and cover up that ad-ductor and say, how big would his leg look by comparison without all of that ad-ductor? The ad-ductor, I think- I mean, he's got a crazy sweep. Don't get me wrong. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It's like so much of that leg is his inner thigh, you know? I just love that his inner thigh touches almost to his knee. He's right. Because let's all pay attention to the fact that his calves are also almost touching. So that's how much that is there. Yeah, I hate him. Anyways. I hate everyone that's better than me, and that's a lot of people. I think that was, I think that was about all we had. We had a couple like leading topic type questions left, that we could potentially say for another show. Do we have anything that we want to finish on? Any stories about any, like, Olympians that had offered you guys fish at any point that you turned down, or anything that you couldn't believe that? No one would ever turn down fish from an Olympian, especially a Mr. Olympian. That's just not going to happen. I actually had a listener named Pauan. She came up to me at the show on the weekend. Yeah. And she comes out to me and she's like, I can't believe he didn't eat Dorian's salmon. I love her. She's great. She's great. Yeah, if she's the person I'm so kind of, she shares her stories and shares her show and stuff all the time. She's awesome. Which I just share with you. Share that moment with Ron. I mean, I thought I knew you. I know. It was like, I'm almost satisfied. I just hear that story before I hired you. Because I felt like that. It's like that moment you see where the girls like, why don't you come up for a coffee and George is like, no, I don't drink coffee tonight. You know, I can't sleep. She's like, no, that's a super coffee. No, I don't, that's okay. Go up coffee. Yeah, thank you, though. Thank you very much. It seems crazy. It's nine o'clock. That is like, get himself. I should have had a car coffee. Oh, I see. That's amazing. Not quite the same, but in that same, you know, regret regret. I didn't accept this gift from this person. Yeah. Listen, there should be a higher regret. There's plenty of girls off in your go up to their room for coffee. Right. There's only one more. But no one will never offer me salmon again. No, you, yeah, you missed the button. Ronny, here's that story. He's not going to be a Jay's not going to give it to you. No one's giving you the salmon anymore. I also want to box you. I want to ask you guys one thing. There's a few people, a sense of comments on the video. And now on the real. There's a few people that are very upset that we said that Jay trained to failure a bit. Oh, did they do that? Did they, did they, did they do that? They should have showed up. She's not spotting him. He just has her there to be in the video with him. That's his wife. He's just trying to include her. She's not really spotting him. It's like, like, it's crazy to be upset about that. First of all, I can't believe that some people are like, you know, kind of, you have a wrong, the one guy was like, you're wrong, you're wrong. Yeah, yeah, I see that now. This is very interesting. There's like several, there's a lot of people who pull you. Anybody, right? There's a lot of people out there, though, that are, that it really hurts their brain to think about Jay potentially, you're pretending to failure. Never did, never did. It's like my, or my grandma, you know, my Jay ever did a set and failed to get a wrap. Ever, my grandma loved Elvis. She absolutely loved Elvis. And I had seen something about Elvis a documentary and they had, they had talked about how he actually at times shot his television set. Like this is, yeah, a no-in fact that he did this. And I said to my grandma, I was like, yeah, I heard that, you know, the blah, blah, blah grandmother that he would shoot his TV. And my grandma said, she said, Elvis would never do that. Flat out. That's, I'm having a flashback to that conversation right now. Like it's actually documented like the police were called once. Yeah, yeah, yeah, like never have never do it. That was this crazy x-wife. It's why she left her in the first place. Bruce Springsteen, Bruce Springsteen even has a song lyric. You know, he buys a, uh, buys a gun and just like Elvis, blasts his TV set with it. Never. It's funny. You know, Bruce, Bruce, and he was also a liar. Just like, yeah, Bruce Springsteen lying. Yeah. Yeah. That's kind of the vibe. I got the upsets. Hey, wait, is that the moon to make fun of anybody? I don't mean to make fun of anybody. You know, we're just making fun of you. He's when we quote them about dusty dust. Yeah. It's like, even all in dusty. But hey, so, but what, what, it's like failure isn't. Carry happened to like lift the bar off his chest. That's not failure. Failure is you need three pounds of help to get even three pounds of help. Is a four strap like yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So when she puts her hands on his elbows in that video and her biceps engage, she's now spotting him. Like, sorry, it's like if someone touches you the bar, you don't get credit for the rap. Like, I can't give you the rap. So yeah, I think there's some failure sets in that video. I think there's some failure sets. There's a couple of rap. All the time, bells were never shot as television. Never never. Never TV. Yeah. He didn't. And Elvis didn't die on the toilet. No. He actually, if he asked my grandma, if he asked my grandma, he was still alive. Really? Is he an Argentine or a Hitler? Nah, I think he was in Kailum Azou. Last I heard Kailum Azou. Kailum Azou. Yeah. That's amazing. He's good. He's got a farm. Oh, grab my love. Yeah. She was the best. Okay, wow, we love all the comments, even the ones that Seemup said it us. We love them. They're actually great for the algorithms. You guys can go ahead and fight amongst yourselves. I have a sign. If you want. Yeah. We still, we still, and here's the thing, we can still be friends. If we don't agree, Yeah, let's go into failure. I truly mean that. Yeah. I like that. Do you see, let's joke it out. Next time I talk to Jay, I'm going to say, hey, were there any sets that you, you know that you, someone give you four strips on? I wish I could do it in a impersonation if they just, you know, they just feel like nah. I think wrong. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Never. Never. Yeah, you could, how would you, could you do a Jay impersonation? Oh, it's like, can't like do it on the spot. It's interesting. Organically, you know, yeah. In our these guys, you saw them giving me credit. You're running into it. It's like a Jay Chris. Kind of combo. Okay. Yes. It's a new England thing and I don't quite know how to do it. You kind of were getting into the little. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. There were seven t-shirts on the garage. Yeah, there was a lot of pulling it out on a granddy. You know, 100 grand out of the garage. I mean, like, it's crazy. And these these guys, they're ordering the shirts and I go to the expose and I see the shirts and I just did just awesome, you know. But Jay, did you ever go to failure? You know, well, you know, I trained the low and I had I had Eric there all those years. Sorry. That's so good. Such a good chance. I got to hear from each kid a little bit of a lot of like there it is. I know. It was like the line too. That was good. You should have absolutely thrown it in the yes, just so we could have won because now we've lost. Yeah. I know. Okay. Okay. Oh, I'm glad to meet you guys last time. It's feeling like I wasn't contributing today in the different part. Those, you came through the end. This kid. I've made it crew. That one's for the hashtag last five minute crew. So that's for that. That's right. It's wrap it up here. Okay, everyone. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. I was going to put some Elvis on the end, but I kind of backed out at the last minute. Yeah. Yeah. Um, remember, I am mutant.com. Good. I'm, you know, com get your ISO, search, get your all in and everyone should get on the gear. And don't forget the new mind FK. FK. He's saying how everyone. No. Check it out. I, uh, I have to say I took a half a scoop. Yesterday before I went to ride my little bike. It's a little like. Yeah. And I was expecting to suck because it's been almost two weeks because I was traveling and stuff. Yeah. And actually had a great session. I like pulled by my tricks right away. I got to practice some other stuff. And I was like, I wonder if that was it. So we'll see. I'll give it some time. I watched the day. The day I took it, I after we did the show, I went to the range to do some practicing. And, uh, I was very on the ball with it. Like, I fell tight bundles. Cluster. It's good. It's good. It's quick. Quick. You pull, you pull the sheet in. There's just one hole. Yeah. All your boards went to the same hole. Yeah. Well, I hate to point this out and trump you both. But uh, I came to this podcast prepared for the first time. And I used it today. Whoa. Oh, that's why you were organized. You were just going to do it. You were just going to do it. You might as well. Yeah. So there you go. Okay. It'll change your whole life. Yeah. Apparently. Okay. And thanks for all the continued comments on the Expo Arnold Classic Expo videos. Nothing but great feedback. People coming up to me saying they loved all the Expo videos. That's even the ones that were even the ones that were kind of short and cut off like the Clarita one got kind of cut off suddenly. And they said they just loved how raw it was and it went really well. So like I said, we're going to we're going to lobby Newton to maybe do the same thing for the UK. That would be awesome. That would be I would love to do that. And apparently we've got people there that know who I am. So I want to hang out with those. Okay. Thanks everybody. Thanks Dusty. Thanks Scott and remember it's just body building.

You know, the antivar I think is relatively innocuous and it is gold. I just can't think of a better. It's one of those things like I said a couple shows ago. It's thinking gosh, you know, I just started this 4DMA man. These contractions are really crazy. And I'm like, oh, it switched antivar. And within a day of doing that and increasing the dose, it was that obvious. I was training back and I'm just like, holy, rap. Like this is crazy. So it would be a quick noticeable obvious change, I think, for someone who was on TRT to add something like animal or, you know, or wind straw. Hey, what's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Coach's Skip Hill. Andrew Barry and myself Scott McNally and all of our programming is brought to you by you. The people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support over there. We've got some Patreon questions today. In fact, load us up. I'm going to post a new thread at Patreon for all you Patreon subscribers. Let's get some more questions going for the shows. All of them, just let me know what show you want your question on. We're also brought to you. Of course, by true nutrition.com, use our code think over there to get some additional savings on your creatin or your creatin, depending on how you want to say it. Your team skip blend, your everything else. They literally have all of the basic supplements that you need for body building. So definitely check them out. Use code think and supplement source.ca for our Canadians. We had a question about it's basically like a TRT plus question. This is a question that we've covered on drugs and stuff aton. Basically, guys that are running TRT and they're asking like, you know, what can I add to this? To get a little bit more, you know, out of what I'm doing. So that's going to be our main topic of the day. Of course, we've got a bunch of listener questions. We've got a couple of physique critiques that we want to do. Well, one of them is just like a physique shout out from somebody at the Facebook group. And we're going to lead though by talking a little bit about the Pittsburgh pro. If for no other reason, because skip actually watched a modern show. Take it, guys. Skip what do you think? Who do you like in that show? Well, here's the part I have. Obviously, I have, I was biased. You know, I was pulling for Nick. So now as long as I've been in the industry, you know, I was friends with Phil. He's back in the day because he was from Colorado. So I wanted him to win too, but I think I called it pretty fairly. You know, I try not to have those biases. This time I don't know because I don't watch modern shows. And people might think that's a little strange. Well, you just don't love the sport I got to do. Okay, maybe maybe it's just I attack climactic to me because I've been watching shows for 40 years. So unless I know somebody or have some type of best-adent interest there, friend, like Nick, I was born for him. Yeah. And to see the condition that he was in and him kind of, I hate to say this because I don't want this to sound, but almost needing to make a statement. Like, we wanted him to be able to be like, like, look like damn he's back. Like, thank you. You just shut up a lot of people. And quite frankly, he did. I think so there's going to be a lot of hype around the O. I could see it going both ways if I'm being honest. I just wanted him to win it. I wasn't disciplined. I understand his disappointment because he killed it. I think he could have gone either. Wasn't it tied or something? I think that hurt this sport. It was a tough time. He could have joined Derek one finals and then they went to a, they called a sudden death where they brought him back out. After the confirmation, after the routines to do more roundupos and go through more roundupos and do it. Okay, don't know how I missed that. What could you ask for tuning back into bodybuilding, skip? I don't need that. That was a good show. But like I said, I think it could have gone either. I didn't think I thought Derek could have been better. And I think that he will be better now because he was like, he had to come out stage and be like, you know, you can, you can do your thing in front of the number one in it. But when he came off the stage and he was just having dinner with his friends, he had to be like, okay, that was a little too close. I could have lost that. So I think it's great for the O. It's great for Nick. Derek's going to up his game. I think it's going to be a fun ride. And I'm glad I'm going to be there because for once in a long time, I want to see the show. I was just going for the X-bone business. My wife were going to hang out for four days prior. You know, I'm going to be there for the amateur portion because I have a client who is potentially, I won't say likely because you never know who shows up, but should get a pro card. If everything goes away, it's supposed to. So it'll be a fun week. But I'm looking forward to seeing that show and I will make sure that I'm that I'm at that show. I will be watching. Okay. What do you think, Derek? I think, and I think, I don't think Derek walked away thinking, wow, that was close. I think he thought he was winning all everything I've seen from his camp and everything I've seen from people that know him and know his coach and all that kind of stuff. They thought he won all three rounds easily and that was his own close. Yeah. But I want to touch back on your point about because I've never seen an athlete in our division or our sport. Get so much love and so much hate and so much love again all of a sudden and then Nick Walker, you know, and some people think he's cocky, some people think he's overconfident, but what you said through your points, skip, we were all waiting for him to come out because he's been gone for two years off the stage to make a statement and I think he did that and then some by mile because he was bigger, he was as lean as he's ever been and he was peaked to perfection. And it's not easy to do when you have a new coach, you know, Kyle Wilkes, one of my friends. Good point. Kyle Wilkes nailed his peak to a tee. Like, yeah, I would love to have been in the war room with them and hear the conversations and decisions being made. But big shout out to Kyle Wilkes, he nailed Nick's peak. You know, some people were saying, oh, you know, Nick's glue's could have been a little bit drier, it's like, maybe he was literally owned dry head to toe everywhere else. And that's also comparing him. Yeah, exactly full and dry. And that's compared to Derek whose glutes are always like, yeah, every shoulder rubber seen Derek and he's had those those razor sharp glutes. So, you know, but again, and talking about Derek for a second, I felt this was a Derek that was more like the Derek from the Olympia where his legs were very downsized. His upper body was good. His full back was nice and round. He was good condition, but I don't think he was lights out condition. Right. He was like, it was a good version of Derek, but it was more like the Olympia versus the Arnold, where we saw him just dominate. Yeah, it was not the Arnold look. I, that look is burned in my brain. It may have been that Arnold look may have been the literal best bodybuilder. I have ever seen on stage in person in my life. Like it was aesthetics or so good. His aesthetic, his aesthetics are so good. And when he's dialed in, you're like, that's the best bodybuilder in the world. Right. And it wasn't that, you know, it wasn't that. No, it wasn't that. But Saturday. And I think Nick was the best athlete. I mean, put it this way. A lot of us, if you look online, just after pre-judging and after the confirmation rounds, it was like, and I know we're all armchair quarterbacks, but it was like 95 to 5% people pulling for Nick. And I don't think it's because there's huge fans of his physique, because I saw a lot of comments were like, I'm a Derek guy, but man, Nick's out of today. I saw Nick's general consensus was Nick was the athlete that was on fire. He was peaked. He looked perfect to the best of his possible ability. And I'll say one more thing, when they turn around to the back, Derek arguably has the best back in the world right now. Right. Yep. Yeah, that rear double is, I think, unbeatable, honestly. It's a good shot. But here's the thing. So it's such a good shot. There were a lot of times when they turned around, I'm like, I think I'd like Nick and he's back shots, both the rear spread and the rear double. And I'm not the only one with that opinion. So I didn't see that. I felt like it was close. Like it could have gone either way, but as far as shots go, I would have given the rear double to Derek. My opinion person. Sure. You know, that's great. That's what I'm saying. With that being said, you know, he's nice to come back on the show, but whatever, yes. Yeah. It's one shot. You know, it's one shot. No, I know. I know. You know, with all that said, though, because we said, like, what a great idea for the Olympia. It's going to be a great Olympia. What had been better? If Nick would have won this one. Yeah. Because now you have someone. Everyone is beaten each other. All the good guys, Samson, Nick. Derek would have all beaten each other different points in the last two to three years. Wouldn't that have set up the final showdown for 2025 for the Olympia? That'd be what? But that being said, though, I think Nick's going to, you know, I think he's going to be even better this week. I think, you know, what is it? Wednesday right now. And three to four days, I think he's going to be even better. He's going to be better at least. He's going to be better at least. What's that? People will see this on Friday. So tomorrow. Yes, tomorrow. Nick is going to shock the world again and come in at his all-time best, even better than he was last week. And I'm happy to say that I'm going to be there to see him person. That's nice. Hell yeah, man. I'm happy you're going. You'll have to get some pictures for us and stuff. Tell us all about it. What do? Well, I'm certain that it wasn't much of a consolation to take second. No question. I mean, he clearly was disappointed. I just, I hope that when the dust settles, or number one, I hope that he, you know, he pulls this this went off, you know, New York. But when the dust settles, the statement that he, I mean, it's just not just your back. Like it was holy shit. Yeah. Like he won so many people, like he said, that any doubters or any haters, I mean, he just, he just railed them in like they were fish, not even fighting in line. Yeah. It's just, it's crazy. And you know, there is that doubt. Let's be fair. I had it. I'm just, I'm being honest. I had that doubt. I'm like, man, he's had a lot of options. He's had a lot of ups and downs. Maybe. I, across my mind, maybe it's just, it's a psychological thing that he isn't sure if he can do it. But I think after talking to me, right? I was like, dude, you gotta, you know, you gotta be a little stressful for your child. It's like I'm not stressed at all. He's called, I was like, oh shit. That's not it. This might, this might be good. I expected him, I put my, and it's hard to do because I can't relate. But I try to put myself in that after taking the hit so for the last couple of years. And he takes it, and stride so well, better than I would ever be able to take it. And that's why he, you know, it's one more reason. It's not why he's there. But it's one more reason why he's there. And I'm not because he can know what that shit. Huge huge statement. I'm just really excited for, I like him. I know some people don't, whether it be cocky air, he said the same shit about feels. You just don't know him. Exactly. Yeah. Then you have one interaction with some, I'm guilty of it. It had bad interaction with Leela Brottie years ago. Thought he was a dick for 20 years. That's not fair. You've had people run into me and I've been a dick to him for five seconds and they think I'm a dick for 20 years. I don't know if that's fair. So, you know, you're going to have those interactions. You're going to, unfortunately, you know, we judge people that way. But I think you want a lot of people. I'm excited. I'm excited for him. And I'm actually really looking forward to seeing, seeing this battle. Not just, you know, obviously New York, but in the fall. It's a cool. And the heart leading up to it. Well, we've got our main topic and I will add to just to say one thing on this topic. Was it? It's just bodybuilding. We had a segment. You know, it just should Nick Walker retire. I think I titled it. Because, and this was, you know, two episodes ago, right? Because people have been giving him so much crap and that you hear that. Like, oh, Nick needs to retire. And like, Arc argument was like, on Nick's worst day, he's what? On his worst day, the eighth best bodybuilder of the world. Yeah. Meaning like out of everybody competing at every show, everywhere in the entire world, the eighth best on his worst day. Why should he retire? And we put that out as a clip. And we got a lot of people that were like, no, yeah, he needs to quit. He's washed up, blah, blah, blah. And then now we put out this new clip about, you know, the way the show went. And there were so many people in some of those people that were like you said, Andrew, I'm not a Nick fan, but, you know, man, I think he had that show. I think that he got robbed. So I think it's incredible. That's the word turnaround. I know. Robbed. Yeah. That's the word. And it's, yeah, worse. Nick is, at one thing, from top four, the better. That worse, he's a top four bodybuilder, which is just going to make a great show down at the Olympia this year. Yeah. So many wins this next show. I backed off on the rab part of all, I'll tell you why. I think it goes back to the, got a knock him out. Yeah, that's fair, knock him out. I look at it this way though, every show no matter what division. It's, when it's down to two people, or three, who, can you, who do you look to? And you just can't take your eyes off during the post. You might glance at the other guy, you're like, and then you look back at the guy, who's just on. And that was Nick for me. And I think a lot of other people to watch the live stream and that were there in person. So. And I think a lot of us knew that was the best version of Nick. And it wasn't the best version of Derek. And I think that's hard to remove from the judging, when in reality, you can't judge it that way. Yeah, I mean, we'll be fair, you know, one of the judges Tyler, has he said he by Slim Margin, I think he said he had Nick overdiric, but the other judges by committee did not. Sure. All right, so main topic of the day is what can I add to my TRT? Somebody had asked us that this week, you know, he was like, hey, I'm on just basic TRT. What would be the route to go? Into, you know, either TRT adding more test or TRT plus something else. Perhaps Proviron, Lodos, Masteron, even microdosing a Lodos of trend ace. You know, there are a lot of people out there now. It's a different climate, right? You know, 20 years ago, if you were using gear, you were one of the hardcore, right? And now, testosterone is pretty mainstream. And some of the people who will tune into the show aren't even watching competitive bodybuilding. They're just guys that are going to the gym. They happen to be on TRT and now they're wondering, hey, you know what, the last eight months on TRT. I've been feeling my best. I've been making my best gains. I'm kind of already on. What else can I do without really pushing the boundaries without, you know, risking my health without skewing my numbers. And, you know, maybe they do have to go and see their TRT doctor to do blood work again in another few months. And they don't want it to look too wild when he gets there. You know, what are your guys' thoughts? I guess, you know, if you want to go with the absolute safest route, I would stay under TRT and then I would introduce, you know, a lower decent dose of growth hormone. I think that would be the safest compound you could possibly do. But if we're talking about other PDs, you know, I like to do something with a lot of people that are getting into the PD realm or the TRT plus realm of, all right, we've got your baseline of test-off-strong figured out. We know where that puts you somewhere in the 900s or so. Maybe a little bit higher. Your lab markers are good. So why don't we do like a six-week experiment with something that we will be able to see noticeable gains, whether it's, you know, 40 milligrams of anovar for that six weeks. Or, you know, 40 milligrams of wind straw or, you know, if we're doing say, like, you know, 75 milligrams of test-off-strong, you know, every other day or every third day, let's add 25 to 50 milligrams of master on. And I like to do these little six-week or so experiments and then we can kind of gave it okay. How do you feel? Are you sleeping well? Did it affect your labs? When we look at your labs next, are you, are you seeing muscular gains, better performance than the gym? All those different things. And then we come up with a consensus or an idea of which would be the good compound for you. Because, and I say for you because, you know, my pre-mo might not be as good as a master on for someone else or might not be as good as adding an oral in for something that someone else. Everyone has different individuality and as you see on the podcast we did with Scott Stevenson, you know, we all have individuality with how we respond to different things based off or different enzymatic and genetic makeup. So, I think it's best in this situation to do low dose of something, experiment with it, and, you know, keep it to like a short cycle and then take some time off and then introduce something else and then over, you know, the series of a year or two you can figure out what compound is going to work the best for you. Did an addition. Yeah, I'm 100% on board with that. I would, I would probably go this simple route. The most obvious route and arguably the first, like, kind of first step. We just take the test out strong from 2, 250 to 400, 500. The main reason being, yeah, at first I thought first thing, popped in my head was I was like, eh, Primo. And you make a good point. Maybe you don't have good Primo. True. You know, there's that. And you could, it would be a bad experiment out of the gates if you crash your estrogen. And then all of a sudden your libido is in the, in the, in the, and people who are not familiar with cycling and low estrogen may not know what, they may not realize that without any, any blood work they do. So I think it's high estrogen. True. And they've started adding an AI or something like that. Yeah, exactly. Or, you know, it should be a dead giveaway if you're, you know, I mean, if high estrogen is when you cry, when you watch Titanic for the night time and you can't figure out why she won't let him up on the panel in the other room. And then what there was, it very clearly was they've gone over this for years. It's just so obvious. Anyway, yeah, I like the idea of an oral. I, you know, the antivar, I think is relatively innocuous and it is gold. I just can't think of a better. It's one of those things like I said a couple shows ago. I was thinking, gosh, and I just started this 4DMA man, these contractions are really crazy. And I'm like, oh, it's which Dan and I. And within a day of doing that and increasing the dose, it was that obvious. I was training back and I'm just like, holy crap, like this is crazy. So it would be a quick, noticeable obvious change, I think, for someone who was on TRT, to add something like animal or, you know, oral wind straw. So yeah, I can certainly say, I like your idea of experimenting. You have the TRT as a baseline. So yeah, you could play around for a year. You could run your antivar 68 and weeks come off, do something another, you know, 6, 12 weeks later, kind of experiment with these lower dosages, adding in a little bit. It could maybe a little bit of master on at some point and see and assess how you feel. I'm just going to end then come back to the ones that you like. The ones that you don't out. That's why I had one more point that typically, you know, the guys that we're talking about that are into TRT plus are usually, let's say, at least in the 30s. Usually, I mean, in your 20s, you're like, oh, you know, test, deck of debol, you know, trend, you know, give me all the. But guys in the 30s and 40s, I think a lot of the ones that I've worked with, they're usually in a better place in life where they have financial stability to where you're like, hey, we can do labs every 60 weeks and really see what's going on and see, hey, is this hurting you? We can check things like Estradile and see if, you know, Master on the pre-mo is affecting that or we can see about liver markers. We can see about all these different variables and see if, you know, is this a sustainable compound for you to keep in longer term? I think that's a big thing, you know, when you're working with competitive body builders, we're not doing TRT plus 95% of the time. We're doing TRT plus plus plus times 100, you know, subtract the one, right? Yeah. I add the one. That's not subtract. You know what I mean? So it's, it's a kind of a different ball game, but in my mind, guys I want to do TRT plus want to make sure that their health is first and foremost, but then, and then the gains are just like two way, like secondarily, but they're like two way. They're not like, it's not the number one driver in your life when you're in your young 20s, early 30s competing for pro cards or you're trying to rise up the ranks, that kind of thing. Yeah, and I think you can do a lot with a little in that kind of scenario. If you have somebody who, let's take that picture that guy who's in his 30s, he's, you know, maybe financially, he's got a job now where like things are settled. Like life is pretty consistent, right? You know, he can get to the gym when he needs to afford his food. You know, has the maturity to be able to really lock into a plan, even if he hadn't done that before, add in even a small amount of gear, and I think that, you know, guy like that could probably do a lot. And I'm seeing more and more people like that nowadays, you know, there's more and more of them. I'd say more people are doing that than there are like the hardcore guys, you know, just because it is hitting the mainstream and people are starting to see like, hey, testosterone isn't this terrible thing. In fact, I've got to like it, you know, I'm being the best I have in 20 years, you know? Yeah, I'll tell you what, you know, right now I'm, I guess I would say TRT minus, okay. You know, I've been about five weeks of 15 milligrams of testosterone a day and so was that 105, I think milligrams a week, which is probably the lowest I've taken it. Why I did about the same thing last year, actually, but, but, no, my strength is exactly the same. No, and that's something I want to touch on is the training, you know, maybe I'm not doing as much volume purposely, but my top sets are still right there, you know. My, now my diet is, I would say perfect as if I was in a contest prep, it's the same grams of everything to a T every day. You know, cardio is being done, all those other things are being done, supplements are being taken. So you can get a lot out of a little testosterone, but if you want to grow like big voice status, you know, TRT plus plus plus times 10. Yeah, one. Yeah. All of it. Taking a little more than 105. Bet you are. Guys, I got to take a break through the whole lecture, subscribe thing, but I also want to say thank you to you. The internet's kind of a weird place, in case you didn't know, and I'm glad that we've put the community together that we have. I'm grateful to read your comments in fact. I know a lot of YouTubers that don't read comments. I read all of them and I try to get back to everybody. So if you comment, I will see it and I'll try to get back to you. Also, the like button is absolutely free of charge. You don't have to pay anything to hit it and it does help us out of ton. It's not going to like push us into your algorithm, but it will help other people to hopefully find the show. So if you like our stuff, please try to help us out. Here we go. So it was this guy. Jordan Jordan and I'm just going to go to very click him. There we go. We can see all of the pictures he's posted. So here are the pictures he posted before he competed. And Andrew and I were both talked about him. I think incredible physique. Well, I think my point when I saw these pictures, I think he was like a week or two weeks out at this point in 10 days or something. I was like he's in the kind of condition that no matter what he does, he's not going to mess it up. Right. Yeah. That's what you guys want to get to. You want to get to that kind of condition that maybe he's not as full as he could be. He's going to be full enough and he's going to be just so shredded that that's going to be the keynote of his physique or maybe he overfills and he loses a little bit of that detail which isn't going to make it. He's just going to look massive compared to his in his structure. So I think him and his coach, I don't know who's coaches, but excellent job nailed it, head to toe, greatest thatics, great conditioning. Yeah. And he ended up winning his nap a pro card here. Look at the conditioning in that shot. That's excellent. It's just so crazy. He looks good. Yeah. And I would say he did fill out. Yeah. I was going to say the same thing. Yeah. It's a real good balance between the fullness and the dryness. It's it's pretty damn good. Yeah. Great. That's much better. Then also too, we wanted to do a physique critique Connor asked us. So Connor just won the Emerald Cup. He's a listener of the show and talking to him on email. He works with Stu Sutherland. So Stu brought him in into some pretty respectable shape here. Yeah. He has to say if we could do a physique critique forum. Now he's probably what six to so he had a picture here. Look at so he's like a half a head higher than the other guys and suit me. Yeah. Tall days. So first thing that jumps out of me is that I think he needs to bring his backup. But I also don't think he's he's opening his his backup as much as he possibly could in this pose. But if you look at his hamstrings like they're just so big and overpowering. And I mean that in a good way. Like he's he's built a nice set of wheels. He's got huge glutes. But it does make his back a little bit small. So my critique would be I think you can open up that back a little bit more. But be I think a lot of your time should be spent on you know focused on your back region in terms of this offseason. The legs are great. This one he's just not maybe someone snapped the picture. Yeah. You know before he actually finished hitting the shot. Yeah. Well I feel like he can bring his elbows around more and then he's got a lean back and and arch is chest a little bit. Yeah. To complete the shot. Sometimes when your mom's taking the picture you know it's it's like you in half way into the pose and you're like my I'm like yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Sometimes guys aren't hitting it as like they aren't full blowing it. You know what I mean sometimes guys are like oh well maybe I want to do it this way so that I show more detail in my back. Have you heard people laugh that? Yeah. He's got the shot out there on the last spread. I'd be hard. I'd be surprised if if he were open on that real double buys. Yeah. I'll give him the benefit of the doubt. Yeah. But I want to point out the last part is not a detail shot. It is with and size shot. When you're in contest condition like you see his lower back right here that lower back is going to stand out when he's fully opened up. You're going to see he's in great shape but it's a width and spread shot. You want to take up as much space on stage as you can in that shot. Real double it's kind of a cross where you want to bring that deep. Yeah. You want to see that grainy and detail but he could definitely spread the scap a little bit more. He's got a sense of arms too. Yeah. He does. He's got overall just really nicely built physique. You know and he said I think he's going to do a national show next year. So he's going to continue working on growing. Do we see the front shot? There we go. I mean again just a little bit more back I think like solid physique you know. Yeah. Just looking at nationals for my last year if he was on stage I don't see in place and I'll side of the top five. So I mean infernus. Can you be drier? It's always mean. Yeah. I do things and that's me being a little bit more critical because the balance is very good. He's got young skin. Some a little of a little jealous of that but it probably could be. Yeah. You know a little bit drier. Five pound or two. Yeah. I like how the adductors are touching right there. Oh yeah. Yeah. Just another year body building I'd be really impressed looking forward to see what he looks like when he does get on stage in the national next year. Yeah. Do you have any type of idea of the background of the amount of time he has invested so far? He's done six shows I believe so far. Yeah. I didn't look like that after six shows. Yeah. I think that's what he had said. Yeah. So good for him though. He looked fantastic and great overall season. Emerald Cup is an awesome show too. Yeah it's a very good job he's has been. Yeah. Let me see what else we have here because I know we had a bunch of listener questions and by the way I should tell you guys if you are watching the show and enjoying it then do us a favor and hit the like button. The like button does help more than you know all that stuff helps us to get pumped out to see more people. We're trying to get the show as popular as we can and you guys are literally you can directly help with that. So thank you and comment with let us know what you think of this show. Let us know what you think of the placing. So when we talked about the Pittsburgh pro at the beginning and let us know any questions you have. Comment on the show with questions and then we'll use those questions to make the next show. So I'm grabbing questions from the previous program. Someone had a comment about they said last time like a van Gogh would stop snorting so much coke all show. What? What? And then I'm like I mean it's kind of out. It was like two weeks ago or maybe four weeks ago. I'm like it's kind of allergy season down here maybe I'm a little sniffly but like I didn't notice that was the most far out comment I'd seen in a while. Well don't comment stuff you can comment stuff like that if we get the comment we'll just have to take the Korea yeah we'll take the comment to help boost us in the show in the out. Right. They would you want it? Yeah. Okay so this was just a comment it wasn't a question it was from Dan Smith I believe he might be all Australian he's been a long time listener we talked about it was I think the topic was doing a contest prep with no training last episode or the show before that and he said you know before trying was huge it was Dan as Danas law seemed to be the absolute must for contest prep. That was before my time I can say that flat out. Skip did you compete back in those days? Yeah I mean when straw was a mainstay it always but is it not now? Yeah I think it still is but I think also like it's what's readily available to you in your time period is what people use like an Arnold's time they use test and deck up till show right and they drank milk you know because they didn't have 18 different types of way isolate hydrocelling all different protein patterns they didn't have a lot of these things that we have available to us today never in time we had more access to different compounds to use to create you know the perfect physique that we see on stage that we're trying to create so but yeah windshield's always been you know stable you know yeah what about this one from tri star armory he says question for the next blood sweat and gear what are your thoughts on test to DHT ratio running test pre-mo and mast in a cut phase test is at 750 where would you put the pre-mo and mast 46 years old 300 of each no I get no I mean are there specific you know really have specific numbers this is kind of like a healer you know kind of a gut feeling I guess I don't know about you guys but I don't I rarely ask someone to get DHT checked on their labs I don't it's seeing yeah it's not really I don't know a lot of guys are really interested in ratios test to estrogen test DHT all those I'm not a ratio guy with that stuff you because you know someone might look look look look a certain way with perfect ratios whatever those might be but other people like if we don't know the ratios and we're creating a really good look out of them what does it matter you know yeah and I think sometimes like as an example if I go if I'm in prep and I go in to the bathroom to pee and I have to reach down and squeeze my prostate to get the urine out then then I might cut back a little bit on DHT but outside of that I don't see an issue I feel like a lot of the stuff comes from I feel like a lot of these people and ask these questions have done like the J3 University stuff that that sounds like a J3 University talking around to or thing I guess yeah Diego says one to one test to Primo messes me up so that's the thing that's it that's for him and he knows that and so he knows not to do that yeah your experimentation trial and error it wouldn't go over well for me either yeah new listener so happy to have found the Tant the channel and the team I have two questions as a 47 year old looking to add mass but not compete what is a recommended macro percentage breakdown and what is a preferred and a ballic to test ratio another ratio question I didn't even realize it was another ratio question all ratios yeah yeah I mean here's the thing so which you'll find with the with a competitor is there there it might start out like I'll go protein carbs fat it might start out like 30 50 20 right but by the end of the contest prep it might be like 45 for 45% protein 30% carbs and what 25% fat so it's hard to say what the perfect thing is it's kind of like what's perfect for you right now and what you do is you write yourself a diet or you have a coach write yourself a diet one of us and from there you just manipulate it you know like I would say make a change in monitor over 10 to 14 days and if it's getting positive then you know you're on the right track and and again it's not going to work forever you know note no change you make in your diet it's going to work for adding finium but you know that's a great place to start start with something that you can stick to monitor results with pictures performance in the gym etc you know scale and then from there you can adjust things typically most people will find holy carbohydrates first when they're trying to get leaner is usually the way to go not always but usually yeah I don't have too much to add to that other than you know if you go to a coach you know there isn't going to be a formula we're going to typically take into consideration what you've been doing whether you're eating frequently whether you're eating once or twice a day you know nine out of ten times I typically will start the calories higher than what they're already taking in because I don't want to go into a cut phase with a client if they're already squashing their metabolism I want to make sure that they're taking in enough calories to start with so I tend to start a little higher and then I want to come down from from there if I can but that's just a me as a coach and a method that I use you could go to five other coaches and they may have six different methods so maybe different little different thing you know it might be different with like the same coach might do use that method for some people like someone who's already fairly lean and we have 20 weeks we might for the first four weeks add calories right I'm up every week maybe 200 calories 150 hundred etc but then someone who's really really you know has a lot of body fat to lose we might go right into a really hard fast for the first four to six weeks and then reintroduce some calories as as we go so there's there's so many ways to you know slice the onion that it's just so hard to say like what's the protocol there is no protocols it's coaching it's it's seeing the information and reacting to it and then someone up with a plan week the week or every other week yeah all right and then the other topic the the anabolic topic I think that for him our opening topic we did about TRT plus is really kind of a good guideline on where he could get into you know using gears so we just had to leave it at that question for the next show managing fatigue on a cut or prep I'm about six weeks into a cut performance is still good however the associated fatigue later in the day seems counter-productive I have to train in the am as I work in the evening what are your thoughts thanks what he says counter-productive like in terms of I mean here's the thing like there's no way around it like when you're in a serious cut and you're I don't care if you how much food you're eating at two weeks out of your inshoshap already you're exhausted whether eaten three thousand calories or 4,000 calories or 1500 calories you know what I mean like the feeling is roughly the same for every athlete agree because you're just emptying the tank emptying the tank but the manage fatigue I think you need to plan whether it's a skip load or a refeed or you know a lot of times that what I do with people is we'll be eating more calories on the days off you know let's say they're on a five two training split those two days off are actually you know much higher or recently higher calorie days than the then the training days so I kind of look at the training days is like a push and then the the non-training days is a pullback and that doesn't just mean you stick to that and within the confines of a seven day week someone might need like three four six days and pulling back whether it's pulling cardio adding more food pulling training out for few days you know when you're coaching or when you're working people like everything is fair game and every variable and I'm sure we've all utilized every technique every tool in the book individually with different clients yeah I'll let a couple things that you know I think that so when we do reach that point where we are more fatigue we tend to do less we tend to like like say like he's not at work you know we tend to be more sedentary we're like yeah I'm not going to do extra projects so you know I'm not going to walk around as much and I do think that that will hurt you if you go from say having a very active life you're cooking along we still have some fat loss to make happen in the last say six weeks but you know every minute that you have you're just like trying to land the couch because you're tired I think that that is not going to be to our advantage you know Scott Stevenson who we have on the the next episode he would improve his meat cardio by doing a project when he died at meaning like he would like do something like to his RV or he would add like these new struts or whatever to his truck and so he looks like I'd be out in my garage for two hours and night just tinker and on this stuff and you know we went into an episode where I just how many calories you burn standing versus sitting so if you you know and I think our bodies I think that we want to conserve calories as we're in that position like I think that we're we're purposely like our bodies are shutting down all of our function to try to sustain ourselves you know what I mean to try to fight off the fact that we are getting leaner so I just want to throw that one thing out there and all throw out there you know a couple of things that are not necessarily stimulants but things that I think have helped I think that you nailed it Andrew with food being the number one thing um uh L tyrosine is really good L tyrosine it I believe it helps with thyroid regulation so especially if you're not using T3 it can help with that but it also helps to sensitize the same receptors that that natural stimulants and exogenous stimulants would attach to so you know it would help you to but make better use out of noropinuffin and dopamine as well as caffeine and clen all that stuff so I had gotten into a habit of making a cup of green tea in the afternoon because it was also kind of like a little bit of appetite suppressant for me and I would mix in some true nutrition I don't even know it was like a gram and a half of altirisine just dump it in there flavorless mix it up and it would suppress my appetite some and an altirisine does have a mild appetite suppressant effect but that little bit of caffeine plus the altirisine would lift me up and give me a boost I believe there is even uh studies done or excuse me the military had done research with uh altirisine as an anti fatigue agent for the troops so I you know I think that that's a direction I would go before I just started laying into more actual stems you know what I mean because I think that it is common to get like super stemmed out towards the end of a prep I remember I told a guy he could drink he said well can I drink black coffee and I said yeah you know if you it's black it's not going to be a problem you know it's not going to have cream and sugar you could drink as much as you want and then we get to the show and he is complaining a stomach issues and he's got all the stomach acid and you know it's coming out of nowhere and I was like well how much coffee are you drinking we get to that and he's like oh I'm drinking three pots a day the other thing though the reason why stems aren't great that's actually time I want to pull back on the stems is because you're you're in sympathetic overdrive yeah I mean everything you're already doing cardio training but then you're adding stems to the mix like your adrenal glands are spit firing nonstop and they want they need a break you need to have a balance of sympathetic comparison pathetic and that's what I was getting you know of referring to in terms of taking away time away from the gym three or four days adding more food especially on your rest days yeah adding in things like KSM 66 and Ashraf Gonda and Lions main things that are going to help regenerate in that way but overall yeah the the last thing I want is for people to be taking more stems and bring relying on DMA or DHA what else you know caffeine in general all those different things because you'll see someone when they're at the last two three weeks of the prep and they're mixing like three or four pre-workouts together and you're like okay you're getting 600 milligrams of caffeine in this plus 25 mx of DMA a plus you know whatever 100 questions you know yeah on top of the on top of the fabric and you know stems you're taking that's when your the problem is is you know you get the sympathetic overreach and then you get a adrenal insufficiency where you're not producing any quarters all you're not producing any adrenal quarter-coids and that's when your body shuts down when the person's really starts to look flat they have a very um their effect is like just very kind of emotionless it's the same way as if you tank someone's estrogen if you're for many many days and weeks in a row and you're not going to make progress at that point so managing that's a great point to us got managing the stem load is a big one yeah i get another great opportunity if it's brief and it's a it's kind of a push that's different in that phase right now and it is the fatigue is starting to get but the issue is is comparing that to where my fatigue level typically is oh man this is a this is a cakewalk i mean i hit PR's yesterday on the hack i haven't hit in the offseason at nine weeks out so but i get out of there and it's not a double cardio you know i have double cardio and training and if i'm not doing cardio training my ass is sitting on the couch but i'm not i'm a i'm a very very sedentary yeah you're not changing for him yeah yeah i mean i i'd never go to get my groceries everything's delivered you know i don't i live in a high rise so it's not big you know we had a big house in Colorado but this is what 13-1400 square feet i'm not and the gym i train in is tiny so it's not like I'm walking around with all these steps even while i'm training yeah it's very very limiting there so i'm not necessarily i'm kind of the exception i'm not losing meat because i never had it anyone i'm with you i used to you know my other step stuff goals for yourself i don't because i just don't get the here's what i do i have steps that i have to maintain every day from my prep guy and i do that on a treadmill because i will not get those steps so that is one of my i have a step cardio session if you will it is very low intensity it's i always laughing say i get on it and i don't want to think about the time because i just tell myself it's it's just time it's not exhausting it's not physically demanding you know my heart rate might be the high 90s hundred tops but then i have my cardio fasted that could be hit or it could be less it you know with a little bit higher you know heart rate then of course i have my training so i can't get them all but no need i have but i'm not now now i'm just doing like a lot of hard cardio so i stopped because i'll end up if i don't tell my watch that i'm doing an indoor cardio session i don't think that it actually is tracking those steps and i don't get enough steps otherwise that outside of the two dog walks we do the in my cardio like my steps are super low okay so then you do have a base form and need though because you're going for two dog walks a day right roughly the same every day yeah yeah and and i was for a while trying to push it higher and you but then now i'm actually just saying like screw it i'm going to hard cardio and i'm doing like high-end climb uh treadmill as fast as i can go getting my heart rate till like at times i mean i'm at like one 30s one 40s cranking for 50 minutes and it feels good so oh really yeah oh yeah i'm pushing it man and i was never a fan of hit i hate it it's not hit it it's just high intensity but i'm doing i'm doing i'm doing hit you doing hit and i think that's what's helping my legs in the whole yeah i'm like how could i be doing hit and it's you know it's an interval it's and it's not of this long duration but that heart rate gets up there faster it's funny because i'm like okay i have a couple old school stems in me yeah i'm 55 i'm doing this fasted if i go down i'm DNR i'm going to wear a t-shirt that says DNR just let me go we'll be going to leave my rib gauge alone um but i'm responding very very well to and feel healthy and energy i actually prefer the hit over and we're pulling it back you know a little bit guys we get in deeper and i'm like ah you and i can i just keep wanting to in there yeah i prefer it i prefer it my favorite cardio for prep was when i'd access to an Olympic size pool yeah and i would do hit cardio in the pool i think the most i'd do was four 15 minutes sessions and i would i would freestyle it for 10 seconds and then i'd walk the rest and on the next minute so i'd have about 50 seconds of recovery pace and then on the next minute i'd go again and i'll tell you what my legs never look better that year than that year the fullness was just always there because i wasn't pounding you want to cardio sessions for 45 minutes a day so i always asked clients like do you have access to a decent size pool like first thing i always ask them um that thing good but it's very very effective we always got the real swimmers that are like hey um do i want me to show you how to do that right now i'm just trying to get locomotion and burn as many calories in these 10 seconds as i possibly can because it's less cardio i have to do and i'm just oh i got some unsolicited advice from a some a guy at the apartment gym the other day oh yeah what do you say yeah he let me know that i um i should not be hanging on the rails oh wow i'm doing fine we're trying to show us there i wish we were there to see that it was nice that was a little snarky because he has no business it it's a little bit sound shitty but it's like you're you're not the same so out of your like out of your wheelhouse right now he was like that i gave him the quick you know how like when you get looked up and down yeah i looked him up and down and i'm like i think i'm good yeah and i literally turned away and he stood there for a second and he walked away and we haven't had any way he's the type of guy that when i go into the gym i tried to acknowledge him because i see him every morning at 5am i do my cardio before i go to bed he does his or before my last meal he does his in the morning and i always tried to acknowledge him give him a nut he doesn't want he he doesn't see me i don't really i'm there in his gym it's a weird airt he his eyes are when you're not looking or falling you airt it yeah well and over the weeks as i'm getting leaner i know he's got to be like he just coming in here walking like what else does he do but i can the more it was bizarre that he would offer that after so many weeks of not acknowledging me not saying anything but he's gonna offer offer advice and i think i will not i don't think he's going to give me any more advice let's get him on the show see what else he does for exactly i never mind it would like people like oh you know your client solace holding on to the railings and whatever it's like oh yeah okay when i'm on a treadmill i put my hands low lightly on the side too because i'm afraid i'm going to fall off on this moving belt if i'm on the treadmill you know same thing with the niliptical so you know i've been wearing some wearing my plate carrier with three loaded mags to add three more pounds to it your heart rate gets up fast when you got to be fast all right speaking of advice we got this comment maybe i should put an effect on my voice if i remember when i read it hey Paul it's called lipolidic not lipolidic not lipolidic i think you did yeah you know it and my i think my point was like look we say these words a hundred times a week yeah okay sometimes you get slipped up it's a simple 40 and sleeper it's just a slip of the tongue like okay and i'm pedantic like that but the point is the reality is everybody knows what he's yeah yeah and at that at its core language is communicating clearly and effectively and we all knew what he was saying so is he right in the sense that it's not okay technically it is he is right um if i remember correctly he had to edit his comment before we all saw it which comments yeah okay so my which proves my point like okay you slip up when you write or you say things perfectly especially online when you're when you're you know off the cuff so my free is law and you know that right yeah it's not Murphy's law it's my free is law when you make a mistake you've corrected someone you make a mistake and then you put that up and the cool thing about it is nine out of ten times they'll try to bust you because they think that you didn't spell Murphy's law correct and it's so oddly ironic it's just gorgeous and then people will laugh and they don't get it yeah it's set them up you know just set the pins up and let them knock them down it's it's all right Casey for Patreon has won for us when is it good time to add and a draw considering it might crush appetite in a bulk that's different for everyone i mean some people it's never it's better than I mean yeah well i mean if they're at their wits end with food as it is it's like don't add it in because you're gonna be pulling back to if you're on six meals you're only gonna want to eat three um when's a good time i mean i mean i mean there's a couple different things i like to do like okay for at a sticking point with weight and we have tried adding more food and that's not becoming the answer because they're just getting kind of pattern flatter appearing mice and maybe performance is going down a little bit or they're losing sleep then i would probably add in like fifty to a hundred makes of anodrol for like two weeks before really kills their appetite and you'll see their weight jumps six seven pounds they look rounder fuller they're hitting some strength plateau they're beating some strength pattoes um that might be a situation another situation is you might want to use it intermittently on certain days like and and and oh someone's going to beat us up in a comment that you can't use an oral to the fix of body part and it's like well guess what if you can get more training volume more training force and be some strength plateau by using a compound you're going to build some more muscle and if that's your weak body part you're going to improve that body part over time even if it's you know let's say you're training back twice a week and you're trying to generate more force because you're trying to beat a 405 deadlift for 10 reps you're trying to get it to 455 for 10 and you do that over four to five weeks using help of anodrol guess what you just put 50 pounds on your 10 rep max on a deadlift which is going to equate the muscle mass being yeah i agree with that taking anodrol or a week at only a week at a time during a deal and and it's worked really well not a bad idea so just something to consider do you talk to john medows does he do the same shit for real he was kind of you mean he he was always to like even contest for people will be like oh bullshit 250 mc test a week off season contest prep okay and then he would just lay your in some lodoces of other compounds to get into the kind of the kind of look that he brought to stage right so he's a very low dose guy jeech maybe a little different story but the deities the antivolics or the antigen's very low dose but what we would like to do a lot of times was he would just cruise a 250 week and then like 10 15 days out before he had to go to like the Arnold's to make an appearance or yeah and be a he would add in like you know 50 to 100 mc of anodrol and he would blow up he would send a picture from like day one to like right before day the show and it's like dude you look like you put on 25 pounds of tissue yeah and he's like yeah I'm still only eating like 1800 calories too i've done an on vacation where i know i'm not going to be eating as much and i mean i'd be training as much and just to maximize that recovery for a short period of time it's good idea it's just kind of i always looked at it is it do other people do it probably not is it out of the box thinking just to experiment see what happens and actually it's a good response from so when you come up with a great your great discoveries that you can then share with clients because no one else is thought of it no one else is doing it it might not work for 100% of people but if it works for half of them that works and i've done should that hasn't worked and i'm like well okay i'll solve that yeah that too if you just don't talk about the things a different not it stuff on a asked us is pre-most something in the stream is pre-most something that you'll pull out a few weeks out of a contest or would you run it all the way in are you sure it's real pre-mo and it's war that i wouldn't you're gonna look really good already right Andrew like if it's real pre-mo you should be the better you know but but if you think it's just more test-propped then just be put out because you're probably already taking test-propped and if you really want to you know if you want to bring that that estrogen down a little bit then you probably want to lower your test dose so yeah i would leave i i leave pre-mo in right through like the Tuesday before show i think good thing about being a veteran with gear is even if you're taking seven different things you're gonna know if something is not what it's supposed to be you know what i mean i think the only way you wouldn't is if you added three or four of those compounds at one time you know say time then you might not know all right i think that was about uh all we had skip to do you have a word of the day i did did you what you got for us sesco padallion i'll say that word all the time do you yes could but sesco padallion what it and it's it's a great word because even just hearing the word tells you it's a person who uses words that are way too big or you know they're not necessary you're you're using a list words and you're a be-list word kind of yeah i can't even say that sesco padallion i did double check i did sesco padallion padallion you got it it's a little bit for a time i didn't find it usually i i come cry out here's something on tv and i'll stop i drive my wife nuts and i'll google it and then i take a screenshot i have an album on my phone of words that i have come across just just because i've not heard the word before but it was a uh buddy of mine from the old or from the small town in Michigan where my wife is from that we lived in for a couple years after we met and we moved uh you know from there to calerado and uh he he called me and sesco padallion i thought i don't know what that is but i bet it has something to do with grammar or verbridge yeah so i had to google it yeah you're you're how far out now uh to the day nine weeks nine weeks out nine and potentially 14 so things are all right things are rolling the high carb days need to go up i had a big droughts one of those weeks where visually even as the client or the foot you look at your pictures when you go oh i'm good with that oh yeah those are good that was a good way you know that sort of thing so um it's good it's it you know and hit those numbers in the gym on the hacks um there's just a lot of it's really enjoyable i'd say it every time you ask me i said and people are like you know i wrote that's cool but just keep in mind when i say that that you know i i had a lot of hops man so when i when things are going well and i'm injury free and you never know how long it's gonna last you just really try to enjoy the process and i'm loving it wow i went out though because like i was like talking to the other day i think maybe three or four of us were talking about you know when people you come to the gym you're like hey how's your prep gone it's like oh you know it's like it's hard and they're just kind of dragging out and you're like well then don't do it yeah and this is the exact opposite you know things are going great and even if they weren't if even if you're having a hard time you would say i'm having hard time but i'm loving every minute of this yeah i can do this and that's the kind of stuff i appreciate because not everyone gets to do this it is a conscious choice to do it when you do do it and you're going to do it to the fullest and no matter what you're going to have our respect no matter what happens you're going to have our respect because you're doing it to the fullest but it's great that you're having a good time doing it all right i gotta clean up the enjoyable next week i'm going down i'm going down guys go to bodybarry dot com to reach out to Andrew and team skip dot com to reach out to skip back now a diet set jmail dot com to hit me up of course trunutrition dot com user code think over there supplement source dot c a for arcaneidians and thank you to everybody from patreon i'll be posting up a new patreon thread you can comment with questions over there you get priority and everybody here if you're still here and you still haven't hit the like button yet then please do because it does help us out a ton uh it's not going to change anything in your algorithm but it will help us to get seen by more people and of course leave us comments comments are huge we'd love to have you along for everything so if you haven't subscribed then hit the subscribe button and hit the bell the bell is the only way that you're going to find out that you you know we're putting out a new show because believe me youtube does not like gear content it is not going to let you know otherwise for another episode of blood sweat and gear guys we will see you soon and thank you to everybody in the live stream and thank you to you guys too

So I think it's a good thing for body builders, that especially in our day and age, the cycle on and on and on, have periods of time where we're cruising and doing everything we can to make sure the body is ready for the next cycle, so you get the most out of it. And yeah, so the SS31 was part of the first four weeks at two milligrams and I brought my SLU down to I think 750 micrograms. And now I pulled the SS31 and I'm on 10 milligrams a day of SLU now. What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Coach's Skip Hill. Andrew Barry, I've Scott McNally and Oliver programming is brought to you by Patreon. Thank you guys for your support over there. I'll have links below to Patreon. We've got some Patreon stuff today. We're brought to you by Trinutrition.com. Use our code think over there for all your basic body building supplements like protein powder, get the team skip blend, create and interwork out, all that kind of stuff. Use code think to get some additional savings, help support the programming and we are brought to you by supplementsource.ca for our Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. We're going to cover a bunch of listener questions today. Skip Andrew and I have been coaching for a long time. We're basically just here to share our experience with you guys. Hopefully it can help you be better at this sport that we all freaking love. Well, most of us love Skip does it out of obligation. So he doesn't want to say anything. That's right. But he doesn't want to say anything. What was that question that I had texted you guys? And this is just something random. Normally we take all our questions off YouTube and on a Patreon. But I wanted to dig into this one a little bit further. It's kind of just off the cuff. Somebody had said an Instagram DMs. He was like, what's a good cycle for building night in Noms? I put that word in his mouth. He just said, what's a good cycle without shutting you down? And I was like, oh, you do have it. I was looking for it. I was scrolling through. What did I say? You said I think it was GH and insulin? Yeah. Yeah, buddy. And after my while that comes, yeah. Next question. No, I mean, I mean, because I guess we should explain whenever you're putting an endogen exogenously into your body, it's going to shut down to some extent, your endogenous production of testosterone. So to what extent? Because I have seen some people that didn't have much of a shutdown or didn't have full extent shutdown. But I think if you looked at the average person, pulled their testosterone if they were taking it. And then tested their blood, their testosterone levels like two weeks later, they would be completely in the pence. Yeah. No. OK. So is there any benefit of the little things? Is there going to be any benefit to people? They're like, oh, man, I use alkaline. I use things that help my pump like Cialis. Stuff like that. Are you going to get, is there going to be any kind of benefit to that long term? Like, say, ingeros, like, all right, listen, OK, I got the growth hormone. I got the insulin. I'm going to run those things. What if I stacked five milligrams of Cialis with that every day? And I used 600 milligrams of alkaline. What am I going to get additionally out of that? Like, will it make a difference? Yeah. I mean, it makes a difference the same way as someone who's taking it when they're geared up, right? You're taking the car and a team for both cognitive and for some fat loss benefits. And arguably some glycogen sparing benefits. I always had monster pumps when I would use it, especially in contest prep. And then the Cialis, you're getting more vasodilation. So you're going to get better pumps in the gym, which feasibly, if you're getting a better pump, you're going to be training a little bit better. You're going to need more out of your training and make it more gained. So yeah, definitely. Did somebody ask about creatiners, well, creatiners? I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I, I have that are conflating. You're talking to me. Yeah. Questions. But I thought part of that was creatin. But I could be wrong because I had come across a question recently, with probably within the last few days of, you know, do I take creatiners when I'm on a cycle because of pro-toming that? Maybe it was on the page. I think it was a question on the page. OK. And, you know, the answer to that is just if I'm not a big fan of creatiners, I've come around within the last six, eight months, because I figure anything that's going to help even a little bit, whether I'm on or I'm off, especially when insulin is involved and and everything else is being taken. Like it's super cheap. Yeah, at the very least, it's not going to hurt anything. So I put creatiners back in and I did notice. And I need great pumps. I can be on running on no carbs. And I can get a damn good pump. It just takes a little bit longer. And I better move quickly between sets because it'll go way a lot faster, which I think everybody can relate to. But I did notice when I put creatiners in my interest, especially after not using it for years. I'm like, you know what? There's something here. So I'm going to keep this in, considering it's so cheap. And I'm just putting it in my intro. Well, and that proves your teacher. Well, another thing. Your teacher. Because you used to be like, I hate, you know, there's no sense, man. I take real gear. You know, I think when I first met you skip, I think you said, ah, help the supplements are garbage or something like that. Well, I'm not big on a lot of, you know, the OTC supplementary. And I think it's in part not because they don't help. But I think the main reason is as too many of us give too much attention to it. Like it's going to do significantly significantly more than what it actually looks. So I think that my message to my clients was always look, there's all these things that you're going to get this much out of if money is tight, these aren't deal-maker deal-breaker type things. But I think you could take that there are those little benefits to this. You could take like all these things on one side. I'm picturing a meme right now. Like the, you know, create an O-carnity in GH insulin, all this stuff, and then like a bottle of test over here. In an E equals like one tenth of one CC of one test. Well, and that was more of my point. I get it. You're over here. I'm gear and you're doing all this stuff. This is just very, very minor minor. I guess, Joe. And I get from this standpoint of you saying, not trying to nickel and dime your clients to death, you know, every supplement out there that might impart this benefit. I got it. But to get back to the question Scott, I'm thinking, you know, there's other classes of supplements that we're now taking the slues, you know, the mucy's and stuff. And I don't, the guy didn't give us more direction on what is actual goals were. But right, you know, if he's trying to prepare as metabolism and get a metabolic boost, then yeah, I think a lot of these things, the five of them, you know, one MQ, SLUPP, MOTC, one of my forgetting. I mean, I could keep rattling off initials all day. But yeah, I do think though, if you're someone, I like, I don't want to have any shutdown whatsoever. I would definitely maybe use a natural supplement to make sure you're maximizing your testosterone. Okay. Okay. So, and even if it's not natural, like, you know, I've got a guy that uses 50 migs of clome at a day and his testosterone is like 150. Yeah. And he's in his 40s, you know. So maybe if that, if that was your goal to make sure you're producing the much natural testosterone as possible, using something like that, and then supplementing with GH and so on, and then some of these other peptides that we've been mentioning. Yep. Thank you back question for that. Why are we so focused as an industry on HCG when clomid works so incredibly long? I think because the clomid has more side effects. Yeah. I'm clomid. I found, have you guys experimented with end clomophane? Side effects? I think it's a lot lower. It is a little lower, but that is a good question, those yeah, I just, because I've told my clients, I'm like, look, and I've always seen maybe you guys see it this way, maybe you don't. So I see HCG is more, if you're not going to, like, I don't think, I think I don't say it's worth it. I think if HCG is used correctly, and I'm in support of it and I advocate for it, it's during a cycle when someone is going to come off and not come off to TRT, but come off completely and they're younger. Maybe they haven't had kids yet, you know, they want to get back to that endogenous, you know, they want their HTPA to come back online, where these days, it's come down off cycle, go to TRT. If that's what you're doing in your older, I mean, don't even bother with that. But I push my clients in the direction of clomid versus HCG, and I don't, sorry, normally I'm mute my mic, but I couldn't get to a fast enough. HCG for PCT, I'm not a fan. I think if you're not running, HCG, just don't run it for PCT, and I tell my clients that a lot, are you guys on the same boat or no? Well, I think it's rare that I get somebody that wants to do a PCT. But like I did up one of my Asian clients message me today and wanted to do that. And so I have them on 1500 units of HCG three days a week, and then 75 HCG, milligrams of HMG twice a week. So yeah. But I have a guy, I'll come and say it, but I did say, you know, if you can get some clomid phenus well, let me know. I think it was a little harder to find over there. Oh, yeah. Yeah, we've got like research and all that that makes it like easier. I was going to mention that I'm working with a guy who we first of all made incredible progress on cycle and the guy's been a TRT everything and then his wife decided, well he and his wife decided like, hey, we want to have a kid, right? So he goes through a fertility program. So he was using his protocol, I just texted them to ask him, clomid daily, HMG, and HCG along with Elkarnitine and Ash, we got it. There was some studies on Elkarnitine and fertility. So they made it work and he's going back on or he went back on as of this week. But there was like a five-month period that he was literally off everything. And now we started working together and I kind of tightened him down a little bit and then we pushed him up a good deal. Still had abs, was his like heaviest way, strongest effort, best training of his life, and then he dropped that bomb on me. Like, oh, I'm going to come off everything, right? And I'm like, oh, shit, you know, this is not going to be good. Like I think he was like around 1.90, 1.900 with abs. And now five, six months later he's also 1.90, 200 with abs. Like what's better condition? Yeah. Well, conditioning kind of, like because I kept the food up high because I didn't want him to lose size. You know what I mean? Well, he was off. So we just kind of, and we did like, we started tightening down. But when we did, I found he just started becoming a smaller version of himself. So I was like, you know what, let's not do this off everything. And we just, you know, he kept staying, he stayed strong throughout, he kept progressing in the gym. And my point being, I guess, that like, man, it's, uh, it's a big, like, mind-fuck for us to come off everything, right? But he did incredible job with it. And he still felt okay too with all that stuff in play. Can't believe people still put family before body-brewing. Come on. No, and I think people would be surprised to how many people have come to me as clients and said, okay, my wife says she wants to have a kid, she put up with the prep. So this is, you know, even though they're going to go to offseason push. And they, and I'm always supportive of a PTC or PCT when the client is on board with that. I just, I give my opinion and I say, you know, it's, there was body building before all these PCTs. And I don't like proactive PCT. If you don't know, you need it, then don't do it. But in situations like that, I'm never going to get in front of a client and talk them out of doing something like that when there can be in some that is going to help. Does it help? Does it not? I don't know, but I will tell you this. I have a lot of clients over the years, a lot who within the first couple months, that PCT or anything else hasn't even really taken much of an impact yet and their thousands pregnant. So you'd be surprised. I was on a cycle for, yeah, I give beta upon this all the time. For three and a half years straight. As my blood markers were great and everything else. And by and arguably my wife was a pair of menopausal. So when she was not feeling well and she went to the doctor and she was pregnant, I remember thinking, oh, bitch, that is so not mine. What are you doing? But there's a lot of stories like that where there is a your, you know, geyser mid cycle and they've just come off cycle. They've got crap testosterone levels and they can see without any problem. Now my daughter has an arm coming out of her forehead. But that's, you know, we love her just this money. What thing we got to pay attention to this sperm test, sperm motility, sperm number, you know, because that's what actually gets people pregnant with women pregnant. You know, it's not the testosterone, right? And right exactly. But even motility, I would take motility over sperm count and you'll a lot of people go, oh, oh, oh, oh, but if they have ss on their chest and they got capes, it might not take a lot of them to get there. They're strong. You know what I do and I encourage a lot of my younger guys because of PED culture now, you know, I mean, skip Scott me we've been on for, don't skip you been on for 40 years, 50 years now. Yeah, I'm pretty fine. I've been on for like 62 years. Yeah. So point being is we have life time of potential shutdown. I encourage the younger guys when they're off cycle to actually go and free sperm and if they do have that option to make sure it's 100% that option for them, get that taken care of on our way. Man. Yeah, I mean, it's, you know, it's not free, you know, but it's, you know, to hold on and keep your sperm. I think it's worth it. Hey, uh, on the topic of things you can take the don't you shut you down, stuff on said does cleanse shut you down. No, Clint doesn't shut you down. What do you guys think of though of the, you know, you hear some people say that Clint is anti-cata ballac. Do you guys have any anecdotal experience that would say you agree with that? What increases protein synthesis? So at the same time you're getting leaner. I mean, I don't know, at least on paper it looks great. If I was natural, I was trying to skirt things. I don't know. Maybe a little bit of Clint butter on there might not be a bad idea. I think more so on women, the males. I think I've seen the antibiotic effect is terribly, it's the green tea of getting lean. Don't you don't you don't green tea my friend? I think I'm so healthy because I've done two cups of green tea almost every day, you know, my adult life. I don't know if I can play health with getting here, Jimmy, come on now. I've a friend of mine. They prescribed him. He went through a study with Albuter all and they allowed him to keep taking it after the study. He got benefits from it for his muscular dystrophy. So I figured that's my bro, logic says, well, I'll be at a club, butter. I do think I'm with you. I've seen that in a dieted female or like smaller men's physique natural guys, where there's just some additional pop that I don't know if we would have been able to maintain in the muscle otherwise. I think there's something to it but not to the point where a license is going to get you job of it. Well, I mean, it does in a indirect way stimulate mentor and then it also stimulates like a protein kinase reaction which I don't remember. I'd have to look it up but it's not to the point like it's even remotely similar to any of the other anoboc agents we have. What there is a potential anoboc agent. Oh, and I think it also proliferates satellite cells too. Haven't been thinking about my head. So okay. And that's why I think you'll see more of an effect in females than you in terms of muscle preservation or even slight enabillism than males because males are used to having a much larger dose of testosterone support, muscle mass, even if you never take steroids, versus females that have a lot lower levels of the interest in their system. I found and we already mentioned growth like out the gate but when we're talking between cycles for me, growth hormone was a game changer when I actually came off came off for being able to maintain pumps and really being able to like keep the volume in the muscle. I and I think there was a mental edge to it too when you're still getting the gear like pumps when you're not on cycle anymore, you know. Yeah. And not dieting when you come on. Yeah, you touched on that earlier Scott. I just think it's a there are bad times to diet and that's one of them. Yeah. If we had a question. I have a great time on TRT right now. Are you putting up huge numbers, cut my training back considerably? You know, I hate to go down that path because people just don't want to listen to it about how calories are so anobolic but man. I love TRT phases. I don't dislike being on cycle. Don't get me wrong. But I love TRT phases because I feel so much about even at a higher weight. I feel better. My sleep is better. My HRV is better. My heart rate is lower. Um, resting heart rate and I'm just strong. And I just love the skin splitting pumps. If I don't look my- look at myself in the mirror, I just think I've got a great physique. Well, I'm trying to try to avoid all those mirrors. You heard of here first. Gips never going to go on cycle again. He's going to TRT for the rest of his life. It's a great- it's the grass is always greater though. After a few months of being on top right here, TRT till February. I spend more time on TRT now than I ever have in the past. I've been on for about a year straight. So I love it. I've been on so much better. I don't. I've been off to TRT now. I do. I- six weeks. Six weeks now I've been off to TRT now. And by off to TRT. Off to your team. Oh. On some- yeah. On some. I started some DHB. And after we remember when Matt Marshall was uh, getting our UC summa. So he did great with it by the way. We're getting labs done again probably this week. He just finished his contest season. If we- I think we're going to talk about clients a little at the end. I got that picture that I showed you guys at him. Like he- he did good. Everything like health markers looked good. Um, mine have been good so far. I'm only running between like a hundred to 200. I think I'm settling it like one 50 a week. So it's like a good- oh god. What do you guys think of this one though? Here's a- a- a- a- a guess a cycle planning contest prep planning question from Cameron over on Patreon. This is question for Blood Sweat and Gear or drugs and stuff. You got- you got Blood Sweat and Gear. He says, hey guys, huge fan of everything that you do. I stumbled onto the podcast and Spotify maybe a couple weeks ago and I binged everything and I'm working backwards into May at this point. My question for you is I'm finishing up a serious cut using 300 test 300 pre-mo 50 var for the first six weeks in last four weeks. 25 then uh 25 then 50 then 75 on T3. So T3 was 25 then 50 then 75 at the end. But now my question is, do you believe that I have time to do a real bulk before a contest? Next one is in May of next year but I want to compete in classic and I'm 165 about 8% body fat at 5-8 and want to get into the high 170s at the least to be competitive for it. So we're recording this in September. He's talking next May. Not a lot of time there. What reversing out? What is that answer how many months? It's about eight months. Uh, whoops. He's leaning around all the way. Like he's at he was pretty pretty peeled at this moment at 165. Well, 8% I guess he's already not using a one. So I have to assume his health is probably in a pretty good spot. So I don't know if you guys have ever done this but I and I'm sure skip you'll probably say you have because you said you did a three-year cycle. I mean, there were times where I do a 20 week off season cycle and then oh wait, my show's 20 weeks away. Time to start my prep cycle and and then I'd run a rebound after that and it'd be next year you know, I've been on for 52 weeks and my lab's weren't horrible you know. But I'm wondering if because he was taking such a low amount in my opinion, if he could just kind of bridge it and maybe okay, cut all your doses in half, keep your conditioning nice, maybe not 6% lean but maybe 8% solely build your calories up and focus on positive progress, not the scale. Meaning don't think of some magical number. I got to be 20 pounds heavier before I start my prep or whatever you know. Because when someone says like, I want to be this weight when I'm on stage next time I'm like, all right, well wish in one hand and shit in the other and see which fills up first. You know, it's like, you know, I'm saying it's, yeah, I mean it's like, you know, it's, it's like, yeah, I wanted to be 285 pounds on stage 3% lean but you know, it wasn't meant for me. So, I'm not shit in another the other. I like that. Right, never heard that one. No, I never heard that one. Oh Billy Bob Thornton's got a great, when he, you know, Billy Bob Thornton when he had this. No, he says it in, uh, batter Santa. You guys see that one? No. Oh yeah. Oh, and I'm waiting on land man. I'm sure you are too. Got about another month. Excellent show. Yeah. Great. It's one of the rest. But um, yeah. So I, I don't think he needs to think of all that bulking and cutting. It's like ride your conditioning. And I assume this might be his first show. See, as those as those are very moderate. Just ride this out. Get your labs done. Make sure your healthy. Maybe cut your doses in half. Feed your calories up a little bit but maintain good conditioning. And then you're not going to have to do much work to get in shape. And then don't have this expectation of what the scale is going to say when you get on stage, you know. And when it comes to like, making weight for classic, you're not out of the ballpark where you're like, stage lean and are in 20 pounds over your cap. You're going to be able to make weight. Like you'll find, you can hire a coach to help you figure out how to make weight. If that's the only thing you need, because there's a lot of tricks and stuff we can do that don't even involve dioretics to make sure. It's only a 165 at 5.8. So he's got a lot of real weight. He's got like when when 92. Yeah. He's, yeah, he's a percentage. So I mean, if he's pretty damn lean, you know, he could reverse out even 10 pounds carefully and he's going to have very similar condition, probably coming out of a cut. So, you know, it was filling out there, you know, coming out of that cut phase. The other thing I guess I would ask him is, are you ready to do a contest? Meaning, like, if, you know, because I had to explain this to someone the other day who says, what can I do to win my next show? And they're 165 pounds in bodybuilding. And I'm like, like, I got news for you, you're not going to win your next show even if it's two years away, because you're 165 pounds. And guys in that weight class don't win bodybuilding shows typically. It's a very rare thing, you know, you typically are at least the light heavy in those 190s to the heavy weights, the super heavy weights, in condition of win shows. So really I would focus more on progress. And, and that might mean not competing. Just going, taking a nice little d-load or riding this, this, this bridge that I was talking about and then jumping back on cycle and just making these nice, um, cycle jumps in terms of muscle mass accumulation. I think the only way to guarantee that you're going to win a show is to Jeff Goulouli, every potential competitor, because you don't know who's going to show up. I don't like that approach. I've never really, yeah, I never like that either. It's like just come at it from the perspective of, I just want to put the best package on stage that I possibly can't see where the chips fall. Because there's nothing else you can do. You don't know who's going to show up. I told a story on another podcast the other day about I brought a really good heavyweight into a show back in 2015, the Connecticut Montenarys Classic. And he looked like a guy that was ready to win a show. He was, you know, right, I think he was two, 19 to two, 20. So at the top end of the of the heavies, he was in condition, glutes, abs, everything in nice and tight. And we're sitting there and he's pumping up. And there's this one of his bandach gentlemen who's sitting in the corner, who's not pumping up, not even putting oil on, not doing anything. And didn't even stand up until they said, heavyweight's line it up time ago. He stood up, takes a shirt off, turns around, and it's Justin Lewis Rodriguez, future I have VV Pro who got his good pro card later on that year. I looked at my buddy, man, and I'm like, congrats me in your getting second today. And the look on his face was like pissed off on my dude. This guy's going to be pro this year. Like, and so my point is is that you just don't know what Freak needs to show up to get a qualification to go into a national show. And yeah, that might, you might fall victim to that. But you come back, come back to it again. And maybe it'll be your day, you know. Study show creatin doesn't just fuel your muscles, fuels your brain, research links creatin to improved memory, focused and mental clarity, especially while under stress, and helps reduce mental fatigue, supports learning, and may even protect long-term brain health. I order my creatin from true nutrition, use code think it check out to get 10% off and support this podcast. Power your body and your mind with true nutrition creatin. By the way, this is my actual morning routine, mixing 15 grams of creatin into my oats. No flavor, no texture. And hey, since I got married, we stored in this fancy jar so it doesn't look like my wife lives with a bro. But hey, if you're single, just leave it in the bag on the counter. It's totally fine. Anyone here have, this is just a question from the group. Anyone here have success with us as 31. And if so, what dose did you run it? I imagine skip you have an experiment with it. But, Andrew, I think you probably have gotten into it at this point. I have. I just did four week out of it. And I'm trying to look up my doses real quick, because I forget I've thought I'm going to head on, unfortunately. I was doing two milligrams daily. And what is it good for? You know, my de-conjure repair, reactive oxygen species clean up. I definitely saw an enhancement in endurance in terms of cardiovascular and just not getting tired, you know, staying up all day and doing tons of shit and not getting fatigued, you know? Coat has the same thing. Oh, I mean, the caffeine, can I do you guys? I'm glad I clearly have that. Tommy James chimed in and he said two milligrams had me feeling like I could see inside the core of the universe. I didn't feel that good. I didn't feel that good. I didn't feel that good. I felt that good either. I'm using it now. And I found, so I backed off my dose of SLU and I'm using it in conjunction. And my thought was, is that if you're getting, so if we're really upregulating, my de-conjure will function and we're getting a lot more byproduct from that that having the SS31 in is probably going to be into my benefit. So I, and I do find that there is a nice synergy with them together. So it's a good, it's a good combo. I'm only using one milligram though. And I'm trying to, my goal has been to use this little as I can that way I can make the vial last longer, you know what I mean? And for me, I started at 500 micrograms and I was like, okay, get a little something from that and I had stopped the SLU at that time. I wanted to just test it on its own. But now I'm, I've felt it to one and I'm like, one is good for me, along with 250 micrograms SLU. I was doing, so I worked with several peptide experts over the last couple months to come up with a really good mitochondrial regeneration and then receptor regulation plan to get ready for another cycle. You know, I think it's a good thing for bodybuilders that, especially in our day and age, the cycle on and on and on, you know, have periods of time where we're cruising and doing everything we can to make sure the body is ready for the next cycle so you get the most out of it. And yeah, so the SS31 was part of the first four weeks at two milligrams and I brought my SLU down to a, I think 750 micrograms. And now, I pulled the SL, I pulled the SS31 and I'm on 10 milligrams a day of SLU now. And so you're really rampant at huh? Dude, I'm running hot like all day. I feel like I'm on, like, I don't have the stimulant effect of clen, my skin is hot. Like I'm sweating through t-shirts and stuff again. Like it feels like like contest-rap, you know, like when I'm like just really on all the stuff. So I had one of my guys, a lot of the starts when I do it. I've been going through like 10 extra of these guys. I believe it, man. I had one of my guys bumped up to a milligram and a half from I think it was using like 500 and then he ended up getting like these 500 microgram caps and he went to a thousand one to 1500. He didn't tell me at first. He was just like he just started doing it. And without changing anything else in a growth phase, he just started getting leaner, leaner, leaner, and leaner. So it doesn't surprise me. One thing I want to point out is I also, in that first phase, I was doing really high dose, methylene blue, 120 milligrams a day. And yeah, I was saying, hi, that in conjunction with NAD+. That gave me such bad tacky cardio that like I would do a set in the gym, not even like a bicep curl set. And my heart rate was like, yeah, to the point where I'm like, I'm glad this four weeks is done because I'm done using this stuff. Or I'm going to pull it myself. You know, that's why let you guys experiment with that stuff these days. Because there's so much out honestly, there's so much out there that like I'm looking at it going, if I was to try everything, I mean, we're going to come across a supplement at some point. It's just bad. Yeah. And I don't want anything to happen to you guys, but I'm not sitting over here these days going, man, I got to try every new thing. It's out. No, I'll let everybody else experiment. And if I start hearing good things about it, then I'll jump on your toes. You've been the pack leader enough. It's time to look like that. Yeah. It's kind of like when you're a race car. And you're, it's time to let someone else and I'll draft off of you for a little while. You're right. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. I can't remember if I mentioned it before. I'll do methylene blue at a low low dose, like five to ten milligrams. Yeah, I'm back down to ten. Okay. And I'll use it infrequently. And for me, it's when I notice that I feel like my breathing isn't going to be great because I'll use it to be able to it can help to rewire that whole like the respiratory chain. But there has been thought too that like if you're, if you're already wired properly, like if you're heartbeats properly, if your respiratory chain works properly, then maybe we aren't the smartest to think that we're going to do better than what our body already knew. You know what I mean? So I'm kind of like, I don't want to use it full time even though it does help my breathing. No question when I use it. I think, I don't know if I was asked in one of my stories like who would be the best candidate for these things. You know, these might have controlled repair supplements and and I'm like, well, I would say you get people that are compromised, but also probably not people in the bodybuilding population who already take care of themselves with cardio, trainies. You know what I mean? Because we're already exercising, we're already working our heart and circulatory system at a much higher level than the average public. It's the average person who doesn't ever go to the gym or do any type of cardiovascular work that eats processed foods and stays up late at night. It doesn't get a lot of sleep. Those are the people that probably need this one. I need to process over ideas very good either. If you have mitochondrial supplement, mitochondrial supplement benefits mitochondria, maybe we should not be piling these on each other. You know, yeah. That's how my brain works. I'm like, I wanted a time. Yeah, maybe I'll give that a shot. But if this does this and this does that, and that was part of my issue during prep of going, you know, when you guys are saying, that's all you. Yeah, I was hearing great things about it. I'm like, I got a ton of shit here that I don't really care to throw another log on the fire at this point. And when I did, I didn't notice anything, which does not mean that it didn't work. But when you're taking, you have so many variables and you throw one more and good luck of being able to really, you know, assess whether it's doing it. You just weren't taking enough gifts. You're taking it enough. I got to follow up, Andrew, to what you were saying about like would benefit the general public. Dave Crossland posed a question to me on drugs and stuff a couple weeks ago that I hadn't really thought of and I don't have a definitive answer for this. But what, let's take it in the other direction would instead of like, hey, we're already healthier. Dave's question that was posed to him was, will all of this mitochondrial enhancement and blood sugar support everything that we've gotten out of to enhance our health? Well, that allows us to use more gear without negative repercussions. That the way this could be going, you know? Yes. Yeah. I mean, look at this way. I've had several clients using just slow loan at a moderate dose under a milligrams a day. Their labs are coming back better, cycle for cycle than they were maybe a previous cycle. So I don't see it that way, though, that, you know what I mean? I see it. I'm not saying we should. Yeah, I see it. It's like, oh, then my brain didn't even go there. My brain was like, oh, that means we can do just as well with last. No, I agree with that statement. I agree with that statement, but I do think stuff like slew has a health and party benefit that would allow someone to feasibly not to say that more gear is going to get you better results. I'm not going to say that. I'm saying it could allow someone to attempt to take more gear and probably have similar lab values. Not saying they're going to be great lab values, but it's not going to get worse, I guess. Yeah. By the way, I got my, I got my, my cardio, excuse me, my calcium scoreback. So I am, no, I'm not a zero. I'm a zero, zero, 10.50. So I'm a 10.55, which is pretty damn good. Ron, I mean, he was a 30 and it made me feel a lot better to hear of some pros that were in the 300's. Yeah, for two bad stories. Yeah. Yeah. So I still, I talked to Dante and I was like, hey, if I'm a 10.5, he was like, oh, this is optimally. This is fantastic man. But he gave me some supplements, suggestions, including I do 1200 citrus bergamot. He's suggested to increase that to 2000. So that really makes me feel good because I've been doing 2400 milligrams of such a burger amount for years and I've never talked Dante about that. I've never said to my labs. We have conversations about stuff, but it's never been about my labs. And to hear of that someone I respect for knowing health, say to you, like, why don't you double that dose? It's going to help you out a little bit more. Makes me feel like smart, I guess, that I inherently did that on my own. Yeah. So yeah, that's cool. See, that was weird here. And I got to say, I take a shit on health supplements. I mean, probably 40 pills a day. Yeah. Yeah, I'm up there as well. I use the liquid citrus bergamot. Do you? Yeah. What brand? Well, I think it's Hawaii farm. Is there a benefit of the liquid? It's supposed to be a higher quality form. It's I keep it refrigerated. I also get my stragglers from the same place. I'm pretty sure it's the same place after check. It is not cheap. So it's a it's suspended in like a life-aligned or alcohol. Rice, something. I can't. Like rice vinegar? I don't know. I just know it's not alcohol because I not that I am sober or anything else, but I don't drink. So if I use like a, I don't know, a Romusen or something like that that's a liquid and it has alcohol and it just fries my throat because we don't use to that. I'm not a, you know, shots kind of guy and I'm not, I'm not familiar with that. They're not retained for me. So I don't know. But forced time. You has one for us. NAC being taken alongside a cycle, including orals. Apparently works against the orals. You guys have any insight on why recently learned this and have dug into it, haven't dug into it further. It probably is the first part. I'm sorry. NAC counteracting the benefits you get from orals. My brain's going to fog you right now, but the, the enzymatic pathway it probably shuts down the enzymatic pathway that allows the metabolism of the orals steroid in the, in the first pass, the liver. Okay. All I know is the antibiotic. That's a seat versus a world. All right. I'm going to Google this. I can tell you one thing, NAC could interfere with muscle gain in general. Any powerful, any accident could interfering with the inflammatory reaction that we're going to get from training. Scott Stevenson and I did a whole, like a kind, I'd call it like a series of episodes. It was like three episodes where we talked about NSAIDs and, and muscle building. And then we broke it down into supplements and muscle, excuse me, any accident supplement building or excuse me, any accidents, and anti inflammatory supplements in muscle building. And really it just comes down to timing in that regard. I can tell you that that said, it's not about reducing inflammation or having inflammation. It's about the right dose. So even though we all used to freak out thinking that ibuprofen is going to ruin your gains, they also have done studies with geriatric patients where ibuprofen improved their gains. Because they, you know, as we age, we end up with inflant more inflammation. And that's kind of like the disease state of aging. So by bringing inflammation down in those people, they grew better. So from that respect, at least, that would be one way, you know, that it would interfere. I remember telling you Scott that I was taking ibuprofen, I don't usually take it. I was taking it for something. I don't know if it was when I had my knee injury or what and you were like, and I'm, you know, exaggerating a little bit, but you're like, you take ibuprofen or you work out? I was like, what the fuck? I didn't even know what to say. Like, well, I have to because I can't turn it without any right now. Yeah, I tried to tie it even when I've needed it, but yeah, I believe me I've been there too. It was called like five years of working for seven out. Do you find anything Azure? Some light stuff connected to the CYP450 enzyme pathway, which is used to break down or metabolize something. You know, if I've alkalated steroids, I'm not seeing any research papers on it, though. That's the thing. Okay. Yeah, I'm going to say maybe, but I don't know. Just take more antifer. No. No. No. No. No. All right. How about this one? What's an ideal reading for estrogen wall and cycle? Should it be above the normal reference range? I ask because you were discussing it on a recent show and mine has always been quite high, but without sides. Then it's perfect. And I think you said one time, Andrew, and I like that you said it, but quickly, if I'm wrong, I'm pretty sure it was you. I don't want you to say you lean towards whether they're symptomatic before the number and I was like, thank you. But if we have to put a number on it, I do fall back to, I'll come on. Don't screw it up, skip. Doctor, who's the Swiss doctor? Um, Serrano? Yeah. Thank you. God. I get it. How did I know you're going to say? I'm not sure. What is the, it's just terrible. But the 21 ratio that just stuck in my head, I didn't have to make a note of it when he was talking to Mike. I'll remember that one. And I like that because if you're running a test level that's, you know, 2500, versus whether you're running a test, you know, those blood panels come back with parameters or for the average person. We don't get blood panels to go. The average person and then if you're a bodybuilder, and that's why you have creatinine and and bun levels that are going to be elevated in a range. And if you go back 15, 20 years, doctors would freak out at that. You, you know, you were in kidney failure, headed to kidney failure. And then they finally realized, oh, I guess there are different numbers that, you know, you train hard. And it's the same thing with estrogen. So you get someone who's on, you know, 25, their testosterone levels, examples, who will just make it a number 3000 or a number arbitrary number. Well, if you're at 30 or 28, then arguably that could be too low based on the 21 ratio number. So as the testosterone level goes up, your estrogen level can go up, provided that you're not, that you're not symptomatic. You are your asymptomatic. You don't have, you know, itchy nipples. And, you know, the things of that nature, you don't cry when you watch blue bloods. I'm stuck on blue bloods right now. How I did not find this show before I don't know. But anyway, well, let's take your, let's say, most guys get around 3000 nanograms for deceler with an healthy cycle using that 21 ratio. That would put the E2 at 150 to be, I think most guys are going to see some side effects at 150 just in my experience. So I mean, the main thing is, I guess I'm not completely sold on that 21 ratio. I mean, it was a, maybe even, even, meaning like a T or T or high, because you could talk about, it's not going to get as high then, right? You know, if you're, if your test is a thousand, then the 21 ratio is going to be pretty manageable. Yeah. If your test is 900, that means that your E2 should be around 45 for that 21 ratio, which is completely normal and with in range. And I don't think 99% of guys are going to have side effects or issues at an E2 level at 45. I'm most people getting a read of 5000 or 6, I know we've seen it. I've seen it. You've seen it. Oh, yeah, I have plenty of times. I mean, well, I remember I'm thinking back to Dallas, Macarver. Do you guys remember seeing his labs? His test last row was 45,000. Yeah, I remember that was ridiculous. It was ridiculous. I mean, that that puts his E2 in the thousands. Okay, there are outliers. I'm not talking about none. I'm sorry, it puts it at 2500. Like, I think you're going to be symptomatic at 2500 with your E2. Well, you said argue that you'd be symptomatic at 45,000 for tests out, or you could just take the, you know, the estrogen out of the equation. You're going to have a lot of bad signal in some of that bad shit is insane muscle growth. That's the side effect you got. Question for the next podcast for all of you. This could be a fun one. If you knew that you were going to have to do your last cycle, say 16 to 20 weeks, and then you'd never return to it again. You'd go off cycle or go to TRT. But you could do your last cycle of your life in fulfill your fantasy, taking your favorite compounds, a combination that you were afraid to try, or whatever. But now you can do it with no regrets. What would that last cycle look like? I mean, the question doesn't make sense to me because I wouldn't have any regrets with the cycle I would do. I think we already kind of did those cycles. You know, yeah. Yeah, I don't really, I don't know if I mean, I could stay where I'm at right now, never do a cycle again or real cycle. You know, I could stay at 100 ms a test a week. You think that maybe it's a the kind of thought that would be geared towards somebody who was like, still in it deep with gear. You know, I remember what I was going to say actually, is that I already know that my dream cycle isn't going to give me the effects of my dreams. So, you know what I'm saying? Like, yeah, there's no cycle I could put together that would make me the bodybuilder I wanted to be. And I think I learned fairly young, you know? You know, you get what I'm saying? Like there's no amount of gear I could take. So, okay, I got one for you. So, I can't really run any queue now at this point. Like, I couldn't do a massive cycle with it. I know that my hematocrit would get high. Now, me actually following through with this, can we also have something where I don't have to take all the shots? Because I'm kind of overtaking all the shots. Otherwise, if we've got like no health things whatsoever, I'll take like maybe we'll go with like 1.5 grams of test, 1000 EQ, and we'll go with 20 units of growth for the next 20 weeks. Maybe you will layer some orals into that on and off as long as I don't get a sex from them either. Injectable deep all. Oh, that's that's mine. I'll do that anyway. I see I won't. I won't. I think the only way I can answer that is I would take a massive amount of growth hormone, just to see what would happen. What's massive? I when I say massive, yeah. Like, can two bottles of cereals a day? Yeah, I'm 30 seconds. Yeah, even I mean, we said there was no, you know, there are no consequences at fantasy. It's having a assume that part of that is I don't have to pay for my cereals stem. Natural, maybe I'll take three bottles. Yeah. But here's why the question isn't very fair. And I know this you know, may irritate the person in acid, but the reality is there are consequences. So it's, I understand you're saying okay, there are no consequences, but okay, I would take as much as I could possibly get in me if there was no consequence. But just like Anderson, I wouldn't expect these ridiculous, it's like we were just talking about Dallas Macarver. We can all take, we'll get our blood levels to 45,000, but are we going to benefit from it? Are we going to get big like Dallas? The chances are I don't think I'm going to because I've done some what most people would see as a grieges cycles with ridiculous, I mean, if I even mentioned the amount of trying I took this last prep, I would get blasted because you're going to die and your physique sucks and it's crap anywhere. I don't know why you would do that. I've already gotten that from a few people for the cereostin dose. So you know, like we all want to throw our cell, our neck under the guillotine here and open ourselves up. But there are consequences. That's just the reality of it. I look a lot better on that cycle though, in 20 weeks, guys like just flat out. I would, if I could handle all that, I would definitely look a lot better. I wouldn't be pro. Yeah, but the point I'm trying to convey to the listeners is that if you could drop your dream cycle, it's probably not, it's going to fall short of your dream expectations of what you're going to get out of it. It's one of those. Because if you were meant to be a top by a BB pro, muscalarity wise, you would know at a very young age. You know, by 2324, you'd be 260 with arms that are 20 inches, calves that are 21 inches, next 20 inches, rear delts that skip likes to say are the last thing that leave the room. You know, am I right? I mean, it's it's good pros or bores. They're not built and I hate to make it sound like there's not hard work involved in it. But it's, it's skip likes also say good luck picking your parents. You know, it's, it's it's a genetic game. And that's why in the last episode we talked about the Olympians, you know, we did an Olympia preview. These guys are all, they were born to be decides this shape, this symmetry, this conditioning on stage, you know, not taking away from their hard work, but I don't want people to think that they work any harder than your average local competitor that gets into great condition on stage. And what about the inflammation? I mean, I know the information I deal with when I go higher on doses. And if I were to go higher, it would just be that much worse. So they had no information. You get no information. I was that's what I said. So the next question would be well if there was no information. Thanks, MNAC. I guess we probably would, but what those doses would be, I mean, I don't know. There are Richard just a ton of shit. Let's just say this. What if you could just grow the more you took the more you got, then we would probably all take a, take a, take a time. We would take a time. But we'd already done that where there was fantasy or not. Why do you have this would gamble with that? What do you have to have gamble? That's so yeah. But first time on that list. I said about Dallas. She said, do you guys think that he was was genuinely 45K testosterone in his plasma or a misread of Andrew Jins due to the total derivatives that he was using. She said that she would have been showing it like she'd seen 800 while she was obviously nowhere close to that. Well, so that's a good question because it comes down to the testing right? And I can't remember whether it's Max-Bert's aspect versus the other testing method when it comes to like E2, if you're using tremble loan for instance, that can show up as a high E2. And I don't know, I'm not knowledgeable on which Andrew Jins and your system would come back as testosterone with different testing methods. And then we had another comments from Big Yo. He says, um, I think that the 20 to one ratio is a very real thing. I would say most people need to be between 15 to 30 to one. My estrogen is near 500 pgml, but my test level is near 10,000. And I mean, bone or city. I mean, when you're test, when your estrogen's that high, you can just suck on your own titties and you're going to get a heart attack. So I mean, he's got no issues apparently. Other than that. That's awesome. I mean, there's always outliers. There's always outliers in every situation. You know, there's some people that are fine with, uh, you know, uh, E2 of 8 and they feel great. And they feel 100%. And then there's others that, you know, you put them anything below 30. And they feel like they're lethargic and very, um, apathetic to the world, you know. So there's a big wide range. So what it be, if this is news, there's some news in the stream right now, or potential news, it could be a total rumor. If we were to put this news as the title of the show, would that be clickbait? Somebody said, guys, it seems how he doesn't have his visa for the Mr. Olympia. Just saw that on the title of some bodybuilding channels. Can someone please confirm? We looked so. Yeah. And if we find out, and this is true, can I close to this show tomorrow, where 58 minutes in, we briefly mentioned it. Well, then it kind of derails our previous episode. Yeah, that's right. I better post that now, right? Kind of. I mean, we still had what 17 other guys that were great. Also this, if hoties out of the Olympia, I feel like that boes really, really well for Nick, because he's the other guy that I was thinking about that is going that has that hard, grainy conditions look. And if you're the only guy that has that look out of the other two guys, you might stand out in a more positive way. There's that. I think our phones would be blowing up if hotie was out of the Olympia. Yeah. Let me see if someone I know knows. I don't think that's something that we would just not be aware of. And I'm not saying it's just happening right now. Exactly. And I think that's what he said. Yeah. Where did he see this? Yeah, he didn't tell us. He's told us though. He's so next strength and power. Which everybody in our live stream just left us for Nick. I don't, I don't fall like I do guys home. And it's not my style, honestly, of content. Yes, I kind of find it boring. I kind of find it boring. And I also, um, I have a hard time listening people that have never bought he built it or never competed. Talk about body builders. You know what I mean? Like I feel like I wouldn't go to. I'll explain this. I've got a couple of interesting stories where you guys are in the first story that I've got for you guys today. The breaking news that I've been seeing all over Instagram today is that hotie chupin got his visa. And also, I've seen some people report that hotie chupin is actually here in the states. Oh, that's not that he didn't get a visa. Oh wait. I just got off the phone with honey rambon who was obviously the one helping to facilitate and has been the one that facilitates this visa process with hotie. And so basically what honey told me is that no, he can confirm the visa has not been issued yet. And also, yeah, obviously that means that hotie is not here in the United States. So I've seen a couple of videos going around. So that doesn't mean he's not getting it. No, it doesn't. But you know, I think at this point in his career, hotie should apply for residency in the United States and be here year round during his body building career. You know, I mean, if you're going after the best body building title in the world, it's going to carry what is $750,000 or something like that. I think it's worth it to, you know, it's a career move to make sure that you, because he's put, let's just say he can't get in. And or even just the stress of waiting to the last minute, like three and a half weeks out, I want that visa and hand out. I want to be over here in the states acclimating to the climate, getting my sleep schedule down on Vegas time because it's probably complete opposite from where he lives. I would just have this stuff planned earlier and I know they probably work on it with the reasonable amount of time. But it's like I would apply for permanent citizenship in the United States, pay taxes in the US, you know, contribute to society and you know, have dual citizenship. What do you have any limitations coming from? Come in from? Enter these coming from? When they... No, yeah, probably, but it's like you let him in every year at the 11th hour to make it to the Olympia. And it's like, if you're going to do that every year, why don't just give the guy a six month visa so he can come over here, prepare here, and work pay taxes, and eventually maybe get full citizenship, you know? Maybe he doesn't want to because he's looking like a baller of it there, it's like an ultimate celebrity in Iran. He doesn't even. You know, he's celebrity when you go home, you know? I mean, it's to me it's just why do you play this game every year? Or maybe it's for the fans so we can speculate and have these conversations. But if I'm as coach for one thing, I want to be like dude, I want you over here three months earlier. I want us to be looking at you. I want to... You can live in my house. Will eat meals together. I'll drive you to the gym. I'll train you every day. Whatever it is, you know? That's what makes me think there are obstacles so that we may not be privy to. They only let him come over for one week after the year kind of think. There's something like that. There may, may won't be. I mean, at that point. Again, I'm guessing. I don't know. You'd be a bigger celebrity if you win versus take second and that would increase the likelihood that you, you know, if you were over here longer. I mean, I hate to sound like a, you know, Dick when I say it, but I'm pretty sure this is the card to them or the top. I mean, you know, I'm more than a top. So, kind of like when you look at it, you're like, you need more legs to a pro. Yeah. Oh yeah. It's like, oh, I didn't think of that. Yeah. Yeah. Over there. So you know what I mean? I guess I would be trying to get the minute the Olympia 2024 is over. I would get on it that next day so that I got my visa six months in advance. I know my flight date. I'm going to be in the States a month out. Yeah. I mean, if I'm hiring, I've renowned my Iranian citizenship for the time being that he's going to be in Olympia, champion, or Olympia competitor. And then just go back over there or maybe before the 2024 elections, he should have just gone to Mexico and crossed the freakin border. And because I'm sure I ran would be totally cool with him or not seeing his citizenship. Yeah. Think if they saw the bigger picture of it. I come into the United States. I know what you're saying, but I think if they saw the bigger picture of like, oh, you're going to come back. You love obviously loves Iran and that's great. You know, he should. But like why play this headache game every year? Because what if he doesn't get it? So he just spent another 18, 20 week prep. There was something that he didn't. Wasn't there? But yeah, there wasn't a year they didn't get it. So like 2019 or something or yeah. I don't remember. I mean, I mean, it's incumbent on the I at BB to be doing everything they possibly can to get them over here to work with the State Department and everything. You know, you would think that the manions would have some ends with some of the people in the high state level, you know, powerful individuals. I mean, people in big business, like, you know, they work with people. Hey, real quick. Check this out. I know those people. Yeah. Why are they? Okay. Starting left to right. We got Joe Richie. Now, Joe is a veteran and he's a guy. He had a shoulder blown off in the service and he's still been able to bodybuild. If you can tell him he's a very shoulder is right. Oh, yeah. Yeah. I see it. Oh, yeah. And so, Joe, it's a class. Thank you for your service. Yeah. Thank you for your service, Joe. So Joe did something funny this year. This guy's always on top of it. But he had a son that graduated high school and was going to college and they were moving to be close to his college. And somewhere in all that process, he, he forgot that his show was four weeks earlier than it was. Also, we had to crash die at him to get him into into pretty good condition. He, he got into decent condition. This is not his normal condition. Normally, Joe is bone dry, like the most shredded guy in the show. But it was enough for class win. Yeah. And then next to her is Sierra Weekly. I coach her and both her husband. She wanted the rising Phoenix amateur wellness overall. Nice. Yeah. She did great. And this woman did she had a tip-fit fracture, not even 11 months ago, 10 months ago. And had a hard time walking and eventually, you know, wanted to prep. She's qualified for national. So we were just doing this show and then she's going to be doing national in 11 weeks. And then next to hers, Merissa Wu, who's on her fourth show with the season, she plays fifth in Probecini at the rising Phoenix slash Arizona Pro. She's got a great shape. And our feedback right now is just don't change anything about the physique. Just change the posing just a little bit. And that's the thing about the kidney man. It's so nuanced. And trying to peek these girls the exact right way. They want him, how to pose them exactly the way the judges want him. It's, it's honestly the hardest division to prepare for not in the exes and owes of drawing as fullness. But more so conditioning level and imposing. I would agree with that man. It's, it's a different animal. And it, uh, it's, I like it personally. A lot, I, I, it's funny man because I can sit there like when we were at the Arnold, everybody was like losing their attention. I was like, oh my god. Because you, there's some freaking stiff competition in that class. Oh, it's crazy. And anyone know what to say? Or wants to think that it's a not a muscular division at this point. Oh, no. They, they, they haven't been a pro bikini. Yeah. And they, they have no idea what they're, what they're talking about. And then lastly, Yulibeth Avila, She's from Kentucky, She won the Kentucky State Overall Wellness Interfer Show. So nice work, man. Thank you. It was good weekend. Nice work. I had, uh, you see Suma. We, we've talked about him. We'll say this is the, uh, this is the look, the DHB, we'll call it the DHB look. I mean, granted it was just like just peeled condition. Because you guys remember we're having that conversation like, can you get, you know, peeled without trend? That's what you don't want to tell the winners. Well, I want to tell the listeners too that the, what you're seeing on your screen doesn't capture the actual crazy condition quality that on the picture that Scott sent us when he sent us this picture. Like, it doesn't show. It doesn't show the, it doesn't show the 100%. Like, but, but even then it's still more condition than most people will ever go to the DH. So crazy, trust, just relations. Yeah. He looked on his face, uh, adds to it. Yeah. Yeah. Well, it's just almost like a, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This isn't it. I heard this. Yeah. He was very happy too. So he looked incredible. It was a huge, we compared to from two years ago and he's made a lot of improvements in the same show two years ago. It really nice improvements. And so we're going to try to continue to improve and bring it back next year to do it again. He's like 100%. The reason that he looks like that, you know, is because he never misses anything. It's not hard for him because he just wants to do it. You know what I mean? I want to point out to if you look at his arm. Okay. That is what Dick skin is people. Yeah. I see a lot of people tagging things on stories and like true, in Dick's skin condition. And I'm like, you got a tiny baby veins sticking out. That's cute. And this guy right here, like that is a roadmap. And those things are submerging from like they want to jump from his skin. Yeah. Yeah. He, he said I posted my state shots on Monday on Instagram and he also added, fucking late at posted the before and the after tonight. So yeah, guys, go over and follow UC summa over on Instagram to check him out. And hey, one more thing. We had that physique critique. See if I can pull that up. It's going to take me just a minute. So skip you should probably say something, you know, like, I would. But my eyes driving me nuts. You know, if I say in our team, tell us about your eye. It was a lie. I have a style in my. Just still isn't, isn't fixed yet. What was that song? It, it comes down and then I go back to the gym and it comes right back. It's almost like the pressure. Um, what a blood pressure. But you know, what, what's that? What ever listeners said it was pink eye. Is it if your eyes sticking together, skip in the comments. They said you have pink eyes. Yeah. Now I've had pink eye before, but this is definitely a style. I mean, it took up a third of my eye three weeks ago. Yeah. It was like, like, I was like, what, what is going on? Like, what the hell? But then it would, it's going down. And then it was almost gone. It went back and trained legs yesterday after three or four days off. And it wants to come back again. I don't know, God. But that's that, you know, you wake up in the morning and you open your eye. And it's like, it's not. It was like, I was like, entertain us. You know, tell it. You were like, well, I'm rubbing my eye. I was like, well, tell us about your eye. I was trying to get fill. And you actually, you did it. But you actually managed to fill two for us. You're going in. All right. I got these pictures. So this is one of our listeners' wives. And I'm going to grab the information about her once I get the pictures up. So I'll start here and I'll just go to run through them real quick. So there's a side shot. And I think she has some better shots here. And I think she had won her class in wellness. Let me see if I can pull the email up. See, yeah, here it is. So Brian says as we had discussed, here are the attached pictures or touches first show in Alberta where she won her class. Now overall, as they only had the one class small show. And then the latest show, the following weekend in Saskatchewan, where she took the overall in wellness. She's 37 and has been working with her coach for just under seven months. Hoping the, for you guys to do a physique critique as she moves forward in her journey, possible goal would be competing at nationals in the fall of 2026 in Toronto as she is now qualified. Thank you. So the pictures in the blue are the second show. Do they're all the same show? No, they're the one, I think that the pictures in the blue backdrop. I got you. Yeah, are the, are the, the second show that she did. Got so I see if I can. There's yeah. So this is the later picture where she, but I mean, they're all the same season, right? Yeah, go to that picture again. Yep. So the biggest thing is to get out to me, one is conditioning. To go to national, we've got to be a few layers tighter. Like you want to see a little bit more on the tie-ins in the hamstring and adductors just a little bit from that back shot. Next thing I would do is I would get hair extensions and I would cover up the back. That's a big thing. And you can actually use it to enhance your taper. Okay, and make your glutes look bigger because that leads to my next thing is she needs a good deal more upper outer glutes in wellness. Okay. I just more, more glute development overall. So I would really be hammering. I mean, she's probably working the coach and she's probably trainer like in glutes three, three days a week at least. But the glutes definitely need to come up a good deal more. Let's go with a front shot. Yeah, I mean, I would just say more conditioning would definitely help. See, I like you don't want to see like striations in the quads, but you do want to see lines of the sweep in the wellness division. Yeah. And like some slight, I'm not going to say cuts, but slight lines through the legs. So just again, conditioning. Maybe they just overcarved her a little bit too. But the pose looks pretty good. I think overall, let's see that side shot. She got a side shot. Is there a different side shot? There is this one. Yeah. Oh, there we go. There we go. There's a better one. Still, I wish the angle. You know, it's good. Yeah. Yeah. I'll tell you where I see the conditioning. And this is a difficult thing to do because I don't like these critiques as much as we're critiquing someone's wife. So she didn't ask for it. Yeah, there's that. You know what I mean? So it's a difficult, it's a difficult position. But I would say this, go back a couple pictures to where the right leg is facing the camera right there. I don't want her to hear this. So her husband is asking, and I say this, with women, I'm going to notice it was the first thing it stood out to me is the knee, the bottom of the quad, the top of the calf, the knee, to me, clearly implies my eyes are watering horribly from me putting my finger and rubbing my eye. So I apologize. I'm not crying based on what I'm going to say. But it implies that she has to be significantly leaner. There is, do you see what I'm saying? And Andrew and Scott, do you get what I'm saying? No, I'm saying. No, I'm saying. There's no other way to say it. The knee is just too big. And that is the giveaway and that pose that says she has to be leaner to me. I agree with you about lines in the quads, but that comes with that knee getting that knee area being significantly leaner. That's what stood out really more than anything I agree with you, Andrew. Wellness is not my, what's the answer to my will house? But I don't do the amount of wellness prep that you do, Andrew. And Scott, I'm not sure if you do not, but I'm just being more bikinis in all of the way. I don't do a lot of them. Okay. Fair enough. So I mean, I agree with your assessment and Andrew, but this is what I noticed right away. And look, I could put up 10 pictures and not be happy with 10 of them that I put up based on an angle. We can always out angle and get better pictures. I can see the potential there that when she is leaner, the other part is is she's natural. I assume based on the fact that the name of the show is the classic natural is open. So you're working with limited options. So at least out of the gates. This is the first year she's competed. Is that? It's been like seven months. I think so. Yeah. It's a good, it's a good, it's a damn good start. Yeah, first thing. Oh yeah. If she made no other changes, other just conditioning got the conditioning down. She would, she would jump up considerably. Oh, that would be huge. That would be huge. So let's say this. So we covered conditioning and Andrew, you said glutes would, if she were to say, what's realistic within between now and 2026 fall? I'm going to be honest, I wouldn't do 2026 national show. Okay. And then that's not to be a downer. It just takes the time that it takes to build a development. Because I mean Canada only has a few pro qualifiers and they're ultra competitive. Right. Yeah. And I just know what, and let's say she's doing the 35 plus class. I know what the 35 plus class leads. Look at it. Look like in the master's classes. And the development is on another level. You know what I'm saying? So it's not to be a downer, but it's like I would make the goal of being an international level show by the time you're it's the same thing I would tell at 19 year old kid who says I want to do nationals, look, well, we need to build some muscle first. We need to build a physique that's ready to go to national. So maybe by the time you're 23 24, we'll take a stab at it, but it takes that discipline in the time to build that muscle. And especially naturally. So I was out of curious to share like a year ago, just for a comparison. Yeah. Because if she hasn't been at it that long, yeah, but it's like no one naturals and no one how fast you can build muscle. You know, okay, let's look at it this way. She's got a she's going to have a health phase right now, you know, and not talking PD health phase. I'm talking about a hormone recovery phase. Because even if you're natural, you need to spend some time with that if you're female. And then she's got to have an offseason. And that offseason doesn't seem like it's going to be that long. See, and as we're already, basically an october. So yeah, no one went the Toronto show is. That's in, um, is it June? That's a really, she said fall. But maybe it's a fall. But yeah, I thought it was like middle of summer. Yeah, it's hard to hit. Yeah. Yeah. So, you know what, maybe it's a natural. I don't know. Maybe is there a natural, quite possibly. Yeah, it's a very similar. It's a same, though. I might advice myself because there's some freaks and there's also this of the South American variety that just genetically are built exactly for wellness. And I guess I'm at the point where I try to save people time and money from having expensive vacations that, you know, I'm going to do a national show. It's like, oh, hold on. Like, let's make sure you're prepared to do the national show. You look the part. And it actually no one looking at it. I would not spend time on her upper body. I would pull back on the arm training completely. I want to see the same. Yes, you don't try to. I'm a shot that's good. Oh, yeah. I mean, it's a great physical development than the upper body. But I would, I would be doing zero upper body training. All right. Yeah, I was just looking. I couldn't see anything about it like a natural. Let me see. I mean, a natural federation. No, it'd be, it'd be NPC, but it'd be the CPA. Yeah. Let me see. Or is it the, um, not the Ben Weeder? The 2025 CPA can fit pro natural, natural championships is August 16th of this year. So assuming it's okay. Show. Maybe that's what she's looking at. Yeah, still just don't think there's enough time. Well, I'll say this. I think you make the a very strong argument. And I think that ultimately to build the physique that she's ultimately going to want that is going to be the most competitive possible. I think you're probably right. So for now, whether it was for that show or not, what would be you, so you're saying don't train upper body, bring up the glutes, and bring better condition. Those would be your, I guess, three take home points. I, yeah, I think that's fantastic. Yeah. All right. Great job, though. It's not good. Yeah. It's reasonable. I mean, looks arguably better than probably any of us at our first shows in comparison, right? Yeah. So all right. Need to admit it. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Leave us questions for the next show. Go over to bodybarry.com. Reach out to Andrew. So you can tell you that you should compete next year. Go to chiefskip.com, reach out to skip. Hit me on the knallie diesage.mell.com. And of course, thank you to turnutrishin.com. Code, think supplement source.ca for Canadians. And thank you to everybody from Patreon. We got through some Patreon questions today. We'll cover some more next time in front of the episode of What's What and Gear. We will see you soon. Thank you to everybody who's hanging with us. Thank you for liking, sharing, subscribing, all that stuff. We've got lots more to come. Okay. So every now and then do you just think I just want to rub a cup of coffee. Yeah. I do too. Southern blend, man. Southern blend. Like I'll get one then I'm like they're like 10 or 12 bucks. I know. So this stuff is like four bucks a 10 when you buy 10 of it a time. Really? Yeah. What was your height? Like how much did you chew at your height? What did you chew at your height? Yeah. I mean, I mean, 10 a day. I'll tell you what I think. Sometimes if I was on the road or I was doing sports game, like, 10 a half. I say, if I got to drive along distance, that's one thing. And when I was prepping, I would go through two cans of codiac. But I mean, that was arguably the worst one ever made anyway. I agree. I like school primarily. And then if I if I was out, my buddy had grizzly, I guess I would throw it in. And then I regretted and then I threw down like, it's that. What the fuck? I might just get up and go to the store and pick up a new 10. You know, when Copenhagen came out along kind of a whole lot. Yeah. Light shone down, sunlight shone down on me. Like I was in a spotlight. It was the best thing ever. Yeah. I love the Copenhagen Southern blend. That was like my treat one, I guess. You know what I mean? Because copes like a dollar more than school back then. So and I was poor when I when I really started. But I've mainly do school in member of Costco. You could buy sleeves for like $3.10. When I first started, I paid one, I think it was 141, a can of Cody Acre Copa. So that's that'll tell you how long it was. But it was on military depot. No. Oh, let me it was like, oh God 10 12 bucks. I it's I believe it ridiculous. I can't even I see it every now and then I just go, I got a shot or I'm I and understand. I mean, I was you know, we were raising young kids. I didn't have the money for that. Look at my, but I had to have it. I just I had to have it. Did you do what I know I did and what most people do over the time? Man, no brother to get so big. Like there's almost like you had a like you had a power to have red man or something. But it was actually on that note. I don't know if you ever did this, but I would leave a little bit of a fucking of a school or something in there and then I would throw Levi Garrett or red man in. Oh, no, I guess you have a problem. It would that be considered a problem. Do you think it is? I think it's ranks up there with your your mouth is raw down here. Please start putting them up here. Yeah. And they burn like fire for like three minutes and you're like, yeah, I'm just waiting for it to get to pass and then once the pass is you're like, oh yeah, back then I would sleep with it and I would do I would I would I would go anything but like training I would keep on it actually. Why are you trained? Yeah, like I remember I remember one prep I was going to the UVM gym every day and people were amazed that I'd had two jugs one to drink water out of the one to spit into. Yeah. And I'm like, how do you do that? I'm like, as long as it's not like day, you know, because for class white track exactly. I love I love that song too. It brings back fine memories. Anyway.

Question. Yeah. Would you have a... Opel limit of milligrams where you'd be right now, where definitely in cycle territory and when no longer. Ooh. That's a good question. So where does TIRT plus end? And where does it go? Oh, no, it's a cycle cycle. What's up, guys? I guess with Dave Crossland, I've Scott McNeely and all of our programming is brought to you by you. The people of Patreon, thank you guys very much for your support. In fact, I think we have a couple of Patreon questions today. We are brought to you by evebloganalysis.com. If you're in the UK and you're on cycle, then you definitely should get your lab work done by Dave. I mean, regardless, where do you live if you're on cycle? You should get your labs done. But you can do that with evebloganalysis.com if you're in the UK. We're also brought to you by trunutrition.com. Use our code. Think to get 10% off everything they've got. You can get intro workout, you can get pre workout, you can get carbohydrates, you can get protein. Like literally, they have all your good basic body building supplements. Use our code think and supplement source.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week last, but not least, strong sports nutrition. Now available in the US too. I'm taking thrombo max right now. In fact, I got to take my thrombo max. I didn't take it yet today. Good for guys that have thick blood like me. And they've got a really a lot of great line of health stacks, especially if you're in psych and check them out. Dave, what's going on? Man, we got a bunch of fun stuff lined up today. I'm no hea. Woo! What do you mean? I'm a ghost. Woo! Guys, so here's our topic first of all. Tell you what the topic is and then I got Dave wants me to tell this story to you. So our topic for the day and Dave's going to love this one. If you guys know the show, the best TRT plus cycle. It was it was asked in the feed. Dave loves TRT plus. Dave's a big fan of TRT plus. Oh, wait, from here, you say that. Dave's a big fan of TRT plus. He's always been advocating that you use a little bit more than what you need to give my he's just kidding guys. That's not my diet. Just you just eat a little bit more than what you need. Okay, so we will get to that and we're going to get to all your listener questions, but there was a moment that I thought Dave wasn't with us anymore. Dave before yesterday. So I was alive. I thought Dave was on a live and listen, man. He helps. Okay, no, I didn't cry. But I probably would have if you wouldn't pretend to be on his day. Here's the deal. So I talked to a client and I was sending him a voice memo and I mentioned something about Dave Calick who had passed away. And he responded a little bit later and he said, Did you say that Dave crosslin passed away? And I didn't read it right when I saw his message. I thought it said, did you see the Dave crosslin passed away? And like for one minute, I thought you were gone, dude. But listen, it wouldn't have been the first time. Like, I mean, you were pretty, they in close. You had a heart attack. You busted your leg up pretty bad that one time. That wasn't good with your health conditions. Dude, during the shutdown when everybody was catching that virus and it was really bad. Dave got pneumonia and he was in the hospital. And then he got that bug on top of the pneumonia. There's been a few months of the virus. So I got pneumonia and then I got bilateral blood clot. Yeah. And then you got that bug. Jesus. So yeah. But you're the truth man. I can talk about your faith. Because I do worry that one day I will get that milk. You will. And I don't want to get that message. You know what I'm saying? And I just want you to take care of yourself. I will take you off my inform list and put you on my do not inform list. I'll say. Because you're getting a good employee. You are definitely getting them out with me. Let's all be around the bush here. Well, we'll see. We'll see. I'm a bit like a cockroach man. You know, I'm in quite out to kill. All right. Anyways, guys, here's our topic. And like I said, you could leave us questions too in the next show. T-R-T plus. Somebody had said, hey, I was hearing from somebody else. One of another influencer that this is the best cycle. You know, feeling the blank that it was this much test with a little bit of DACA, you know, and that if you run that as T-R-T plus, especially for an aging guy, that's going to be fantastic. So I wanted to like legit. You know, I mean, we know day first of all, T-R-T plus is not T-R-T right. And it's not something you're going to run year round. Yes, technically, I know your point that it is a mild cycle. But let's say for a few months on a few months off, somebody wanted to just get that little additional boost. That's our topic for the day. Potsing my first lip ingredients to one side. Is it beer? No, it's not. It's not. It's an energy drink. It's always out. Yes, and I do drink. Yeah, because you're a steam-jump guy. It's a Celsius. It's like a... It's like a sparkling water with a little caffeine in it. These are good. I prefer my caffeine on messed with person. I like my caffeine brown and hot. Like, like, red. I'm not doing well with the turps. I've been good, okay? You're really good. I've used the right words. You've got to do me to get us turned off. Yeah. I've got my own IG channel turned off. Oh, that's not good. You have to tell me about that later. Okay, so... Drugs have effects, okay? This isn't going where you think it is, but... As someone who wanted to want to run T-R-T with extra... And this is often like you said it's older gentlemen that are wanting a bit extra for various reasons. Your partner to that T-R-T would be the drug that fulfills what you want out of the extras. So for argument that's sake, I'm 55 year old. I've got a few niggles a bit of joint pain. I want to do it T-R-T plus. Then yeah, I'm going to look at something like Deca. Because that even 50 milligrams of something, if I believe that the grams of Eca Deca is definitely going to have a positive impact on my joint health. Yeah. You know, or it may be your... One-ins... your T-R-T, but you do have a few issues with the estrogen on your T-R-T. So then you might look at T-R-T plus Pima, T-R-T plus Mass. As your secondary little boost, because you're wanting some estrogen control from it. So when it comes to T-R-T plus, I don't think there's a particular right combination. I think it's more the combination of fits what you're trying to get out of what you want to do. Yeah, or what you're lacking, like if you mention, like if you're older, you're joint-sarcetic, great, you know, maybe a little bit of Deca's going to be beneficial for you. Yeah, you know, or if you want to know a bit more boost on the LeBito, maybe a DHT, you basically is going to be a little bit better for you. But the point where it is, I don't think there's a set partnership with RUNT-R-T plus and extra compound. Because I think it's very unique to what the individuals are trying to achieve and what they need out of that combination. All I will say, I'm not going to go off in a preach, but all I will say is obviously if you are running elevated levels, even, mindly, then you just need to be a little bit more on point with checking your health markers, particularly cardiovascular. And that isn't something you're going to check for the blood, that's something where you need to annually get something like an echo. Because there is going to be an increase in stresses and downstream negatives, if you're putting more antibiotics in at the top end. How much is very person and lifestyle dependent, you know, if you believe like a monk and everything else is on point, probably not so much. But if you've also got a little bit of a slacker diet or a little bit of a slacker lifestyle, then the combination of negatives could result in more risks. So that's all I will say on that rather than going off on some tangent about how much I don't like. Is that something that always you have at least you with more than the actual thing. I understand that. Yeah, if somebody owned it, if somebody just comes out and they're like, hey, I want to take more than TRT, but I don't want to do a serious big cycle, you know, full on bodybuilder cycle. What would you suggest it? It's a completely that and that's what we're talking about here today. Yeah, I think too we can look at things outside of just the antibiotics, right? Definitely we could look growth is an obvious one potentially maybe, you know, a lot of those eventually, if you found that you want to see is running a bit high. And that's particularly relevant with certain genetic profiles and so you'll find that people of Asian descent generally naturally have slightly higher. HB1C is slightly more insulin resistant particularly as the age diabetes in the Asian population is quite a problem. So there could be issues around there where you start to have secondary drugs into to help manage things like that. Yeah, there's different thyroid. So there's a host of self-medication types cells as well from a performance point of view. And all roles are going to be limited in any way, so I'd probably steer away from a TRT with an oral loss and stick to some form of injectable. Yeah, I feel like if you're adding an oral in like you pretty much just started a cycle with low dose tests. Yeah, you know what I mean? And then, you know, you can look at some of the fact that the GH releases and stuff like that definitely are viable if you didn't want to go down the actual GH group. Or even a combo where you did a rotation between the two is something that a lot of people adopted for a period time as well, which seemed to work quite well. If A1C's high, I would I would go into the GLP meds and get a spread of you know that that'd be my background little little red in the background just to help that out. But I'm not against insulin. I think you can get a lot of like low key benefits, auto say three units of insulin in a pre-worked area. Say three units of insulin in a pre-workout setup along with like if you're doing an intro workout kind of just support get a little bit more out of that nutrition than you would have otherwise, especially if you're in the growth hormone situation too. I think that all that works really nice together and then on top it. So let's say we have that we're layering in three units of excuse me insulin pre-workout. We've got maybe two to three units of insulin running seven days a week and maybe a little bit of red as well. We're working on a little bit of fat loss. And then you've got your TRT in with maybe an equal amount of master on to help to get that dryer harder look. Maybe free up some more test while you're at it and kind of get more of a more that like, oh, in the gym. You know what I mean? I feel like I wouldn't see that as being like a bad setup for somebody who was say like hey, I'm going to try to get leaner the summer. I'm not really into doing a full blow in cycle, but I'd like to kind of put a package together that would allow me to, you know, get the most out of the work I'm putting in, you know. Question. Yeah. Would you have a opellimit of milligrams where you'd be right now where definitely in cycle territory and when no longer. That's a good question. So where does TRT plus end? I'm worried. I don't know. I would say you've already made the definition that you would regard oral addition has been more into a cycle situation. Probably more because of its limited period of use. Not only that, but like, I mean, I just feel like are you going to get much out of like taking a micro dose of anodrol like five milligrams. You know what I mean? Like five milligrams anodrol doesn't a day doesn't seem like a big ope to me. I don't think it would be. Yeah. So where does it, where does one stop and one stop? Okay. Let's say that true TRT, let's say true TRT for guy is let's call it 150, 150 test. And that's all they need. At that level, they're going to be like mid to higher range, but they're not at the point where they're getting so much estrogen that they're having any estrogen issues. Obviously on top of that, we're going to let at this point just look at anobalix. How about if you went to double that? Beyond double that. If you go beyond 300 total milligrams, I would call that a legit cycle. Yeah. I think that's, I would say that's right. Okay. Yeah, I would say that's right. I think so 300 is a cycle. It's probably just so borderline. Get it be difficult to be effective unless you are so on point. Yeah. I mean, you'll get something though, right? Yeah. If you're taking 150 test and you even took like, I guess it depends on the compound. If you took a hundred mast on top of that, or if you just took 250 test, I mean, that and itself, like I think you feel something. But it depends on the compound because let's say it was a hundred and fifty trend. Like that's a big jump. You know what I mean? Also, what, what's your thoughts and unduration of T.R.T. Of course, do you accept the year round, which most people run with it, or do you think there needs to be pairs of break? I'd want to get levels back. Let me, let me first say this. So Dave, and I've told you before. There was a period of time that I just decided to screw it. I'm not taking my test down below 300 year round. And it was in that phase that I started experiencing exceptionally high hematocrate. I'm not talking a couple points high. I'm talking like closing in on 60. And I started doing therapeutic philibody through my doctor. And in order to get that down, I had to go in for philibody me once a week. For a month. And then once every third week regularly. That's an 18, 20 gauge needle that they're jabbing in your arm every week. That's a bloody coast. Yeah, there's a cost. Well, with my insurance, I was paying like $500 every six months. So I mean, it was a cost, but there's also like, I mean, dude, I just don't think it's healthy to make that. That it's not maintainable. It's not sustainable. You know, it's not healthy. I don't think to be getting yourself jabbed up that much. So that would be, I would say a limiting factor. I would say that as you are monitoring your bloods, I would want to take at least, let's say, I'll say if we're going extreme, I would say no more than eight months on per year of TRT+. That would be like high in. Let's break it up into a couple of chunks. Take, you know, eight weeks off, eight weeks off. And then choose the win to when you cover up to be off. Yeah, something like that. Yeah. I don't know. You guys tell us, what do you think is the best TRT plus cycle? It was Ron Harris, by the way. Ron Harris said that he's on 250 test 100 decker. Can't remember the HGH, but what do you think of the test decker levels just to give myself who's never used PEDs to go up a level? So this guy who was asking about what's the best TRT plus he's never done anything. Yeah, I think that's a bit strong to be honest. I would like to see the test lower. You had 350 there, which from someone who's used nothing, I think he would get more out of starting at lower and exploring that for a good six months before he goes up to that level. And also there's the experience element of this in knowing what fields right and what fields wrong. If you haven't run a legit sort of correct TRT, those in keeping your levels in range, you don't have a baseline of how you should feel on TRT. So then you don't know when you do push it, what's abnormal and what's not abnormal, because it's all normal, because that's all you've ever experienced. So I think it's important to have some foundation in a genuine correct TRT. Be it three or six months, but I would have said ideally six months, so at least you have an understanding of how your body reacts at a regular dose in it. Before you start looking at going to a TRT plus scenario. Yeah, I'd go with that. He kind of a follow up here and I'll just kind of dive into the little listener questions and by the way guys, if you have questions that you want to ask on the show, then comment below. Also, you can tell us about how you used to hate Dave, but not you like him. Do you remember that from last week? That was a funny comment. The guy was like, we really like Dave. I used to hate the guy. But I like him now. You never can control what people think Dave, never can, you know. You can just try and be true to yourself, sir. Yes. I'm not sure you can be. If you try and live your life in some form of honesty, then you won't go far wrong. I don't think because at least the people that are around you around you, because they like you. You know what you propose or pretend to be. There you go. That's what you get for Dave's either vice this week as well. We'll see about that. We'll see. We might squeeze one more out of him later. Guys, all right. What's this? It says, Okay, kind of a follow up. Would there be any reason to cruise slash T or T if your bloods are in range? I guess not really. He's talking about doing us full blown cycle. If you're honest, cycle, and the markers are in range, would you just keep running it? Or are there reasons to come off that would be beneficial outside of this? Yes, several factors. But what's an out of full story? They are useful. They do show us indications. What they are not very good at showing us is how healthy your heart is. What they will show you is risk factors that would contribute to heart problems, but they actually give real indication of where your heart is. That's going to need more of a physical examination in the form, ECG, ultrasound, those sort of things. So that's one. It's not a completely comprehensive check. Two is there are stress factors from using antibiotics. And you'll feel these. You will feel slightly down slightly under the weather. So that is an over indicator. And if you want, cycle, the problem is the longer you're on a dose, the more you will normalize it. Yeah. So there is benefits of limiting exposure, both psychological, but also physical response. The healthier you are, the better you will grow. When you introduce drugs, that health and fitness starts to decline. So it's a case of getting nice and healthy, introduce drugs and you are on a sweet spot. For quite a while, where you are fit and healthy, and that drugs work really well. But eventually the stress from those drugs will start to be calculated into health and wellness. And then you will start to see where you are going to be. You will start to see megalopyr. And a general malaise will start to creep in. If that happens, off, for a rational, get feed and fit and healthy. If you back your cycles to close to each other, you will actually compromise progress. So yeah. So it's difficult sometimes to do mentally. Having a slightly less-dended period off between cycles, working on improvement fitness and health, will pay dividend when it comes to the next cycle and progress. And with all this rinse and we've talked about as low as it's at. It's very rare you will get bulk into bulk that stay progressive. You tend to bulk consolidation bulk. So if you can have a longer time where you are working on health and fitness, you'll find that your next cycle will be more responsive than if you haven't done that. Yeah. And I'm seeing that right now. I've got some guys that competed last year. And we are taking this year off to grow, planning to go into 2026 early season. And one guy in particular Jordan, incredible progress. He got seventh at his first national show. He did USA's in classic. And seventh place was, and they actually had him in the first call out for that too. So they're considering I think you've been pushing them further. But first national show, I think second or third show all together, did fantastic. We pushed him up from like 255. I think our 250 last year. And now we've gotten him up to like 255 here in this off season. But with much better condition, we took a break. Now we're going to go, we're going back on. But I don't expect him to do that again. We're not going to get to 300. You know what I mean in the second cycle. Yeah. No. It's like I'll take 262 to 65. Something like that at most. Yeah. So actually. I'm a green. I'm a green with you 100% actually Jordan did make a critical error man. And this is something maybe we should tell the audience. He got into a friendly arm wrestling match with a friend to his. And he strained his bicep. And as a result, it kind of, it kind of afd us because he took, he had to take a month off of training basically. And we were looking to push up to that 260 to 65. And this would have been the exact time he would be there. Funny you mentioned that I made a similar mistake. Yeah. Recently or. No. Back in the day. Uh, okay. Remember his name. Big lot. You should train the same gym as me. We're going to a conversation about arm wrestling. I was much bigger and much stronger than then. So I was like, yeah, I'll give you an arm wrestling. I know. Need to put my arm through the counter. Uh, turns out it was a heavyweight pro. It's that was me arriving at the Calcate. He put your arm through the counter. Really didn't didn't quite, but nearly went down that fast. That just whack. Come. Did you hurt yourself? Yes. Last night, nobody stepped in. No man. That's how Ian Valier before he was even pro. He had some incredible arms on him. Just like thick massive and uh, he ended up with like a spiral fracture through his arm as a result of arm wrestling somebody when he was younger. Well, it was it is. We are idiots. Um, I deeply regret that for several weeks after was. Dude, dude, Adam young, uh, pro now retired. He was just over in, um, Japan to support Dorian Haywood who ended up freaking winning the master's Olympics. All the best. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So while he was there, he was at some place where there were these sumo guys. And the sumo guys said, hey, we want to, we want our wrestle, the big macho American bodybuilder, you know, muscle guy. So he got to a friendly match with them and uh, he was just a little bit different. Right. He lasted literally like 10 seconds before he ruptured both quad tendons. This is poor dude is F. Hard man. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yes. By the way, guys, if anybody wants to help support Adam because that's a, uh, that's a painful one. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's not even him show, but it is, it's, he was, they requested it. And I don't think there's many of us that would have turned it down because I had a lot of the experience of wrestling with a real sumo wrestling. Right. It would be fun, man. You're lost, but I would have loved the experience to try to do it. But point being guys like really watch yourself. So if you're, if you're really pushing in bodybuilding, you need to really look at yourself as an athlete. Don't do anything. And also too, that's a reason I think that it's important to maintain athleticism through our bodybuilding. You know, don't be immobile and, and then bound, don't be muscle bound, you know, as, as a term is called. Random question from gadgets in the live stream. He says, um, you were going to run a high dose GH experiment, say 15 units for a month. Would you do it during a blast phase or a cut phase in why? Let's assume one gram of sauce per week and a sensible surplus or deficit depending on what the goal was. I would do it in a, in a, in a mass building phase. Yeah. I don't, I don't think there's much benefit to high dose in a cut. Um, whereas, well, to be honest, I don't think there's much benefit to high dose anywhere. But if I was going to do the experiments, I wanted to see how I affected. I would go in the, what you're going to get out of it is, is a high level of intermuscular water. So off the back of that, you should see some sort of strength gains, and be able to push quite hard and heavy in the gym. You must make use of that in a, in a bulky. And I would say, improve recovery. Well, you're not getting care. If you went from, say, four, I, you every day in a fat loss core, I note that 50, you're not getting care three times the fat loss effect by tripling the GH dose in a call. Absolutely. So, you know, why do you, if you can handle it, and still look good with it, like, you know, because I, I have some guys that run growth and they get to a certain dose and everything just spills over. Yeah, water and smooths them out. But I have seen it work for guys. They can run higher doses while they're dieting. And if you can get, like, a piece of competitor, and you can get that added fullness on stage, it really can bring a different look. Yeah, it's got it. If you can dry it out. But I think it's an experiment. I would, I would go, the, the bulky face first, and then from that, you can see how you react to it. No, if it's viable in the opposite. I would personally rather run, I think that longer term with growth is more beneficial than a shorter term. Yeah, so I'd rather take seven and a half units and run that for eight weeks versus 15 for four, you know, that'd be my take at least. What's he doing with growth otherwise, I wonder. All right. We got a bunch more. Jump back in here. How about this one, Dave? Desma Rellen had research for visceral fat destroying. Does this mean that it would be a great addition for body building? What is your guys opinion on it? I told him this day, if I said, I've always thought to go with actual GH, and I've never heard of any high level guys that swear by it, but I'm open to hear feedback from any highly experienced people who have done extensive cutting on growth hormone and extensive cutting on Tess Morellen. And then from there, I, I would love to hear feedback from somebody who is highly experienced with both at a higher level. Because I can't just, you know what I mean? I can't just take somebody's word off read it. Who's like, oh yeah, bro, I used it and I got in great shape. I think compared that to growth. Yeah, I mean, I think that's the problem in it. There are people that have used it and got in the great shape. Doesn't necessarily mean it's a drug that got him in great shape. I also think a lot depends on availability of what is available to you, be it through financial restrictions or just availability of drugs. So, you know, if, if you've got a choice of that or nothing, yeah, that's going to be more effective. If you've got a choice of that or G.A., no, I've got a G.A. So, it's not useless, but comparatively, it isn't getting at the same. Yeah. There's a meaning, well, help doesn't mean you can't get something out of it, you can't, but don't expect miracles. And you see this the same with like peptides, I mean, but I get messages about what peptides can take to go muscle mass. Yeah. Yeah. The list is very sure, and not very effective. But as long as you just show expectations to that, then crack on. Crack on, guys. From Brad, he says, is there, okay, so last week we did the, like, mixing of orals topic orals, lower dose of multiple orals stack. He says, is there really much point in using orals if you're an average Jim bro? Injectables are generally more healthy, using my hand in air quotes, and you do, nearly anything that orals can do anyway, am I wrong? Yeah, you ask like, you're wrong. But he says, right, too. Yeah, he's out of it. Yes. There is a valid point. There are certain things that orals can be very useful from. I mean, apart from getting the injectable version of that oral, which is a different conversation, you know, I mean, there isn't an injectable that's going to be comparable to say 50 milligrams of oxypri worker. There isn't really an injectable that's probably going to stack against windstroll four days, five days out from a show. But hey, listen, he's not doing a show. No, you're saying, so that average Jim bro, you know, I'm with him, man. I'm like average Jim bro, like get on your test and test plus additional antibody compounder, whatever you're trying to do, you know, test in DHT or test in EQ and like, do what you're going to do, man. You know, busted out with a diet, trained hard and like realistically, I think you can do all that without an oral, you know, isn't quote unquote average Jim bro. Oh, I don't think then that's necessary in a slice. I definitely think you could go your whole cyclic life without having touching one. Yeah. But I don't think they're waste either. I think they just offer an alternative route. So it's really down to the individual at the end of the day, but I wouldn't say that a waste. Yeah, I think he's saying that a waste as much as like, is it worth the added stress that an oral is going to cause when you can already do those same, most of the same thing without him as an average Jim bro that's probably, you know, just looking to grow as much muscle as they can, get lean in the summer, whatever, you know. I'm going to ponder on. How about this one Dave? Think big bodybuilding. Is a hey, we're going into a ballking season. Oh, we answered a question for him last week too. So you're lucky you're getting tune a row. As we approach, what are some good stacks? Also, how should we approach it? Eat everything we can, dirty ball or clean ball? Be really interested to hear what old Dave would say considering the he ate three kilos of rice per day and him being like me, we like to eat also while ballking with supplements should, what supplement should we take depending on the stack? And there's a shameless plug in there. Love you guys. Keep up the awesome conversation. So he basically wants us design everything forms. Diet is here and his supplementation all here, Dave. And he says, we, so I feel like you might have a coach or something too. That was great to do. I'll do this. Don't agree with dirty ballks. Think it's bullshit. Yeah. Um, shit in, shit out, simple as that. Um, don't use, you know, if you want to eat crappy crap, that's your choice, but don't wrap it up in something that's not. You just want to eat crap. Um, it's, um, there's no advantage to a dirty ball. There's no reason for a dirty ball. Your body wants quality nutrition. And the better quality nutrition you're putting, the better performance you could get. And this is, this is very true of just baseline foods. Um, I've noticed we've going to different countries eating a local diet, that there's a different difference with how I feel, because the quality of the ingredients that I'm being exposed to, be sometimes positive, sometimes negative. So, you know, quality of food does count. And there is no, and bulk cycle wise depends on your experience depends on where you are, depends on what you've done before. Yeah. Absolutely. So why do you want to look after your lipids, you want to look after your blood thickness, you want to look after your blood pressure, if any of those are factors, and that will all depend on the drugs you choose, and you as an individual. If it would be a baseline, create a mean, create a team, would be a baseline, I always get those two words mixed up. Um, probably a bit C and a B complex, you know, like I said, the lipids are put already. But that would be my basic structure around supplements, and then from there, it starts looking at what specific to you as an individual. Yeah, yeah, I'd go with that. It's hard to give him that specific advice on the gear and and even the supplements, but I think, Oh, you could stop being a cheap, swat and pay, scall, and you'll write it all out for you. Oh, you could pay Dave, he'll write it all out for you too. I don't want to do it. You, you can have it. Oh, here's a fun one. He says, can y'all discuss using compounds with no aster's? My source has a trend test no aster has a pre workout, and it's supposed to be in and out of your system within four to six hours compared to using trend A's. So first of all, what's all available with no aster? Of course, test, of course, trend is there any other injectables? Is there like an e aqua poise no aster? I wonder. Not a more well. Daca no aster? No, I don't know. Maybe like I wouldn't want that. No, I don't see any reason for the me that's a be honest. Yeah. Has a pre workout, a test no aster or a trend no aster definitely has an impact? From a point of view of performance within the workout, yes, they're going to be positive. The point of view of sustained growth, not so much. So when you use no aster drugs, pre workout, what you're doing is boosting your ability within the gym. So you're going to be stronger and performance like a better. But your growth is coming in your recovery period. Now if you are only using a no aster, you've got no animal attraction in your recovery period. Yeah. And potentially suppression to some extent depending on how high doses are, where you are, where natural levels and all this sort of crap. So a useful tool for boosting strength and performance, not a particularly productive tool for recovery and overall sustained growth. I got this bottle once of 60 mils of test no aster. And I went in on it with a friend of mine like we split the bottle. So I got 30 mils out of the bottle and I drew out 30 mils and I put it in the bottle for the other guy. And lo and behold, I loved it. The other guy who's like I didn't really notice anything. I couldn't tell. Yeah, I was like with M trend. Yeah, that's subtle to me. My take is is that it's going to be individual just based off that experience and then also hearing other people say like, I never really got much out of test no aster. I loved test no aster. I thought it was great. In fact, I had a blend that was test no aster with debol. And that was my favorite. You like in fact that. In fact, I might have one bottle of that that I've saved for about eight years now sitting in my box that one day. One day I'll break that out when I'm 70 day. Taking in my birthday. So 23 then. Yeah, no 20 27. Yeah. And what's there? She might birthday is coming up. It's going to be in another week or so. What are you going to get me? A sign photo. Sign photo of whom? Me. Oh, yes. Can I do that? If you were real, I would get that. If you would get that. If you would do that, I would hang that up. I'll even do it topless. I would hang that up. Right next to this. I'd have a little area on my wall is just like, If you haven't even hung that open from down the floor. Throwing it on the floor. I have it set up. This is set up in my office. I have a few pictures because I don't want to have this wall. You know, like I've got a couple things on the wall, but I have it set up. It's right over here on my bookshelf. Because you have no books. All right. Yeah, I'm with you on the testowester and trying to know after a thing, man. I will see what else we have here. I'll just comment. It says, just spoke to Dave on the telephone with a question about my TRT. What an absolute gentleman. Thank you very much. I appreciate it. What a hell of a talk. I'll talk to you. I'll talk to you. I'll talk to you. I'll talk to you. What a hell of a talk. I'll talk to you. I'll talk to you. I'll talk to you. I'll talk to you. That's DS KG 4DO. His name is real name. His name is comments. Yeah, that's in the comments from six days ago. All right. I was in say. Uh, what you meant? Another comment. I'm going to have to buy you guys dinner. You saved my Monday every week. Love the show. I'm up for that. Yep. No problem. Me too. Yeah. You have to pay for Scott the fly over here. Where are we going Dave? What are we going to get to eat now? Might take you to either. But that expensive. I just want like some classic fish and chips. All right. I'll take the composure. Okay. No, she takes the Harry's Harry Ramson's. They're better stuff. Harry, Harry, he would sort of met a stuff with a much better stuff. Yeah. Composed change towns about a year ago and it's come down a little bit. What do you dip your fish and chips in? Do you dip it in any sauces? So you generally speaking, you have a couple of choices depending on where you're located within the country. Yeah. So you have curry sauce. Chinese curry sauce. Oh, oh. Grave, eh? Okay. Yep. Yeah. I remember that. That's what I got over there. That was good. Mushy peas. I got that too. I don't think that's the same thing. I don't think that's the same thing. But you guys don't do tartar sauce. Yeah, but not usually as a dip. It's normally just a squeezy thing that you can get from the chipy. Okay. But you actually generally all those will come in like a paw, you know, a next. Yeah. Yeah. I like the gravy. That was a good one. That was a good choice. Cody sauce. All right. I never tried that. I'd have. I'd give it a go. But it just doesn't strike me as like I don't do curry and fish for some reason. It's never been a combo in my life here. Oh, it's not like you're thinking. Honestly, it's not. It's a powdered sauce and it's very standard across every fucking chipy year go to. Yeah. Okay. Some of all it. There's a sum of all it. Here's a question for you guys. Can you use trust alone and nothing as a test base? And what are the vials that just say test base usually? Oh, and what are the vials that just say test base usually dose at 50 milligrams? So he's asking two questions. Yeah. So test base means test no Esther. So you're not going to use that as a base. It's not it's not meaning test as a base compound for a cycle. Yes. Uh, trust alone. Yeah. Technically. Yes. It can be a little bit difficult. Each is in management wise. But but it has been trial. There's a TRT and I believe it's going to be quite well. Um, so yeah, I mean, it's probably a little bit more complex to do from a point of view of managing side effects. But it is viable. It would work. I wonder. Yeah. I don't know how I'd feel about that. I think I mean, I just because something's technically possible doesn't mean it's actually sensible to do. Um, I can't see why I would want to run meant as a base. Yeah. Um, not only that, it's not usually the easiest compound to get old off. Do you know this Dan? Yes. I know that. We're, we're the mentioned. Dave looked like he had lost quite a bit of weight and noticeably looked very healthy when he popped over last. Oh, that's Dan, best it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I told him that. It's a train man and they, they, they try to talk me into having a, a Turkish that end up giving down food points. They saw him very glad I declined. Haha. Poor Dan. He was not a, he was a very poorly body that next day. Couldn't tell him otherwise this had to get bigger than it already is. I've got a huge melon. Yeah. That's good man. I'm glad to hear Dan's doing good outside of getting sick. Did you know that blunt force, Tony, Antonio Miller, she doesn't like sell see this. I don't know why man. It's a, it's a, it's a really good, just light airy, you know, like carbonate, like sparkling water. This would taste like. I'm just looking at the comments. Yes, men, husband uses male birth control. I think it was 25 milligrams a week. They would try them now. I thought it was it that high. Okay. I got a lot of it. Yeah. Yeah. I heard about it used as a male birth control or trialed as a, I don't think they've been, you know, following up with that. Um, I mean, as a compound man, I think that stuff's really strong. And the method estrogen that you get from it. I speak firsthand. You want your estrogen to already be in real good control. If you're going to run that in a cycle, that's, that's the less an eye learned from that. Acetate, other hand, man. No issues for me. But then again, my estrogen wasn't a really good control when I started that. Let me see if I have, I think a couple more here. There was a really, oh, another kind of a follow up comment. One of our listeners said to the follower, uh, excuse me, to the fellow about the test trend, who got Gino remember that guy? Yeah. He added in the trend then he got Gino. He said, maybe the fastest fake brother. That is more tough. In this marketplace, that is a very possible problem. Yes. Totally agree. Yeah, especially. Yeah, with how a mast is right now. Have you seen any more availability of, uh, mast and pre-mone? Now, I'm seeing it, but I'm seeing the prices are jacked way up still. There's been, yeah, I've seen a creep up. I think those little things are starting to recover a little bit. I found in general too, if because the guy was doing okay, he added in trend and then he got Gino. I find that if your estrogen is under control under wraps, then you'll be less likely to have that happen. In fact, I haven't had any issues with prolactin if estrogen is under wraps, you know, with trend, they generally. That's the only thing that you can control the estrogen you're less likely to get issues from the prolactin. Yep. All right, I think that was, that might have been everything we had Dave and we don't have any, uh, we don't have any Uncle Dave's advice questions. Yeah. How is your trip, though, do you have fun? Yeah, I was going through the comments too. It was a bit long. Um, we were ready for getting home when we came home. It was very hot. Um, but we were in an area of France near a town called Shalou, which was where Richard the Lionahart died. Okay. And he was shot by a kid. Oh, okay. It was war. But he, yeah, he was actually a young kid that was fighting the shot in arrow, just that one door crossbow and just happened to hit him more. He was a bad luck than actual good partnership. Um, but we only, we, we, until we went to the Castle where he died. Um, we went to a, uh, larger, um, bath complex, which apparently is one of the most well preserved and a large east outside of Rome. I've got nose of that street. I just read the bomb that came with it. Um, it was quite impressive actually, uh, and then we went to this. Yeah, I just, uh, just from a point of view of what we said in Petta. You've upset in potential people. So there was two villages near where we were, uh, or towns, old arrays. I think was one, and then there was another one. Now. Over there. Do I blame? Or not. So I blame. Okay. Over door. It's over there. It's over there. Thank you. Thank you from today. Three members. That's all. That's all. There was a, uh, resistance town. One of the resistance from that town killed a German officer. I believe in SS officer to be precise. So the SS took revenge, but they hit the overtime with a similar name. Yeah. They slaughtered the whole town. I think it's 604-1 men and women in children. They ran to take refuge in the church. So they threw gas grenades in the church and then set it on fire. Oh, wow. The next day they then took all the bodies and buried them in mass graves. So it made it very difficult to identify everybody. The town has been preserved as the Germans left it. As an example to a... As a memorial, basically. Yeah. So, and we went and I was... I know I've never been to Auschwitz, but I've... Everyone I know that has been as all said the same thing. It's horrible. Yeah. It feels horrible. It feels like death. It feels super oppressing. Yeah. It's just a really nice place to be. And you feel very uncomfortable being there. Didn't get that here. It was very peaceful, very relaxed. There was no sense of tragedy about the place. But he's just a living memorial that you can walk around. And all the people that they know that died, that picture and their name is up on a wall. So you can see every single individual that was in the village. Wow. They do that kind of thing at some random buildings in Germany, where, you know, you'll see it like when I was in Colone, everything is redone. Like the almost the whole city-dave outside of the cathedral was leveled. So like everything is new buildings in Colone. But occasionally you'll see like one building. Like I went through the Roman Roman Colone. I didn't go see that. It's not a country. Actually, I... Yeah, I did see that actually. Yeah. It's just a couple of underground. It's like the stones are still there with the road tracks in them. It's just a section of like 20 meters time. That's right. That's right. And there's an archway there. Yeah. Ron Partlo and Jamie the giant and I visited that while we're there. In fact, I think there's some pictures somewhere that have all of us. Yeah. How old do you think this is, Ron? Wow. It's the thousand years old. But they'll have like one, they'll be like everything's new. But they'll have like one church that is still just like wrecked. You know, all the bullet holes and all of that roof cave then. And they just believe that as a reminder of the tragedy of war. You know? Yeah, it was a very interesting voice. Obviously, you know, on it was blistering. It was 4445 size for us. Okay. So we were we were melting. That's like almost 100. Oh, over. That's it. That's it. Yeah, it was. Hey, I did find one more. I almost skipped this because it's like, it's like a huge paragraph. And I'm not going to read the whole thing. But I kind of deciphered what he's saying here. First he does say, hey, David Scott love the show and have learned so much. I'd like your opinion advice and input says for a little context the past three years I've grown from 400 pounds to 218 loose skin everywhere, meal prepping and exercising mainly. So as recently had my blood work done, everything was great. The test was 621 nanograms per deciliter. Estrodiles 27 with everything near center in the normal range aside from slightly low HDL at 38. It's not bad. It's still work on that. Institute of Meggos and some healthy fats. He says, I am now two weeks into pinning 200 milligrams of test CE blend. And I plan to run this for 10 to 12 weeks. I happen considering adding another compound at week six. If my blood work comes back good, the primary options I was considering were antibody ball, Tren E or mast E, any considered would be at lower doses. See, so short question long, would there be any significant benefit gain from adding one or multiple of these for the last six months? Or multiple of these for the last six to 10 to 12 weeks? Or weeks six to 10 or six to 12 to finish the cycle out? Or would you recommend one over the other or even at all? I'm going to stop reading there. I'd probably go mast. Yeah, I'd be good with adding it now. Yeah, I'd probably go mast. I'd probably take some mast in. I like scaling cycles as you go through. So I think a six weeks start point. It's good as any and just rack it up a bit for the last six weeks and I think mast would be a good choice. From what he's saying, I think I wouldn't look at Tren. I don't think there's the experience there to really start to be used in Tren. No, not your first cycle of special. No, no. And you could always, I'd also don't see the point in adding multiple of these. I'd want. So you've got the oral route or go to mast route, but I'd want. Don't forget you think it is so early in the game. You've got plenty of time to play with over stuff out later today. Yeah, if you added one and he did what he said that last six weeks, I'd go with Annavar personally. That way, because an oral is going to kick in faster, give him more effect. He's only talking 20 milligrams, so it's not that much at all. If he added mast, E, I would add the mast E in now. I'm just adding it in straight away, man. That way, run that as long as possible for, because he's only taking 200 tests. So if it's 200 tests, I'd add in 200 mast and 400 milligrams total hormone. I'd run that for the rest of the cycle if that were my. But I don't think he needs to do anything at all, even. I mean, he could even run a little bit more test. Yeah, he could still be telling a lot. He's got a lot of room there. Yeah, I'm with you though, man. No need for training. And I would try to hold off on training as long as possible, honestly. Yeah, I agree. All right, Dave, you have anything new going on with things? Loads of things, yeah, those are things. I thought you might. Yeah. Oh, and tell me what happened to your Instagram? No, that we've actually perhaps, I knew this before, because we changed way up and very much. So it means to gram I add two black marks for posts. One was a trend video. What did you do? No, I just put a video up about trend and they pulled it and said, basically, this was Bad content, I appealed it as educational and they refused the appeal. Huh. And then there was another one, kind of what that was. Same scenario. And then we put an adult for the bed course. And they flag that as promote in use. You're under their watchful eye now. Yeah, it was. So again, I feel that as this is an educational course, teach and teach about arms and management and socialite and well, the thing is you don't get to say anything. You just get to say that you disagree and then you've got to show you, so what are the five reasons you disagree. And then a couple of options of what it may be. And that's it. You know, you don't get the actual opportunities. So I don't know if it's because when when Tony does the post, she she puts everything in wordbanners as well. So I don't know if we're putting a word in this triggering. It could be or it's the verbal. But anyway, so what it's going to be is a band me from live for a year. For from live, you can't do it in the guy in lives. Not cut to insuralize for a year. Why? The band me from messages for three days. Oh, four days. Yeah, that's a hard life and I will accept my punishment. Mercifully. And it's interesting. So yeah, it's it. Now I say it, but it's just a pain, really, because obviously I get quite a lot of Instagram messages and people are automatically assuming you're going to ignore them out there. Yeah. And that's how you. And then what we got coming on so evil has quite a lot of changes. So from the first to September, we will be working with Rumbdocks. So new UCAS lab. And it same test will still be there. The reports will change. So you'll now get a result. You'll now get what's known as a scale bar report, which is like a slider with all the explanations. And then you'll get a summary report, which is our interpretation of your results. And advice about what you can do, etc. Yeah. So the scale bar will hopefully satisfy those at one a bit more tech info. And then the summary will still be very easily consumable language so that people can still, you know, understand what it's actually telling them to do. Yeah. And then we see the introduction of about 25, 20, 25 more tests, including IGF1 and some genetic cancer market testing. And some advancement on prostate testing and stuff like that. Okay. How about sensitive E2? No, I tried not available. I was a real pain. The thing is we don't actually get asked for it that much. And the only labs that do it, it's like a three week turnaround, and it is very expensive. So there just isn't the demand for the labs to do it at a cost effective price, which is not in, but it is what it is. So yeah. So that's, we're also looking at expanding our sites through the collaboration. So what we'll be able to do is people can go to any run-doc site, which is 50 of. Yeah. And do our blogs through there. Oh, okay. So you don't even have to do the draw then? No, but there is a slight increase in cost because run-docs. So in our price breakdown, we obviously, we have the test costs, then we have the cost for the full bonus. Right. And then there's the report that we do it as a single price, so we don't do it. Some companies do a mess at on. So you have the test price, then you have to get the full bonus, which is an extra cost, etc. Yeah. And on top of that, you have the fundox charge, you're more than we charge for our flooded. So unfortunately, if you use a run-doc site, it will be a 10 pound search charge, just to cover the extra cost of the flooding. But that's it. And then we're also looking at postal as well. But that won't go. You're looking at what? Postal. Oh, okay. I don't like postal. I don't like the control being in the consumer, and that's no disrespect to consumers, but they're not always great. A caring for the bloodstress, but we constantly get at it. So I'm trying to say this, if there's a way of implementing it in a minimal negative, you know, possibly the way you say that we don't get too many problems from people, just not understanding what they need to do with those blood samples once they're made. What I'll never do is finger brick. So it will be vial drawer, which means they will still have to go and find a football, Mr. Duke, blood drawer. So it might be, we don't go that way. Yeah, I don't know. We'll see what happens when we introduce the new 50-round exercise. And you got a new pad's course coming up? Because probably the first Thursdays that you said, I'm actually sorting out the dates today and tomorrow. Okay. So reach out to Dave, and they can't hit you up on it. Well, by the time they see this, they will be in Monday. They'll be able to message you on Instagram. Unless I do as a mouse wrong. Yeah, unless Dave screws up again. Hey, are you Instagram verified? I don't know what to. Okay. Do you have the blue checkmark? I don't know. I'm a little... Yeah, let's see. Does that help? I don't know. I mean, I feel like it might. It does help you to recover your account if you get your account taken. I don't think I am. Okay. Well, maybe that would be something, well, two late now. You already kind of got in trouble there. Yeah, that would be nice. Yeah, that would be nice. Oh, I see you have... Do you have two? You have two accounts? I see Dave's gym tips. No, that's not me. I don't think it is. Dave's gym tips. And it's got like current clients. When's your latest post from? It looks like it's your clients. Oh, that's not about you. Is that about you? Is that about you? Uh, it just... No, it's actually not you. It's linked to us. Hi. I'll send this to you, man. Somebody is faking you. They've got your profile. And it's called Dave's gym tips. And it says fitness coach with over 25 years experience in the world of body building and PED use, Crossline, Harmony Ducction Services. Oh, drugs and stuff linked below. The podcast linked below. And then it's got a link to a website that's not yours. So it just copied my profile by so... Yeah. Yeah. And it's got all your content too. There's a picture... There's a video of me and you together. Uh, yeah. We should report these guys. Yeah, some alien. We've got a bunch of stuff like that. I've had people impersonating me in selling gear and me showing up on gear pages and all that. Man, and you would think it was mine based off of like just this. It's like, oh, Dave's got a gear site here, huh? You know, it sort of looks like anyway. We appreciate everybody tuning in. I'll text it to you after the show. I don't want to get too specific on the podcast. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in to another episode. Reach out to Dave to get involved with the PEDs Education course. And of course, for coaching. And you can reach out to me and make the Ali Dieds at jamele.com. Thank you to our advertisers, Strongest Sports Nutrition. True Nutrition.com user code thinks supplementsource.ca for Canadians. Patreon. You guys are awesome and evalblut analysis.com. Check out eval for a bunch of new blood tests guys. For another episode of the podcast, we'll see you soon. Thanks, Dave. Pleasure.

I'm like, Joe, you know what, it always can be worse. You know, somebody always has it worse than you. And I tell people when things like this happen to you and life does not fare a lot of times. You can make two choices. You can hide in a corner and let life pass you by. Or you can get out there and do as much as you can do. And I made that choice right then, right there, then I was going to do as much as I can do. Blind is, you know, hopefully as much as when I could see. I didn't know how that was going to look, but I made that commitment. And it's tough. And I'd be lying if I said it was easy. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building. I'm Big Ron Parlo and of course I'm here with Dusty Handshot and the producer Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Yes, and remember, I am mutant dot com, go to I am mutant dot com, get your all in, get your ISO surgeon. Everyone should get on the gear. And I'm wearing the new lift to kill shirt. You can get that too and Dusty's Dusty shirt is back up on the site. He's got a new version of that. So the the the the the the F attention earned respect. One we're in the sea Scott. I'm watching the F bombs in the first two minutes. Wow. Wow. There you go. It's good. Watching those F bombs. And today we got a special guest. We have the world's first blind. IFB be men's open pro Joe Pira Sant. Welcome to the show. It's a pleasure to be on the show. I appreciate you guys having me on today. Yeah, no Dusty knows you best. I believe you've you've been dusty client for a while. What's it deal? Drany partner for years. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Way back in the day. I'm going to give a little brief breakdown. So I trained with Joe. Joe, what years were we training like when when did you compete at that show? I mean, um, I did the Arizona in 2007. So I think we started probably in 2006. Yeah. We trained together forever ago. So that was very early dusty. Yes. Yes. And Joe. What's interesting is Joe is lunatic. Completely insane. And will train through absolutely anything. Um, I've seen him do preps that you wouldn't wish on someone that you were torturing. And enjoy every step of the way. He's just one of the guys that just loves that grind. And when I heard that Joe was going to do going to be trying out for the fast team, which I'm going to have Joe kind of break down with that is briefly. Um, but from what I understood, it is basically a team of very, very highly, highly decorated. People in the military, but to the give you an idea when when they try out for it, you've got Rangers who fail, maybe seals who fail, like they can't get on the can't go through what they go through to even get on. And I remember somebody asked me they said, well, Joe, make it. And I said, well, there's only two options. He will make it or he will die because he will not go. Joe does the stuff that I pretend to do. When you go to the right, you can set your camera up all nicely. Yeah. So Joe, can you give us a brief version of what it was they kind of put you guys through just to see if you were able to be on with that fast team and also what it is. Yes, the fast team stands for foreign deployed advisory and support team. We were like D.E.A.s overseas slot team. And how it came about after 9.11, the US military went over to Afghanistan. You know, we had some of the idea of what was going on. We know Ben Lada was running his training camps, but as soon as they got over there, they soon saw that the Taliban and the Syrian groups were getting their money for their terror activities by the production and sale of heroin. And lot of people don't know if Afghanistan is the biggest producer of heroin in the world. So the military not being subject matter experts on drugs went to the DEA and asked for help. So we ended up standing up this team, fast team and had try outs, but you had to be able to work with the our US and coalition special ops teams with an Afghan partner for us. So even if you did that, Ben Lada in the past, can you still do it. So they got together this selection course. It was made up of various US and coalition special forces, selections where, you know, not only you got to be able to be physical, you got to be able to be smart, they gave you an IQ test, a mental test, test you when you're stressed and everything else. And it was just the first week is kind of like the guys called Hell Week, where you're just doing these events after event and just being tortured and to see if you can hang and you're getting very little sleep, but they feed you pretty good. So that's good. And just to give you an idea, the washout rate of this, I think we started with 36 individuals and only 11 made it through to the end. And I remember when I flew home after the first phase, flew back to Sky Harbor and the friend of mine picked me up, and you know what, what the hell happened to you. You don't want to know, in fact, they were so glad the next morning, I had to go to the hospital, because my foot was infected and everything I lost. Every toenail on both feet, at blisters all over, in here, I'm in the ER at Arrowhead Hospital. It's trying to explain what happened to me and I'm, here are the doctors was thinking, okay, Joe, why don't you just tell me that truth would really happen to you. So it was, it was crazy. But like anything that you do, that's hard in that you do, that a lot of people can do, you just get a feeling of accomplishment that, hey, look man, I did this. What a lot of people couldn't do it. And then before it, I had a shoulder, another soldier, surgery on my left shoulder, because after that, I did the Arizona, my shoulder was all tore up again. And I'm just glad that I made it through. I got that. I will say, although impressive, I was not surprised. So for those who don't know, also explain, because I hadn't said this yet, but we'll leave this in. When Joe and I were training together, he still had a site, obviously he had a site when he went in the fast team. What went down and, and how did you lose your site? Okay, it was on my second turn, Afghanistan. We were working with the Australian commandos, which is a very good special forces unit from Australia. And we were hitting a bizarre, which is like an outdoor flea market. And in his, his hours, they saw everything from different sundry items, soap, shampoo, live chickens, water, but they also sell chemicals in equipment to manufacture heroin, small arms, weapons, rifles, machine guns, and also IED by making material. How do you, how do you get there? Was there, did I miss the directions on this? I just scared, I just heard all these things that I needed to, Scotland's go shopping. Sorry, never mind, never mind. Well, we can send you on a special helicopter over there. No, I'm good man, I'm good. I was, I was good man, unless you had a whole gang of folks. Yeah, yeah, yeah, don't travel alone. Yeah, yeah, so, so this bizarre came up hot, and our team that was there before us, they hit the same bizarre with Australian commandos, found quite a bit of evidence items and gotten a pretty big firefight. In fact, the team leader of the team, a guy named Brett, him and I were there, two oldest guys in our selection. They were fighting their way back to the helicopter, and he got the forest gump, when we got shot in the ass. Be jump up and stung him, so hard to, hard to, form a marine, recon marine, airborne, scuba-coil, the whole nine. So we, this was, like I said, just bizarre popped up hot again. So we, we're going to hit it. So we usually like to go in at night to use our technology, what our night vision and lasers was the enemy. Usually does not have that, but if you was, that's, we couldn't find an air wing to fly us at the time, they could fly us at night, where the time frame the Australians at us and our partner for us could hit it. So we had to shift fire to another unit, which was training the Afghan pilots to fly for when we left, and we had to hit it during the day. We weren't real happy about that, because we knew we were going into the hornet's nest. So we decided to go anyways, we got, I would say a little too big fire bridges. And so the plan was, we flying in four helicopters, MI-17's, their old Russian troop transport helicopters, and they hold quite a few people, and they're pretty armed. One side to have a peacam belt fed machine gun, then a gal mini gun on the other. So we had the Aussies in one, our Afghans and another, and fast team members, and some Australian commandos, and the other bird. And so we landed, this after first lights, Halloween Day 2011, and I was in charge of one element, sweeping through one side of the bizarre, and another one of our past guys was in charge of another element. So we're sweeping through, we start receiving some incoming fire, not very effective fire. And then I'm standing outside of one of the stalls in the bizarre, behind us old beat up car, and I hear around being fired. I hear it hit the back of the car, and then I feel the back of my neck burn. I'm like, oh shit. So I dive into the stall, the bizarre, they were searching. I put my hand in the back of my neck. See I have a honey blood, no blood. I had one of the Afghans look at it, the speak decent English. And he said, oh no, so it is okay. So I tell you what, man, that bullet got so close to my neck. I could feel the heat off of that son of a gun. Believe me, I had my guard off after that. So yeah. We were finding some poppy seed and some other things, and then shortly after that, the Taliban did this call the arms over their little loudspeaker PA system. And things said, today's your day to die. We must rise up, we must get the impedals out of our land. And then the incoming fire drastically increased on us. So the Australians were out of the perimeter trying to provide an outer cordon for us to keep the enemy from moving in. But the problem was the bizarre was in a valley, so the enemy had the high ground, and anybody who knows anything about tactics. If you have the high ground, you have the advantage. So we hear them getting into it. We have the marine air wing, the mall with helicopter gunships, providing close air support, they're rocking and rolling. And we're finishing up what we need to do. And then we're almost done, so we get in position to call for our helicopters to come back to get us. So they're inbound to get us. We've got to probably go about 400 meters or so to get to our extraction location, which is not far. But then we got bogged down in the gunfight, and we were stalled, and we couldn't really move. And I remember so much so that we have to wave the helicopters off and say, hey, don't land yet. We're not in position, just stay somewhere nearby, which are rotors spinning and we'll give you the thumbs up when we're ready for you to come get us. So I just remember thinking to myself, you know, I know we can't stay here. The longer we stay here, the more the NMS time to advance, not us. And you start freaking out, but in combat you can't freak out. And you want to stay calm and think rationally. As I've been saying to myself, Joe, you need to get your ship together right now. You need to get the help out of here. So I kind of like kick my own self in the ass. So we began making some progress, like leapfrogging from building the building and finally get in position to where the helicopters can come grab us. So we call them in. They come in three land, one dozen, one that didn't land was Afghan crew and piloted. But their pilots aren't as skilled as ours. We'll say, and they said, because there was a lot of incoming gunfire on us to include the belt fed machine gunfire. And you get a condition where you get big brother helicopter like that. They kick up dust so you get a brownout condition in its heart to see. So they didn't land. So we run out to our helicopter. We're supposed to get on in low and behold, the halfgans are already on ours. Our halfgans. Our helicopter. But like, you know, you need to get the help off. You know, this is our ride. You know, it's just not like Uber. You can take any damn one. But they're not moving. I don't blame him. I wouldn't want to go back into that hell. You know, getting shot and open field. We said, OK, just go. So the three helicopters lived off. We got us just think. Seven fasting members in two Australian commandos at the time. So we take cover and a ditch. So all the gunfire is focused on us now. Yeah. So it was it was pretty crazy. And then lo and behold, short time later, here comes the Afghan crew and pilot helicopter lands. A couple hundred yards for us. And once again, I said, you know, to myself, the can stay here. We need to get out of here. I said, this is going to be a very shitty run. So I'm getting my big ass up and just bringing for my life towards the helicopter. And I remember firing a couple shots on the run. Towards the insurgents that were shooting at us. And everything else is going to be second hand information, which was told me after the fact. I guess I got to the helicopter near the front of the pack. I started laying down covering fire. So my teammates get on or near the helicopter. And once that happened, I guess my team leader tapped me on my shoulder. And said, let's roll. And I turned left to run on the helicopter. And that was when I was hit in the head. We leave. It was a armor piercing round from my belt. That P.K.M. machine done. The round went through the right side of my ballistic helmet through my right temple through the frontal lobe of my brain and out my left temple. So of course, I fall like a ton of bricks face first. And a lot of people asked me, oh, do you get one of those head moons? Where, you know, the bullet kind of hits your skull and kind of like just traces around it. I go, nope. Yeah, I went right through my frontal lobe of my brain. So the Afghan has some sushi out there, I guess. I'm dead. Holy crap. Yeah. So my team mates thinking I'm dead. My team leader goes, I mean, you know, face down, butt up. And he's trying to rouse me. I'm not moving. He rolls me over and he sees my ballistic glasses. I was wearing pretty much shatter and there's a hole in my head. So I think I'm dead. Throw me on the bird. Take off. And then they just check me out just to make sure I'm dead. Like they think I'm dead. No, he's breathing. So they start working on me and start doing some things and during the process of that, I came to, which I don't remember. I guess I set up like Frankenstein and started to become in combat. But they haven't got me calm down. They treated my head wound, treated me for shock. Got me to the base. We were staying at Terran Kyle with the Aussies. And this is kind of a funny story. This is typical me though. So the ambulance comes out to our helicopter. They think my team mates have me on a stretcher. We had them, but they didn't. So I hear this commotion going on. And so what is Joe do shot through the head? I stand up to walk off the freaking helicopter. I guess my team mates, I don't know we got you, Joe. They carried me to the ambulance, got me to the medical facility there. And then they did what they could do for me. And then they transferred me to another base, to the candor airfield where they had a neurosurgeon and I served it stand and buy it to treat me. Wow. And some people think training to failure is going to kill me. Jesus. Wow. It's wild, Joe, I've obviously heard the story, but as I see it in my brain. I just watch the movie. I just watch the movie. You're telling your see the whole thing go down. And so you get out. Obviously now for the first time in your life, you don't have vision. You have to relearn how to live. You are a very, very independent person. You've always been that way. You do your own thing. You handle your own stuff. Was that a hard adjustment to need to rely on people to kind of help you through this process? Oh, my God. Yes. And you hit the nail right on the head with that. You know, I've always been a person. You know, you want it done right. You do it yourself. You can't rely on people blah, blah, blah. But it actually was good for me because I had to learn to trust people. And I had to relearn to rely on people that being blind and being a situation that I'm in now. I need help. And I just can't just do it all myself. And there's times where I thought I could or I'd be in a rush to do something to move it too fast. Then bust my head open and get stitches. But it really helped me to slow down. I appreciate things. I appreciate life. I appreciate people. And you know, just learn to rely on them. So it was actually good for me in that point. Right. The fact that you can find any, you know, that your attitude right off the bat just finding good in any of it. Yeah. I mean, that would be, you know, that would be the point where most most people wouldn't be able to come back and find any good. And you've, you've, you've, you've turned yourself into something else now. Something even more inspirational that is, you know, do you think about that? Do you think about it that way at all? Are you just doing your thing? Yeah. You know, here's the deal. Well, when I was in the hospital recovering, you know, I hear my parents and my teammates talk about all these young kids coming back from overseas. Tows ahead snored us into a pallet. Children writing for a minute give a straight conversation back in front of a large ten-legged kid, just like never know what was just ignore what shows up or whatever. When that happened to me, I was 41 years old, lived to damn good life. My daughter was getting very antioxidant. High school, when I would have a petty party for myself and like, Joe, you know what it always can be worse. You know, somebody always hasn't worse than you. And I tell people, when things like this happened to you tonight there's not fair a lot of times. in high-end and high-end corner and let life pass you by, or you can get out there and do as much as you can do. And I made that choice right then, right there, then I was gonna do as much as I can do. Blind is, you know, hopefully as much as when I could see. I didn't know how that was gonna look, but I made that commitment and it's tough. And I'd be lying if I said it was easy. It's hard every day. I have to deal with this, be in blind. I have to deal with some pretty bad post-traumatic stress disorder syndrome, you know, and bodybuilding helps save my life, family, and loved ones help save my life. And it just, I wasn't gonna let this beat me. I was gonna, you know, get out there and show people, and you know, that just because you have a disability or you're blind, that your life doesn't end. You know, it only ends when you say it does. You know, it's cliche, but people say, there's a will, there's a way. It's true, you know, I may not be able to do things the same way I used to do things or do a mess. Fast as I used to do a, but if you wanna do something, you can figure it out and blind school really helped with that and everything and, you know, I'm glad that I got back into competing, because that's something I could control. And, you know, I was, you know, I got talked into competing by an old coach, and I got a blind show, it'll be stars. And he says, Joe, let's try to do this. I'm like, I don't know, Shelby, I don't know if I can do this blind. He's like, let's put you on a cutting diet for free here and see how you look. And we did that and he said, oh no, Joe, you need to get back on stage. He hooked me up with a posing coach at the time, Kenny Wallett, because so let's do this. We chose the Virginia Grand Prix show. And this is now 2015. And North folk Virginia, I did the old people's class and the young people's class, and I won it all. They're like, who the hell is this? That's it. Who the hell is this guy? And I remember being backstage after just crying, just like, I'm still freaking doing this, man. And also, it was crazy. And you had to rebuild a lot too. We talked a little bit before the show. You said you were all the way down to 160 after your injury, right? So I mean, this wasn't in an overnight process. When did that happen? You said 2015 is when you started competing, when was the injury? How long ago was that? It was Halloween day 2011. Yeah. We're not talking like a decade later. It was about two years. Yeah. Yeah, it was. It's it. Most of the memories of hell over thing. And it's a hell over thing. I'll tell you a kind of funny story. My ex-wife, she was with me at the hospital. And they're like, OK, Joe, we're going to bring you now until the gym. And we're going to have you work out a little bit. Like, OK, cool. So we go down there. And I think we're doing something like lateral raises. And you're like, tell me if it's too heavy or it's good. No, too heavy, too heavy. OK, it's good. So I'm knocking out my sets and reps, whatever you want me to do. And then we're leaving. I'll go like, Joe, you know, those were the pink dumbbells. I'm like, OK, if you got to start somewhere. I love it. So you do that. Now you absolutely know, once again, you can do this. I mean, honestly, as well as you ever could without vision, which as a bodybuilder, I try to imagine, even just putting me on the machine. And then telling me to, like, put my hands up and do everything with my eyes open. And then telling me to close my eyes and do it. And I'm like, I don't know. Like, how different was that to just learn to feel your body moving through the range that you used to feel antsy? It was weird at first. You know, I felt awkward a little bit. But I learned to trust the people around me. And actually, I think it ended up being better for me. Because I'm not distracted into Jim. I'm not worried about looking at everybody else's doing. I'm getting that mine muscle connection just locked in. So I'm really feeling it better. And I think even in posing, I have to, you know, I'll show you up to trust your posing coach. But a lot of people will just go in the mirror and hit poses. But there's no mirror on stage. So I have to learn everything by feel and ended up really, you know, improving my posing. And in shows as long as the extra, but I get to me on stage and puts me in the right direction and just make sure my quarter turns. All right. I'm good to go. A lot of people, unless they saw the expediter be holding his or her arm, don't even know I'm blind when I'm on the stage. Right. That's freaking awesome. So when did you turn pro? And what show was that? 2021 at the Master's Nationals in the 50 to 59 year old class as a super heavy weight. You know, we always played this game in the past. I had the coaches, you know, some coaches where I've been 220 pounds as I've been 19 years old. You know, it'll die me down and play the glue game and get down to a white heavy weight sometimes. And that's just, that's not my natural weight. So at that point, I finally had a coach and he's like Joe, you're a super heavy weight. You know, I don't know why, you know, these people die as you go and lay down. Like that. And I did good, you know, some of those weights and I almost turned pro at the universe in 17. I got second and just missed out and getting my card. So we decided to go in. We went and did the, I had to recall. So I did the Michigan. I moved ahead, moved back to Michigan at the time. I just did the masters to get my call and I did that. And it was kind of crazy because when we was traveling to Pittsburgh that morning, I weighed myself at home and I was in the low two 30s and, you know, the last day or two before, you know, you're eating up. You're keeping the water down with you. You're not by easy game weight back. So we get there, we're weighing in and I am, in weigh in with my buddy who is from Michigan also who was in pro David Reed. He would help me. Oh, yeah. And I stopped on the scale and they're like, oh, you're too 24. Or something. Yes, you signed up for supers and I go, damn, I just weighed 230 something at home. Not too long ago. And you're like, what do you want to do? Do you want to do super heavyweight? Or you want to do heavy and on my day, man, what should I do, bro? I don't know, man. He goes, Joe, do supers. You're going to be the widest. But you're probably going to be the shortest because on a good day I'm five nine on my tipped toes and you're complete. So I ended up doing that, which was the best decision I did. And we went out there and I remember Brontos Harper pre-judging and one of the expediters that has helped me before it was helping me. And they're moving me. And everybody in body, Billy knows if they're moving you to the center, looks like you're going to probably be doing pretty good. So I'm like, dude, I said, man, are they moving me towards the middle? He goes, Joe, they're putting you right in the center. And I just, I'm like, you're trying to win or lose this right now, Joe, you're going to get your shit right. And out there knocked all the stuff out, went back and, you know, we had a good feeling that I was going to get first placed. And we went back for the night show. But you never know. You can't put the cart before the horse. So if we go back there and I went first place and I remember this, yes. I got this, but I still have to go in the overall of all the other way classes in my age. And I think you had to get at least second. And so we went down there and had a tough battle with the heavyweight. And I ended up getting second and overall. So I ended up getting my pro-carth. And I had told David, I said, if I win my pro-carth, dude, I'm going to cry like a little bitch backstage. And remember, you know, you get that big life-size, you know, pro-car, you know, like you want to be million dollar check and you get your belly button. And you guys know how body builders are like, you know, you know, Mr. Macho, this and that, I remember going back stage and everybody stood up and started clapping. Oh, shit. And I just, the water works. Oh, I started crying. David started crying. And it was probably the best day of my life, other than my daughter being born. So it was crazy. You know, after coming through all that, you know, I knew, you know, starting body building back in the day after playing football and college, that, you know, look at magazines. Oh, my god, it'd be so awesome to be a pro-bodybuilder, blah, blah, blah, blah. And then after I was hurt, I never thought it was possible. But, you know, I freaking did it. And then went on and did this Chicago pro-master's twice, got second the first time. Then went back in 2000 now, as is 23. And ended up winning first place. So not only became a pro, I actually won a pro show. So it's a pretty damn good accomplishment. And I just like the show people, like I said earlier, you know, just because you're blind, you have a disability, life doesn't end, man. You gotta keep going. You gotta fight. Oh, you gotta keep going. You can't quit. You can't give up. You know, life's one of these things. It seems like you climb one hill and you get knocked down. You gotta climb another one. You just don't, you can't give up and you can't quit, man. That's unbelievable. It's, I mean, the tenacity of what you were already trained for with the military and the DEA and the fast training and all that stuff. And you were able to take that mentality and put it into something else. And I mean, I feel like running through a wall after hearing your story. You know, I'm not gonna complain about a sore elbow for a long time. What was it like, you were on the Jocco-Willnik podcast. And I got to ask you about that because I love Jocco. I think he's just such a cool dude. What did you had you met him before? I mean, I'd be in an amuletary to Jocco or anything like that. I had briefly met him in 2010 because prior to my first deployment to Afghanistan in 2010, we were doing training with the Navy SEALs West Coast team. One other team, SEAL team five. And we went to Camp Billy Maken in Nyling, California to do their land warfare course with them and they have to do it before they pre-deploy all the time. It's three weeks, day and night, just getting kicked in the balls and Jocco was running camp building making at the time. So I got him met him briefly. We didn't, you know, didn't get to know each other or anything. And then one of the guys who helped set up that training in another SEAL, Jocco started the podcast and he was like, you know, knew what happened to me and he's like, you know, I'm going to try to get Joe on the Jocco podcast. So he called me and he's like, Joe, would you be willing to go on? I said, hell yeah, I would. I thought, you know, got all it ranged flew out to San Diego and did the podcast. He was at his, his MMA gym he has there was upstairs and like a soundproof room and we went in there and knocked it out. Now, tell you what, Jocco, you know, he's the real deal. You know, he's, he's, he's serious dude, a real deal guy. And I remember afterwards after doing the podcast where like, posing for pictures and like, Jocco, I said, don't try to out angle me, man. He was like, yo, there's nothing like and do to out angle you. What you're, was that what you're, did you do his podcast? Who, who, man, make you, make me think now. Um, we're in 25. I think, 20. I think, 21, 22. Okay, okay, yeah, yeah, yeah, that's, that's amazing. I mean, what, I'm just thinking like, how? What, what other things? I mean, the frontal lobe does a lot. I'm just amazed like you lost your vision, but you've been able to do all this other stuff and I mean, did you get a little lucky? Like, what did they tell you statistically with how, how functional and how everything has gone for you? Get hit in the head with an arbor piercing round. Yeah. It's tickling your dawn. Just you already a million to one when you stood up to get back off the bird. Yeah, no, it's crazy. After they brought me back to the states, they had me in a news call. They're getting ready to bring me out of the coma. And your frontal lobe controls your decision making and it controls the more. It's crazy. Yeah, yeah. Whether you get real sad or real happy and the doctors told my parents, he's like, Joaquin never be trusted with a credit card again. He'd just might spend a bunch of money. He might just be at work and take, oh, it's close off. I said, yeah, probably because I was hot, that's why I took them off. It's done by the doctors. Like he didn't make good decisions anyways. He's not going to lose much. Yeah. I said, yeah. Yeah. I got, I got, answer a question. I got very blessed and lucky. You know, it affected me to, you know, a point. But not as great as they had thought that it would, you know. So it's, you know, it's, it's a process. We'll say that, you know. Wow. There's anything that you're able to look back on and laugh at now as part of the recovery process. I mean, I'm sure you've had to find humor in some of the agony you went through. Oh, oh, yeah. So, okay, this is, when I got shot, I was 230 pretty lean. Like I mentioned earlier, I got down to like in the 160s, but they wouldn't tell me what I weighed, but they'd knew I thought his he fit. So when I'm sitting there with my ex and the physical therapist and like okay, today they go, you're going to put your shorts in T-shirt on like how much time you need. Well, five minutes, whatever. So I'm grabbing the clothes and then I get to the shorts and I'm feeling the shorts. And I'm like, man, these don't feel like my size. I'm like, what size is? And my ex was like a church mouse not saying a word. Therapist is like, I tell you, hand it to me. So I give him to her. She's like, they're a medium. When I took those medium and threw him across the room, I said, I'm a big fuck. I were extra large. If I was on a floor, I'd say, then they would have felt straight to the floor on my physical and his own. Wow. I love it. I love the things he's worried about with all that. He's worried he's a medium short. Yeah. I hate a question. Kind of a, this is a selfish question. And also too, I want to make sure that I say Joe, thank you. Thank you for your service, man. First of all. I want to thank you for everything that you've done for our country. And thank you for not only coming on here, but sharing your story as much as you do. I feel like our world right now needs hope. And I am very grateful that you, you know, you're taking the tragedy that happened to you and you're turning in into something that is so positive. Like Ron said, I feel like I'm ready to like freaking get out and do something right now and after listening to you. But listen, so you're my selfish question. I like to do a lot of shooting and training in what I've realized with the tactical training is all that stuff, you're under kind of like a false pressure. It's not real pressure. You're not in a real gunfight. But under that pressure, like it's hard to do like small mechanical things and reload magazines, all that. I can only imagine and I know that at your level and the stuff you're doing, you would have to be so freaking cool as a cucumber. I know you said like you guys had to do like all sorts of mental evaluations. You are the guy that can stay calm in a real active life situation like that. You got to tell me man, what? It's something that I train for. I'll probably and hopefully never have to ever draw my gun in my life and use it. But it's an experience. If that, you know, never have, I hopefully will never have to experience what you've experienced on any level. But what is it like to be in combat man, having these bullets fly by you and still know to yourself like dude, I got to stay calm? Well, it's crazy. You know, it's like I've just taken it myself. I was over there and bolted flying over my head and bolts make no eyes on it. Joe, what the hell are you doing here? You volunteer. I could've been a scottled. I could've been a scottled. Oh, you could've been a scottled. Oh, yeah. The thing is, you have to rely on your training and you want to make training as most realistic as possible and you want to push yourself from your training and you want to train like you fight, you know, or practice like you play a game. So you need to wear all your gear. You need to put yourself under stress. You know, we simulate that by doing stress suits where you do a bunch of physical stuff, your tired or run and do sprints and just try to get used to doing that, you know, under pressure when you're tired. When you're breathing hard, so it gets to a point where it's just muscle memory that you don't even think, you know, you just react and you just do it. But it takes thousands and thousands of reps to be able to do that. And you know, and some people, some people can't, you know, I've worked. I was on the swat team and Detroit, the full-time swat team and even on the fast team and as a de-age and a Detroit police officer, you know, there's some guys you think are all squared away and I call them Chrome engines all showing no go. When they go down with the rubber hits the road to real combat, you know, they might shoot great on a flat range and do this, but they can't hit the broad side of the barn when bullets are flying back. So it's intense. Yeah. I can only imagine, man. Yeah. It's curious because yeah, like I said, in my experience, which is, you know, next to nothing, it is all for pretend and it is any any stress we have. We're putting it on ourselves, but yeah, I could only imagine the level that you guys would have have to have. What about, uh, did you guys do any kind of like breathing exercises? Because I've heard of that and I've heard of like box breathing has been used in special forces and stuff. And I found I used box breathing in just everyday life if I need to reset myself. And I could only imagine how beneficial it could be in a situation like that. Well, and I even learned this when I was trying out for the SWAT team to try way back in the day in 1992, like before, you know, you get your breathing, you get excited and you start breathing hard. Like before, like we would enter a room like say we're doing a room clearing or building clearing. Before you enter that room, they would have you take a couple deep breaths in through your nose out through your mouth to try to get your heart rate down and your blood pressure down. But like you said, you get in that when you're in a fight or flight situation, you get what's called perceptual narrowing where your eyesight increases, your hearing decreases. And a lot of the blood it flows to your vital organs for protection. So it goes to your core. So you start losing that defined dexterity, that fine motor skills. And that's why we went back more to like a softly shooting where you're facing your opponent as opposed to like a blade and weaver stands because you get in that situation, you're going to face your target. So we started learning to shoot that way and shooting with both eyes open and doing different things like that. So you do do some of the breathing and also a big thing too, which I even started doing when I was playing college football as doing, was going over scenarios in your head. This happens. This is what I'm going to do with that happens. So you have a plan before something happens. So you're just going over different scenarios in your head and your body, brain doesn't know what's real, what's not, you just run these scenarios in your head and that seems to help too. Yeah, thank you. Just like I said, it was a selfish question, but I really wanted to hear what you had to say in that. Cliffs notes version is if you are born about as you're about to. Yeah. I mean, I got to be honest, Joe, you tell me all that stuff and I understand, but I'm also very aware that like you said, I imagine if bolts were flying back at me, it's I'm not hitting the broadside of the barn. No. That's just another level and it's why people are special and I think it's also why your story is so great because we've excelled in a ton. Yeah. But I think that the true tell is you took on a situation after your accident that you rose honestly higher than you ever had before. I mean, you had a lot of advantages genetically, physically, mentally, all these things when you had all of your health and everything else, which would make it easier for people to downplay. Well, Joe is special. Joe is a badass. That is what he is. When you take away something like vision, yeah, for me, I realized I did not realize how bad as you were because, I mean, come on, it's a four year time between your accident, losing your sight, your whole life being flips upside down to winning a bodybuilding show. That's beyond special. And I think that that's the part we talk about on the show is mental strength and there's no stronger case I've ever heard of. So, you know, I hope that those are listening and watching this can really grab that up is your physical strength disappeared in an instant and you use your mental strength to get more back. Yeah, yeah, and that's crazy. And that's what I'm glad that I had that good mental and inner strength before that, you know, doing sports and growing up and doing different things. And, you know, just I've always wanted to push myself and be the best of whatever I did, you know, and people listeners are probably think this is crazy too. You know, I'm legally blown. Can't see. Crap. I can't shoot with special optics. And, yep, since I've been blind, I've shot nine deer. I got two with one shot. It's Alan Vidio. You got two with one shot. Is that what you just said? Yes. Two with one shot. It's Alan Vidio. I've killed a black bear in West Virginia, two emigators in Louisiana, a while for Florida. I've been a tangle skydive, jumping blind, snow skiing blind three times, play golf blind, um, Brad, a five-cate blind, all kind of crazy shit. I'm tapping out. Hell. Yeah. Yeah. It can go to the press. You appreciate this one. They do have blind hockey too, which I've considering. There we go. Oh, now you're talking my man. Wow. I got one more question for you. And it might be a little bit like, you know, a little bit surface. But, um, you lost your sight in 2011, correct? Yes. Okay. So, what would you say, because you were a guy who's been like in the real shit, the realist of real shit as a cop, as a SWAT team, and as military? What would you say are a couple of maybe the most realistic movies? Because I'm a real movie guy. And sometimes I see stuff, and I'm like, this isn't military guys must hate this. And then there's the odd movie I see, I think. I wonder if they love this one. Well, I kind of, I would have said, um, Rome survivor. What? I learned a lot of the stuff that one of the gentlemen that survived said was not true. Oh. So that kind of like, you know, crushed my hopes. I know, American, American sniper. I think was pretty realistic. Okay. But I understand that a lot of that stuff wasn't true either. But you're talking like, maybe the story was altered, but the actual like combat scenes and how to put it out. Yeah. Yes. Yes. You know, in the movies, you see, you know, there'll be shooting, so maybe shooting on full lot of mad for two minutes. Yeah. And what doesn't last that fast, you know, I'm magazine. You can dump it in like a second or two. Yeah. Right. So this and this like, you know, not reloading. It is kind of crazy. But yeah, you know, there's, there's a crazy movie I just saw that really brought me back. And then combat was that movie warfare this out in the theater now. About to do backup for a second. The movie you just saw. Yeah. How does that work? Oh, I'll listen to. Okay. I was like, hold on. You just. Right. So that fascinates me. You're still taking in cinema through the fact that you're hyper aware of the sounds and what you're listening to. Yes, and sometimes it's like not a lot of action and not a lot of, I'm like, okay, what's going on now? So sometimes I get asked some questions, but for the most part, I get the gist of what's going on. That's so awesome. Wow. That's amazing. Okay. And Joe, I was excited to have you on. And I hope that the listeners are as blown away as I'm because I'm sitting there going, I can go for hours. I mean, the amount of stuff that you've done and the pieces of tossing and the hunting currently and all that, it's mind boggling. Where can people find you or where can they see more of your interviews or when you're, I know you do some speakings. Is there a place they can go to see all of that to kind of, if they want to grab more information and get more inspiration from you? Yes, sure. I actually have a website for my speaking. It's jopjop.us and it has information on me there. And you can just Google me too, on the internet now, and a bunch of stuff pops up. So, you know, it's like, I like spreading the word and talking to people doing this motivational speaking because, you know, when we're out there thinking, you know, we're having a bad day, bad month, bad year. It always could be worse, believe me. And it's good for me to tell my story and speak to and it's helping other people. It's awesome, man. I'll be sure to put the website to down below. So guys, go down to the description, check it out. Oh, yeah. Thanks very much. We appreciate you having on, Joe. You've been fantastic. Thanks for having me, fellas. I still want to find out how to get a PKM from one of those bizarre stuff. You guys figured out, let me know. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. If PKM does, God's going to be sending me pictures of exactly which one that is now. Yeah. It's kind of the Russians version of our belt-fed machine gun, like our M6D, or we now have the 240. Oh. And you know, I can't imagine that you took one of those. That's amazing. That, you know, I'll hear like, Officer gets shot in the head or this and I'm like, oh, my God. I'm like, Joe, you got shot in the dam, man. Yeah. I'm a big guy. So good. That guy's for sure dead, man. I'm amazed that you can shoot in there. There's optics that you can use. I love that. Because I would have thought that would have been taken away from, yeah. I think that's so cool. Yeah. It's great. And I go on these wounded warrior hunts and with these other guys, and you know, the biggest thing, we just want to feel normal again. You know, it's normal for us to have a gun in our hand. It's normal for me to be in the gym. You know, you just want to be normal. Right. Yeah. Yeah. That's amazing. Thank you very much. Joe Prasante, appreciate you. Appreciate your story. And everyone appreciate your service. I'm sure. So thank you for humbling all of us on Monday morning here. Exactly. Yeah. Thank you, Joe. Joe, I'll catch up with you this week. I'll give you a call too. I appreciate it, Dusty. Okay. Cheers. I feel like a bit of a pussy after having to go on. I did before the accident and now I double. I try not to complain about my aches and pains, and then I find myself doing it occasionally. And I will keep my mouth shut for at least three weeks. I think. Yeah. Right. Well, right. Yeah. Yeah. So I love your comment. You're like anybody who's scared to go to failure. Yeah. We're a good cover training to failures. You're going to kill them. And listen, I, you know, another thing I was thinking is, you know how you hear sometimes people are like body building. It's just about a plastic trophy. It's not worth. Dude, he said the words, you know, body building was part of body building family, saved my life, you know. Yeah. And I think that is such a cool example to see how body building could be such a positive, freaking force in somebody's life. Yeah. Guy like that, who's, you know, spent his whole life like extraordinarily gold driven and always having to create things to overcome. Like I'm going to, you know, join the police force and then like I'm going to go for the SWAT team. And then I'm going to, you know what I mean? Yeah. Also, yeah. And then going to go into DA and then all that's, you know, let's, let's step it up and not just be DA, but we're going to do this new fast team. And we're going to, like, always trying to step up levels in life. Yeah. And body building is essentially about like endlessly chasing small goals and elevating, elevating, elevating every single thing about what you're doing. So it just to put it in perspective run, like when he talks about the fast team. So like in the gun world and the two-way community, that would be like the equivalent of not only the Olympia, but like the top, like for all the guys that are out there shooting and stuff and and for everybody who thinks that that stuff is cool, like those guys are like the top five of the Olympia. That's who the first team was, you know? Right. Right. Yeah. I think that's what I think is, you know, the first team to make it and there's, you know, guys trying out that don't qualify 30, 38 guys go that are all extraordinarily trained and only 11 make it. Yeah. You know what I mean? And yeah. When's the last time somebody did a body building prop and lost all their toenails? You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So great stuff. And yeah. I needed that. I'm going to, I'm going to put that to work this week. Yeah. And I hope that everybody listening puts that to work this week. You know? Yeah. I mean, just hearing them sat up in the helicopter. Yeah. Like, you know, you think you're dragging a dead body on the chopper and then the guy sits up and starts talking. Just crazy stuff that, you know, that you only see in movies. Well, I think too that the big takeaway I hope you grab is the gratitude. Yeah. Yeah. I knew him during all of this. And yeah, I mean, obviously at hard days. But overall, he's not dwelling on them. No. And never really did. I mean, obviously you have moments. But I mean, overall, just nothing. And I hope more people will realize like, and even him, what's he saying as he's going through us, there's people that haven't worse than me. Instead of, I got to get out of the head and him blind. I mean, that's a list of me honestly. Yeah, it's a free page to me if you want to be mad at life for a minute. But he just opts to go the other way. And I think we need to do that more often. Just like, yeah, 100%. Yeah. And I don't know a lot about I'm still can't, it's can't get over what he was shot with. He didn't take a nine mill to the shoulder. No. It took a little bit of right fall round right through his head in and out. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, through the helmet. Yeah. So the helmet probably saved his life because it slowed the bullet down just enough. Maybe it had to have been, I mean, still can't get on this side. Realistically, it's one of those cases where if he was differently positioned by a. Anything. Yeah. Right. He's got. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it is one of those cases where it's weird to say, you were really lucky. You're shot in the head and lost your eyes and you're very lucky. Your eyesight. Yeah. Because any movement at all and you're just gone, you wouldn't even know what happened. No. I had a freaky story. My brother when he was doing his early days of medicine, he had to do some emergency room stuff. Yeah. You know, he's infectious disease, but he had to work in like the ER and he actually worked in the ER in Chicago at one point. That'll keep your business. And he saw a guy, when he was in Calgary, he saw a guy come in who fell on a construction site. He had a piece of rebargle right through his head. Oh. And they cut the rebar off and put him on the ambulance, left it in his head, sent me to the ER and they had to like figure out how to remove it. Wow. And they removed it and the guy lived. And I guess he had like issues where he didn't remember like a whole bunch of grades. Okay. Like there were periods of his life. He couldn't remember, but he was still like completely functional. I'm surprised Joe could remember any of that day. Yeah, all those details. Remember running to the helicopter. And you're like, down to the details. Crazy. Yeah. I can't remember yesterday. You know, nothing happened to me. I just, yeah. No, man. Okay. Well, thanks everybody. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and yes, and remember I am mutant.com. Go to I am mutant.com. Use dusty or big round of your codes. Get your ice of search, get your all in, and everyone. Get on the gear. Thank you for everyone that shops on mutant. We appreciate your code usage. Yes. Yes. Okay. And remember everybody is just bodybuilding. Thanks to the Patriot people. You guys are awesome. Yes. That's how I'm in a crew. I was blanched. Why are we whispering? I don't know. I don't know.

Everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building. Of course, Big Ron Parlo, Dusty Han Shah, Scumming Nalli. Got all the guys here. Remember, mutant supporting us big times to go to imuton.com and use your code Dusty20 or Big Ron20. And also, the Patreon, for think, big body building network, much appreciated for everyone and the hits of Patreon. So go to the Patreon link, support think, big, and we appreciate it everyone. And remember, like share, subscribe, comment, and bring them out. There we go. Yeah, well, it's a lot of traffic. Boom, the graphics always there, but now I can integrate it. I don't have to put it in post production. So as we go. I didn't know it was there because I don't know if it's a show. So that's what I do right now. I just want to say to, like, look at our fancy little, kind of makes us look a little different than the other podcast. I like that. Maybe this got a little nuts and box. I also have to point out Ron's amazing new camera. Look at this skin. It's good. It looks a little flawless. Yeah, you look good. Yeah, you look good. I've got a logic tech. It's got 4K. Yeah, that's a good one. I don't know if I need that, but if I want to zoom in on something, I can. Yeah. I don't want to zoom on. I'm pouring it. I'm pouring it. Yeah. Yeah. You're going to want to see the screen. You're going to want to zoom in. Yeah. I don't use it for the show, but for home board, I definitely have that. I've got three of them. Yeah. You already knew this guy told you that story. Interesting. Because your live streaming every night. It's all about the angles. It's angles or everything. Come hang out with us. Okay. Dusty's like nervously laughing because I'm a little too close to home. You're going to actually have a link up. You shut your mouth. Yeah. I need to go on my three games. Okay. So what are we starting off the show with guys? We're talking about, are we talking about bodybuilding myths? What are we talking about? Scott. Yeah. I think that was it. We were all going to try to come up with one bodybuilding myth. Something that we maybe believed in the past or something that people generally believe. Maybe something that, because I know that there's even things like a decade ago that I would have held true to. Like a simple one might be like you got to have way protein isolate after you train. You got it because it's got to get in there quick. And then from there we got like the hydrolyzed way, which was even faster and more expensive. You know, and fast. Yeah. And now we realize that as long as you get the protein in, there's no like one hour window. And after that, you know, you're all like window. Yeah. So that was one. Not too huge. That's a huge, that's a huge thing. Scott is over thinking that timing of proteins. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, I thought that would be just a place to get started. But I was curious to hear what you guys might have to add to this topic. And who knows, we might even educate somebody who still thinks of one of these things as true, right? Well, the thing with the protein one is people have to remember that, you know, like let's say you eat eight ounces of steak. Yeah. That steak takes like, you know, what? I mean, eight to 12 hours to actually fully completely digested and absorbed. So you have amino acids dripping into your bloodstream from that steak for hours and hours and hours. So let's say you eat a steak at four o'clock pm and then you go train chest at six. And you're done your chest record at seven. You weren't like without amino's in your blood. Yeah. Yeah. Like there's a lot of proteins still in your blood. You ate a steak like three or four hours before that. It's still absorbing. Obviously you want to put some more it. Aminos in because you want to, you know, keep feeding the machine. But this urgency, like there's some kind of emergency that your bloodstream has no protein in it. Isn't exactly how your body works. There's a lot more overlap than that. And people people forget about all that that overlap. And it's in everything. There's a lot of overlap that people don't think of. They want to define things and put them in rigid categories like post-workout meal, Permacut meal. These meals have to be this way. But it's, it's really a lot. It's a lot more blended than that. You know what, if I can add one thing to the, it got me like instantly as you're saying that. And maybe it's because I'm on my third cup of coffee. But my brain's moving real quick, you know? And I started thinking that we went to the extreme or people went to the extreme and then they're like, Well, it, you know, it doesn't matter. So you don't, it's a myth that you need six, seven meals a day. You can really do it in two or three. But the reality is, is that for me to grow muscle, I'm like, you know, if we're looking at like some additives, I'm like an actomorph. And for me to get all the food in, I would need in three muscles. It would be like a mega feast. So, you know, could you get away with doing three meals? You know, and still be able to grow muscle. I think you could if it makes sense. Like, does it logically make sense to eat that much at once? And I eaten, you know, 14 ounces of chicken, 16 ounces of chicken per meal. You know, four cups of rice and whatever else. Yeah. The meal frequency thing for a lot of people just comes down to like volume of food. You're just trying to manage volume of food. You know, the really big guys that are eating six, seven meals. That's just, they're just trying to manage meals. Yeah. But, you know, I mean, I've lots of people that I have them on five meals. And like, I've given people a five meal diet. And they're like, oh, I thought they'd be six. They don't have these six. And I'm like, well, you know, maybe it's 140 pound of female. Right. And if I break her food into six meals, her meals are just tiny. Two ounces. Right. Yeah. So maybe she has four meals in a shake. And then she's got a little bit more substance to her. You know, she's actually having like, you know, one and a half chicken breast with a cup of rice and some veggies for a meal. And instead of like some little fractional little feeding of the meat. Right. And it's not going to be the satisfying anybody. Right. So size of meals makes a difference. Like you have to be satiated after your meal. You know, you can't have a meal that's so small that there's no end to the hunger trigger. You know, there's just being enough food there to like do something. Yeah. I feel like the the majority of the myths that I've run into. It's, I mean, like, for example, I think another myth is is the giant fear. Like there's a line between overtraining and, you know, and what I find like, and I find under stimulating. You know, in the gym. So it's like, I know like when I was a kid and I got started. I know we've had this conversation before. I used to go to the gym and I'd be like, I'm not going to leave until I puked. Right. Like or, or you know what I mean? Like there was, there was no rhyme or reason. It just went into the gym and I was like, I don't know how to train like, I didn't know how to train intensely yet. So I trained hard. Yeah. That makes sense. So it was like just balls to the wall on as many things I could and I would leave because there wasn't enough intensity to, you know, to make that overtraining. So to speak. So I think actually, you mean actual, you inside the muscle intensity. Yes. And that's where people don't get it. It's like, I write programs every day that I would never have done in my prime. Because it would have been too much. No, so I find that overtraining is something that's, that's, it's not a myth, but it's just overused because most guys don't train hard enough in their individual sets for overtraining to ever be a problem. Yeah. Or as Lee Priest used to say, you can't overtrain unless you under eat. Right. Right. I also think people forget that overtraining is not like a thing that just happens to you today. Yeah. Oh, I did too many sets of quads. So therefore they're not going to grow. That's not how your body works. It's like a systemic thing over time. You know, you slowly get behind on recovery. You slowly get a little more, you know, back to up, I guess, on the amount of workload you're pumping in and then you eventually get to a point where in a state of overtraining. Right. But it's not something that like happens today. Yeah. If you're like overdo it for a while to get into that true state of overtraining and, you know, obviously as someone's dieting really hard, they're overtraining threshold is going to be different because their calories are so much lower and their recovery is going to be slower and there's so many factors, but yeah, you don't have to worry about it today. You're not going to like shrink if you do one extra set of squats, like you'll be fine. Let's find this. It's something we all have to learn and I remember. So when Brandon Curry was really coming up, I mean, he'd always been around always doing well. Like he'd one, you know, like Arnold, South America or something before that, but you know, when he won the Arnold USA and then he won the Olympia, like he was on fire at that time, right? And when I had talked to him, we asked him, I was like, man, what really changed? You know, what changed to help you get so good because you're good before, but now you're really good. And he said, you know, I, I had always listened to the podcast and listened to a lot of education and I was always afraid of overtraining. And it was like, then, and I said, what was different about oxygen? That was a big part of it. He said, and then I, you know, trained at oxygen, I realized that with my genetics, I don't have to worry about that. There's the key with my genetics. Yeah, that's a key line that I don't know that some of them, I don't think the elite understand Scott. Yeah. So like I was talking to Dre at one time, okay? And she was saying, you know, we were talking about the drugs in female vibe, I should say, let me refresh. I was talking about, right? Yeah, I mean, I'm like, of course. And she's, but it was funny because she said, I don't know why they, why so many women do that. And I thought, in the back of my head, because they're trying to catch you who doesn't have to. Yeah, you know, it's a tricky spot that people don't think of the genetics. Like, of course, the assumption is that, well, if, if this guy is this big and Ronnie Coleman is one and a half is times he must be taking more drugs. I'm not saying he doesn't, I don't know, but I wouldn't bet on it. Like, I bet you. He's taken the same or less and he just responds better. Yeah. That's where we know that have really good genetics. And we personally know what they've done. It would hurt people's feelings. There are a lot of hurt feelings with some of the ghosties that we are privy to and actually aware of. Yeah. Yeah. And that's where I think then that doesn't mean that, you know, other people people with less genetics. You guys are definitely genetics appear genetically superior to me. I'm obviously, I'm better than other people in the world. There's, you know, there's all sorts of love on your right or steps. Yeah. But that doesn't mean that I can't still grow. You know what I mean? And that's where I really started coming in to figuring out, um, frequency, you know, getting as much as I can out of a smaller amount of training. So that I could get out recover and then get that trigger again, you know, and it's so basic. But it all goes back to me now. At this point, it's like my whole world of bodybuilding has come full circle. Like initially it was about training and then it was about the food and then it was about the drugs. And now it's, and then it went really hard into the food and now I'm back to the training because I realize like that is the foundation of it all. You put the trigger that you get, that's what allows you to grow. And more frequently you can get that trigger and recover, you know, the better you're going to be able to do. So yeah, there's people who have failed something that our thing is key is the very rarely in my entire career of helping people watching people is volume increasing the answer. Hmm, but on the same sentence, in many, many times frequency increasing has been the answer. Oh yeah, I could see that. I see you're not, you know, it's, you're making sure there's enough time to rest on low sets. But you're trying to get back to doing it again as soon as possible. The idea, you know, the principle behind DC training is if most people are training everything. Fifty two times a year. Well, what if you're training it x amount more that means you're having more chances to grow on paper like in the most simple mindset it makes sense. And I feel like that's where things work the best is in general. If you can step back being a newbie is sometimes safe because you just make it really basic. Well, if I do it more often. With a little less fine wouldn't that mean I have more chances. Yeah, possibly even that's how Kobe Bryant Bryant made a career. He did the simple math. If I do my first workout at four in the morning and my last one at 10 p.m. I will get two more workouts per day than everyone I could compete against. And over time I will be better than them. Right, right. It was. Yeah, yeah. No, that's a frequency. It's always been like the thing that I wrestled with because I lacked the skill of being good at backing off my volume enough to make frequency increases work properly. Does that make sense? Yes. Absolutely. I tried to train things twice a week a few times and I didn't like I didn't get better. I managed to like, you know, keep my strength through a prep and like look good. But after I analyzed the amount of extra work I did training everything twice a week, I didn't look better. And it's just wasted. Yeah, and I didn't, but I didn't approach it from the point of view like, oh, well, that doesn't work. I, I approach it from the point of view as, I didn't quite get that right and then figure out out. Yeah, I was doing, I was still doing too many sets for each workout and you know, so it didn't make it didn't make me better. I could have trained everything once a week and been just as good at that show because, you know, how I looked here before versus how I looked that year. It wasn't, it wasn't better. I didn't improve anybody parts or anything like it was, it was one of those things. So I just felt like I never really figured out the volume thing. And I think about this program I did when I was in high school once was called like the Bulgarian power burst. It was like got a muscle mag. You know, it was one of those programs you were got a muscle mag. Leo, Leo, costus and Tom Plats were involved, you know. And, and, and, and I remember the volume, the frequency was high. It was like everything three times a week. But the volume was literally like two worksets. Yeah. Yeah. Right. And I, I, I look back to that program I did in high school and I'm like, What if I, what if that program would, would work better for me, had I understood like, How to get the most out of a set and understood everything a little bit better. You know what I mean? Like, you know, my, my two working sets in high school were probably a little sloppy or a more reckless and, you know, that sort of thing. So I, I sometimes think about that program and maybe, you know, maybe, maybe I should have tried that. And then I listened to, you know, listen to, um, it's got talk about fortitude training. Yeah. Right. And, and his frequencies fairly high on that stuff, isn't it? Yeah. It's like full body, you know, like, it'll be like a heavy upper body pump lower body in the same way. Right. Yeah. Yeah. That's crazy. And I, I think that's kind of interesting to me, but I never tried it. You know what I mean? Yeah. So I'm still open to like, you know, some people think, Oh, you and us, you're a progressive overload zealance. Right. I put that. Well, like, no, no, it's just I tried everything. Yeah. That's the only thing that, like, like, progressive overload worked for me. Like, I, I, and whether or not you think it worked well or not is up for argument, but like, When I trained that way, I saw a strength increases. When I trained that way, the scale moved. When I trained that way, people told me I was looking huge. When I trained out, you know what I mean? Like, there's a reason why I kept gravitating back to that Dorian style training. Because every time I settled into a good groove, I would be like, this is, this is working. To a degree. I mean, right. Maybe there would have been something that worked better, but I just never figured out another way to train. I tried and didn't, you know, as I did high volume for like two years straight at one point in the middle of all this and it's not like everyone was like, what's going on? Dude, you're way bigger. Nothing. That didn't happen. So, you know, I don't know what the answer is, you know? Yeah. The answer is, is person a person, right? Like, I feel like that's where things get tricky and bodybuilding. Like you said, especially when people assume your, your focus is one way. I gravitated towards DC because I saw people who were built like me doing it. I mean, structurally and really changing. And I was like, okay, structurally, I look like them. So if I train like that, and I'm mentally, I have the ability to do that. This is good. And all kidding aside, you know what's going to sound like a joke. I needed a scoreboard. Like when I played sports, there was a scoreboard. You ended the day with a winner, a loss and the logbook was my scoreboard. I've always hated anything that is up in the air. Like if I said, oh, how is X? They're like, it's good. What is that means, sorry? Yeah. Like, how good? What does it mean good? Whereas if somebody said, how was your work at this, it was the best chess work I've ever had my entire life today. Yeah. Because it's on paper. I got two more than four. Two these numbers. And my, you know, and the way I perform the reps. Yeah. This is literally my best workout of my entire life. That was good for me. And on the flip, if I didn't have a good day, you could never go like, well, but I think I thought a good palm. You know, bro, I think it was pretty solid. Okay. Today's salt. So listen, we've got so much stuff here, guys. I have to tell you, Dusty came prepared today. This is my, you guys can't see this, but there's this list. Ron hands the list. We have a list. Like Dusty, a list of objectives for us. Ron, did you know that? I did. It was the best artist. You credited me for 430 in the morning. Yeah. Actually did them and hit send. What was e-mail? So, you asked Dusty, message to it. 430 in the morning. I wake up. I look at my phone and our group text. So do we have any topics? So you guys are thinking of, yeah, 430 in the morning. And this is on his mind. What about this one, though? I like this with all the information at our fingertips. Do you think that some, especially beginners, are over-complicating the process? And that, I think, especially goes for like our followers. Because if you're watching these shows, like you just look, part of it is that we love learning. You know what I mean? And there's so much you can learn. Yeah, which is great, right? That's in itself. It's cool. I think that that's the basis of a lot of what we talk about on this show is, you know, there's so many fancy words out there and so many fancy principles to grasp. And there's so many posts coming through our feeds saying, you know, optimal sleep patterns are found when, you know, this happens. And this happens. And so you get people that are like, you know, just, you know, obviously joking, but you know, they're taking out their digital blood amino acid tester and, you know, and, you know, giving himself liver biopsies before bed to make sure that they're in the reverse hour performing optimally and hooking themselves up to, you know, heart monitors, you know, every night to make sure they're sleeping is perfect and, you know what I'm saying. And I just, I feel like it really does come down to like that joke we made on the air a little while ago about the bottle of tests on the Costco membership. So yeah, and, and like I really also to. I'm a big believer in like, you know, there's, there's, there's, there's what's perfect and optimal and all that, but there's also something to be said as an athlete or anyone who's just trying to like build a business or you're just trying to accomplish a goal. There's something to be said about keeping your mind clutter free. Like, like, the more cluttered you are, the more like just think of it as like being in like a cluttered room that has toys all over the floor and stuff in the doorbell rings. And you got to get to the door, you have step around all this stuff, you know, I feel like that's how people get through their day is just stepping around toys and over garbage and moving stuff out of the way. And it might be a pile of books there that are really good books, but they're in the way you got to move them out of the way to get, you know what I mean like it doesn't the knowledge might be fantastic stuff, but it's clutter. For you, for you specifically like it's clutter, it's clutter. It's not necessary at this point in time and I just feel like that that's where a lot of people are right now. There's just so much clutter in their head and then that this doesn't doesn't just go for body building. It's like we're talking about anxiety levels and people now and how everyone's so stressed out because they're being bombarded with too much stuff on their phone and all that that's all clutter to like we're doing this. We're doing this in a really big way to ourselves and and it's this is just one of the the results is people just having too much going on in their heads. What do you think Scott? Yeah, I totally agree with that and you know and sometimes I see it and sometimes you know it's I see well I see it in the education because there are there's a lot of fun stuff you can learn that you don't necessarily need and that's okay like that's great. But just you have to also know how to put that in into perspective and you know I used to think that training had to be the certain way and I remember somebody asked me like hey how do I really get focused to go in the gym and train that I really thought about it and I kind of wrote up this little script almost of like what my experience is like getting into the gym you know getting ready for work out. And I thought it was so beautiful and I you know because yes, you could imagine like I really got into it the little details you know and and I showed it to Scott Stevenson and I was like hey I was thinking I could save this and send it to other clients that you don't want it to figure out how to get their intensity up and stuff and and how to focus and he said well you know yeah it's okay. I was like it's okay you know it's perfect. Yeah this is what you do this is what you do. He said it's step three turn the music. He's like it's good if that's the way you like to train. I was like okay yeah so so I guess the thing is is that this you know if you don't like training that way then it's not going to be fun and if it's not going to be fun that it's not going to be the workout for you like it's awesome as a DC training is awesome as progressive overload is. If it absolutely terrifies you and you're not going to have fun with your workout and you can't get your head around it it's not the workout for you right now doesn't mean that's always going to be the case and I could remember having pre workout ceremonies that would take an hour and I just get overwhelmed with it like well shit okay so I got to take I got to eat this meal and then I got to take the insulin and then after that I have to get these shakes together and put these two powders in and then okay and I got to get that shaking up and then I got to get the growth hormone you know all this stuff it would become over. We become overwhelming and it no longer is fun and that kind of thing that it was clutter at that point was it going to be better you know optimal if I were to have all those things lined up absolutely could I have done probably almost just as well without it absolutely. What do you call that run like does it move the needle like that that's the big question mark with things you do because. I get asked that all the time and I and I multiply that by a hundred when I'm thinking of people who are more well known for their for. schooling side of bodybuilding because I was laughing because people be like when do I when you take your growth hormone and my interest when you won't forget. Right that's when I would take it like when you will never forget it is fine like and I know that is at the correct answer scientifically no and there's a full breakdown. It's funny because I used to tell people to take it at night because John drew it right whole thing up and he was like he was well that's true he actually messed with you because that's true as long as we're taking four I use your last. And I would John will be honest to actually want people to get it in I don't really give a shit when they take it. They just they need to take it like it's not that big a deal and I know that we're teaching them. Like perfection but I feel like it's important to go back to but are you going to the gym and slang and bang because that's the magic. Like I see kids in our gym right now and it's funny I guess I'm just getting old but I'm not getting old and grumpy now with all the crap going on my life. I'm getting old and like looking back and being like yeah I remember that because these kids are coming in there and they're just blasting and they have no idea what they're doing. And I'm like good that's how you do it. Yeah do that blast your ass off work as hard as you can and eventually you'll learn the other stuff but you've got the important part now which is going here and have fun and kick the crap out of yourself. That's the magic you know what I mean yeah I literally had a kid the other day you'll love this run out of kid the other day and he almost missed on a bench. So I came over and grabbed it I said hey if I'm here like grab me for a set I can spot you two seconds there he's like kind of gave her spots was like sure. He gets a couple extra reps you know and I was like man I get a good vibe from this kid. He's nine in the morning I'm like he's got to be 19 or 20 years old because it's like middle of the week and he shoots me at an email that day. Yeah and he's like hey I'm the kid from the gym I wanted to see if there's any way I could hire you to train me for a session. Oh nice and I was like I can't charge this kid like he's in there killing himself and I can't train him in the gym either. So I was like how do you just meet me for a workout this week? Cool man and he was like all right so we trained back. I told him I was like I've been watching for a minute because he trains hard as like how would I make a couple adjustments to a train because he was going in there and like warming up and he got whatever 135 on a go to failure. And then go up and wait and I'm like oh right the effort is there but the thought process isn't you know so we go through the whole thing. Getting awesome workout but then the big bonus that I loved was I have I feel like De Niro I've got a neck for picking the right guy because I was like how old are you anyways and he was 17 I'm like. 17 wow why are you like the gym at nine in the morning just. I graduated earlier things to do in life because I moved out I live on my own. I have a job I'm like wow oh yeah he's like I'm never charging you for anything. You want to know you are the kid from like 1980 that somehow is pulling this off in 2023 you know but it was awesome because again the thing that drew my attention was he was killing himself and he was in there by himself. I'm going to go to failure on a bench press and not asking anyone for help but I'm like that's some dumb shit I would have done. Yeah it's good topic though there's because that is something I think that we all need to reevaluate even guys like us who have been doing it for a long time I think it's important and so it's ever since I had that conversation with Dr. Mike Miltech about dopamine and about overtraining and it really does come down to us having fun are you having fun focused on this moment. Or are you worried if you're worried you're thinking about the future you're thinking about what needs to happen or you're worried about the past and how things went. You access a completely different sort of brain chemicals and it's not going to they're not the ones that are going to help you grow you know and that's honor off gear you know. Stress makes such a big negative impact on us. Yeah it's what I don't believe it. Yeah it's amazing what having a good time does. Yeah yeah we don't have a mean. Yeah what the one of the the one more myth I was going to bring up. Oh yeah see what you guys think and it drives me insane don't you learn people say. Oh yeah it's nice and hot. We get. We're going to go say that. He's out about that. He's doing he's doing step mill with a sweat suit on he's going to be. And I'm like people. I try to get crazy. We have a lot of that around here there there's always been a lot of that around here. I tell people I'm like if you want to get lean faster you should actually train in a freezer. We're going to actually do your cardio in a freezer with no shirt on. Right you'd be shivering like crazy. I don't know how do you guys does that bother you and people say that. Or do you guys. Doesn't you get to the read but it makes you laugh. No I don't I don't agree but it's. I think it's one of those things where some. I try to file it under effort and say okay. You're trying to make it harder which I back. Right I respect that. But other than that like you know if you get into it like. I used to train in long sleeves but it was because I didn't want to look at myself. I learned that that was a best way for me to go to the gym and just train. And I've talked about this on the show before it started out because of JJ Marsh. I came to the gym the first time a train with him. And I typed up on shorts. And he goes tank top. I'm like. Yeah. Yeah. The thing is is if you have to wear a tank top to look huge or not. I was like. Oh he goes. See I cover up and when you get huge you can't hide it. Yeah. It's stuck in my mind. So I started buying like long sleeves shirts of train. But then I also noticed because when you're when you're getting into body building I think what people don't realize is when I was young I looked in the mirror more. But you weren't saying you looked good you're like oh he's dealt suck. I got to work on my notes. You're like everything you look at is how terrible you are. So I started doing that to stay covered up. But then in the summer and Arizona wasn't an option. It was too hot. I was like I can't. We're right. I'm going to die. So you know the hardcore was gone. But no I agree with you. That is one of those things that you see regularly. I'd be the guy up there with a fan on the stepmail if I could. I'd like really flip on one's on. Yeah. Yeah. He and hot doesn't burn more fat guys. No. That's hot. He's going to sweat more. And it could just take away from your performance. You know. Yeah. You know. You know. You might. You might. You might. Look. Crazy when you get off the stepmail and drop your pants because you've. You've sweat all the you've sweat so much and you've got the blood pump and your legs might look all crazy. But that doesn't mean that they're going to look exact like an hour later after you've drank. You know, two years of water to rehydrate and everything. You're just going to be back to where you were before I get as nothing to do with fat loss. Yeah. I just love about the journey bed. You know how you do that. You got a tending bed. Good. You get out in your veins. You're just everywhere. Yeah. Yeah. I had done it before. My first coach told me, you know, put a hoodie on. When you get on the treadmill and put another hoodie on over there. Yeah. Yeah. It was like so. Yeah. Yeah. And this so farming tend to hell's powerhouse. It was. It was that that building was so garbage by the end. There were so many leaks in the ceilings. You would think you were in like a some sort of like poke post apocalyptic movie. There's these puddles all over the floor. Literally like that place is falling apart. And it was World Headquarters at the time. Anyway, they didn't have AC. The AC broke didn't get it fixed. And the whole front wall was all windows. So in the middle of summer in Michigan, the humidity is just crazy. And it might have rained yesterday. So now there's puddles on the floor too. And they're like rust puddles. They're just it was the worst. And I mean, they're in like a stutmille right in the window. Just like with my hoodie on and my hoodie on over that. Just walk on my walking sweating, sweating, sweating. Oh. Yeah. Well, mentally you knew you were beast mode. So that's fine. Yeah, you know what? It's the before it was beast mode. There's something there is something to making something harder. You know what I mean? There's something to that. So yeah, I get that. Yeah. But you know, it could have get the way performance. Absolutely. And then then you go on. You want cramping and. It basically cramped up in the car. The way home. Yeah. Yeah. Pulling muscles out. I, I get it. It might mentally make you think I can get. I'm getting shredded. Yeah. Like no one's going to beat me. I'm on that step. No, with my three sweatsuits on and my garbage bags. And I'm just getting shredded. And yeah. Maybe mentally that's that's. That's like, I'm, you know, I don't want to like, hey, I'm not going to come and disturb your zen. You know, I'm not going to come and go. Excuse me. Did you know that you're actually not making it. You're right. You're just hotter. Like, you know, I'm not going to come and tell them that, you know, it's, it's, it's, it's just, it's just not how the body works. If you want to really go sit on your back step and minus in below zero weather. Great. I'm really glad that you pointed this all out. Like, you're, you're the last few sentences wrong because in this day and age, if we say anything, they disagree or they're getting canceled completely. They're immediately hit us because Ron hates sandwiches and hoodies. That's what I said. That's what I said. Ron said you should sweat when you work out. Yeah, you're supposed to be cold. You're cold when you're workout. You're never going to shredded. Yeah. It's not what I said. So I can't remember when he called me as wrong. Yeah. Ronny knows more around parlor. It's a little obvious. We had a really good question. I agree. More Ron. Yes. We had a really good listener question that I can't remember where I found it from. It might have been from Patreon. But it was somebody who I think hasn't competed because he had asked us. He said, hey, what happens between prejudging and the night show? Like, what do the guys do? What is that like? Well, at, um, it's a 2013 North Americans. Um, I had sex between the morning show and the night show. Yes. I always should do that. Did you have to put your knee in touch, stop? No, it's pretty good. Everything around the hips was all right. It was, it was all standing. Don't worry. I didn't like, you know, I got a story. I got a story behind me. I got a story. I got a story. Yeah. Well, back to the night show. Look pretty good at the evening show. Think I would have done better if I would have looked that way at the morning show. But that's just, you know, because it's just one of that sex before morning is what he's saying. Yeah. Yeah. I just started before the morning show. I know. That's one thing I made an adjustment in the notes after that show. I said, you know, note should move the sex to prejudging. But then did you ever wonder after the next show should it be prejudging and then also before the night show? Oh, well, this is probably where we're headed. Right? I mean, if one is good, isn't too better, wait a minute. This is bodybuilding after all. Yeah. That's okay. I got a job. Up the dose. Go ahead. I'm going to tell you story. Up the dose. I worked with a couple. And they were living in different cities at the time. This is it's get, Kanky. Um, I was a coach. I was not there. Okay. There's not so couple thing. It was it. No. They met up at, I think it was junior nationals. So they haven't seen each other for some time. They're both competing. This is, you know, hey, can you bang my wife scenario? Is it? No. Go ahead. They've clients. Let's be professional. I'll be quiet. I'll be quiet. So anyway, though, you know, I'm working with both of them. And the next morning, I can't remember where the hand prints were. But his hand, the his back was just, just right. That's amazing. Completely redo the tan after that. I don't know what happened that night. The next morning, I've teamed went to bed. So good. Next morning, there was hand prints all over it. She got a wrap. All the story correctly. She was in the bathroom. She slipped and started to fall backwards. So she grabbed onto him. And then he leaned back. So they kind of smudged down. That's where they were in the nail marks. Yes. Um, but he protected her head from hitting the ground. So it was not going to say. It was. But I had to recrope that. I appreciate your. It was 2013. And she was class A. Um, I think she was class A actually. Oh, yes. I'm helping Scott with his reputation of telling people's names. So my bad. There you go. That's a good one. That's a good one. I guess. Yeah. I don't know. Morning. Morning tonight show. It just depends. Some people. I have them. Just like just have clean meals. Yeah. You know what I mean? A couple of small clean meals. Maybe they have a leader of water from morning show tonight show. And I just tell them just like keep that water going in. And keep the meals clean. Not too much food. See where you look at, you know what I mean? And another people that's like, hey, you know, put a put a more food in. We got, you know, maybe maybe you think they're going to go to the overall and you're like, Damn, that's super was like, not, you know, he's not his condition. But he's really full. So maybe, you know, you're going to be going up against this super. So there's a little bit of strategy. Sometimes for the overall, you know, maybe it looks like you got an easy class win. But you know what the overall is going to look like. So you might go, oh, let's push the food into you or that sort of thing. But for the most part, you know, you hopefully nailed it for the morning and the Trient main thing that is ideally, you know, hopefully you didn't miss the morning and you're trying to fix things. But, you know, it's just kind of staying calm and and keeping things like, I have people watch their weight. I have people watch their weight because the scale doesn't lie. Like if you look phenomenal at 213. And then you check your weight at four in the afternoon and you're still 213. I'm going to be like, oh, you must still look pretty damn good because you were 213 this morning and you were on the button. But if they check the scale and they're like, oh, I'm 206 now. I might be like, oh, well, I have to have a look at you. Like, you know, what happened? 206 and drier than drier than you can possibly imagine or are you 206 and you look flat. You know, like, where did that wake go? Have you been pissing all day and didn't realize it or you know, like, there's there's some things that have to be thought of. For the most part, I think you're just trying to hold. You, you just reminded me of a, of a myth that I have to point out, which is the idea that guys weigh in and then they carb load and just get drastically heavier. Yeah, I always laugh at that because when I step on skit, like for example, I mean, I have drastic year why I dropped a bunch. But I would typically like the morning of prejaging on two day show. Let's say I weighed 240. By the next night finals, I'd be 230 something, 232. Like dry like and drier and nastier. But I used to laugh because people are man you carbon up man, fill it out getting heavy and I'm like, I'm eating a lot and I'm absolutely lighter. Like I would consistently, once I started dropping weight from pulling the water, it would just keep going. And we would just make sure that the look was fine, like you said, Ron, but like I would say that the answer to the question, if you're a good bodybuilder of what you do between the night and the morning, it's relax. Yep, to feed out sleep. Like I used to literally, it's crisp with laugh, but he would come over, wake me up because I'd go to sleep, he'd wake me up, I'd pose, he'd be like, all right, eat this and this and this and then I'd be like, okay, I'd eat to me, we chat for a little bit and then I'd go back, I don't want to go to bed. And I'd go to bed and then like three hours later he'd come back in, knock on the door, wake up, pose. That was for five days straight. Yeah, I was so relaxed because I owned a business and it was the only time that I would ever completely ignore my business for five days. I wanted to do a sleep and wake up and have conversations with Chris and E, I would even look at the pictures. He'd like, you look nuts, you want to see him, eh? So later. Before we got recording, we were talking about posing off stage when you're getting ready at North Americans. And that's where you turned pro. Do you remember that story between the morning? Because to me, they're all kind of a blur between the free judging of the night show. I don't have like very deep memories of those times, but do you remember that at all? Because that had to be a really cool one. Well, that was the only difference was for that show. It was 2014. And so I go, it's telling you Scott, the best lighting in the hotel. This is where you advance as a bodybuilder. When you first start, you don't want anyone to see. Well, I found that the best lighting in the hotel is right in front of the elevator doors on the first floor. They're down a hallway. And you had a hallway and there's like a little nuck where the elevator is, you know? But that was the best light. So I was doing all of my pictures right there. But I remember two things. Number one, I did my quarter turn pictures first. And I turned to the back and I hit the back, quarter turn. And everyone goes, oh shit. And I'm like, what? And she's like, look, I looked at the picture. And I said, send that one to Christmas to everyone's fucked. Yeah, because I knew. I mean, it was like, it was just perfect. And then from that on, I knew that everything was on point. And then it was funny because prejazzy and Ron, you know how this is. North American stage is really small. So they were like, I don't know how many supers, but over 20. And so they called out the first four guys. And I'm like, sometimes people in line. And I hear Steve go, where's Dusty? And finally they find my number and they call me. So I start walking, I walk to the side because you walk based on the order. Yeah, before I got there, he goes, go to the middle. And I was like, oh, we're done here. Like so that separation between the two, we're just relaxing. And if anything, what's stunk about it, I think Ron can understand this because he did the same. So once I won, it wasn't exciting because I already knew. And then you have years, four years of attempt to get a pro card. And then you win. And I mean, I did not as many as Ron, but I mean, I did eight attempts to get a pro card. Yeah. And the first attempt was fifth. So it wasn't like I was, you know, the guy that was coming his way up. It took that long. And I remember at dinner, Jose was like, you don't seem that excited. I was like, it was kind of time for this to happen. And now I'm the worst professional bodybuilder in the world. Yeah. It was kind of an interesting way of looking at it. But as far as the between shows, it was always the same. Just every few hours. That show, Christy, didn't even come. So we were just sending pictures. But I think the biggest thing is you relax. Yeah. If you stress this killing themselves, like stress cannot help you embody building the hand. I had one where I didn't. It was like an hour and a half away from home. Stay level show that I just went out there. Checked in in the morning. And then, no, I checked in the night before and then got a hotel. And then I had to check out of the hotel because I wasn't going to stay there that night. So between the shows, like, I had nowhere to go. And you see that. You see guys, it just like hang out at the venue, they're laying on the floor. And that was me that year. And I remember it was just me, nobody came with me. And I went to my car and I like just drove off. And I'm like, where can I go? And I found like a park. It was in the summer. So like I found some shade. And I just like turned the AC on and set my seat back as far as I could. And slept, you know, eight food and slept and just relaxed. That was it. I do have memories of that, you know. Those are some of the best memories, too, of competing, you know, or like the, that, that, that, that putting it all together or like, I mean, like, I, like I said, I'm not the genetically gifted guy. Like, I'm, I'm a state level competitor, but like I went to Los Angeles. And I like a week out. I just, I've said it like I'm going to, I'm going to go a week out to do this show in LA. See what it's like to compete there. And I signed up for the show and gotten Airbnb, like in Venice Beach. And then I got to go to Golds, you know, before everything closed down and all that. I think it was just awesome. Yeah, they had, they had, they had, I rented a car. They had like bicycles at the Airbnb. So I could like ride the Golds. Just spent the week doing that. Like Dave Calc came out for a day and hung out with me and we trained and my friend Andrea Watson lived out there. So we like shot some video and stuff and, you know, got to meet a whole bunch of cool people backstage in Los Angeles. And it was just such a fun experience. I hope that people do more of that. And that's a thing too is like when I say that like that, I'm not a pro level guy. I can still have a heck of a time. Like a lot of fun. You know what I mean? You can have a great time competing. You don't have to be like, you know, well, should I be shooting for the Olympia this year? You know, and I'm going to make the, I'm going to be an Olympia competitor. I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. I agree. What do we have a next dusty? We have the go soon. But we did have another question here. Who in dusty wrote it? How do you know that? Well, it's on your list. Damn it. One reason. Who is the cutest dog in the world? And why is it Donna? I just, I wouldn't say that. I wouldn't say that. I just wrote that. Well, the Harvey's a man's man. That's well. Okay. You're trying to be cute. He's man. You know, I had to bleed my own word there because I'm up to the one on freaking wrong right now. I'm losing to Ron in the battles right now. But you know, the other words count. I was the, I were the S word, all those. I had one S and two F's. Ron's only had one F the entire episode. I'm a little heath. I'm trying to get him round up. I'm going to say something. Maybe this will help. Well, obviously Donna's way cute of the dead. Oh, oh, oh, oh. Nothing. He's still in swear. Dang it. It's too early. Not. I'm not going to let you trigger me. I'm going to show you. I've been working on my triggering. And I'm not going to react to this. Okay. It's good. Because I mean flat landing is not like freestyle. Oh, oh, oh, oh. It's coming out. We're like the nerds. Everything I can go back. I can't touch anything that also hurts me. So I'm like, no, nothing about an. I can't say that. Okay. Yeah. I did like your, I did like your is really that great in the grand scheme of things. Question. It's nice. Apparently. We have people in need to know. Yeah. I need to. I mean, in your vast experience, because I feel like Ron might have something to say about this, he'll lead this off with. Well, I don't really know a lot about it. And then he's going to roll out a 30 minute diatri. Hey. Put the effort into being prepared. That's all I'm going to say. It's true. It's a valid point. It's a valid point. It's a good. Yeah. It's doing as worth doing correctly dusty and clean. Right. Here's one thing where the amount of effort put in directly affects the amount of enjoyment taken out. That's not. Let's go with it. I like this. I like what we're doing. We're all very clean. Right. Yeah. A lot's being said without anything being said. This is phenomenal. Right under the reader of the. Yeah. There you go. I did have someone say, have you guys figured out this A. I think yet because I need you to return to full F bombs. Yeah. Yeah. That's how they do. I'm not sure exactly if we're going to ever get back to normal normal F. They've lightened up a little bit. Yeah. They've lightened up a little bit. This is on as you don't pull out your concealed carry. Oh, yeah. No concealed carry. Nothing like that. Okay. I want to why there's a sudden reason to push on that. Like I understand other things. But because as a company, like so if people understand with YouTube, when obviously big companies might say like if there's any swearing on this channel, I don't want my ad be put on their videos. So obviously if you're doing no swearing, no political talking or nothing, your channel will monetize better. But to just like basically ban the cross of board just because Ron has passion. You're baning passion right now. This is fascist. And I feel like if Ron was not a straight Canadian man with light skin, we might have some traction to get on, you know. Some sort of attack against him. If he had you know, he was missing a... Some days when he existed. Just isn't all the YouTube figure points. He's right instead of bought off. He's throw it every single little popsicle. I'm gonna cut the last 10 minutes. Right, right, right. The oppression of Ron because he's a white male. Yeah, yeah. This is where he's at. This is just... That's the only way. I'm sorry, my bad. Yeah, yeah, I love it. Anyway, it's not like I've ruined this episode. I'm gonna go get my hernius stabbed. Yeah. Yeah, what's going on? I'll throw a quick. You have a doctor's appointment. Yeah, I have a hernius, but it's just a read on one. But I'm hoping, one of two things going to happen. Either he's going to schedule me for next week or he's going to cut it real quick. Kurnies are not what they used to be. Like he's like, oh, I might go through the office. Dang. And I was like, that would be awesome. And you're awake. So he just like chill and watch. So he would just slice his skin and what, so the mash back together is the mesh just broken or what? Yeah, I don't know if he'll tell you, I assume he would take my mesh out and put it back in. But even the process of recovery is different. But if he can get me in next week, I'm going to tell him to wait even if he can't do it today because I want to go train likes with you. Um, alright. You know, I want to train like. Yeah, what's going on here? Can you tell us about that? I'm going on a quick road trip to capture three episodes of mute non-emission. Nice. So I'm flying to Vegas and train in Dennis Wolf's backyard. Awesome. Awesome. You're all in great. With Dennis Wolf. So I've got him all lined up. We're going to do some back. Okay, Dennis is he's got some cool pieces. And then I'm flying to Phoenix at night. And the next day I'm training with Dusty at the muscle factory. And I'm going to meet the owner there. And he's going to give me a tour of the gym. Dusty night, going to have a workout. And then I'm flying to Dallas. And I'm driving out to Longview, Texas to meet Mike, who owns Iron of Silam. And giant. I've got five of his shirts. Yeah, yeah, giant warehouse gym. He's got everything. And I'm going to fly out there. And I think we're training chest. I haven't heard back from him yet, but I think it's chest. Okay. And then I'm flying home on Sunday. Nice. So that's a wild trip. You got a lot going on there. And I'm trying to fit in like Saturday night. Well, Saturday morning. I'm training with Mike at Longview. Longview. And then we're heading back to Dallas in the afternoon. So I'm going to be in Dallas for the evening. Because I don't fly out till Sunday morning. Yeah. So I talked to Michael from gas. And he invited me over to the house for like a barbecue. He wanted to take me to see the new location of the gym and just like, you know, because I haven't been to the new one yet. Yeah. And he just he wants me to go hang out with with him and the gas crew. So I'm hoping that that's possible Saturday evening. You know, like, I know I'm going to be super tired from traveling and stuff, but hopefully there's there's some room for me to just kind of go visit Michael and see the gas crew and the new location and all that stuff. I'm not shooting there, but, you know, in the future, I could easily return to doing episode there and check it out. So yeah, it's going to be a great trip. That's awesome. And that's a hell of a trip. That's a lot going on. He's on the right now. Right now as we speak, Sean Clarita and and and Drea are at West Coast Iron shooting for mutant. No kid. Yes. So they're in town for the next three, four days getting content because they didn't come up with us when we were all up there. Yeah. And so I'm going to shoot down to the gym and make sure they're doing good and got everything they need and, you know, have some fun here. Just, you know, helping mutant to, you know, make sure I and Drea and Sean have everything they need. So we can we. Iron ball. Okay. That's all they need to do. We wrap in. That's it. Okay. Thanks, everyone. Thanks, Dusty. Thanks, Scott. Thanks to you guys. Thanks for the listener questions. Remember that they get preference. Listen, our questions get get preference. Hit the Patreon. Help out think big body building media. Hit up mutant. I am mutant.com. Remember our codes Dusty 20 and Bigron 20 for 20% off all mutant products. The ISO surge all in the gear. Are you in the gear? Right. I'm on gear. And you got to be on the gear. A lot of gear. A lot of gear. I might change when I went on the gear. I've both my kids on the gear. I was just in. Over the weekend. And I. It's up with you. We went to a supplement shop and I saw they had gear. They in Canada. They carried gear at the supplement shop. Oh, yeah. You better hold shelf of it. Oh, yeah. A lot of gear. Great. Red shelf of gear. Okay. Yes, you're screwed. You know. See, see. I think you're. Yeah, you're a such a great word. Yeah. I also loved how Australians used it to refer to like a girls underwear. Get something like a gear off. Yeah. I get you gear off. Yeah. You're that phenomenal. Well, maybe they were my older buddies. I don't know. Okay. Everyone like share, subscribe. Comment. Yes. And bring the bell. Great timing. I hit it right when you get it. Nice. Nice. Okay. We only have one episode this week because Dusty has emergency medical procedures. I do. And I'm traveling. And I'm traveling. So we will see you next week. And we have a guest next Monday. Don't we. We're working on that. Yeah. We're going to have. It'll be different. But I think you guys are going to enjoy this. I'm super excited. It's going to be. Can we say it's a. We're having a true. Goat. Yeah. That's true. Well, we can say who it is. He's going to be here. So. Well, that we can build some suspense. Yeah. Yeah. Let's leave it. People think it's going to be. He's is a goat like a great question of all time. He might not be a bodybuilder though. I want to throw that in. Because they're like, oh, crap. Get in Ronnie. Right. I'm in Ronnie. I still can't believe you. Ronnie, right? I still can't believe that, you know, we got a professional football player to come on and Tom Brady. That's wild. Yeah. Anyways. He's not. It's not Tom Brady. Guys. It's not Tom Brady. Is it my coach Jordan? It's me. That's a little hit against the brawn by the way. Did I agree with it? Okay. Okay. Thanks guys. Remember it's just bodybuilding. Thank you.

because I mean, that's phenomenal. The separation in the front. Nobody has conditioning like that right now. Bodybuilding nerds, you night! You are listening to bodybuilding nerds radio. Just a couple of nerds who love all things bodybuilding related. This show is brought to you by Think Big Patreon, your or the best. Mutant Nation, use code Big Ron or Dusty to save yourself on some mutant merch and some sweet supplements. Also, supplement source.ca, for listeners up north and true nutrition.com. Use code Think. I'm diggin the way isolate and my cellar case scene blend. It's like one of these or one of these. It's the perfect synergy. You wanna say it's got, it's got. It's got the technology. How you doin? Guys, I can't repeat. Oh, I'm sorry. Hey, you've each. There it is. See that first. Yeah. I can't repeat the visual gesture. VJ just made when you said one of these or one of these. You don't get us demonetized instantly. I can't speak of that. But it's two things that go together very well. We'll say that. Yeah. Yeah. How's it going? How's it going? Let me ask you a question first of all. What's up? Are you still beating your meat? Oh, every day, every day, every day. I sure hope so. Man, dude, I gotta tell you, there is, here's the thing. I can even, so the Costco chicken. I think it's like 299, a pound. Right? Now, if I go to the regular grocery store and I get the Meyer chicken breast, it's all like hormone up and each breast is just gigantic and it's all, you talk about the fresh though. You're not talking about the frozen stuff. Oh, God knows. Yeah, yeah, yeah, the fresh stuff. It's just, it's like so fibrous tasting. You know what? I can't deal with it. I feel like the Costco chicken, the 299 stuff, it's not as good as the fancy I'm as chicken breast, it's like 699, 799, a pound. It's not as tender as that, but when you get the old mallet out, and I do, I gotta tell you man, I think I go, like a real chef would probably be disappointed in what it looks like when I tender. I literally like flat in the meat out to the point where you go to pick it up in its in pieces, you know? It's good, though. It's good. I've got a system man, I mean, it makes it so tender. Yeah, that's the best thing about it. I hate fibrous chicken. I just bought a ton of Walmart chicken, you know, just their brand. It was, it was like good prices, like 2.69 a pound. It's pretty dang good, you know? Okay. But it's that chicken with the rib meat, and I think that's the way the fibrous, the fibrous stuff comes from, that would be that's in it, you know? Yeah. But yeah, I just picked up a bunch of that because I'll be throwing that into the diet now. It's chicken time. So you haven't thrown it in yet, like you got that impropriation. I have here in there, but now it's gonna be like, this is gonna be like the majority of the protein intake now, you know? Are you beating your meat? I better start. You better start. Yeah. You better start because it's an old trick. You've got to keep up. Use it or lose it. You don't say that's what they say. They say. So that's the plan. How's the diet going otherwise? Man, I feel like I'm getting fuller. So I can't remember if, I think we last we spoke. I hate like just started a cycle. Man, I was gonna do like 800 tests and 600 EQ. And I said like tentatively, you know, we'll see how they're unfolded, but I need up not going with as much because like 10 days into that with this 400 milligrams per millimeter test, it was crippling, man. I thought it might. Yeah, I thought it might. I was like, I was hopeful in the first couple shots, but after that it went downhill. And then I realized I'd only ever bought one bottle of EQ so that was kind of last that long. I switched things up and I went to, so I'm definitely on 200 tests about three times a week. And I've taken a couple shots of trend ace with that. Now, I haven't committed to the trend ace because like I took one and then I didn't and then I took one and I think I'm gonna commit to the trend ace though. Why not? I don't know. I don't know, man. I've got a bunch of it. I could run and just at, you know, 150 milligrams a week, which is necessarily low dose, but it's enough. It's enough to make something. It's disappointing, man. Yeah. Yeah, so the diet's going good with that, but my point being is that the scale stopped going down, I think I'm putting some muscle on too. Sure. Yeah. Yeah, just holding more glycogen, more fluids and the muscle cells, you're probably your body fat still going on. I saw a picture. Yeah, pretty good. Yeah, thank you. I'm working on it, man. And I'm not comfortable with posting them. Yeah, you know what I mean? But down the road, I'll post something. But I, yeah, so I started eating more protein and with that and with the in a ballics and getting stronger. Like I said, the scale's not really going down. No, like 187, and I get to plea. And I lowered the redder for a little while, but I'm kind of pushing it back up. Now, just as an experiment, it was like, yeah, take a little bit less and see if I get just as good of fat loss. And now I boosted it back up. I know you'll have a lot to say on redder. Yeah. Yeah, you haven't just started it. So I'm just starting to hear in that and I'll chime in more. You know, that goes. But it's going good, man. Loading every Friday. And the loads are going pretty damn good, man. All righty. Yeah. Good. My load days today today. Today's my load day. Oh, being our load day. Yeah, it is being our load day. I got all kinds of energy for this podcast, right? Nice. What's the, what is the load consist of about 240 grams of carbs in the day? Protein stays the same. Okay. Maybe even a little less, you know, yeah, because I'm getting right anywhere between 295 to 320 grams of protein a day. Nice. So on on a day like today, when you're getting a whole lot more carbs, maybe up over protein a little bit back. Sure. And the fats come up a little bit too, like maybe 10 grams, nothing too much. Okay. I'm used to only getting like 20 to 30 grams of fat a day. So what are the, what are the, what are the sources for your these carbs? Rice. Oh, so you're not like doing a cheat meal or anything. No, I did have some like peanut butter and jelly sandwiches. It's for breakfast. Okay. Oh, really. Yeah. So it's a good way to start the day. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was great. Skin milk. So no fat. Yeah. You've good nerds. Yeah. It's a good nerd. It's a good one, Mark. Yeah. So like my Monday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday. I get about 1700 calories. Okay. Okay. I'm between the 13th three days. And then Thursday, Friday, Saturday, I taper it down to like right around 1500 calories. Oh, so I drop it even further and make sure I'm pretty dang flat so that I can really respond on Sunday. Yeah. And I make sure I just set it up that way because those are like Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, like kind of my heavier days in the gym. Those are going to be like the most tax and days in the gym. Yeah. And then the rest of the three four days are just more like a cruise active rest almost. You know, yeah. Like I was like, I'm day in there. It was a push poll day that's not too heavy. But it can be challenging here and there. But how are things going at that new gym? Things are great, man. Shout out to the crew out there. Yeah. Carbonations. Great gym man. My nephew wasn't town this past weekend. Okay. Logan Logan's getting ready for his first show. He's going to be doing men's physique. Yeah. Yeah, men's physique. He's a huge, yeah. My nephew. He's a big kid, man. He's a six foot three. Oh, wow. Wow. And men's physique. So he's one of the taller guys up there. He's got a lot of space to fill out in all. But he's getting, we're bringing him down. We're getting me. He's helping. I will say he should have got to hold him a lot sooner than seven weeks out. Oh, we're getting him down. We're getting them down. We're making him work. That's a first time or decision. Like, you know, we're getting in shape and then I'll reach out to my uncle, Vige. You know, when I've got a lot of time left, like seven weeks or two. Yeah. Yeah, he's only going to be doing this for 31 years. What the fuck does he know? Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, we took him up to the carbonations and his gal and I even brought my wife into the gym for like, no kidding. I mean, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. It's such a cool, cool gym, cool atmosphere, cool culture. Yeah. Everyone's real accepting and real friendly and everyone's looking to help out each other. You know, everyone's got each other's back. It's a great, great place, man. I like how Lisa's like that. Yeah. He'll have a community altogether. Yeah. You don't find that. You don't find that and then just any gym anymore. Yeah. You know, client of mine, Kevin, he just started going to RTB gym and Lincoln Park. And I told him. Oh, yeah. I really had, I don't remember where he said he was training before. But he mentioned have had been there once and he was like, yeah, you know, had been there once and I was like, oh man, if I had the chance to, if I was going to get a regular gym membership, that's the kind of place if it was close, I would go there every day. And like a week later, he was like, hey, so I went to RTB and I talked to Tina the owner and I'm going to start training there. And I was like, okay, cool. And I started telling him I was like, man, it will change your training being in a good gym with good people that are pushing hard. And he was like, really, okay, interesting. Next thing I know he messages me at like six at night one evening and he's like, dude, I just got done training and the place was packed and the energy was awesome. Man, I worked out so hard. You know, some people like you and I do week grew up. That's like the gyms we went to. Like everything was a powerhouse around here, you know, or yeah, gyms like that. And a lot of guys, unfortunately don't have that. They're like, hey, you know, I train at this L.A. fitness or, and not that you can't do good work out in there. You know what I mean? But yeah. It's not the same as like a hardcore gym. There's a certain inborn mentality that just, that just breeds itself in places like that. You know, yeah. It's, you know, with this whole market over the past 20 years have been saturated by places like planet fitness or crunch fitness or whatever it is. These are all great gyms. They're all well equipped and you can get a great workout in there. But the mentality, the mentality that people are attracted to, you could only find those in certain, certain gyms and certain communities. And yeah, that's the best kind of mentality that pushes your heart or pushes your front even when you don't feel like it. Yeah. Yeah. But when you're in crunch, no matter what stage of my contest prep or off season I was in, because I trained there for a couple of years as like a secondary gym, I always felt like I was at like 10 levels more like insane than anybody who trained there versus yeah. Our hardcore gym, you're just, it's average. And so you never slip lower, you know what I mean? Because your expectations of yourself become a lot higher. Like, you know, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, I totally, I hear you. Definitely. Yeah, that's how it is. So anyway, you're dieting. You've got, you went, you laid out the, like, the different calorie days you have the load on B&R day today. And, and I know I kind of spoiled your supplement, is it a supplement review? Yeah. Oh, it's just part of the diet or what is it? The shoot. I don't know. It's both, I guess, you know what, we'll just get into it. How about that? I don't want me to just talk about some redder. Sorry. I picked up, first of all, this is Skipsfall and you're, and you're full. So I've been doing a lot of research on GLPs. And I was just trying to figure out which would be like the best one for me to go with. And once I once I listen to Skip talk about it and you talk about it and how Skip was applying it, not just to him, to else but also to let's clients and things. I was like, well, fuck it. I'm in this deficit already. Why don't I just try to see what happens? Worst thing that happens, nothing at all. You know what I mean? Right. I mean, the calories are down. They're going to get me, get me lean anyways. So why not this extra push? Why not? Give it a shot. So I ordered some up. I started on Thursday and I'm going with the daily injections. I'm not going with the weekly thing. It makes more sense to me. And I know how my body responds to basically all P.E. these. It just just is the way this the way it is. And I'll give this a shot first. And, you know, if I don't see it's working, which I can tell you it already is. Yeah. I can switch over to something else. But for the time being, I'm using 0.6 milligrams every morning. 0.6. So what does that come out to? Comes about 4.2 through the week. Oh, wow. Okay. Yeah. Okay. I recommended 2 to 4 dose, 2 to 4 milligrams. Okay. I'll be interested in your how far in now. This is my fourth day. Fifth day. Fourth day. Okay. I'll be interested to see what happens. It has that really. So I think you're going to get a build up effect. And yeah, I've found in my experience and this was kind of listening to some other people who've done a performing like vigorous Steve and Chase Irons. Right. I started out to really low. You know, I was like, well, I'm going to micro dose it and I'll be like 250 micro grams every other day. And over time, what I realized is that it so it doesn't have as strong of an appetite suppressing effect as semi-glutite. Like that's right. But if you just want to, and somebody commented in the Facebook group today, they're like, you know, some glutite's basically the same thing is just less, less expensive. It's like, no, there's a lot of other things going on. It's right at the side with the GIP and glucagon. But it does, I think semi-glutite does have a stronger appetite suppressing effect. That's what I've been reading to. And I found, so anyway, I got up to 1 milligram about every five days and then maybe 1 milligram every twice a week. And I liked, so I started out with the high frequency. And I felt like I wasn't getting as good of an effect as with the reduced frequency, taking a larger bowless. And I think there's some middle ground. I'm not down with that every day. I feel like you're miss out on the peak. There's kind of a sharp effect that I want to achieve. Gotcha. Versus it doesn't give it a chance to, I don't know. I don't know. And just talking to other people, that said, I think we could probably like, build our defenses on why we should do it every day versus two, totally so a week or once a week. And it's probably going to do a pretty much the same thing. You know what I mean? I would think so. Right now I'm not getting like any appetite suppression. But I never intended to. That was never one of the goals here. I just, I don't. First of all, appetite doesn't bother me. I don't. I'm not bothered being hungry. Not, you know. I mean, it would take many, many, many more weeks for me to be bothered by it. You know? Yeah. We're used to this. We're comfortable being hungry most of the time. You know, there's a comfort there and there's a certain mentality there that, oh, I'm pretty hungry. That means she had his happening. So let it roll. You know? So I'm not, I don't really care about the appetite suppression that was never the intended goal. I just was interested in all the other, like, the other, with a glucogont type of fix, the actual fat loss and using fat cells for energy expenditure, insulin control, blood sugar control. Heart control, even like heart, health markers, blood pressure health markers, all these things. There's a lot of extra benefits there, red, red, and shoot tide. Yeah. So those are the things that kind of attracted me to it. And I was like, well, like I said, you know, the best that could happen. There's a works like a miracle. The worst that happens, it does nothing at all. So yeah. And so far, it's, it's good, man. I want to say on Thursday, when I first started, I was right about, I want to say, oh, 1999. Okay. On that day, yeah. I started my diet about two, 13. And that was about four weeks ago. Okay. So I've been dieting in four weeks now. What did you weigh, like, at the Arnold, were you at that, like, two, 13 range, then? Yeah, just about. Okay. Yeah. And then, on that Thursday, when I started red, I was about 199 already. Okay. Yeah. And then, I started, you know, fourth day in, this is my fourth day in. And granted, it is on those days that I have a really low calories and 1,500 calories or whatever. Thursday Friday, Saturday. Yeah. This Sunday morning, I'm already down to 194.9. You know, geez. And I'm, I'm used to like quick drops and wait. Especially with, when you pull calories out hard, I'm used to that. But this is something a little different. Like, it's like, if, like, a pound more than I would, would have been expecting. Yeah. And there's a certain, um, I don't just, a certain quality, like, a look to the muscle almost. Or like, flatness or well, see, there's, it's like flat, there's definitely flatness, but it's still like halfway full. Okay. Yeah. It's the best way I can explain it. Because I'm used to being really flat on, like, things like, met form and flat me out. Oh, okay. There's a difference between met form and flatness and a red, a true-tied flatness for me at this point. Like, I still have like semi round packs and semi round delton arms and stuff. Yeah. On that form, and it would, if everything was flat, it was like a pancake, you know. Yeah. Within four days at 0.6 milligrams a day, it's been doing something for sure. I'm excited to keep, keep rolling with it and see how it goes. I'll check my weight tomorrow because today is a load day. You'll see how it goes. I know how, how you responded on your load day. It was kind of kind of tough for you to fill out. And that's not, no, I'm gonna warn you too, because you're dosing it at twice as much as me. I started at that low microdosing stuff. And then I went up to, it's still a low dose. I still, I don't know, it's still called it probably a microdose at, you know, about a little under two milligrams a week considering that it's, you know, researched at four, eight and 12. Yeah. But just from everybody I've talked to, I don't think that we need that much. Like we're talking people with major health issues, people with, like major obesity and stuff like that. And they're not eating the way we are or exercising the way we are. Yeah. I think a little goes a long way. So I am a little concerned for you that if you're, because it took about two weeks to really kind of get the build up of whatever dose I'm on. So if you're only four days in, like that's gonna keep compounding for the next couple weeks. So, you know, three weeks from now, I think that your experience, it will be different than it is right now. Talking to Keith from Parabolic, because I said, listen man, you know, at, one of the reasons I mentioned, I kind of pulled it back for a little while. When I had two milligrams, I felt like I was having a difficulty in filling out when I loaded. Yeah. And I was like, man, this is just two milligrams. And he said, yeah, for the people that he's, you know, consulted with, which is, you know, he says, being that he's the company owner, he talks to a lot of people, he talks to the, you know, hundreds he said, yeah. Like a hundred, he said, like one milligrams or under is like a good maintenance dose to be able to grow. But he was like, man, above that, it's hard to gain muscle on anything more than that he felt, you know. And I could kind of see where he's coming from, because yeah, I struggled to fill back out. But now I'm still good. By the way, I found a great bakery in Belville, man, that we went to, oh, my God. That's what we did for Friday. Is that what you got that cherry pie from? So, no, the cherry pie I got from the grocery store. Okay. I went to the, then we went to this bakery, the Victoria found and they had like all these homemade treats. And I bought this. It was like a giant chocolate cupcake. And it had this like cream frosting on the inside. It was like had a big cherry on the top. And then that like this just slight slight cherry cream frosting in the center that was frozen. Oh, my God. It was so good. I spent like 15, 20 bucks on all these different treats. I had already gotten the pie so that I gave the rest of, I ate the cupcake and gave the rest of my mom. But that was, it took a lot to load. That's my point. Yeah. My point of the story. Yeah. That's a lot of calories to load on. You know, like a whole cherry pie, shit. Yeah. And that's been what's working. So, yeah. Cherry pie, a little bit of insulin and then a meal, one meal too, like I did a burger and fries this week. Gotcha. So, yeah. Yeah. And all this experimentation for me. And that I am getting so flat that I can't refill on a daily for me. Those daily shots. These for me to just pull it back. True. Skip a few days or something. Yeah. Yeah. It'll be really easy to manage that way. That's another mentality behind who I wanted to do daily. And why I used daily for everything, really. I do things because of the longer half life. Once you stop it, you might have a week. And I mean, 10, 5 to 10 days, I think, before you get the relief. Because it is just kind of building, building, building each day. But you're not going to add to it, you know? Right. Yeah. And once I know that it's having those effects on me, I can always adjust the diet too. You know what I mean? I just up a carbs little bit too, take time off of that. Yeah. It's easier to figure it out as long as you know the game, you know what you're doing. Yeah. So, do you feel dieted now? Like are you feeling like lower and stuff on your own? Most of the week. Yeah. Especially during training. Yeah. Yeah. Like weights are heavy, you know? And yeah. And then like recovery in between sets is like a year just digging deep. Oh God. So are the guys cracking the whip then when you're training? Because they push you along. Yeah, they do. Yeah, they do. They're like, is your set? I'm like, I don't know. I don't know. Just give me a minute. Yeah. They're good dudes. They know I'm not getting no carbs ever. You know? So. Yeah. So they're good. They're good dudes man. All of them. All of them are good dudes. How's training going? Otherwise. It's good man. I, uh, the intermittent trend program I think maybe I added a little strength this past week. I always pumps. Probably pumps a pretty decent thin. They're on and off man. They're, you know, they're, they're sometimes okay. Never, never, never, never. Never was cherry pie pretty good probably. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But then as the week goes on, they kind of fade. You know what I mean? Sure. Yeah. I feel like I was actually like training's good. I felt like I was maybe slacking on my cardio a little bit because I didn't have a set plan where it's not like I'm just doing, you know, 45, like my coach is telling me to do 45. I'm just like, you know what? I trained really hard. I did 20 minutes of cardio before I trained and I'll do another 30. I've kind of done that kind of thing around like I just noticed still last week. I'll be honest man. I can't, I can unintentionally error on the side of less on more days than not, you know what I mean? Okay. So I'm going to bump that back up this week. Pump it back up. Yeah. Try to drive a little harder. Sure. I've been doing, I like to do 45 minutes in the, in the morning. Okay. Before I get to the gym and if I can't get that time in, I'll do like 30 minutes on the treadmill, get to the gym and then do my training and then do another 20 minutes after I train. Okay. So that's the first section. So I'll do another 45 minutes. Okay. Yeah. So that's my cardio schedule. About 190 minutes a day. Isn't that? That's a lot of cardio, man. You know, you're probably pretty excited. We're both 30 minutes a day. Pretty sedentary. Otherwise, you both of us, you know. Yeah. Otherwise, it's just naps on the couch and you know, playing on my phone. Yeah. I mean, down. A lot of vertical stuff going on. Yeah. Horizontal stuff going on. Yeah. Otherwise, training is good. Pumps are tough to get. Now seems like. Oh yeah. But just as the way it is. I'm trying to get ready for. I've got three weeks left because my wife is getting these pictures taken for us. Okay. For our for our anniversary. Yeah. Our 15 year anniversary. Oh, we go. And so she wants a nice picture. And she has a website. She wants to put them on to and. Do marketing with you. But she was like, I want you mostly naked for it. I was like, oh, great. We should have told you. We should have told me that. Yeah, I told weeks ago. Was this kind of only fans? Yeah. Is this. I didn't know you had one of those. So, so I wanted to be in good shape for that. So that's what all is dieting for anyway. But once this is over. Yeah. Once we get those pictures taken. And I've had some McDonald's and we're good. I'm going to keep going. I'm just I'm like, if things are clicking and I'm just not ready to stop, you know? Yeah. Once I feel like I'm getting burnt out and I just hit it. I'm right now. I'm just starting to hit that magic pocket. You know what I'm talking about? Yep. I can't let the magic pocket. I can feel it coming, man. I can feel it coming on. Like, I'm about to hit it. And this, this returitide, reddit true tide, is definitely helped me get there a whole lot faster. Nice. See, like, this makes a lot more sense to me now. Like, you know, initially, my thought was like, when you're telling me how much you're taking it, obviously, it kind of said it too. I felt like it was a little high. It was a bunch of. I was like, I got a new gold man. Yeah, yes, you know. Now I see where you're coming from where you're like. You're trying to push hard for these. And it is kind of, you know, what's nice to have those kind of those those those those goals to set. You know, like, yeah, little my goal. Yeah. I remember you talking about that years ago on bodybuilding nerves that you were going to get in shape by I think it was the Arnold classic or or no, no, it was the geared up gathering. You were okay. Yeah, you're flying out. I did both. Yeah. And you really dieted and you worked with Shelby and you got into good shape. And I remember Adam commenting, you remember Adam McVeil was like, oh, yeah. Why would you want to die it down going to an event where you're like keeping your clothes on you're now you're only going to look smaller, you know. But yeah, I think I get it in like retirement from competitive bodybuilding and make sense because you get a chance to you gives you a reason. You know what I mean? Yeah. You know, if somebody says like, oh, we're going on vacation and I want to be in good shape for that. It's not that they it's not that they are like their end goal is that I'm doing everything in the world so that I can have abs on vacation and be the best guy by the pool. More so it's like gives you the motivation to set that date, right? Yeah. Yeah. And you want to feel your best. You want to look your best, you know. Yeah. That's just what it is. Yeah. Goal setting. Goal setting is very good. Very good for yourself confidence. You know, achieving those goals but builds the best kind of self confidence in yourself, you know. Yeah. And a goal like that, it's short term. So it's not like, yeah. Okay. This is for the rest of your life. Until you get to your condition. It's like, no, it's you've got three weeks. Yeah. And then after that it would be something else. Yeah. It's not high commitment either. You know what I mean? It's not like I got I got a step on stage in eight weeks or whatever. That's very different. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This is shit. But yeah, this is good. This will be good. But once I get past that, I think I'm going to go for another eight weeks or so. It's summertime. Anyway, why not? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. As long as my training isn't being affected and like my weights don't like the reps are going to go down a little bit. I know that. Just body weight wise. That's just what happens with me. But yeah. As long as it strength doesn't plummet too bad. I'll just keep going, man. I don't see why not. Yeah. Yeah. I say go for it, man. I'm going to keep dieting too. I don't think I'm going to drop too much more on the scale than about 190 now. I think I'm stuck around here. I mean, I think I'd have to push pretty damn hard like remove carbs again in order to drop down 100. But I am re-compagnowning in better shapes. Yeah. That's the best. I mean, you're close. You're probably right there in the magic pocket then. You know what I mean? Once you hit that weight where you're just like, you really got a dig to go weight past it. Or you could add a couple of cheese burgers and stay the same weight. You know, and then you look better too. Right. That's the magic pocket. Yeah. Yeah. And then the weights go up to and your body starts re-compensate. It's a great place to be. So I'll end up being about 190 also. By the time we get these pictures done. Yeah. Yeah. I'm going to do a full like Thursday Wednesday Thursday carbub, Saturday Friday Saturday dry out. Yeah. I'm doing it. We're the fun, man. That'll be fun. You know, I'm trying to say, and then meet your face. It does look a little. It's a definitely your face is a little. Yeah. We're a little bit a little bit not quite there yet. But I bet you and another another. I give you 10 days from what I'm seeing right now because it did leaner than it was. I tend more days. That's what I get. Yeah. I'm going to get the sucked. So suck. Gotta be picture ready. Yeah. Gotta have more cheekbones sticking out. Exactly. Yeah. So. All right, man. You know, we don't have any shout outs from the show. What? So people didn't ask for shout outs this week. I just don't fucking care, I guess. We want to tell you what though. If you do want to shout out, put a, we'll put a link in the description. And you guys could just, if you want to shout out on the show, just comment. Just comment comment comment comment comment. Comment comment. Comment. Like, subscribe, share. All that stuff. All that stuff. But definitely do comment. Oh, and also, listen to questions. If you have any, listen to questions for the show. Just let us know in the comments below. We'll have you to have you to hit those for the next show. Yeah. All right, speaking of which, we have a couple of questions here. We do. We do. Yeah. Do you have one on your end over there? I do. I do. One of the, one of the listeners from the last show was talking about, I, I must have been talking about, you know, getting along with GH and I haven't found the right rhythm and it's been many years. I tried to figure out the right rhythm for myself. Yeah. And he, he, he, he chimed in on the comments. Actually, I can't remember who this listeners. I apologize who you are, but he was saying that he had similar problems. As I do. Yeah. Yeah. In regards to like, you know, getting, you know, kind of, kind of, a massive type of symptoms or whatever it is. It just, he doesn't seem to get along with it. And I answered him on the thread and I said, you know, what I've been doing is just like, I kind of just go eight to ten weeks as far as I can take it. And once the symptoms start to get too bad, I just pull it right back out, take another eight to ten weeks off or more. And then go back on. It's really a cycling thing. I got to cycle the HCH altogether. Yeah. But what I found is that I think I've just given up all together. What the H. Oh, yeah. Yeah. You know what it's not going to be the end of the world if you give them on GH. You know what I mean? No. I mean, listen, some people are cut out for it. Some people are really cut out for it. Right. And some people are not cut out for it at all. You know, it's just, it is what it is. And I've been in this game a long time and tried a lot of different stuff, a lot of different protocols. And in the end, you got to figure out what works for you, what doesn't work for you. And as bad as I want GH to work for me, it just comes with too much baggage. You know, just the palms are gray to the anti aging stuff is great. You know, this is the nice skin. That's great. The palms, the the the mass and the strength that I can put on with GH is unmatched. Yeah. You know, and a ball. Like for me that matches the strength output that I can get from GH. And that has everything to do with the water attention. I'm sure. Oh, for sure. I mean, there's nothing that puts water attention on me like maybe debaul. But I'd imagine between debaul and GH if I took like 10 milligrams of debaul to I use GH, give me four hours. I will show you 10 pounds on the scale and I'll throw the 150s around for you. You know, pretty pretty quick. You know, it's just that quick. It's just, it's just that an anobog for me. But I don't want to put up with all of the gino symptoms and all the other symptoms. And the high blood sugars, the high blood sugars and the high blood pressure for me. So, you know, it's the blood sugar thing. That's the reason I'm not running it is like I could, but I'm like, I like the idea of keeping my blood sugar under really good control right now. You know, I think it's smart. No matter what, no matter where you are in your in your prep or in your in your cut and your off season, you have to keep that under control. Oh, yeah. You know, they say blood pressures and silent killer, but fucking blood glucose is a silent killer too. Yeah. Yeah. So, it's good to watch it. So, so my, my guess of my short answer for him is that if you're a person, if you can't find something that works for you, just forget it and move on to something else, you know, I hate this, I hate to be the bearer bad news or whatever, but if it's not going to work, it's just not going to work. And there's no meds you can take. There's no remadex you can take. There's no cable you can take. It's just nothing seems to work for it. I think it has something to do with the, I've been doing a lot of reading on it. Growth hormone, the somatic rope and the molecule that amino acid chain is very similar to the prolaxion. Or lack of acid. Yeah. Yeah. So, GHM itself might not raise prolaxion, so it won't show up on your blood, you know, you take your blood values. It'll be like a normal prolaxion, but that GH hormone is acting like prolaxion. You're relating the same sector, huh? Exactly. So, I think that's really what's happening. And I can see that that's the only that I could make sense of it, too, you know, based on what everyone else saying what research says. Yeah. That's all I can think of because no remadexion. No remadex, noOromousion, noLectero, noCabre, no lots of no other else say. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's a really rare response. But, it is rare. Yeah. You won't say that. For the most part, I find that people take GH and they get like a, and it's a little something. You know what I mean? It's not, for most people is not huge. I have worked with people who just like, they have like a super ability to, just like shallow, fluid to the right storage. You know what I mean? Yeah. I've seen, I got a couple of, couple of friends of the gym, the same way I've I don't know how you guys think. Fuck you guys. And it's like, go for it then. For you. Yeah. It's a great change. You know, that's a great response. That's a response you can hope for. And then I've seen people that like blow up on fluid, but it's just everywhere. You know, like, uh, UC Summa had gotten some farmage. And we had been using what we knew was like decent generics at a low dose. And then he got this firmest stuff. And it just like bloated a modicant role. Like all the sudden, I was like, dude, I can't even tell if you're dieting or for losing fat or gaining it or gaining muscle. I like, I don't even know what's happening anymore because there's no detail anywhere. If I could have said that. We couldn't diet it with it in. And then we had to like, do what I was like, okay, let's add in a half a unit per week. And see what we get out of that. And then he got like fullness out of it. And we were able to work our way up a little bit. But like I'm talking basically, first bodybuilding goes. It was like, Mike, Mike, Mike, Mike, that stuff, you know? Yeah. Where sometimes it's just, it's not going to be a huge benefit. I think you nailed it, man, that like, if it's, you're not working well with you, then maybe it's not worth it, we can with, you know? Yeah. Yeah. And that perk by attention up to the MK677 again because yeah. Yeah. Well, I was literally just watching muscle minds when we got online to start recording. All right. And the new one, Scott Scott's talking about MK677. Yeah. And I wrote that off a long time ago. Yeah. Yeah. But I wouldn't mind kickstarting a little bit of that. I mean, I had a very, really low dose, like at 5 milligrams, you know, it goes, because I will super respond to a very low dose of growth hormone. Yeah. Very low dose. Micro dosing it. I will respond heavily. But I haven't feeling it. Same thing would happen with MK677. In fact, I know for sure that back in the day, I was just back when we first started recording, you know? Yeah. It was, it came in 25 milligrams tablets or capsules. Yeah. I think it was. Or the liquid. Yeah. But it was always like 25 milligrams. Yep. And it was a lot like it put on growth hormone water on your like, deep, old fast, fast. Yeah. But if you get like 5 milligrams, you know, and have that kind of, those kind of, if some adetropen numbers in your blood, and IGF1 levels, it might not be a bad thing. And maybe that won't directly irritate the gynecromacia issues either, you know? Yeah. Maybe. So that research, at least, and you know, who knows of what the truth really is, that was only the study Scott was looking at and found, it showed that people who were obese had a better response than people who were healthy, non-geage deficient. People who were healthy, non-geage deficient stood the least to gain from MK677. Gotcha. Which is going to be like the majority of our listeners, you know what I mean? Yeah. And then, also, two, they were showing like, some people would get results in the start. And then a week later it was like, back down, you know? So there might be like a benefit to pulsing it, which is something we never really would have thought of, you know, back in 2015 or whatever one we used it before. I do like the sleep you can get from it. I wonder, so listening to that podcast, one of the things I thought of was like, well, what if you only dose it a couple times a week? Like, you have a really hard leg day and then you take that night. You know, you have a really hard back day and you take it that night. Would there be any benefit to getting that additional sleep, getting some additional fluid, maybe with their recovery from those extra high bursts of GH? I don't know. Yeah. Yeah. No, that's something to think about. I would say so. Especially guys are age. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Although from what I've heard people say, MK is always notorious to be even worse on blood sugar than grow for a month. Yeah, see, that's why I gotta worry about you. Yeah. I don't want that. It's the one thing I don't want. I don't need it. So much, so much negative stuff happens with elevated blood sugars. He's starting getting fatter, you know, just out of nowhere, insulin resistant. You don't, and you don't even really know what's happening unless you're testing that shit, you know? Right. Yeah. I gotta be careful. Blood sugar's keep on a control. I got an envelope over here. Yeah. We got another one. All right. So it was kind of a question, and he kind of answered in himself, but I thought we could talk about it. He says, I feel like there's so many guys with lagging arms now, and I think it's because they're doing push-pull legs or some other split that isn't arm-focused. Why did all the guys in the 70s have huge arms and chests because they prioritized them? Yeah. I would say so. What do you say? Yeah. They did have huge chest, didn't they? Yeah. Arnold looked like he was, if you really break his physique apart, I feel like it was all peck. He didn't even. Peckin arms, you know, peck's biceps. Yeah. All those guys had huge peck's and biceps. If you look back in the 70s, man, not everybody had these cannonball doubts like you have today. Ah. And they didn't, I don't know, they didn't directly train them, or they just just buried like they've trained them as an afterthought or whatever, but. Yeah. Or maybe the Androgen load wasn't as high. I don't know, but they none of them had these ridiculous, huge shoulders like the guys and the 90s are even today have, you know. Yeah. But then again, the peck development isn't the same these days as it was back then either. Yeah. Or the bicep development even, you know. These days it seems like you really got to be genetically gifted to have really good arms these days. It seems like. Yeah. I don't know. Our people, like as a whole, do we have more people with like bad arms? I don't know, man. I don't know either. It's just when you, when you look at most bodybuilders that are competitive, you'll only remember the select few who do have really good arms. Yeah. You know what I mean? Like, yeah. Off the top of your head, you know, Nick Walker, Michael Krizo. Um, well, you know, it's like, yeah. You only, you only have a handful of guys where you're like, oh, those are mind blowing on our. You're free. You know, this all, you know, but back then, I would say like 50% of them had great arms. Yeah. It's, you know, like a prioritizing thing back then. Yeah. I guess you could be right on that. I never had like really good arms. I never had good shape for arms, but they would look acceptable because they would get thick and just big enough. You know what I mean? They're big enough and they float well with the rest of your physique. Yeah. Yeah. So they always still work. But they were never, I was never the guy where you were like, oh my God. Look at that. Look at those arms. It arms are such a cool thing to have, too. You know what I mean? Everybody wants good arms. Well, that's bodybuilding was based around having good biceps. Hey, I remember one like a little breakthrough moment I had when it came to arms. Because like I said, arms are never a strong thing for me. You have great arms, by the way. You're like, hey, all great arms. Now, you do. They're okay. They're still good. You have great arms. Like, Vige is a guy who like his arms look good in a teacher. You know what I mean? And I remember you saying, you're like, yeah, you know, one of the keys, I don't train him hard. And I've heard other people with good arms say, you know, I don't go real heavy. And Vige says, oh, I don't go really heavy. And I'm thinking about myself, you know, none of these guys don't, you know, they none of them go real heavy. So I don't really go that heavy either. And then I look at Vige and for the audio listeners, I'm putting my hands up in air quotes. Vige doesn't go really heavy. His not real heavy was still heavier than I was curling. So I do think there is an element of being all the like, girl muscle by, you know, getting strong too, you know, even arms, you know, like you're curling the 55 or so, I remember one time and you really nice control with that. And I was like, oh, I'm into like the 40s. Yeah. Yeah. It's, um, shoot. I felt like there was a point definitely when I was training that I'm really hard training arms really hard. And they started to shrink up on me, I noticed. Oh, you know. So that's when I made the connection like, oh, maybe I got to pull back a whole bunch. And there was also a point where I started not training them at all and just relied on like, press day to do like, you know, stimulate triceps or a back day would stimulate biceps enough and I just wouldn't train arms anymore. Yeah. And they, they, I wouldn't say that they got smaller, but they didn't have the same pop, you know, the same roundness, the same look as if I were to train them just once a week. Yeah. But in, even then, not that hard. Like, even now, I don't go over like, you know, six or eight reps, for biceps stuff. I'll go higher reps for triceps, but for bicep stuff, I keep it really low reps still. Okay. Yeah. I found if I go too hard on arms, I start getting tennis elbow. You know, I'm like, you know what, I'm going to start growing my arms. I'll try them three times a week and then I can't lift anything anymore. You know, yeah, I get man. I get that elbow, my elbows are so, so I don't know if there is an osteoarthritis or both. Or what, but it's there. Yeah, they, I can't do a lockout on anything. Oh, okay. You know what I mean? That's like instant torture. Really? I got to rack the weight right away. Same for triceps, same way. Like I can only go push down so far. Yeah. I can't get like a very tight full contraction. And remember PJ Brown years ago said that if you can't get a lockout full contraction on like rope push downs or any push downs, he was like, you'll never grow your triceps. And anytime I train triceps now, that's all I ever think of here. I hear those fucking words every time. Like I damn it, every rep. I can't get that full contraction. But yeah. And I have noticed that they have receded a little bit. But I'm also, you know, 46 fucking years old. Yeah. I think things happen now. So you know what? My arms were the best. Remember we went through a phase in our back training where we were working deadlifts in like every week. There was a lot of deadlifts. And I had never been a real strong deadlifter. But I kept up and I'd deadlift to sure. And it was at the end of that off season that my my my traps and my biceps were the strongest they had ever been because deadlifts. There's no question. There's probably the thickest the thickest they had been to. That's what I'm saying. Yeah. That's what I'm like visually strongest. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's something to it, man. Just grip in and rip in that bar. You know, it gives a nice thick thickness to everybody part. Yeah. You know, it's not the same by doing concentration girls. There's different different thickness to the muscle values. Really cool. Yeah. Yeah. I had one more thing I wanted to mention. And this is kind of kind of called even a supplement review. I don't know. So we'll call it supplement. It's not really. But we'll call it supplement review. All right. It's not going to review time again. So it just is just a random thought. I had this. I. Okay. So we're going to be a week or so back. A GH source had mentioned that they were not able to get GH right now. They're closing down. They should be good in two weeks. But it has to do with the tariffs in China. And I thought so this is all underground. You know what I mean? How are the tariffs affecting an underground product that's getting shipped in the black market? Anyway. So I'm not sure how that works. But I asked around and I spoke to a source about this. And this source I saw made a video about. So here's the thing that we spoke about how like pre-mo is off the market right now. Have you heard about that? Yeah. I've heard about that. Yeah. So it's a blown place. It's still carrying it. But I can't. It hasn't really hit yet. I guess. But there are places that don't have it. And master on now is the next one where there's a kind of like a little bit of a shortage. And I wonder if it's not more people are buying masks because the pre-mo isn't available to them. I don't know. I saw this source made a post saying in case you weren't aware, companies are closing their doors because of tariffs and these things are affecting the market. And there is no pre-mo available on the market now. And master on is limitably available. But thankfully, we foresaw this happening. So we stocked up on our supply. And if you act now, you can still get some. Amazing foresight. Yeah. So I saw that little marketing play. Got it. I thought, and I wondered, man, how much of this stuff sometimes is marketing? You know what I mean? Yeah. Take advantage. So that was my supplement review. Nothing special. Gotcha. All right. Maybe a supplement call out. Yeah. Well, you know what? I think that was the pre-mo altogether. I fucking hate pre-mo. Yeah. I hate it. We had people in the comments agree that it was very painful. Yeah. I just don't understand the point of it. I mean, I understand everyone's different. And you can, you know, there's a lot of people that don't get any pain at all, which is just mind-boggling to me. Yeah. Those are the same people that you can do, you know, test probe every day. And nope. No problems at all. You know, it's an amazing, amazing thing. But man, when you take one of those pre-mo shots, I don't know how anyone can train that week. You know? I don't know how you supposed to do anything. You know? Get in bed. Get in bed. You can't leg breaths. You know, it depends where you put it. I suppose. But still, it's like, I can't train this side of my body. I had a pre-mo shot over here. Yeah. And imagine like, you wouldn't have to have another week, you know, or show up. You know? Where's he, where did he put it all? It's not that's ridiculous. So, you know what? Johnny can have it. Keep it. Keep it. Yeah. Yeah. Johnny, you can keep it. You guys do it. I'm gonna see some top level body, but it's coming out of the shin. Yeah. All right, man. What do you say? We take a quick commercial break. And then when we get back, we've got some cool bodyvel and dirty stuff to go over. Let's do it. Put it no-vision finished until he lifts one ounce of the 47 vitamins, minerals, enzymes, carbohydrates, and amino acids that help make his workouts work. Dynamic muscle building. Get $10 in coupons on a free magazine with dynamic muscle builder from Weader, America's total fitness company. They say no one took me in a straight Olympia. And I said, watch me. I train hotter, eight-smotter, and use twin-lamps supplements. Here's the latest from the greatest. Mass fewer from twin-lamps. I have developed mass fewer. So you know it's totally awesome. Get my mass fewer drinks and bars. All my complete mass fewer kids. And show the world what you can do. And we are back from commercial break. And we've got some cool stuff to talk about. We're going to talk about some of the guys who went Pittsburgh Pro in a couple of weeks here because they are looking phenomenal. And this show is going to be just crazy. Olympia level, crazy. Right? But first, we have a couple of other videos. You know, we're nerds. We like to watch things that make us laugh and buy a little related stuff. And we've got a video of Lee Priest talking about peak week stuff. And I thought that was pretty appropriate in something that both Scott and I can relate. And probably our viewers would love to watch too. I'm a who doesn't love Lee Priest. Come on. So let's go ahead and roll that video here. You've got nerds. I can't think straight. But I don't even know how I got to the gym drawing here. I can't remember. Why go alone? Can't I just fucking eat it? People still do it. Body builders, the gurus, peak week. Dummas thing ever. And I'll show them to the day I die. Why do we care? How many times do we see it? On Instagram, Facebook, big week has people who got up their photos a week or two out looking fantastic. I mean, yeah. Absolutely. Might have a little bit of water, which if you're used sparingly. Some guys and girls go crazy. If the coldest he said laid out start. My later in his career too. No, I don't know. Another whole thing. And pulling my running out of muscle muscles, what 70% water pulled all out. They get flat. They try and carb up. Doesn't work. That's why I've always said, if you're looking good and you're full, you're hard, you're vascular. You're like a couple of percent away from getting on stage. Or you got to do is pump up, tene up. And if you need a diuretic, need it. I mean, like, if you really think you need it, maybe a quarter or a half than day or two before, then see how you look the day before. If you need a little bit more, only a quarter. Because you got to remember, you might have a film or water a tiny bit. But when you pump up, that water's going to go into the muscle. And even if you're a little bit flat sometimes, but you're harder, you're going to look bigger on stage. Yeah. Too many dryers and their gurus think I've been dieting 15 weeks. So you're going to 16 week diet 15 weeks, eating the same food, training, cardio, taking drugs. So your body becomes this fine tune machine. Eat at this time, this food. Take these drugs at this time. Do you cardio at this time for 15 weeks? You've been doing the same thing. But then the last week, I got a lot of work. My idea, let's stop training. Let's stop cardio. Let's add some different drugs in and add a lot more food in. We'll see how that goes. Yes, see how it goes. That's a 50-50 hit in mess. We're seeing 100 times. Yes. That's way if you're full and you're hard, I'll say it again. And you're almost stage ready. Don't do it. Why do you get it in your head that we need a peak week? You just can't rely on how good your look already and go, you know what? I look good. I'm not going to touch your thing. I'm going to go into the show like this. I never went load in 250 grams of carbs. People go, I'm going to go low and then jump back up high. Why not just stay high and stay full. If you have no problem losing weight and you're doing the cardio and she, you don't need to load your carbs down, your workouts are going to be better. You're still going to be strong. Your muscles will be full. All these people go out more and all 50 grams of carbs, zero carbs. I got no energy, I got no ideas, I can't think straight. But I don't even know how I got to the gym driver here. I can't remember. Why go low on carbs? If I can idiot. It's taking me, you're on party, you're doing everything else to burn body fat, you can clean. Unless you got some sort of problem where you're really can't lose weight. Why do it to yourself? I never did. That's why never had the carb up. I did carbing up once and I was hitting. Missed. I looked there. Okay, but I look way better when I just stayed on the same diet. My diet from week one to week 16 is the same. They only change like I said the last week slowly cut my water out and not completely. The last day or two before a show. I'm still having a leader or a little bit more just sitting on it and then I pump up and turn up. I don't go away to minute. I'm going to deplete on this and in the next three days, eat up. Some people do salt, add lots of salt to me and do it. It has like, yeah. There are so many weird things. Hocus, focus, they call it. But people try and do it the last week. Yeah. Good lady, head people, you don't need that. That's why, like I said, we see so many people. Looking fantastic two weeks out, we see their photos. They walk on the stage and we all sit there like, what happened? Yeah. You know what happened? Yeah, overthink it. You try and do it too much. Just that you say trust in the process. That's pretty good. Good. Yeah. We equal to our trust in that. Don't do your Hocus, focus, bullshit. Because, they had it 50, 50 and a lot of the times it goes more wrong than the right. So when you get ready for a show, train hard. Dumbelts. Diet hard. Cardio hard. Okay, so I'm going to do whatever. And that last week, if you're looking good, as they say, if it ain't broke, they're in train fixing. So like I say, train smart, train hard. Don't overthink it to get peak weeks. Every week. Every week. You're the same. Very cool. And I even find that until it's so, it's all too. If the show said they suck Friday, I still go to the gym just do it like thing. Because like I said, my body's used to it. And I can't sit still anyway. I'm just going to lay around around a hotel room. I just go really like that. Move the lights around so that's not too much. That's a lot around so mentally. I'm still doing stuff. Yeah. That's why when I compete, I'll be to expose. I don't want to see my room over thinking shit. So people, this is your worst enemy when you get ready for a show. Control that. Like that man. Yeah. It's good advice. I thought so too. Like, yeah. You know, it comes off as leap-reased. But yeah. Everything he says is true. I agree with all of it. As long as all things, you know, not all people are the same, you know, all bodies are a little bit different. Yeah. Some people might need a little tweaking here and there. But for the most part, if you are looking that really good all the way through, then don't you change? Change nothing. What are you changing for? You know what I didn't realize we were doing? I went live to the live channel. We were live right now. He had added. He's where it got. Yeah. I usually do go live to live channel. I just didn't turn, I did initially and then it got turned back on or something. So I just looked and I was like, we got a bunch of comments. What the hell are we live? Have we been live this whole time? We've been live this whole time. We've been live this whole time. We've been live this whole time. You're right, I thought it was just us. Here. Part of me feels embarrassed, but at the same time, I'm like, but we, you know, we're doing something new. We're doing that anyway, right? Exactly. We do a little bit editing here, a little bit editing there. Yeah. We put out a nice product. Yeah. Hey, we're live. So fuck it. We'll keep going. You can't go towards you. K's with us and there's another George and Tyler Miller in trend. We've got a bunch of people. No, right. A couple of bodyvilliners, cast members. That's great. This fantastic man. Anyway. Yeah. So I like that. That said, with Lee Priest, he's got a good point on everything he says. Right. It really does. Yeah. It's almost like he's he's so over, over simplifies it. But I feel like for Lee Priest, it probably was all pretty easy. Do you know what I mean? That's the thing. Like when you're a genetic mutant like he is like, you just go on the gym and you lift his whole concept is like, just go on the gym and you lift weights and you get a little bit. He's like, you're just fucking hot about it. And then you just lift some fat. You know, you're winning the entire, you know, country is show and all that. You become a pro three times. You're just going to get some weight again. Win every show you do. So what? Yeah. Yeah, dumb cons. Exactly. There is that part of the. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But he's right. I like, I, you know what I really like the part about what he was like, you know, if you're training every day and you used to training every day, don't stop training. And I think I think Metabolically that makes a thousand percent sense too. You know, you slow things way too down. You, you metabolically slowly nutrition down. Your absorption down. All these things. All those processes that you're, you've been on key with for 16 weeks in a row. You know, you take that away just for what? Potentially polishing a turd, you know, before. Yeah. It's, you know, go, go work out. Go train. Don't go train hard. No, but you should do something. There's the stress too. I think that masses people up. So not everybody, you know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. That last week, even if you don't change anything, I've seen people that like they get real things just like they start holding more water in there. They're just in things the same. And they, they kind of get locked up on themselves. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. The key to is like being relaxed. And I think that's a benefit too to doing more shows. Like a lot of guys do more shows now. You know, years ago, we just do one and everything dependent on that one hour that one day. Right. But now guys are like, oh, and then after this, I'm going to do another one in three weeks. And then I'm going to do nationals and then after that, there's another show. You know. Yeah. So much. Why not go for it? Yeah. You already in shape. Yeah. Yeah. Hey, you got a fan, by the way. Hey, Trent. He says, uh, the guy in the red beany is so hot. Ah, get out of here. And what he says, he says, ah. That smile is so cute. And then he adds in great muscles too. Hey, I like him. We just become best friends, Trent. And he has more comment a little while later. His laugh is so hot and that physique is insane. I'm sure that you could get any guy you wanted. Wow. Trent's a sweetheart. And like I said, we're best friends now. So are you bless him right now? I might be. Yeah. Can't tell. Might be sunburn. Okay, tell if it's the beany or the. You know. I'm not used to hearing that sort of thing about myself. Yeah. Except for your wife, right? Yeah. Except for my wife. I'm just trying to get my pants. Oh, oh. Oh. All right. I know we had a bunch of other stuff. What else do we have? What do we want to go to next year? Do you want to show a little bit? Yeah. Yeah. I can't get that video of Terrence Ruffin. Oh, yeah, man. Let me go back to Instagram here. I mean, he's embodies everything about what classic physiques. And I honestly don't even know who else is competing against him. I think you'll sell him. You'll sell him a beast, I think, from Instagram. That's an I know is Instagram handle. And that's it. God, look at that, right? Whoops. Jesus, dude. Yeah. Look at that. Well, I think I froze it up. I froze everything up here when I zoomed it in. It's a good shot to freeze on. There we go. Look at the side. Yeah, dude. Look at the glutes are in. Yeah. You know what? Look at that little back man. I know what man he was saying. He was like, he's a little, little, little, slight in the hamstring. And I didn't know what he was talking about, but you can kind of see it a little bit from the rear only, but not from the sides and stuff. We're the quads in there. Yeah, okay. I can see that. Which is crazy because I never think of Terrence as being slight in the legs. Yeah. But he's a little Harrison. By comparison to those quads, which you can see the quads from the front, right? Yeah. You know what? I think that's his only knock then. Yeah. I really do. And it's not like got, you know, classic physique. You know, the only classic guy who had massive hamstrings has got them Tom Plats, you know, like, yeah, Mike Mike's got some sour felds. Mike's been. Oh, well, yeah, I'm talking about back in the seven. Oh, I see. I see. Actually, the real classic. The real classic guys. So I always compare to the, I always compare these guys to the guys back in the 70s and early 80s, 60s. Yeah. You know. Yeah, that makes sense. But that might not be the criteria that they're looking for. Right. Because yeah, Mike's on her field as a awesome lower body, all together. Nice, man. I just can't see anyone taking them out out of this show. I really like Tangerines this physique man. I've been rooting for him for so many years now. And I, yeah. I love seeing what he's become. And I know that he's kind of like he's he's out for he's out to prove something to himself this year, you know. Yeah, man. Let me tell you, we were at the Arnold Classic together. We walked around that entire expo and we seen enormous physique's man. Huge, huge, impressive human beings over and over and over again. Yeah. And the one guy that impressed me the most was seeing Terrence Ruffin and a tight black t-shirt. That was the most impressive thing I saw at that show, you know, and he was not the biggest, but man, the way the muscle laid on his frame. And you could seize abs through a shirt. Now I was just like, geez, this is this is the guy. This is the guy. Great. Wow. I mean, those abs sure you don't look lacking from this angle. They don't. You know what I mean? We're doing hand shring curls. No, not at all. Look at that. Oh, they're like Dorian. Yeah, do those are freaking nuts, man. They're steel cord. Steel cord strips. Yeah. They don't, you know what, that lighting that he was posing was really dark too. So, yeah. It wasn't, that's not wasn't really fair. Yeah. Yeah, those are freaking wild, man. Here's a more leg training here. Do you ever squat? I don't know that he ever squats. I don't know. Honestly. I mainly see him training upper body. I like that depth by the way. On this leg press. I, you know, I've been trying to encourage more my clients. I feel like when you can get depth like this. And you get those legs are a part a little bit more. You're going kind of down around the rib cage versus getting stopped on the rib cage and cutting yourself short. This is a full leg movement. This is like, oh, I'm targeting quads. I'm targeting this is everything, man. This is like every part of the leg, the front, the back, the inner and the outer. You got to go all the way down, man. Just like in the squat. You've got to get full range of motion. You've got to put your knees up at your head. You know, that's what you're doing. That's what you're doing. Look at your knees there. Yeah. You see as a block. So that we want to just go underneath the low back there. I do. Could that be for a good idea? This is a shorter guy. Could be. Could be or just help or just help some to keep his back from rounding out too much. I wonder. I don't know. But that's the proper range of motion. If you're going to leg press, you know. Forget about your safety bars or whatever. Get a lot of range of motion or they get that low and then their butt rolls up off of the pad. And I think that that's the limiting factors and that has more to do with flexibility, you know. Sure. Yeah. Yeah. If you got you got you got your back flat against the board. That's for sure. It looks like a monster right here, man. Good. He's looking full of that shot. Yeah. That's about what he looked like at the Arnold front double. Do a front double, Terrence. Come on. You know when he first started competing, I would knock. We would knock him on his arms, you know, but it's nothing. Nothing is out of balance now. He's got great arms all together. Nothing out of balance. I think even his hamstrings it look great. I could see more ham now that you mentioned it just simply because his quads are so ridiculous. But hey, listen, you know what, one of the problems is going to be is that if you do develop more hamstrings, he's already risked looking bottom heavy or he's struggled with being bottom. Heavy all his career. If you had anything more, it's only going to, you know, perpetuate that. You know what I'm saying? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. This is great, man. Let's go to one more. That's good. One more. Okay. Yeah, that's great. That was pretty incredible. Look, he's got Ronnie glutes. Remember how Ronnie glutes the insert and halfway down his legs? Yeah. I see that. Terrence has that same thing going on. Yeah, he does, man. It's pretty awesome. The separation in the front to like all that separation between the packs, shoulders, biceps, lats is really good, man. Yeah, and his waistline is just non-existent, especially in these back shots. Geez. That is literal what you call wasp waste. Yeah. The wasp waste. Yeah. Like barely connected. I don't really know. I'm kind of, I don't know, man. Because I'm trying to give that a fair shake of Tyler said his ham is a little bit more weak or lacking. I don't know if it's that is, yeah. I think we're splitting hairs to be honest with you when we say that if we say that. Well, also Tyler was comparing him to, you know, summer felt. Ah, and that's not exactly a fair comparison. But I guess the two might be standing total to at the Olympia. Sure. Maybe fair comparison after all, you know, so something to think about. Yeah. We're else we're going to go where you want to go next. You know what? Let's go to the open man. Alright. Go to, go to Cresda. I just want to see what Cresda looks like. I've seen some updates and I was just like, wow. I hope Scott sees these. Alright. I have not. Look at that. Look at the most muscular. Oh, my God. Geez. Nobody has conditioning like that right now. Nobody. That's incredible, man. Not Nick Walker, not Derek, not nobody. I mean, and we're still two weeks out, you know. George Ferris doing a great job with him, by the way. Yeah, that's like old school conditioning right there. You don't even. Yeah. And he's not flat. I mean, he might be flat for Cresda at this point. But he's not flat. Look at that. You know what Cresda made up, man. I remember my shoulder having this kind of masculinity. And I remember trying to do a lateral shot, lateral, delt shot. And my delt was just covered in all these veins. I was like, holy shit. Normally when I'm fat, I don't see all of these. Now we got a dodgum, you know. Yeah, you're probably just like, I don't wonder, I'm always bleeding. Oh, man. Exactly. Yeah, he's incredible looking, man. And just his shape, too. Geez. Look at this, most muscular. Wow. He's got some shots that are going to be really hard to beat. I personally, I think he'll crack top three. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, there's nobody going to be conditioned like him. And he's a monster. He's like two to 80. You know, he's not small. This is three weeks ago. So yeah. Yeah. He's come a long way in three weeks, man. Yeah. Dude, I feel like they really turned it up in three weeks. Like you don't have the smallest way, but it's not huge. Oh, excuse me. That was one month after surgery versus April. Oh, so that was a long while ago, then. This versus this. Yeah. Yeah. That's massive, man. Huge change. And you can't tell really what shoulder looks at this. Look at the density in those packs from here. To here. Yeah. Well, he could train again. Yeah, right. You could do some pressing though. Yeah. He's incredible looking, man. He's just a crazy sight to behold. You know, he's one of those guys you were going to root for because he's just. He just has all that bodybuilding aura about him. Yeah. And that throwback look from like the 90s. I think I mentioned this before. He just he's so freaky. I feel like if we were to ask AI to like make the freaky unrealistic bodybuilder. You know, if they bring up him, like something that exists in the real world. Yep. Here you go. It's Michael. Michael, please. Oh, this is what you're asking for. What is Nebia? I see a lot of guys overseas. I was the same thing. I thought you might know. No. Yeah. I think I mean, Curious. I don't know if it's a clothing brand or if it's a. They make equipment out there or something or what? Yeah, I don't know. It looks cool. Doesn't it? Like, it does. I don't mean something. We don't know. I don't know. I'm a little jealous because a lot of their tank tops are pretty cool looking. And they say that Nebia. Nebia. Maybe one of our live listeners knows what Nebia is. Yeah. Or are people in the, you know, comments on YouTube and John Rougas. Maybe you guys tell us, they don't they will know. Very nice. Let me see what else he's got in here. Oh, look at that. That's pretty old school contraption right there. Yeah, look at a Smith. I think it is, man. Where's the wait to go? Up top like that? Oh, wow. You're really? I don't know. I'm confused. This is definitely a European machine. You know what I mean? Yeah, it looks Western block. Yeah, yeah. Oh, yeah, dude. Yeah, that's how it works. Dude, it is. I want to try this. I like that. No, we put weights on top, not the side. Ha ha ha. Put the down top is heavier. It's spacey thing, you know. You know. You're really, you're really, you're really. You're really, you're really nice. You know. Yeah, yeah, there's no ends on the bar. Look at that. Right. That's so weird. Really cool, though. I would love to try one of those. But why do we load? Like the only reason we load the outside Smith bars, you know, this because, you know, on the ends is because that's what we're used to with the traditional Yeah, right. In fact, this makes way more sense. And I guarantee it. I bet it's heavier. I mean, the entire bar control with the weight thing on it is got to be 50 50 pounds or more on its own. Yeah. It's like, you know, like the sled I'm when you're doing leg presses, that thing on its own is decently heavy. Yeah. I got some cool equipment out there in the Western block. Eastern, Eastern, Eastern block. Eastern block. Yes. Yeah. I like that multicolored. They have good AKs out there, too. In the Eastern block. Yeah. They do most of the area. They make the best, best AK stuff out there. Oh, yeah. I've got a CZPO 9 from from the Czech Republic, huh? Yeah. Eastern block. That's one of my favorites. It's double action. CZ is a great brand. I love that thing, man. I haven't shot it in a while, but I will definitely be shooting now. I have the CZ Scorpion. Yes. Shoot our CZs for Cresso. He might not have cared all, and does nothing to do, you know? What does that mean? We're like in the form of your area of the world. We support you. Your business is out there. Yeah. He's not known for having the best back, but his back double is still hard and gnarly. Yeah. You know, it's just to me, I like it. I like even though it's not like Derek Lundsford back or anything. Yeah. That his back double is like kind of astonishing still because he's got those giant arms and huge delts and everything is shredded peeled condition. Yeah. I like that gym all together. That's cool looking place. Yeah. I gotta try that Smith, but I don't know where they get that thing from. You ought to make a trip. Maybe it's a nebia product. Yeah. Maybe it is. It is. I'm not sure if this is 315 or if those yellow plates are different or the other way different. Yeah. Do they? Yeah. On ice control. It looks like a Smith machine with the control he has in that was very nice for us. Good for him. All different colored weights, different. One might be 90 pounds. One might be 35. You got one more here. You got a couple more, I think. No, this is no one more after this too. I'm just curious to see the machines he's trading on. These things are cool. They are cool. I like the maggriffs. Do you? Yeah. I like that. We've got a couple of those over at Carbon. We've got one that's close grip, one that's medium, one that's really wide like that. They're all them are really good grips, maggriffs. I like this movement for that mid-upper back area. Me too. I'm a fan of the long bar. Yeah, the row altogether. Are you? I like the close grip too, but it's a different feel altogether. For me to activate my lat in the pull down, I need a closer grip but for this. That's a different story. I do, I think Dorian was a fan of the long bar there too. Yeah. The row. He always said that it helped with his width. Okay. So it comes from good source there. Yeah. Yeah, I don't know if I believe that. That's like remember Joe Russo and he was like, well, you know, I twist my pinky this way and buy my bicep curls so that he can do it. He's like, you know, you were born on that beat. Yeah, that's right. That's funny. Yeah, he had great, great arms. I like this pack deck. She's. You could do just the, the, the used the pads with the handles even on that. I was thinking just like, you know, turn your, turn your elbows up and yeah. Just against the old school style. They should all be built like this, I think. Huh. Yeah. Just in case you want to do it, you know, old style. I like that. It's nice to have, uh, time to sell boat issues. You don't have to grip onto it. You know. Yep. Yep. Exactly. If you had many it workouts where I just working around time to sell boat. Yeah, man, me too. It's got such a big wingspan there, doesn't he? Yeah. If there's long arms as he has, they're huge, unbelievable. Yeah. It's why his fun double is so massive. Yeah. I look forward to seeing him, man. Go to that first one. The first, uh, yeah. I think he's setting up to do a side chest. Okay. Look how ripped his back is on, when he's as he twists. Oh, no. I see it. He starts again. Yes. Great conditioning. So watch his low back when he, when he re does this whole thing. Oh my god. He's going to pop. He's going to pop. Yeah. I mean, that's like, rolly freaky, isn't it? Yeah, it really is, isn't it? Yeah. I don't know. It froze up on us. Let's start that over and let's try that again. Yeah. Watch his low back. Oh, yeah. Yeah. You see, like his Christmas tree from the side. I think I saw one of his kidneys. Maybe it was his kidney. I'm not sure. Yeah. That's good. That's awesome. No, be it. I think I saw the third. I think I saw the third for him. Okay. So, Nabea is an overseas clothing brand that's been around for ever time. That's what that is. Lots of girls have worn it for a long time. Mostly international competitors really expensive. That's, thank you, Tania. That's great. They're old school and they don't seem to market much. No shit. I'm going to get them out. Sponsor for the program or something. Yeah, man. I would rock some Nabea stuff. It looks great. Yeah. Yeah. I am going to get back to over here. All right, who else do we want to see? Check out Nick Walker. He's looking really, really good. All right. Yeah, that was a little worried. You know, you see him on his offseason stuff. I know, man. I know. This means a lot to him right now, too. You know what I mean? Buddy, man. He's looking good. Wow. What is this? Three hours ago. This is today. This is today. Okay. Yeah. Just the one picture. Oh, okay. Look at that. That's one of his best shots, too. Yeah. He's got a great most most special. Yeah, he really does. He's looking big, right? Yep. Look at the delts. Looking good. We've got just the width, you know? You know, a lot of density there. Hey, that's a good shot, man. Jesus. Yeah. That's a monster shot for him. I will do. So he's going to be up against Cresso, huh? Then Lonesford, who's got that, you know, the back double and locked down. Wow. But if anyone can rival him, I got to say it's going to be Nick Walker, just because, I mean, that's phenomenal. Look, Nick Walker will beat him in the arms, he'll might beat him in detail. And it'll definitely beat him from the waist down in the back double. Nobody's got a lower posterior chain like Nick Walker does in that back double. Oh, man, though, I got to tell you that Lonesford, the Arnold, when he turned around, hit that rear double, he just looked like perfection. Honestly, dude, I was like, I felt like I maybe had never seen anything that perfect in my life on stage in front of me in person. You know what I mean? Nobody's going to beat the back. No one's beating me back. Yeah. But this can give him a good rival. Yeah. It'll be good. And I'm interested to see him against Cresso, because I feel like they're both like, kind of, you know, they're both mutants, you know? Yeah. They ought to bring Cresso and Nick Walker out just as like, and just make it front, front biceps. And measure their necks. And measure their necks because measure the arms in the necks. Yeah, and you've got the thickest neck. Whoever has the biggest arm measurement gets $50,000. Yes. Let's see Nick do some leg training here. Let's get going on. I'm not a fan of this. Me neither, man. Me neither. Your neck is up to color. I can't get comfortable. But just watching this makes my knees hurt. Look at those hamstrings on him, though. I know, the wild. I mean, he might not have the best quads, but I guarantee he's got the best hamstrings. On stage. Dude, those hamstrings watch how much, like, look at him now, and watch are going to, like, quadruple in size. They're blowing up as he goes down. Yeah. Yeah. She's a god, man. Yeah. Yeah. They're like full on bicep peaks. Look at it. Look at it. It looked like they're, they looked like they're about to fall out of his pants. I know. They're like, they look like you would a butcher would throw it over his shoulder and cave it into the back room. Yeah. And I mean. It's good control. Yeah. You know, that's a lot of burn and reps. Yeah. And the depth, you know, all of that. I like that. Next, always about, you know, taking, like, really taking it slow control and things. Which is, I think, you know, smart for him. It works good for him. And even he's got, you know, he's doing the same thing like we're talking about with Terrence, open in those legs up, getting around the rib cage. Yeah. Making sure you get the depth. Yeah. That's a, it's retell's early into that. I think he's. Is weird of a guy as he is is, he should be. Yeah. Yeah. I think that he's onto something with that his training ideas. No, I agree with them. I agree with that. A thousand percent. You've got to, you've got to sink your squats. Just like you've got to sink your hacks. You've got to sink everything. Everything needs full depth. Yeah. It's good. Oh, we got that. We got an actual, uh, posing trunk shot here. Oh, yeah. These are the, these are the ones I saw on, uh, on the even fitness, even body building. Oh, guys. Even here. Yeah. Yeah. I call him my friend. That's the American in me. I guess. You know, yeah. I don't know. He doesn't like that. He, he, he does it. I don't like that. No. He just, the way I say the words. It's like, you know, it's, it's even the way it's written. It's written out with an eye. You would just think, you know, you look at, I tell. It's Italian food, you know. Yeah. I can't. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He looks good, man. Look at the depth. That's, he have string. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He looks good, man. He looks fresh too. I think that's all. Yeah. Yeah. He does look fresh. That's a good. He looks good. He looks healthy, you know. Yeah. Because we've seen him in pop. Not looking great, you know. I, I'm rooting for him, man. I want to see him have a long, long career still. Yeah. I just want to see him do well. You know, I don't want to say win or second or third. I just want to see him. Yeah. I want to see him rival, you know, just see him rival everybody. And yeah. And I'm going to scratch some, maybe people scratch some heads, you know. Get the respect he deserves too, you know. Yeah. I feel like, and maybe part of it is because he, I think people are not for it when you're like, I'm going to come in and I'm going to win the Olympia this year. People don't like that kind of attitude anymore. You know what I mean? Look at that. That's great shot. Look at the detail. Beautiful. Yeah. Yeah. Tell me. Look at detail. Look at detail on the triceps. Yeah. I'll show you the triceps and the back double. Yeah. Wow. Great man. It's great shot. This waist looks tiny from behind too, you know. Yeah. Yeah. You would never know. You never really had a, you know, a bit wider waist from front, but from the back. It's crazy. A lot of, a lot of leg training here. Look at these wheels here, man. All pretty good. Good. Good. Good. Yeah. You're pumped up. They don't look like there. There's no separation. They're just pumped up. Yeah. I wonder what, one of those legs weighs. 275. Yeah. I don't, I like the rear baths. I like the rear baths. I just, I've 100 pounds guys. Each, each leg, 275. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I picked your rowing it, you know. Like do we grow the 275s? Yeah. This is Nick Walker's leg right now. Yeah. That's what I was going to go was this one. This was from two weeks ago. Yeah. He got in a shape, like pretty quickly there. In the last, within the last four weeks. Oh, yeah. He sure did. I want to see that rear double here. Oh, yeah. There too. It is, but you can see like that mid back. It's like all this is dried out now. Yeah. And the glutes, the glutes in the hip area. Yeah. It's all, it's all sucked in now. Yeah. Yeah. Looks good. Let's go to Derek real quick because you know, we just been blown away with Kriso and Nick Walker. Yeah. And I don't think Derek is as, you know, as impressive this far out. Yeah. You're just the way it is. He's going to show up a seat. Oh, whip him to shape. Oh, George. Just as crazy as he was at the Arnold. But he does like leading up photos. He doesn't nearly as good, you know. Okay. I clicked on this video first. I wanted to see this leg extension. What brand is that, I wonder? I don't know. I bet you're tiny miller knows. He does. Resid in expert. Yes. Resid in expert. We need you. Clothing and equipment. Thought there was a video of him doing posing. He had a pita tank top on, but he's still pretty good. Second, I lost here. There we go. I think when I clicked off, I went to go look at the comments if the video froze. Let me see here. All right. All right. Scroll in down. Is some posing, maybe this one? Not sure, but that's pretty good. Oh, the lighting is shit. It's not here. It's not here. Maybe that's the, what is it? How far? This is three weeks out filter so that we can't quite see. I do feel like this is filtered or something. This does not look right to me. Yeah. Looks a little watery. Yeah. Maybe that's what it is. It was huge. Yeah, really. Yes, man. God. You saw some, how about if you see these, man? Where are people doing these figurines through AI? That's cool. Those are great, man. Those are fantastic. That Jake Colt or one looks pretty realistic, man. It looks just like him. It just really does. Yeah. The one beside him looks like I didn't realize that was at once, right? It looks like more like Kuklo. Yeah, I could see that. Yeah. I feel like people would buy that J figure in. Why not? Yeah, I get them going. If anyone can sell them, right? I want a little J like that in a little Ronnie too. You know, fuck yeah, dude. I would buy them for sure. They would stay in their package and everything. I'd take them out and I'd be like, front double buy stuff. Right. Put them through their pose. Exactly. Exactly. We're supposing that here. It's getting, I guess maybe it was on like a YouTube or something. Let's see. Let's see. We'll just see here. I don't think he has too much. There's him demonstrating he's a good family man here. He is showing his sponsorships, a little bit of promotion here. A little J Cutler stuff that has nothing to do with us. All right. Oops. All right. Huh? That's been the updates then, huh? Yeah. There's the one. There's this. You're hitting some shots in tank top. A couple of weeks at. How about this? This might be easy. This might, this is just a commercial. Oh, you put together. About this. Here's some. This is another commercial apparel stuff. I guess we just can't have to wait, huh? Hmm. That's the bad. We can have to wait. Some zippers and they shirt. What about Martin? I mean, it's on one of Martin has anything going on. Let's see. Martin fits water. Nothing going on. There's still a lot of, uh, here's eight weeks out, but that was. That was long time ago already. Yeah. It's still pretty good though. You know, he weeks out. Yeah. This two weeks ago. So you'll be fun to see how he stacks up against everybody, you know? Yeah. Yeah. It's a different fits water when he's when he's peeled and he's ready to go. Yeah. Really. And then. And I feel like he's coming in with, uh, he's coming in with, uh, you know, a lot of, uh, you know, what's, what's a lot of confidence this year. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, he's only done well since he's, yeah. Since he had his breakout year last year. Yeah. It'll be good, Ben, because it, you know, we'll watch good veto. We'll watch him. We'll watch, uh, Creso and Bonuc. All in that second call out is going to be so crazy. Yeah. Geez. I mean, shit, that could be first call out too. Hope no, who knows. Yeah. Yeah. It's going to be, it's going to be fantastic, man. I'm looking forward to it. You're getting me pumped up because I hadn't looked at a lot of this stuff until we're looking at it right now, honestly. So man. And you know what else is cool? It's like next, it's next weekend. Is it next weekend? Next weekend is a fixed-brick pro or the weekend after that. I can't remember. I think it's a week after. I think we have a couple. Okay. And then the week after that, the New York pro. And then at week after that, it's the Legion pro or California pro. It's like every weekend after these next two weeks, there's going to be a great show happening. Like every every week for the next, I don't know a couple months. It's pretty crazy. Yeah. That's the summer. Yeah. Cool. Like it was this a lot to talk about too on the podcast, you know? Heck yeah. Yeah. On all the podcasts. That's what I'm saying. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. Yeah. That's right. Yeah. Oh yeah. Yeah. Now it's a bit longer, but we can kind of, we can kind of like brush through it a little bit. But it's pretty, now Vince Garanda was was pretty popular in the 50s and 60s. Mm-hmm. And he pretty much got muscleed out because of weater, you know? You never heard about Vince Garanda. You never heard about a training. You never heard about his diet systems. You never heard about him. You know, a guru. And he was probably the original guru. If there was, his Vince Garanda. And never made an of the magazines because him and weater just didn't get along. That's what it was. Yeah. He had his own way about stuff, his own way about training. And there was a whole group of guys that would follow Vince Garanda around and use his diets. Okay. And he worked with people from all over the country, you know? Yeah. All right. And I got to tell you, man, I watched this ahead of time and he's way way ahead of his time. Really ahead of his time. Yeah. I'll see who he has to say. Yeah. I'll see. People are loud. Yeah. That Vince's diet's what's up. It was loud. Oh, yeah. It can extide. Right there. And further, many people are under the impression that these extreme diets should be adhered to indefinitely. This could not be further from the truth. In fact, Vince's teachings on nutrition and diet I believe are very misunderstood. And for this reason, I thought it was time to clear up clear it out. I guess these misconceptions and try to elaborate more on Vince's nutritional principles and give a list. Let's get forward to the. Yeah. How do you start with subsequent strategies? Not making that out. Here's the problem. I'm not on. I'll have to sign in here eventually, but I'm not second in. So I unfortunately have ads. I don't have that's okay. You can skip. Yeah. Building by many famous stars too many to list here. Very Scott. Now, one of the most important things to understand about Vince's diet is that they were goal-oriented. This is very important because not all individuals are the same and we are all essentially different. Vince believed one should experiment and see what works best for you as an individual. This meant pretty good. To the diet given as a recognized structure on that. Yeah. And then tweaking and adapting it to suit your own individuality, your own individual metabolism, lifestyle, etc. Another very important thing to understand is that most of his diets, most are not maintenance diets. That is they are not meant to be used indefinitely. As I mentioned before, they have a certain goal to their goal-oriented. They serve a specific purpose. They are supposed to be used to achieve a certain goal and therefore they act as tools for weight loss or weight gain. Or more specifically to lose fat and add quality muscle. And as I mentioned, once you follow the diet, you can experiment with it and see what works for you. Now having just addressed the idea of the individuality and the bodybuilding training, you need, become to another very important moment. And that is that muscle that is served different needs. This is a very important thing. You know, you've got to really get it into your head. Vince developed many different diets for the different needs of his client. He had diet based on meat for example. There were high protein diet for rapid muscular gains. He also, a times recommended lacto over vegetarian diets. For example, one of his trainees had nervous fatigue. He even recommended periods of going vegan for detoxification. That's right, you heard of. He actually even is going vegan at times. And having settled with this and having listed all these examples of the different diets and elements of these diets, Vince encouraged his clients to develop an innate wisdom. He actually called it an innate animal wisdom. And that is to recognize when the diet has stopped becoming effective. Because the diet is going to be longer effective at this point. It is time to actually change diet. And of course, this is highly dependent on the individuality of the trainee. If the diet doesn't work anymore for you, why continue with it? It's time to change. It might mean that you've been on a high protein diet for a prolonged period of time. And you need a detox so you might need to go vegan for a week or two. And believe it or not, this is the way that Vince actually recommended his diets to be used. When it comes to the choice of food for Vince's diets, Vince always said, think nutrition first. And having said that, he always recommended to remove, of course, junk food except for your days when you would have maybe one cheat meal a week. You just have to read meals back there. You just have processed foods. And instead to fresh fruit and vegetables, whole wheat grain products over refined products such as pasta and white bread, etc. High quality sourced animal protein. And even if you could stomach it to drink raw milk, raw steak. And of course raw eggs or it's got steamers in this talk about eating raw meat. This of course, raw sounds. Very much. Almost. Is that really the same? Like the red bean paste. I mean, rare. Really rare. Yeah. So now we finally come to the list of Vince to run as many, many diets. And here we have a following list of diets that have actually read up on in many of his publications. And I just want to talk about each. There is six eggs a day. We need to be a element of each. So we're maximum definition. We maintain these diets. This adult getting a diet. They're like a recommended. So it's a unique diet that he would actually say, you can be on this diet year round. And it was a good balance of proteins, fats and carbohydrates. And again, it was used for gradual muscular gains year round. Now if you wanted to really up the muscle gains, he recommended several other more extreme diets. And I've already talked about one many times. And that is the 36 eggs a day diet. Also known as the hormone precursor diet, which is high in protein. You also recommended this. What are other hormones? And the reason I do it that way. It worked so well. It was just similar to the articles from the 1970s, the scientific research articles. It was shown to give a positive nitrogen balance. And was very good. Good job. And of course. Yeah. In definition diet. This is the steak and egg style, right? It's famously called the steak and eggs diet. And there's many videos on YouTube on this particular diet. In short, this diet was forgetting shredded. You find it in one of my videos as well. I think it's the diets that Vince recommended for getting shredded. It's on my definition series of... I mean, from videos. I can eat that every meal is getting. Vince's gym. At the end of my ebook, I actually present the Eric Australia diet. And the point is to not follow this particular diet at all. It just serves as an example. And any probably had diets for, you know, Don Hoa was Larry Scott. And all the other people that were in his gym probably are kind of... He's a star. And the stance of the Vince was a trainer that understood the individual needs of his clients. And that's the point. That's the point I'm trying to make. Although he had probably hundreds of diets. Each had to be tweaked for his specific individual that he was training. This is very important to us. I bet you the Johnny Henning and having said that... That's the whole point of his career. So you really understand that... Vince, although he recommended certain diets, it didn't necessarily have to be adhered to 100%. Because as an individual, we all need to adapt things to suit us best. Vince, you've also had Arnold's body. All these different recipes. Yeah, that's right. That's right. How a breakfast, how a lunch, how a dinner. I'm just so meant to hear. He's really excited. Yeah, that was fine. That's what you got to do. Yeah, you're so interested with all the possibilities. That's good, man. Yeah, it's impressive that there was that kind of information all the way back then. Yeah, I'd be curious to learn a little bit more about some of his specifics. Because I haven't looked at the specifics. I've heard some of the stuff like, you know, the all eggs die at stuff like that. Yeah, it's crazy. Yeah. But I mean, he knew, like, hey, man, you need steak, you need eggs, you need egg whites, you need protein. You know, you need a lot of carbs. Depends on what you're trying to do. You could use carbs or not. You know, it's like, you, you all this already. He was like, way ahead of his time. I like that term he used that innate intuition. It's like, it is. It's like a primal and it's something you have to have as a coach. There's like this eternal, yeah, got feeling that you have when you know something's working or not working or or when it's not working yet, but it needs more time. Right. Exactly. Exactly. Yeah. We know when to add carbs, when the poll carbs, when to add fats, you know, same thing. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, you knew all that shit all the way back then. It's probably why all of his guys were ripped, you know? Yeah. Yeah. Let's go. They say that when he competed himself, he used to get so ripped that he would get knocked and judges wouldn't want to must taste. We're all like all that conditioning. You got to have more body. They're like that to compete and body. Two rigged. Yeah. Two ripped. Get off the stage. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We got a little bit of the old stuff, new stuff, leafy stuff, fun stuff. Yeah. All dirty stuff. The next time you guys see Vige, he's going to be 152 pounds. I mean, steak and egg diet and 16 milligrams of redicurotide per day. So just hold on. Hold on to your seats, guys. Vince Garrandos fault. Yeah. Yeah. All right, man. What do you say? We call it. We call it. This is amazing. And we, I think we did everything we could for the day. I hope that people appreciate it and let us know. You know what I mean? Yeah. It's getting even better. Yeah. It really does make a difference. I'm trying to get the channel built up as best we can. It really is my dream. You know what I mean? To keep freaking grow in this thing. I would love to see us hit like 50,000 subscribers at some point. Yeah. That would be sweet. Man, I'd take that. I know there's a lot bigger channels in that. I mean, I see, I see think big hitting 100,000. I don't see a line up. Why not? I mean, oh, that would probably. I look at some other channels. I'm like, they have 100,000. Think it doesn't have 100,000. Why? Come on. Look at the talent. I think the good looks. Yeah. Look at the guy in the red beanie. Oh, my god. Yeah. So, hey. On that note, for body building nurse radio and Scott McNally. See you guys. See you guys.

two week not even like maybe eight days before I got I went to the master's Nationals in 2021 I got a video of and some of my Instagram with me with the 160's and just like you said Ron it doesn't count the you know the handle the handle but I also have I took these orange lead up to yes bands and I dangled and I put two tens on each side and I so I bought them up to 180 plus and I ripped out like 10 to 12 of those haters and now Halo tests and works people it's a Halo test and it's a powerful drug what's up guys welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gearworth Coaches skip Hill Andrew Barry myself Scott McNaley and we are joined again like big Ron part low what's up Rod very happy to be here hey pleasure to have you yeah yeah you're a smart group I just want to be associated with you fellas guys all of our programming is brought to you by truenutrition.com user code think over there for savings on all of your basic body building supplements like protein, creatin, intro workout all that stuff and of course we are brought to you by supplement source.ca for Canadians they have great deals that change week to week and hey you go to mutant what is it I am mutant.com and use code big Ron for savings over there and people that's Ron's new thing is avoid you buy it online avoid people avoid people never have to see anyone and we're brought to you by Patriot guys I put up a thread today we've got Patriot questions we've got a physique critique and I wanted to start this thing out with a topic you know I look at our demographic on the channel and although we do have a lot of the guys that are like the 24 to 34 we also have a lot of the guys that are like the 40 for whatever 34 to 44 and then the guys beyond that even so I thought it would be a great conversation to have how has our body building evolved as we've aged you know at the end of the day if you freaking love this sport and it's something that you want to keep doing you're not going to continue doing what you did when you were 22 years old so I thought we could just share some tips and maybe I could learn something from you guys and maybe part of this is because I'm going to be honest I'm getting older my birthdays coming up this next weekend so I'm kind of like feeling the age you know what I'm saying but I'm like I'm starting to embrace being the old guy I know skip you've been the old guy since you were like 32 you know wow yeah so I why don't we start with our guest host and Ron last time you were on you were very chill all right listen okay critique this is like producers critique you were very chill you know you were like very like I'm just stepping on a bunch of toes you know we got it you got to get the energy up today you know yeah I got to redeem yourself a little bit you know okay okay I didn't realize I didn't realize I'd put in a lackluster performance yeah you didn't say anything we didn't say anything I thought I did all right you know you have a conversation with your wife right now or yeah we're going I thought I did pretty good but I'm gonna back to finish the job gentlemen I was at you okay yes well how do we want to break it up do we want to start like with training approach nutrition approach to supplementation PED what what do you think the best way to do it is I'm thinking just one thing that you can think of off the top of your head we could go around and I bet you the as you go that's gonna spark some thoughts for others you know okay I got one right all of my supplements are about not dying not in a mergot performance right yeah yeah I just want to wake up tomorrow yeah like my my like whole shelf of supplements it's gone from like maximizing everything yeah I got the creatine and protein powder in there but yeah everything else is about like health yeah but now are you taking the creatine more for sleep than for actual now you have right it's like cognitive you know enhancement I'm trying to fight dementia as I age yeah yeah extra rep is just a nice side effect yeah yeah you said something in the opening side that kind of made me perk up about loving training and loving bodybuilding and everything else I think my position has shifted more toward it's a obligatory because as bad as I look when I do train I look like dog shit when I don't train you're stuck with it yeah it's not it's less about passion and it's more about obligation it's not sort of the levels at this point if I'm leaner and I'm training I look a little bit younger I certainly feel younger yeah I can take four or five days off shelf it if I'm on vacation or something seeing the kids and I'm not kidding I feel 20 years older yeah things start to ache even just a day and I'm one of those guys I'm all are none if I'm not training I'm not necessarily who breeding you know six times a day with burgers and that's like but I'll just not eat I'm tired of eating I'm tired of looking at the clock I'm tired of everything that everybody loves we all love when we first start doing it but here's the thing we'll back in the gym and I don't want to be anywhere else yeah so it becomes now I want people to understand that I'm not saying that I don't have passion for it and I don't love it it's just shifted to this very novel I can't wait to get to the gym I'm gonna get bigger every rep that I do I'm gonna get bigger too now it's part of what I do I have to do it it's therapy yeah and I'm not me without doing it so there are those days when I go I got shit to do I got a lot of crap to do but I have to have my meals on time I got to stay in this familiar comfort zone so that I feel grounded and if I'm not there I'm a giant my life for 32 years so tell you my kids might take I'm a mess I'm gonna have salute can mess what is this then what where am I now yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah right and I'm not for what it's worth I do have two reasons I literally had to force myself out of the gym two days ago because every time I go back here my eyes are getting better but since the show I have had either a bacterial infection in both eyes or sties that will not like you can take it up half of my face I'd wake up in it look like someone went to right on my eye it would be stuck to the top in the bottom and I'd be like pulling on it like it's disgusting absolutely yes that would get I noticed it would get worse because it was getting better I go into the gym and I train and I don't know what the hell it is whether it's pressure or what but it just it would just literally just make it worse so but the bigger reason is my rotate my right rotator comes to go nice it's pretty bad when an eye infection won't take you out of the gym even though you realize it but your shoulders getting in the way you train it's now you got arrested yeah yeah I can really tell that I'm gonna kind of echo Ron's sentiment about supplements but more guided towards a PED side of things like for me now PDs or more it's how very little can I take and maintain at least a certain type of look and a certain type of performance and then the choices are also not based off of you know no longer is it anodraw versus superdraw today it's more like am I gonna take MOTC or I'm gonna take an extra dose of methylene blue something that's gonna improve my cognition or my overall longevity and health and I just think as you get older echoing you know Ron's sentiment about supplements for health versus an avalism I think you try to program your PEDs the same way like for me I want to have consistently good blood work all the time I don't want to see red on my on my sheet anymore so a lot of my decisions are based off of that yeah I'm going in for my what is it well you're first rectal exam if you're getting in on your age but for I'll be 49 I'll be 49 this year you're a year away from getting finger bang they don't they don't do that no skip they do they do they've got blood work and then they've got a box my doctor's lying to me she's not a doctor's yet yeah that guy in the alley the girl with the whip and a big weather really heavy set guy here coming out of his nose and anything else come up here hours for you now is a figure with that oh for first yes mistress she's not a guy yeah I'm going for my calcium score so I a little bit nervous you know for that one but I feel like it's gonna be all right well find out let me know what it is I mean curious I will yeah well it's so you know here's one of the things I've noticed and this is also as man I hate using the word educator now you know like everybody is an educator but we've been doing PED education for a long time skip you've been doing it longer than me man I remember listening to the PED radio you know well I was working for the pop company still and my perspective on even like the cycles that I would put out there was a little bit different now I'm thinking about the big picture the long term I'm not as likely to even suggest risks and part of it is I recognize I recognize that we can do a lot more with less than we need to think we needed so you know with more experience it's like you don't have to just dump it all in I know exactly how much we need to dump in you know in there are times that you do need to put a little bit more in it's a calculated risk so I guess that I'm better at that but I pay a lot more attention to you know what those risks are but for me personally my training now is about I mean I'm happy because I'm looking better now being consistent now again for a good chunk of time longest consistency I've been able to have since I had gotten sick in 2021 and I see that continuing to get better but as much as I want that I'm kind of thinking of it as like my insurance policy at this point like the longer I can hold on to muscle in my lifetime the better off I'm gonna be because I thought he was sleeping I'm sorry my bro you have to just pretend that you like what we're saying just like just fame you know just but it's like it's like an insurance policy right I want to have as much muscles I can for as long as I can we are all way above the average you know what I'm saying if you ever even stepped on stage one time in your life I bet you that you're gonna be able to have more muscle when you're 50 60 70 yeah and having that more muscles gonna keep you more mobile in the world and you know less likely to get hurt and all of that so it's funny because I didn't ever think of that stuff like in my 20s and 30s it's like it wasn't a thought of my head at all it was only how to get bigger how to look crazy you know I thought I'd be dead by 50 yeah I didn't even plan I'm like I'm pretty sure I'll be in the ground yeah and not from bodybuilding but just that was my night night like I like 50 is so far off that I couldn't even comprehend like what am I gonna do am I gonna be like an embarrassing home or so that's how my brain I don't mean to give the impression like oh I was trying to kill myself with you but you make a good point from the streets man I got interrupted guys so I'm looking out my window right and I there's there's this movement that catches my eye and because my pool's like right out here there's these two geckos they're going at it the little gecko lizards like yeah like I've never seen a half sex before they literally nature channels going right to it is a yon top of her from behinders or tail in the way is a belly to belly I don't really know I think the tail tail can be cool control I think it's also it might be the mess in leather boots of the web it might be salt because like the she keeps on putting them away the animal kingdom has consent I don't think they do either but I don't know if I want to risk my yeah what would dispatch say if you call 911 yeah there's a guy who are both sexually right now by my pool yeah mine's a scene of a crime I'm gonna get kicked out of my house okay he's my pool we only ones get that hey how about training and we had a great conversation last episode I mentioned one of my clients and we talked about him getting stronger and we ended up getting into a pretty deep conversation about that because you know your take skip was like I don't know how strong you want guys to be getting when they're you know in their 40s and 50s as we age you know there's got to be other ways around it to still be able to make progress you know there are a lot of guys that are still is that is that include the 40s then skip I mean here's the thing I don't want to give the impression or imply that you know we don't want to go into the gym just because we're older and not trying heavy what I'm saying is it shouldn't be the main driver of you know I I have like there has to be this yeah you have to roll about it right exactly so it's still it's still important and it should still be a priority but it shouldn't be at the risk of of everything else and that's just based on primarily my experience going through those ages but also the clients because the older I get my demographic you know like anybody else it changes people will see those parallels know why to come and work with me because they're like yeah he's had some injuries he's been around for a while I'm a dinosaur too I'd rather work with him than work with someone who's 25 and doesn't can't relate yeah I have that experience where 25 year old be like okay see it's got a lot of wisdom everything but he's not really all that cool he doesn't do very much he doesn't have much to talk about other cats and watches so I'm gonna go with this cat that's you know 25 years old and you know those are the parents those are the things you know people don't just come to us as trainers because of you know strictly for our track record and our knowledge these days there are a lot of good trainers back in the day there weren't we're gonna do so now you're matching up to with you know do I have a can I is he really is this person relatable can I have a you know essentially maybe even a friendship you know with this type of person do I like do I vibe do I do we dive do we do we get along versus back in the day we used to be able to tell him even the trainers you're still trying to ride this and it doesn't work you just be shitty to your clients and tell him what to do and tell him to f-on I told you what to do this is what you do you know drop in the hammer it's like it doesn't work that way anymore shouldn't work that way back then but you could get away with things like that you can be a total asked about people would want to work with you now there's this giant sea a turds they can pick and choose there's a lot of people who know what they're doing there's a lot of people who don't know what they're doing all right did we give them anything do we know no not not all all right that's the way I felt to okay it is we all vented about getting older I guess you know that's that's what exactly that's it it was injured you look like you're thinking to something you got anything you wanted to throw in there I was gonna come up with a nice salilic weed just putting it all together but yeah you're good all right well let's talk about this then did you guys hear about the new Olympic Qualifications dangerous brought that up I saw that for matches in the classic right and bikini and bikini so they're going back to a point system sort of yes so want me to read it to you yeah you got it yeah I got it right here yeah yeah yeah let's see what I can I've been looking at it a couple times today so system for classic physique men's physique bikini and wellness so the top 25 in the point standing is qualified for the Olympia all right there's automatic qualifications for the Olympia if you win two contests all right so for people that don't follow those divisions as much there's a lot more classic and bikini shows and men's physique shows than there are open body building there's certainly more than two 12 there's certainly more than women's because they're the more popular divisions they turn to at most of the pro qualifiers two people turn pro in each class and a lot of them okay yeah but for the Olympia top three get an automatic qualification if you get fourth you get 12 points if you get 50 at 10 points so you start off with a pretty nice you know stacked deck right there because if you look at like the Arnold Classic which is now the Arnold the Pittsburgh and the New York the Romanio muscle fest and the Dubai probe would be considered a second tier show okay winner gets automatic qualification and then the points go 14 11 9 and 7 for 2345 and then all other body building shows all are all of their contests whether it's the like this weekend we have the Florida Pro and a couple weeks go we have the Tampa Pro if you win that you get 10 points if you get second you get four if you get third you get three you get four to get two you get 50 get one so let's just say I mean I'm just trying to remember how many shows there were I think there's like 45 opportunities for girls to win say pro bikini shows right usually someone like Ashley K will come in and win like five of them and then there's another couple girls that will come and win two or three in that season so you're eliminating you know 25% of the show is right off the bat right so the point system I think is going to be nice but I would like to see so it gives someone like my wife a shot is if you win two you can't compete anymore I would really like to see that because then Ashley K or some of the other athletes and honestly and I see both sides because it's like well you're professional athlete and your job is to win and make money if these contests so I get it but I also I just want to see my wife make it once just once yeah I always feel yeah the qualifications like that have pushed people to do more shows which is good for the audience too because it's kind of fun to to be able to root for guys that might not have necessarily one that you want to see you know keep doing better and I'm like oh man you know he's only X amount of points away but this guy's only X amount of points away so if he gets second and he gets third you know they're both going to the Olympia or one of these guys get to push the other one out kind of you know I think that makes it a lot more interesting it does make it a lot more exciting towards the end of the qualifications season you know because I can remember specific situations when they did the point system I think they did a way up to about four or five years ago where we were watching those scores to see oh she's gonna get it oh no she got it and holy crap she came up with a great package that they and she moved up by one place so it is interesting it I think it does add a little bit more excitement to the division with the points I mean it's kind of like NASCAR right you know it's it's kind of similar in terms of you know where you start in the pack based on the points yeah you know um but obviously you know making the Olympia is still an honor and and I know people will say well I don't want to sit there in much 50 classic guys and 50 bikini but it's like it's still the same percentage of athletes making the Olympia that would have made it in the 1980s and 1990s it's just our sport and the personnel in it have grown that much you know like I was talking to Judge Billus Billio the other day about all the pro cards that are given away and he's like hey listen if you look actually at the numbers because I thought it was a little excessive North Americans gives away like 127 pro cards and he's like if you look at the actual numbers it's still 1.6% of all athletes that join the NPC get a pro card for a year which is right on point with where it was 15 years ago 10 years ago when you look at that percentage I mean gosh it's because you always hear the people are they're just given them away nowadays but yeah when you look at that percentage it's like that's not a lot there's a lot of people walking away without a pro card out of every national show his point was that it was about it was similar to like NFL football players you know out of the college at the school about 1 to 1.5% go pro and actually have a career so I love that video with the breakdown of football yeah the actual stats that you have this many there is in Bantam we've just many players in high school and they break down all the way to the NFL and then who actually plays more than three seasons and like it's just astounding how it shows you how good you have to be to have a even mediocre career for more than three years even to play one real down of a regular season gain you're in like decimal point percentage. You know when people say like oh let's say so and so it was a journey man backup quarterback and like oh he sucks I wouldn't want him on my team it's like he's still one of the 64 best in the world at his position and he's probably making 8 to 10 per year 8 to 10 million per year he's got his knees and joints still he's not getting beat up every game so honestly beat up backup quarterback is probably the best job in the world so those guys low-key make good money and they just retire healthy yeah exactly I think it takes far less of a qualification to live by carelessly on social media through these big names and then trash them when they don't perform at the level that you want them to from the couch while you're stuffing your face with cheetos and one hand and Mountain Dew or a really cheat sharing your mother's kind of like bodybuilding except for it'd be like protein shakes and right yeah exactly I was thinking about you know this far as yeah people people who who troll I remember back because I was editing it's just bodybuilding this morning run and our topic was five bodybuilders yeah yeah yeah Rod knows about it Rod knows about oh my bad sorry the topic was five bodybuilders that you should follow for their training and the section about Nick Walker I remember when I interviewed him like way back when he was like he had you just gotten into like high intensity training and we're doing like progressive overload like one two set type thing and I remember having said that he noticed his joints didn't hurt as much with that as when he did more volume and people in the comments were tearing him up like you can't my point is is no matter what you do have a good you can't win because at that point he was like yeah I'm going really heavy to hard failure for you know one to two sets and I'm finding that it's a lot less wear and tearing my body and people were like that's BS you know if he's going that heavy that's going to be much more you know straining on his joints than if you were to do multiple sets and now he's you know still getting called out so it's like no matter what I mean someone like Nick's always going to get picked apart and someone's going to always have an opinion either love Nick or hate him right and I feel like the ones that hate him love to hate him more than the ones that love him yeah more vocal one but the other thing I want to say about Nick is it also shows his his evolution with his training because yeah he doesn't just do that anymore he's now evolved to a point where he's doing multiple sets sometimes we'll call it reps and reserve but he has kind of thresholds and whatnot and the dude is still progressing yes that's right now now the thing is it's like that's BS you know this is the training he's doing now isn't what built him is it not akin to a plain landing in a third world country and he's out with all this food and then the kid comes up with the flies on his eyes he goes I don't want that like that no I am trying to give you food I'm trying to I don't want that I don't want that I want something like it's so bizarre the thought process that I can't sometimes I just can't wrap my brain to run brain around it you would think that the people listening would be hungry and you try to feed them arguably maybe a little attention because you're trying to expose you know get exposure and everything else too for your brain for your name whatever point is trying to feed them and they don't want it's not good enough if you remember back because all of us here were on the message boards and maybe hopefully most of our listeners were got the experience of message boards maybe our younger ones didn't but the message board were different because you kind of just shut the f up and listened and read and interpreted and took the you'd clean the good points from it and tried it out in the gym without your opinion and without and that's the difference of social media today is everyone has a run account where they can you know post and an answer and put all their own replies onto things whereas back then it's like when I first started out in the forums I was afraid to type anything so I'm like well this guy's gonna think I'm an idiot if I'm asking this question you know what I mean yeah no challenge I'm just asking a question but I didn't want to be taken the wrong way so you know I'm just gonna sit wait until he talks about it some more yeah you don't have to be respected in the community and more because social media is not a community I used to get on it's a big time yeah he like oh echo chamber there's echo chamber that I'm like oh you know shut the fuck up because it's Adam you know I mean he just just missed Apple what he said anyway but it really is because the message boards are part of a community you wanted to be long to the community so you wanted to be respected and most of the time that was to shut up because if you didn't and he got blasted I mean good example is Adam yeah little aren't no new little Arnold back on the message boards other than just being kind of a little troll but yeah on social media he you know he thrived in that environment so you know we can all have our opinions everybody's allowed to give their opinion then you have to just go back to well do I find it on the receiving end not me but anybody on the receiving end do I find that it provides any value and that's really where we are because everybody can give their opinion we don't want them to but there are people who don't want me to give my opinion so it is what it is I tend to I tend to remind people like in situ if someone's going back and forth to me I tend to remind them you follow me not the other way around and you're entitled your opinion but I'm just saying like yeah this is my page or this is my show or whatever it is you know and and just give them a healthy reminder of that it would about this question we got from Kate Denonzio over at Patreon she says what's the weirdest adjustment that you've made late and prep to actually work something that you never would have thought of at the start yourself or a client and what were the circumstances things you know like major changes like kind of wholesale changes that's where you're looking for here oh I got one something big is that which I'm not a little tweaked yeah it could be small if it's something that maybe provided something for you that you didn't expect well I mean I've told people to like I've told people you have to change all your gears fake there's something going on there's that like I've had that and had it be obviously right like two weeks into their new brand they're like rapidly changing like Lou you know first weekend four pounds down it's like okay here we go like all your stuff is shit like whatever brand you're taking just get rid of everything and so that's that's one would be like common and cutting cardio out like I've had people where I'm just like just take your cardio out I can't stand all this there's something fucked up about your body or a stress case you're just a mess I just want you to stop cardio and get some sleep yeah like to stop cardio for a week and just sleep in a bit more and let's just see what happens and now all of a sudden it's like four pounds down dry ankles yeah it's like oh my god you're just like a cortisol bag of not sleeping and over doing everything and mentally just stressing yourself the fuck out so yeah that's a couple yeah I think that's surprising to us I think well I think the caveat is what was surprising to you maybe the first time you tried it was someone or the first time yeah could you take a cut cardio that's the last thing I've got to burn this calories and like sometimes it's just like yeah I'm thinking of there's been a couple of times where you know traditionally people are expecting to be carved up into a show right and I went with my gut and didn't give them a single gram of carbohydrates the Friday before the show and it's not because we've ripped map rapidly front loaded it's just that you know what they look at her flat he got some good one we do those low carb days he looks really good the next morning look at the photos again you're like cookies dry a shit and it legs in the morning we got to look like that I'm one of those guys are you extension yeah and that was agreed upon by my trainers wow okay we yeah but and also because of extension there are guys in the masters who I don't want to say a lot but enough to note that arguably don't tolerate very aggressive loading for that reason whether it be distension or being more watery age plays a part in that to some degree and I can't put my finger on exactly what it is but it does right one of the things that I I wasn't surprised by I'm not surprised by is a trainer but a lot of clients are and that is later in a cut phase or later in a prep when you start to add back you literally I don't want to say squash them with tablets but you've milked it as much as you can yet to start bringing calories up and they are blown away that the incremental changes sometimes can be relatively big and they're getting leaner oh yeah not only leaner than like leaner to the amount of calories are taken but leaner and progressing better than they were the last few weeks when the calorie is really hard yeah and that comes back to the cardio as well sometimes you can drop that cardio and it's actually beneficial that they're not metabolically losing out on calories they may fill out a little bit they look a little better they look a little tighter or dollstone drops sure they're stress hormones go down they get drier like cutting cardio out and then having someone lose weight is just like whenever I do that to someone on my calm man yeah it's like goes against what you'd expect but I'm trying they're drying out right they're not getting leaner all but some they're just dry some's going on there's stress you know leg training becomes a little bit better yeah yeah that's look a little fuller let's see get an extra hour sleep like you're in nap you know I'd say that's one of the biggest things I can think of the like the counter intuitive stuff I can think of like like peaking and the first time that you try adding more water back in and they look harder and drier yeah you don't I mean because you get to that point where somebody's getting too dry they are flattening out there's that first time that you try it you're like I don't I feel like we've been pulling a lot of water and they just look worse it's like we can't add water back in like there's that thing in your brain telling you that you know until it works oh yeah yeah and quickly yeah yeah that's 20 minutes you had water 20 minutes yeah I can't see something you probably need more I don't know about you guys but the first you know when I get pictures first thing in morning or even if if I have an inkling that that's happening I'm like 200 milliliters water just go drink that some of your more pictures of 15 to 20 minutes and that'll tell me if we're on the right path that a little bit more water or note it's not the water we need to go different directions yeah yeah you'll see it fast you had a few of them she said what's what's the lesson prep teaches you about life outside of body building that you wish you learned earlier in life don't get what you put into it yeah that's almost obvious one you get what you put into it I was going to say you don't get what you put into it you know I'm saying well I'm saying this I'm saying it's like it just proportionate amount of effort for a little trophy yeah but and you just need to be okay with that and understand that you know there's more intrinsic benefits the goal versus winning your class or your program it's not about the end result yeah both the work along the way yeah I mean the friends you made now I learned that I was capable of doing anything that I was willing to like just freaking put my mind to and keep going with you know that like there's gonna be those days that it you're not seeing the results but you have that faith that like while I'm still doing the right thing and you just keep doing that right thing right and eventually it it turns into something I think that I'll have like Ethan's comment being on low-down rates making realize how easy it is to spend money I was just gonna say that because it's so true your Amazon goes up like 20 times what it does when you're in your office season yeah yeah um should I figure out I was gonna say now oh yeah you wouldn't I think one of the things prep taught me looking back and I think it's a personality trait now that's in me that I've had people comment on in like an interested way you're like the thing I've had people say this to me like family people really close to me like one thing I like about you is you don't have time you don't make time for anything you don't do a shit about you just do what you just do what you want to do like what do you want to do this what I'm doing with my day is that I'm doing with your compliment is that could compliment like you're like I have all these I do all these things I've got that one hasn't been a compliment yeah it's got the other way well maybe they're dressing it up yeah they're dressing it up but they're like you just and I think that comes from prep because like you know you've got a job you're going to school you've got meals you've got your cardio so you just completely strip mine your life of all nonsense that doesn't have to do with your goals that's true like you just I mean to be successful yeah you're like you've got your time for a series yeah you have to be a highly structured very routine and I think most of us find this and then stay with it because that's our our pathway to success not just bodybuilding but I remember business three years of my life it was the first three nationals I did or like I don't watch a TV at all yeah like you just have work in two jobs training can really show like it didn't have didn't do anything like you know I didn't have a bunch of other stuff going on and just focusing on what you like to do and I you know it's what it was that dysfunction or is it not well to some people it is I guess some people it's a dysfunction it does it impact other people around you negatively much like right you know alcoholic or right so I think with me as I purposely cultivated my life so that it's all about me you're not married oh we're getting married soon but we're we're we're we're we're dog parents right we don't have kids that was the plan so you know I understand that there's other things going on with with certain people's lifestyles but yeah I just think prep teaches you prep teaches you like oh you know that friend I have that's actually just a vampire of energy and always brings problems to me I actually don't have time for coffee with him because they're not active they're a huge pain in the ass and there's so much time for that so you just stop doing that sort of stuff because you're busy I'm a bad I don't know that's one thing I think can be a positive yeah I take that with you you got well porous yeah I mean I touched on a little bit but I don't know I guess I've been doing it so long that sometimes I I was reminded my wife isn't here she's got to stop into get cash for lashes here shortly so I got to hurry up I was reminded two days ago now that prep is done her words not mine that I do things in my time and on my own time schedule and that I don't factor in other people's it's a little close to homescape well here's here's the reason I bring it up because it isn't to slam my wife and build my wife for 32 years and she's she's awesome all right but I had to sit there and not say something and she's like you're not saying anything and and I'm like I'm processing it I'm just trying to figure out how to tell you how wrong you are yeah I couldn't because I thought like it kind of hit a little bit like a hit a nerve yeah I thought and there's some truth in this yeah and I touched on that towards the end of prep because I realized it but then I get out of prep and I have to be in that zone I have to be in my fucking sorry my safe place and my safe place is routine and structure and things the way that I want them and to hear that she never said that for 32 years so it kind of did impact because at first I was like like in my brain I was like bitch what the fuck are you talking about like you're crazy and I'm like very shortly after that I was like oh crap I got a I got a process this because there's some truth to this so she's looking for a little bit more balanced a little more selflessness now that we're out of prep can't blame me do you say that you're looking for more savings maybe we don't need to go to those nails today I know you are I'm just mine would automatically turn around to like well maybe we don't need to blank you know if that's the game playing do I not get any bonus points for that anymore I mean you know things like that I get you say it is it's and at the same time because we've been together for so long and you know I don't back on you know I didn't take it that's me just kind of taking it and going now I do wish she'd be a little more introspective when I break it really go made you know he's right I promise to be more you know selfless if you're more into girls I mean that kind of brings about you might do something John I don't know a meadowset on a podcast years ago and then he'd always tell a lot of his clients that obviously during a prep situation you gotta be selfish you gotta be what you need in the next ten minutes span is what you need your meal your cardio whatever that could is but he said you know tell you spouse tell your family hey I'm gonna be a little distant here for the next three months or whatever the heck it is and then but be like after this contest prep we'll go on this trip or we will spend more time doing x y and z and then he said the flipside is or the the thing you gotta do is actually follow through on that there you go yeah there's that given take for the next one and the next one there's not these resentment feelings every time you go into a prep oh that's why she doesn't understand all of that until I don't make the ship yeah and that's the realization oh I didn't make the ship then I publicly acknowledged okay so it's fair yeah it's fair you know you're still rebounding you know there's that yeah yeah I'm not gonna say that I just shut up yeah yeah I did well I shut up and I owned it I just you know score one for Mrs. skip yeah nice I got a quick question what's up one of my buddies literally just texted me he's a non competitor but he trains really hard and for years his testosterone was like 105 and he was still making progress hardest one of the hardest working dudes in the ring I'm not gonna say his name just because I think he has a you know a job that he doesn't want it out there you guys think it's appropriate and save for me to run three I use of GH five days a week in perpetuity just looking for recovery as I seem to have less eggs and nagging injuries since I've been running it just want to make sure I'm being smart thanks I think technically three I use five days a week you could do that forever and it's gonna hurt you I know you guys said it yeah yeah I know that someone did a post I can't remember who it was it was like kind of one of the educators it did a post the other day it was um hey yeah I you know if you're thinking of following oh great don't my wife came into the like if you're thinking of following yeah they're thinking of following the five day a week GH protocol here's why it's dumb and they like broke it out but it's just from the old days people trying to save money on those thousand dollars here pretty much right because you're buying a hundred and twenty eight I use a sarostam for like fifteen hundred dollars back in the day and you're just trying to stretch it out yeah that's uh just for some reason I found that funny there I was trying to get scat to laugh too but he fights it better than I do yeah yeah I remember uh a few like this is the the the different trends that we see in bodybuilding you guys remember like a decade ago everybody stopped doing the five days on two days off because they wanted you got to do it every other day it's got to be every other day otherwise you're in saline sensitivity is gonna go remember that yeah yeah yep yep yeah and fact it was stated a more than a few times our on our own podcasts if I had an and I backed it I did wasn't there a trend for a little while doing like two massive bullest doses a week like similar to how they try to dose it for you know kids with them that are unwell I think I remember talking to guys back in the day who were like from like England hookup you know guys that I knew that new people from England and you know how it used to be and they were like Dorian takes his GH like three or four days a week that's it but he takes big shots yeah and he said that's how they give it to kids and that was like the lore that was floating around yeah you know I'm taking my my twenty units of GH all wrong I need to divide it up into two ten units shots instead of four five unit shots yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah all the right yeah kind of doesn't matter well if you take it enough if you take it yeah true true but it's like yeah that worked in this works in the stuff it also comes down we Dorian yeah it also comes just just train like him at that time and eat all that food and that just you know what I mean it's just it's dumb well for dumb it's just not optimal but Dorian also had no money yeah yeah like people forget like he was poor like that jet Jim never made money ever once what do you want to go what's that they were like selling gear to pay the bills at that Jim the whole friggin time like I know a lot about temple because my buddy Dino was like really good friends with Dorian and like that was all like the whole time Dorian was Mr. Lampia there was just it was crazy you know like all the guys in there hardcore man and just crazy time more of us is gonna be sued for libel yeah he gonna be well it probably too because Dorian was still in that that cusp of before the big contracts you know in the 90s like really you know like the most ex and there's all just a cult like all the way you really didn't you did it because you wanted to be Mr. Lampia you loved it that much yeah you know it's pretty much you did did any of you guys start because you wanted to be different than everybody else and then at the end of you know like I'm I'm closing in on crossing the finish line having the tape on my chest and everybody else is everybody else like everybody does it's not it is true so culture it's not that weird thing anymore everybody I mean it is in the sense that it the extremism of it you know that you're saying where we drawn to it because it was an exclusive club for a long time yeah I know I was yeah I know I definitely was it was a whole thing that attracted me as a kid yeah like you stood out of your body building I don't know if I would have been interested in it now right yeah that's it I love walking around with my little can of tuna fish you know in high school sitting down eating two plain baked potatoes and and I just think to myself I really loved it I wanted nothing to do with nothing that wasn't bodybuilding related but I very clearly in retrospect wanted that attention and then these days I abort it like just I go somewhere with my wife and I'm meeting her coworkers and executive people and like as soon as they asked me what I do I tell on my right I'm not lying yeah but I right I'm not going to bring up anything meadhead is because I know where the conversation is two things oh my God my nephew competes yeah or you know he's way better than you like I can tell he looks way bigger than you my bro car just big you know six months ago or they're going to think of you know he's a trainer at Bally's apparently his wife is just sure them out wait that's Bally's what's Bally's yeah I think it's around for I think it's still the name of the parent company I think it is still the name of the parent that owns gold honestly really is that right uh hold on let me look it up over time yeah I don't know why I don't know what is Baldy yeah yeah that is I dated myself without one at least you can say Vic Taney gerondas Jim yeah so in 1999 the Jim chain Bally total fitness did acquire gold's Jim okay yeah but then they went under um and now they were bought in 2020 by a German base fitness company called RSG group oh yes okay I've never seen that I used we didn't have gold's Jim where I was right so I'm like I just can't wait to go to a gold's Jim someday it's gonna be so hard court it's gonna be heaven there's gonna be real weights and you know tons of hacksawats and and then I read like when I was I think I was working at a GNC or something back then and I read in one of the muscle magazines that Bally's by his goals and I'm like I don't want to go to gold's like Bally's is like a pussy fucking health club company yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I worked at Bally's for about four weeks I got a really yeah but maybe it's a little bit longer there's two months I I was like you know I wanted to do something in the fitness world and I got my training certificate and started working for them and then they paid for me to go to these classes so that I could like upgrade my training and like become like a level two trainer level three trainer all this stuff but I I couldn't get into it I didn't it felt like very scamming to me the way the charging system worked and you know how much money I made is a coat is a you know a trainer and I so I didn't really stick with it but it was an interesting couple months few months experience the the level trainer the levels that you were at had nothing to do with your experience or knowledge and just had to be with how many people could you sign and get to repay everyone it was like how many sessions could you book and then oh now he's a level three trainer oh now he's a master trainer because he's pulling 40 sessions a week now yeah yeah you know that's where you're getting 17 an hour and they're getting like there's yeah yeah exactly oh this is fair yeah I remember there was one guy that had it just wired though he was like this little afkin American guy decent shape and I can't remember his name but it was like it was something unique like Sergio will say all right and and he ran two classes per week at our bales and then he ran two classes per week at another bales and these classes were all like like I don't know what it was but it was like a fitness class where like 20 people could sign up and about 15 minutes before the class all these hot moms would come in and they'd all start gathering around you know and always Sergio here yet we Sergio and dude he would pack that class with 20 people each paying the full cost of that you know training session right and then he'd do that again on Thursday and then you go over to the other two gyms and the other gym and do it two times over there and these women were just like oh my god it's Sergio I've been in real name was Frank like right changes name to some more exotic yeah right but he had like the the pizzazz you know and I mean like you could picture him pulled up and it's here convertible and yeah I can't even remember now but probably you don't have said yeah video good here yeah the strengths mama always said go with your strengths yeah yeah he was probably gay yeah because probably we each seriously yeah the ladies women they just are just like a gay dude especially a good looking well dressed gay dude they're like magnets to they just like attract each other and the gay guys do like oh what did I miss do like that middle skips preference talk about valleys is talking about valleys I went and took a parcel delivery but that there it's just magnet magnet it's I don't know no I think you're right because our our I recall when I was working at a health club and there was a guy so similar what Scott's saying I don't remember they maybe like for briccio or something right exactly that might have been the same guy actually tell you what this guy did okay because he did the same thing you ran women's classes and then I was only there for like a year and a half when he was there and he was a master trainer because he could sell any of the soccer moms but I remember he had made up enough so they've done enough money he was moving down to Miami to open a women's shoe store and that was his that was the next segue of his life so yeah anybody and women's shoes you know they're kind of weird you know they're kind of weird you like a meeto you like I'm kidding skipping people like you that all like I have some kind of fetish with feet but I don't I just notice when women have nice shoes it just says something about the woman that they they pay attention to something that most of them got a wealthy husband that's what it says true maybe the single I don't know bro I know my wife would not have the nice shoes that she has if she didn't have me because she says all the time that those things don't matter turn but I I'm living by curiously through her because she has a real job and it's like I know I say it all the time but these guys over here behind me straight across the top level this building behind me is Goldman Sachs my city's walk out for lunch in six thousand eight thousand dollar suits they're two years out of college and I gotta be careful how I say this or how I know but they make a ton of money this is this one's ad they hold the top hold the top calling never have I oh you got a hold it oh we got a glass it's gonna do it what's going on I'm going to be on camera oh I gotta get you wife doesn't want to be on camera okay I got you I got you doing up a bra what's he doing yeah so I feel like he's happening here I get an injection given her an injection she has to go out as she wants to get changed anyway sometimes in the now she's got like making a mark sometimes in the morning if she can't zip it up she will wait till she gets to the office we're on the 20 second floor she's got to go the second floor and she'll have one of her employees zip up her dress for that's how bad versus waking me up second she got anyway okay about that one later ensure oh you're footing though on the shoes get there there is a site called only feet that you might be interested in no lie no lie oh you know I know I got a client when we get done training I'm gonna give too much away but when when she's done training she has someone hold the camera and make a video over taking her shoes off and pulling the socks off and really she sends I was on the people makes money off that I know it's the thing I've heard about because I get people who say that to me all the time I don't got to foot that as you know there's websites for that like it's the shoes I swear it's the shoe I don't it I did I'd be like I believe you actually I believe you those are hot feet you can imagine that would be the best fetish to have you guys sound like Tarantino you know it's incredible is this whole episode has been like just one kind of semi-off topic that's all we have but we have yeah this is the episode of all changes but we have 31 people watching which for the life the life channel isn't pretty damn good so it's like ask the question answer everything except yeah make it leave them make them leave want more I couldn't get it out there's wisdom in there somewhere yes hey I do have a kind of a surprise for a guy that I work with Dallas all right and his dad said you know Dallas would absolutely love for you guys to do a physique critique for him on BSG so I was like you know what man let's let's freaking make that happen so Dallas has been training for I mean he's consistent he's got a great home gym I want to I don't even know how long he's been training but he's he's a pretty young guy though he had done one shows a teenager and now his goal is to grow as much size as he can before he gets back on stage right now we're holding it at about like I think two 12 as of last week and we're really working hard on training but what we want to do here I just want to see what you guys have to say what would you say he needs to work on the most you want me to start and you want me to leave me to trash him you go first it's you have me to meet you go first we should be that guy like for all future assessments I'm going to be the guy that just trashes everybody with a straight face you don't know what's his age yeah he's about what's his age he's a 120 yeah yeah okay I did a 21 oh there's more than one picture this time okay that's nice thank you yeah appreciate that yeah I see where you're going with that yeah I got a back shot here all the way this way there we go now I'm going to tell I'm going to give him some advice right off the bat we got to work on your progress picks my friend because the lighting the lighting behind you yeah yeah yeah I'm not going to pick apart his room I'm going to turn the night once when I was as a team but not at all but but if you want to get likes on Instagram change the lighting source because you got a decent you got a good physique man I definitely think you got a future body building does he have any posing picks like in the front double real double no we don't not not right now not not that I could easily access I just said that he's he's standing in the worst spot like if you just stepped on yeah yeah that's what I'm getting yeah but overall I think he's got good muscular development for a 20 year old he looks like he's got a nice wide shoulders to a small waist yeah he's got a good taper he's got like a blank canvas that you're like I can see what another 20 pounds of muscles going to look like and it's going to look good so yeah so the blank canvas is a very good analogy like it's like you know looking at a guy you know and being able to just go oh everything's in the right spot you know like they don't have a bunch of problems handed to you like just grow mean you know I mean you can't hesitate run I learned that's the hard but you know what I mean like that's the best way like here's no there's nothing wrong with your physique you should be able to just develop a nice body building physique yeah I mean I said I just go no glaring weakness is your two young usually to have already got a nice it's like okay this is an easy one just put on size everywhere like you are because there's nothing at this point in this at this early stage that is a glaring weakness it is hard with that lighting but still okay let me let's let's go hyper critical I'm cap the shoulders um because I'm getting I mean shoulder to waist ratio mean he's not terribly wide from a clavicle standpoint right so but there's no glaring there's no there's nothing that stands out the main thing you go land you suck you know like the other guy could keep like a month ago I got an idea for another show I'm getting a comeback on and and post our 2020 world pictures so yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah so Ron you got to come back for that one by the way because you actually know you can't because you were pretty good back then what am I talking about yeah well it's still pretty fresh so you may even you could you could hack it and get some share we'll just keep him out so tell you guys what Dallas is uh he had like no upper body as of a year ago like this is all that upper body he had only had legs like was it was it was it was it was it was it was it was it was it was it was it was it uh it's one of those guys that loved training legs pushed them really hard but then when it came to upper body didn't have that same level of you know what you know where that comes from and because I got that same story for myself when we'd go to the gym with my buddies you know when you're 14 15 16 or whatever yeah and I had buddies that you know I had these long link-ass arms right so everyone's doing the bench press and my bench press was part you know like I could hit 225 for 3 it like 15 or 16 years of age right yeah some of these guys could hit like for a set of 6 to 8 so I told myself okay that's your game I'm gonna be good at legs and I made sure I was damn good at squatting and I was squatting 405 at 16 for sets of 10 to 12 so I think my necessity maybe that was kind of his calling he's like okay maybe I got some buddies that are stronger they do better pull ups they can do more benching I'm gonna make sure I can out squat I'm not like press them and I mean it's got a decent set of quads already so yeah I think just keep growing everywhere keep doing your thing man yeah he looks good he looks like he's trained in hard and he looks like he's trained in legs and you know we so he's learned to play a tax already that's one yeah he's learned to push chest and back with that same level of intensity I just have to watch him because we're trying to use good technique yeah your coaching him yeah your coaching him yes I'm sorry I thought your coaching is father I didn't pick up on that I did I used to coach his father I'm not no and I wanted to hear what you guys had to say you know and I completely with you on the photos though I feel like for where he's at I can't leave these pictures you guys can't hear me you're little in and out okay I thought I was the only one that's why I waited oh anybody was can you hear me it says trying to breathe now we're good all right so it's trying to connect there we go I'm back yeah no I helped him you're really good now you guys can hear me alright yeah you're good all right yeah I helped him for a show got a head to be it had to be over a year ago now and and since then now the goal has been to just grow and I'm with you guys on on the lighting quality but at the same time I feel like you know I can read these pictures good enough that it hasn't been an issue for me so that that hasn't been a big complaint for me but when it comes to like getting ready for a contest I want to see some better quality the main thing with him is that I can only put so much on him so fast because he will get fat like and we found it like it's easy to get him like these two twelve right now we could push him really hard to 20 in the next six weeks but it's not going to be pretty and when he died it down he had to be like hard keto in order to get in shape like in order to get the lines in his legs like he's going to have to do keto again so I'm trying to ride that line of let's use strength to put on as much mass as you can versus you know it used the food to support that the food itself is not going to be the direct driver in this case right now and I mean I think there's something like I think we're lost smarter now there's no more I'm going to get huge after the show and just pull up and use the scale as your your common denominator I mean when people come to be and say that I just want to get huge with you but I know you got a plan about I have a really hard time with carbs I get fat really easy it's like I'm not the guy that's going to get huge then we're going to be doing you know bikini girl jumps in terms of calories week to week here and there so yeah you know I think he looks awesome yeah he's coming along like I said he was all legs in the past but the main thing I'll see with him because I'll have him send me my train his training is and we just went over this again he's getting strong but then because he is young I'll see like that rep range starts to get a little bit short you know because he's still progressing I mean he's pushing like the 90 he's pushing the 100 pound dumbbells but you know and dumbbell press but so name is the range gets a little bit short and got him for three now he's doing better than that but right yeah well get the younger young guys eager young guys well I was saying you got a couple eager young guys of send you a video of like you know they're doing something you know the 120 pound dumbbells for four year I got four good ones yeah but do they say it like this four for reps that a coach or 120s for reps that a and you're like one two and a half yeah okay I guess we can maybe say three there you know yeah so thankfully he's better than that you know it's like at his level at his age I mean I feel like I'm excited for him because I mean realistically I wasn't training like that in order to mean at 20 years old so he knows how to do like a good rest pause and keep it in the muscle already you know so he's he's got something ahead of him I think nice yeah can you guys still dumbbell press yeah like an appreciable amount of weight that like you would wouldn't be scared to like have posted on youtubers often I don't think anybody wants to see I said not about it I was doing years ago but no I see I saw an old video on youtube me just banging out one 30's like they were nothing I'm like wow I used to move those yeah a lot more fluid than I then I do now if I picked the one 30's now I'd be like this is really happy guys notice that as you get older too I was thinking about that we were talking about age earlier yeah the same weight just even though you're moving them and you might even get 12 or 14 ramps it's just like by the fourth record like god this is heavy like how does this even move I can't get him into place anymore I can't get it like my grip so far is task getting yeah you should just be like grab them off the rack sit down and whip them up and just start racking them out and now it's like hey can you watch me while I'm putting this dumbbell up and make sure I don't drop it on my face yeah yeah we still occasionally do flat or incline dumbbell presses like third on chest day yeah yes yeah that's the third notes that are first right yeah I mean we might do them third if we train at Brains house sometimes we'll do them second you know and I think I use maybe like heavy heavy would be like one 10s yes yeah okay I try to stay around the hundreds you know I want to be decent I want to still be able to press hundreds yeah you know where is in your peak you're probably like 160's 170 yeah I remember the gym I trained at an emiton had they they said 160 on them but that didn't include the handle so they were like 168 168 or 167's in reality and I used to do those on the incline like that was a big goal of mine was to do a money incline for like a solid set you know like get 8 to 10 reps on the incline with those that was like my very very strongest yeah and that was an incline of probably 45 degrees back in the back of the chest I share like the standard like 35 not the 15 percent or for the final and I would kick them both up like I put my foot one on my knee and have the other one hit to me and then I took it out yeah yeah I had good kick up skill I remember and this is how quickly it can go away just and it's really the joint integrity for me but I remember two weeks not even like maybe eight days before I got I went to the Master's Nationals in 2021 I got a video of and some of my Instagram with me with the 160's and just like you said Ron it doesn't count the you know the handle the handle but I also have I took these orange lead up to yes bands and I dangled and I put two tens on each side and so I bought them up to 180 plus and I ripped out like 10 to 12 of those fuckers and now Halo Test and Works people it's a Halo Test and it's a powerful drug and but I'm looking sometimes I go back and watch that video and I'm like I'm only like four or five years removed from that like where did it go like I wouldn't imagine even kicking that dumbbell across the gym versus trying to pick it up at this point you know that's what Victoria reminds me of though so if I start quoting numbers that I used to do compared to what I'm doing now she's like well you were using more gear like you've been on like basically T or T for the last five years so you know there is there is that difference yeah but it's like legs like my hacksquat I can do the same thing I was doing five ten years ago you know yeah like press same thing like extensions like curls all that stuff is about the same rows about the same it's it's pressing strength and it's and well I don't know about you guys but I haven't touched a barbell in probably two years like they can't use a straight like I can't have a straight grip for anything I need to have like a little bit of a you know what I mean and even when I use a Smith for in-clin I kind of put my hands in it like a little bit you know Smith is a little more forgiving right 100% Ron are you still considering doing stem cells well yeah I mean I'm gonna get a hip replacement is my primary thing I'm trying to get done here but I mean I think stem cells are going to get a lot more accessible and a lot cheaper very rapidly in the next year or two I can see that we're on the curve of like a bunch of legislation being changed especially in the states there you guys had George Bush you said you guys out wasn't it Bush you said you guys like in like the no stem cells because of the religious element in once all he's wondering what you're talking about he's talking about your video to build and yeah because that the really good stem cells is linked to it like in Biblical I don't know how it all works but I know that's the best stem cells that's why they can't do them in the states and that's why you have to go overseas to get a done but I think all that's gonna get like we have to everyone has to do stem cells so they do they do in Biblical stem cells in the US but they're last I heard they weren't allowed to expand yeah that was the thing yeah yeah what the number where you you what you got first is like if you go to Panama they'll pull the you know the blood from you they'll pull the stem cells from you and then you sit on the beach for a few days while they expand the cells and then they pump them all back in you so they basically like culture them in a petri-growing multi-ri-um and then put your own stem cells back in but from what I understand that thing that passed is for Florida that like Florida's like you're allowed to do experiment things that are not approved stem cell wise you are allowed to now do in Florida so yeah I bet you're right man that it's gonna become a lot more accessible like at least five years you know also I mean we all see this already we see the the the sputtering's of it inside the bodybuilding world for the last 10 years with like TRT clinics and you know assign your own I want to pick my own blood work markers like we were like guys are doing now you guys have your clinics down there where you're like I want my want this checked and I want my APOB checked and I want my you know five different information yeah yeah different information markers like stuff that no doctor would do because you're not in any categories it required right like they just what do you mean I think it's because doctors don't even know right general physician yeah no idea what you're talking about you know but if they do it and there's something off then they are responsible for it you know what I'm saying really all well this worker was off and your doctor didn't say anything now it's a lawsuit you know well then you should up your game as a doctor as coaches for the ones we have in the upper game and our knowledge and we're not even out the ethics standards you know yeah right yeah yeah oh here's someone Ryan in the comments seems to know his that 2001 federal policy how there was something about yeah and then Jeb Bush opposed the state yes something about Florida so he knows his shit yeah embryonic and so research yeah yeah all right you know I think wrong take it over stuff maybe the angle they were looking at it you know I don't know if this was mentioned but I'm just thinking out loud here because we all see I don't know if you guys have seen the videos of awarded fetuses going to research centers and then the push for plan parenthood to encourage more abortions to be able to money off this kind of stuff I'm wondering if it's also the push to people that are pro life you know of which I am and not wanting to see people make decisions based off finances that all I'm going to get paid to have this abortion possibly right and you're going to turn around and sell these parts these these human parts for research and development I can get that you know yeah but I think I think eventually we're going to get the point where we grow this stuff in a dish and just manufacture it like car exactly that'll be that that'll be the leap is when it's just the stem cells are just as good and they're just made yep like how do you guys feel about the lab grown meat not going to do it yeah I don't I don't trust the guy around the people making oh yeah okay what are you like I've been out of for three weeks I just see it as amino acids it's all it is you're just arranged in order and I'd consume them no problem and I think it would solve world hunger and send us to Mars well and it is clear that we do not have I mean you know I'm not you know vegan and vegetarian all that but I have no problem with it if you have that for ethical reasons right because if everybody we're eating beef everybody we're eating meat it's not sustainable I mean it's really obvious right I can't happen I think we need it right and I think also too like you know I mean I don't want animals to suffer you know true like I always feel better but I don't want to suffer I'm just like you know when I got a hunter friend and he'll give me some like elk yeah and I always think hmm I do feel a little bit better about eating this elk then I look good like I'm sure that actually was nice before he killed him well it's just no I mean what I'm doing as I'm being sarcastic be no no the other side will see it that that way and when I say the other side the older I get I do think I'm like if there were an alternative that was exactly the same right but didn't involve anything suffering right I'd be like calm down but until then we have the food chain right and I'm at the top sorry well we're not talking about that you guys ever wonder like why does protein taste a certain way but carbs taste so good like why couldn't have been the other way around yeah yeah yeah yeah that has some really weird rules it's kind of like training why not just the more you train and the harder you train the bigger you get right why not just do that yeah you have to make it nuanced and you have to dig into the we have to find balance very little type of crap yeah got's a real funny guy any are hard or how about this one great physique up here what the hell's going on did you is he laughing or someone who's really attracted with a messed up physique like he's like oh let him mess with this let him deal with this for a while like what did I do in a past like to have a face like this I don't know which is everything I have no idea yeah we're talking about who we talking about who knows name names I don't know it's tangent today yeah what yeah what yeah okay all right I guess that's a podcast we didn't answer a single question straight on yeah no we didn't um yeah we better than I think that was good Brombo to you think this is like a totally off topic yeah I don't know I got hit by a car at how at some point doing that podcast it don't remember much like doubt I uh I'm happy to be here though like talking to you guys this fucking you too well a little like to contribute more since I was under so much pressure to deliver and then I was like kind of like throwing shitty passes for I don't know the whole episode was a shitty past though that's okay yeah didn't even get put on the field it was the former Rusky but didn't make it to the end zone okay Ron was in a good today well did you play him? no everybody you can rate Ron's performance in the car yeah pretty lame good pretty lame five maybe a five you can rate all of us always we can't hear skip what's going on he's talking he hit his button again he's talking to his wife he doesn't want us to hear knock off when I went to click it I didn't click it back and sorry okay well good you didn't interrupt me when you exactly good y'all when you you done with the show and you're like oh yeah this is going to be a banger and then it goes all right and it's just mediocre and then other times you go oh yeah this is we really mess this up it's like oh yeah and then we said we had 20 to 20 60 so so four people left we had 30 people earlier on the live stream and by the way guys this is on the live channel most people aren't subscribed to it we I want to eventually get this channel monetize one day that would be cool yeah so you're firing us yeah basically monetize oh because the show didn't go good no I take the blame I take all the blame I take all the blame guys we appreciate you tuning in though nonetheless and we'll be back to redeem all of ourselves in future episodes thank you for tuning in and I'm not getting a third chance I can smell it already a question are you still watching you at home I'm curious I'm curious if you guys are still here of course go to bodybarry.com to reach out to Andrew team skip dot com to reach out to skip you can hit up a big round part low at where how do they get a hold of you me yeah you got a website don't you well you can go to bigrondpartlo.com if they want to get a hold of me that way that'd be great all right yeah that bigrondpartlo.com and hit me up rep 300 on Instagram yeah all right we'll put all that will be below and of course hit me up again daily diets if gmail.com I love how ray here on the side wow you couldn't answer my question hey ray we didn't answer any questions but we are gonna do another episode so are you a patreon member ray? I'm like I'm didn't see a question I'm sorry I didn't see it either okay but we'll be scrolling back through them anyway guys we appreciate you tuning in and thank you to true nutrition dot com user code thanks supplement source.ca and sorry patreon people we did get through one of your questions we've got a bunch more which we will tackle on the next show for another episode of what gear we will see you soon. We're gonna anywhere to live stream people we have a second show to do thank you rod we appreciate your time and we're sorry to waste yours. See you never right yeah don't call us but we'll call you we'll get a hold you see you guys see you later raps you buddy don't we're not going anywhere we got another another show to hear me

If you have a tried cyclic dexterity on flavored on its, oh, it's, yeah, and I've done that try adding to it on flavored E a to there. It's trying to try to try blending tuna with it and that's even so bodybuilding it's not actually that expensive. There is other hobbies in my opinion that are far more expensive than bodybuilding bodybuilding lifestyle can actually make you extremely mindful of your spending. It can actually lead to you saving money in various different ways because you know waste in money on garbage, you don't need. Hey, what's up guys, life is expensive and bodybuilding is by no means cheap, but your budget doesn't have to stop you from making fantastic progress. My first contest prep literally every five dollars was budgeted out, but I made it work. Today I'm joined again by I. We be pro kuba challenge and we are going to explore bodybuilding on a budget. Thank you everybody from Patreon. Thank you for your support over there. I'll have links below to Patreon to truenutrition.com. Use our code think to get 10% off and if you're in Canada supplement source dot c a for Canadians guys get those deals. What's up, kuba? I am fantastic. How are you? I am doing great man. Hey, real quick before we get into this thing. How far out are you from your show now? Oh, it's getting close man. It's getting close. I am exactly let me just give you to the day and time free weeks and four days. Three weeks and four days out. I was 247 pound yesterday. Okay. Today I was 245.9 and we are coming in my friend. Hell. Yeah. Yeah. It's coming. It's coming slowly with surely. I'm on track to be ready over the next pretty much. If I wanted to really be ready in a week's time I could push it to the right in a week. Okay. That's not the goal. I've already had to back off my steps. I always do a formal war contract amount, but that was actually hurting my legs quite a lot. Okay. I am a lot of bit of a... I wouldn't say self sabotage, right? But it is self sabotage in a way because if I was my own client I would be like, you're not doing any steps on treadmill. You idiot. Just do his steps outside. You don't need to do any treadmill. But for me, I guess stuff in my head where I'm like, I've got to do it because it's almost like a little bit of a hard or root. You want to make it hard. Yeah. Yeah. Listen, when... and this is the lesson for all the listeners, when progress is coming, right? You need to do just enough and just what's needed to keep the progress going. Yeah. Because if you sometimes start doing more, you actually create more problems for yourself and you can actually do more damage than goods. And I see this so often with clients, so often they're making credit all progress, then they start doing more volume, they start doing extra cardio doing this, doing that, and then they start making progress, stop recording, and it all starts for the part. So, big lesson for me, and it's something that I always have to write my head round, especially when, like, even now, my steps have to come down to slow down the rate of loss. It's like, I don't feel like I'm on prep at all. Like, I'm not really hungry, food isn't low. Okay. Conditions, gray, training, flying, so for me, it's like, I almost feel guilty because I want to be so free. But it's just not happening. But listen, that's just a bad product of how committed I have been to the offseason for me. There is no offseason. It's like, I see so many guys that have blown it this year on stage because they took their offseason as an offseason. Yeah. And if you want to be a great bodybuilder and you're not a genetic freak, there is no offseason. You'll have to be on it's unfortunately. And that's just what it takes. But for me, I take off pride in doing that. But I also, I'm thriving that sort of environment. I love it. It's like, yeah. Yeah. The prep routine. And it's almost like, I do have a real idea to personality. Like, my family. My family, let's just say, there's a lot of people that struggle with certain intentions. I follow you. And I definitely have a trait. Yeah. And one thing I've realized personally is like, I, I'm definitely addicted to not just the process. But I'm addicted to the discipline that comes as part of the process. Because that discipline gives me freedom in a way because it gives me a lot of control. And control, not control, gives me freedom and almost power and happiness. Yeah, I can really, can that vote? It could probably really relate to that on the stunt that. I can really. That I'm 100% man. Yeah, I don't think that any people will. But if some people come and fair enough. I think a lot of people listening to this program and a lot of people who connect to bodybuilding like you or I do. I think that maybe more people than you know will connect to it. Hey, let's jump into this thing, man, because I know you have a bunch of stuff. You've got notes. I've got notes. I've got notes. They wanted to hear about this topic. We got into it the other day. Somebody last episode, we addressed the comment. Somebody said, yeah, well, this is all finding good Cuba. You know, taking all of this hundreds of dollars at this and thousands of dollars at that. But what about I don't have the money to be doing all this? I'm just a dude who's trying to get in the bus shape I can be. I have to think about my budget kind of thing. And we thought, well, hey, there's that whole other side that you addressed, and you're like, hey, dude, I worked hard. I started from nothing, right? And you've built the life you have today in order to bodybuild at the level you do it at. Now, what about the, for the guys that maybe are in a different position? Don't have the nearly the finances. Maybe they've got other responsibilities. They've got kids. We don't want people like, you know, trading in the formula money for GH. You know what I'm saying? Genoa, it's called. I'll be super honest here. Yeah. Bodybuilding can be extremely cheap. Yeah. It seriously is because when you look at the way you can manage your spending and how you can sort your food, I know a lot of clients that I work with that. I do have families. Bodybuilding and the way that budget and the way they shot for bodybuilding actually saves them a lot of money in comparison to the money that they used to spend in past. And how much food did they used to waste in past as well? Because think about this, right? Where you are just living a normal person like that, right? And you are not really auditing what you need to spend. And you are not auditing what you are actually spending on some of the little habits and little things like coffee is et cetera, which, again, I'll get into all of this. When you add it all up, the figure is extortionate. Like the money that people waste on just garbage every day would literally pay for two bodybuilders food shops per week. Yeah, especially if they go to several. That's legit. 100% I mean, a Starbucks, a couple of treats a day. Let's say two coffees per day and a couple of treats, a couple of soft drinks per day and a lunch out every day. Yeah. That could up, especially in America, I mean, that couldn't be like $50 per day. Easy. Yeah, really. Easy. 50 or 50 bucks a week. That would probably buy two weeks worth of shopping. If you are smart about way, shop for your bodybuilding. Okay. That's a great list of stuff. It could literally supply you for weeks. Now, I think a great place to start first, Scott. And this is on topic, but off topic. Okay. Is I think auditing spending habits? Okay. Yeah. If you want to have a budget and if you want to do bodybuilding and a budget thing, first, you need to audit, spending. Most people waste so much money monthly subconsciously and without even realizing on subscriptions that they don't even use. Oh, yeah. People very often subscribe to Eva Jim's or subscription services that they never ever use, but it's like $5 here, all five pounds, whatever you want to call it. 10 pounds here, 15 pounds here. And it's something actually that did with my life. Not lonely guy. I was like, listen, you pay an out for all of these things at a single month. When you look at them individually, it doesn't feel like anything. But when you add all of these things up, you add all to like $100 a set of out pound a month. Yeah. I'm paying for two television subscription services right now. It's literally $30 a month and I'm about to cancel one because it's one too many right now. We have the one, you know, and I thought, no. Yeah. Yeah. We were, and then like the show ended. But I didn't cancel it. Now it's been on for an extra month. So I'm like, man, I got to get rid of that. Small little things like, you should premium. Do you need you to premium? Yeah. You probably don't. That's 15 pounds. You could say that again. Yeah. Now first, I urge people to order their subscriptions and order everything they are actually paying out for a month. They do not use. And I promise you, vast majority of listeners right now are probably going to save at least $100 per month, if not more. And that is no exaggeration. I know numerous of my friends that probably pay out close to $100 per month on bullshit. They do not use. Yeah. So that's the first one. Order your subscriptions. First and foremost. Secondly, I want you to track exactly how much you spend on coffees and treats per week. No. Think about it. I want you to order a full week worth of spending on all of the small little things that you could actually go without. And is that, does that include, like, if I buy a 12 pack of Coke Zero and I have a Coke Zero every day, does that count? No, no, no. Because that would actually save money, especially buying a Coke Zero from a shop and you buy in a 12 pack. But if you're buying it just from a local shop and you pay in over the odds for it, then I would definitely add to that. Because you can buy a 12 pack of Coke Zero and it works out like 12, so about 25 or 50 to be a can. But if you go to a normal local shop, it could be like one pound 50. Yeah. There's a big difference, right? Yeah. They're like $3 here. Yeah. So you buy a couple of pounds at $6 a day. Yeah. So it adds up across the week, right? So coffee and a little treats. Anything that you spend across your week that you could go without, right? Order that. And then I want you to assess your random spending habits. A lot of people have very peculiar, very random spending habits where they like to spend money just for sake of spending money. It's almost like a lot of people, a lot of people actually do it, a lot of imprap where they will buy clothes, they will buy a random ship. And it's not that they need it, they don't need it. They are just looking for that dopamine hit. They're trying to fill that void. Absolutely. Not putting food in, you're not getting a hit from that. So you're trying to fill that with something. Absolutely. Now, once you have ordered it, you're spending then you can start planning your budget. Because that's the whole point, right? Bodybuilding a budget. You need to work out what budget you have and how much money you have to spend or how much money realistically you need to be spending or saving per week in order to make it work. Right? Now, the first thing I do with a lot of clients that are sign up to me, especially USA clients and a lot of them are not very used to it. And that is going to be a huge thing that stops people wasting a lot of food is weighing your food raw instead of cooked. Okay. If you weigh your food raw, you are not wasting a single gram of that food. You are not wasting a single grain of rice. You are not wasting a single piece of potato. Way of food raw. Not cooked. Very often people that weigh the food cooked. They amount of times they will just throw food away because it's even gone off or they don't like anymore because it's not fresh. It all adds up across the week and across the month. It could equate to probably five or six portions of meat. If someone isn't mindful of it. So small little change guys that you could make. And again, you are going to, I don't care what anyone says, right? I can argue this point to death. If you weigh your food raw, it will always be more accurate. I don't, I do not care what anyone says. I will stop by that. I will stop by that until the day I die. Okay. I won't argue with you then. I won't get into it. We got more important fish to fry. 100% All puns and fended. You're food raw to not waste any food. All right. So you set the budget, set the budget. And then we can come down to, I've got actually a list of stuff on what shops you can utilize, what food sources you can utilize and how you can save money, what carbohydrates, what protein, what veg, what fruits, sources, what shops, what supplements, how to get the deals. Again, gym memberships, how to meal prep and budget control with that. It's, again, buying in bulk and batch cooking as well. And then obviously, I've always spoke about it, but eliminating the random spades, spending with coffee shop visits, protein bars, brews, etc., alcohol, takeaways, eating out, auditing all of that. Yeah. Well, that we can gain to now. What do you want to stop? Man, I mean, I think the food stuff is really important. You know, I'll tell you what, I didn't shop at just one store for my foods. Another thing I want to make sure we cover, too, is what are the supplements we actually need? I'd like to get it at some point in here, you know, because I do feel like if you have more money, it would be nice to be able to take this, this, and this. But there are some things that's like, hey, we really don't need that, you know? So, I'd love to get into that, too. Let's start with that food, though. I think that'd be a great place. That's where we spend a lot in food is not cheap right now, you know? Absolutely. Now, right, when it comes to food, I think first we need to go with protein sources, right? Absolutely. It's probably your most expensive heart, isn't it? Yeah, absolutely. Look, this is something that I had to do in my early days, because I simply couldn't afford to buy stuff in supermarket. It just wasn't, it just wasn't calls for me, right? If I was to do my entire food shop in just Tesco or any even cheaper supermarket, I'd get in UK like Aldi or Liddle, which are very, very reasonable price. I would still get that ideal shopping actual wholesalers. Really? Okay. Yeah, absolutely. Do like wholesale stuff. Yeah. In UK, you've got Costco, you've got macro, you actually supply restaurants. But in every single city, you can actually find even for Google it. You can actually find boochers that supply the actual restaurants and supply boochers. Okay. So, I would often go to a boochers that actually does the supply and we would often buy a piece of a cow and my dad would actually just skin it down and that dad would portion it all out for me. The same with chicken, the biggest issue was when used to buy the chicken by the beef, it would be very, very cheap. It would take a lot of work to kind of clean all the crap from it. That's quite a thing. That's quite a thing because my dad was super skilled at that anyway. But generally, when it came to shopping, I used to shop at macro, which is exactly what restaurants use to get the supplies. If you know how to speak to people, absolutely anyone can get a membership on macro. Okay. You can get it easily. It's the same as Costco. Like most people can get it, you just have to pay a small little fee, but it's very much worth it. The only issue is anything you buy there is bulk bought. So you get 20 kilo bags of potatoes. You get big bags of season in. You get big bags of chicken. You can get stuff that are relatively cheap even when it comes to meat. So you could do a majority of your shop in a place like macros. But when it comes to selecting, for example, protein sources, when you are in a budget, I think sticking to eggs, which is a spinook eggs, a still pretty cheap. I know in America, you've gone through a phase with super expensive. They're coming back down now. It depends where you shop because I have three or four different grocery stores in Fermi Costco isn't the cheapest for eggs. But I can find some places that are cheaper. I have in the key for me, Cuba, and this is something I did all along, especially when the budget was tight. I knew where to go for what products. This place had eggs for cheap. This place has meat for cheap. I'll go to Costco now to get my chicken. They have it for $2.99 per pound. The chicken is good versus the chicken I get from my my grocery store. That $2.99 chicken I can't handle. I got to get fancy chicken if I'm going to shop there. Otherwise, I just can't stomach it, man. But yeah, definitely shopping around. Honestly, Scott, you can get frozen frozen fish frozen chicken. Yeah. Extremely cheap. You gotta be careful. I think sometimes with the frozen chicken at least here, they have it all puffed up with sodium. So then you thought those breasts out and you start cooking them and what was six ounces is like two in it. That makes it exaggerating. It's two and a half ounces when you're done. You know what I mean? So we do have some of those deals that aren't necessarily deals in the end. I don't know how they do that over there. But in Europe, they're not actually allowed to do much the food as a good comparison to in comparison to your site. You know what actually they did, I like my clients talking about this because the FDA I pretty much think has 20% leeway for not being a transparent nutrition value of the food. Okay. And in Europe, it's like 10%. So the difference is wild. But also in Europe there's different legalities, there's different stuff that's putting place to kind of protect the quality of the food as well. Yeah. But what I personally used to have done for because I do come from a quiet Paul background, I used to eat a lot of tuna fish. Oh, I was just thinking tuna fish, man. Yeah. So Tint tuna potatoes was pretty much stay from it. I both extreme the cheap and I used to buy them in bulk, little in UK. I used to get four packs of tuna for like, I'm pretty sure it was like one pound 50 or some for your stupid. So my whole meals for the day's got probably worked out like free pound 50 because I used to eat free tuna meals per day. Yep. And I used to eat potatoes with it. Then bulk protein and my protein back in the day used to always have 50% off discounts. Okay, every month. So I would never, ever buy any supplements until they came with 50% off. And what I would often do is buy a bag of unflavored way, okay, bag of flavored way because the unflavored way would be extremely cheap. Then the bag of flavored way would be a lot more expensive, but what I would then do is I would have a scoop of flavored and a scoop of unflavored. Yeah. So I would have double the amount for half the costs. I love it. So this way, I would have free tuna meals with potatoes and you start to blend my tuna and drink it. Then I would have one or two way meals and one chicken meal or beef meal. Okay. The chicken would always always come from a butcher or a wholesalers, which again would be half the price of what would pay in the supermarket. And then when it came to actual supermarket choices, in UK, you've got different tiers of supermarket. Marks and Spencer's weight trolls, which are extremely high quality, which streamer high priced, you've then got same's bris, which is still relative the expensive, but extremely high quality. Then you've got Aldi Tascar, which are like mid range moronsons. And then you've got Little and Aldi who are much cheaper, but not necessarily the best quality. Okay. Yeah. So the stuff is actually really good. But Aldi and little are known for being the cheapest options. Okay. So I would always get my veg and fruits from Little because that's what was cheapest. Always get the frozen fruit because frozen fruit is much cheaper. True. If you came at a certain time, they would always have fresh fruit on offer on the sale. So I would always go in towards later on in a day when they would offer on in the sales. So trying to get as much sales as possible. But generally, I would always opt for buying frozen fruit, just to save money, especially in the supermarket that I knew had the cheapest options. So I would always buy from numerous different places to save money. And luckily, they wasn't far away from each other. It was only a few minute drive and obviously my mom and dad was doing the shopping for their own for themselves as well. So it was handy because I was in the car with them. And I was able to just get the supplies and get the right prices. And then when it came to pro in, it was always frozen fish, which actually the bought from a supplier that against supplied restaurants. You have EUK. You've got different cash and carers they are called, right? A lot of UK listeners will know what cash and carers. And the cash and carers basically what coffee's used in restaurants. So cash and carers, what cash and carers, the use cost code use macro. Cash and carers basically are placed where you go and buy either like bulk frozen products or like any drinks or stuff like that as well. And the cash and carers, sheffield that used to do like 20 kilos worth of cod. It was frozen, it was good quality but it was very, very cheap. So and generally that's where fishing chips are used to buy it from. Oh okay yeah. So I was able to get the top price for good fish. And every month I would take a trip out that's a buy it and I would freeze it, portion it out and that would do me for the month. Yeah and like you're seeing it takes more, a little bit more work, right? But in that planning ahead, but you know definitely I'm right on the same page with you man. I think I did mostly all the same stuff. I would work way protein actually when you come to as a protein source isn't expensive. No. So I'd work way protein in as well and egg whites. I do and what I would often do to take eggs to work with me is, you know, each egg is for each egg white is about four grams of protein. I would hard boil the a dozen up put it back in the container and put that in my, uh, in my cooler to take with me and then one of my meals is going to be 12 egg whites. See egg whites, so not actually that cheap yet. Okay. But not actually that cheap. When you say, well these are like the whole hard boiling egg and then you're eating the weight, you know. Yeah, see eggs as well. Eggs are super cheap in catching calories as well. Okay. I used to, I never used to get like trays of six. These would be trays of like 30 eggs. So we used to bulk by the eggs as well and that would actually work out quite a cost-effective too. So generally, buying bulk and buying from various different suppliers is always the best way to go. Now look, if you are an extremely busy individual and your work days are stacked, it's probably not going to be cost-effective for you to do that. However, I was at a stage in my life where I was busy, but I still had the time every month and every other week to take a trip, to make these shopping trips. And I have the supplies for the month. So it made sense for me to do that because it saved me so much money and it worked out. A kid you're not Scott, I especially back then with how cheap every different was. I'm pretty sure that my whole day of eating used to cost me like six, six pounder, something stupid. The entire weeks were for food to set me, probably cost me like 40, 50 pound max for the week. And that was meeting a large amount of food. Generally, when it came to the sources, it would be tuna, chicken, fish, again frozen, unfortunately, not fresh. And then carbohydrates sources would be big, big bags of rice flour. I would never buy a canoe of rice because that could never afford it back then. So it would be rice flour, rice potatoes and oats, again bulk bought. It used to be like five pound for the bag of 20 kilos of potatoes. So as you can imagine, I ate a lot of potatoes. That definitely went down pretty well. And then obviously big bags of rice in like five to 10 kilo bags which are extremely cheap as well. So sticking to that and sticking to frozen veg anyway, that always helped. And even some tinned veg and tinned pineapple back in the day. Okay, yeah, what I did there too. And what I did it have, what I didn't have the finances, that always helped a lot. So that was the plan of action really. Well, essentially, I knew exactly how much money I had to spend each week. And that was my limit. So what I basically did, I created a method and I created almost like a road map of where I need to buy, what food sources I need to buy, at what price to be able to stay within that price range. Yeah, I would be curious for any of our listeners at home, you know, what tips do you have? Obviously, foods are more expensive today than when you were short on cash or I was short on cash. But there are still good deals out there. And I'm, I'm no stranger to them. I'm still looking for deals. You know, I'm not eating nearly as much as I used to. So I don't have to work quite as hard at my, my bargain shopping like I once did. But I still do see the deals out there and I still take advantage a lot of them. So I'm curious too. You guys comment below. Let us know what are the other deals. And then Cuba, we're, we're else, we want to go with this because we got the, I think we covered a lot of food stuff. Oh, yeah, I think that's, yeah, I don't think that it files with Camryl and Cuba. I think all the citizens now have got a clear guide on what they need to do now to be able to be a frugal man, save some money and even save on your, on your family shopping as well. Yeah, and at least we get them, we, we hopefully we've got people thinking, you know, how does this apply to you in the stores that are in your area? What, what were you not thinking of before that you maybe can apply now? Even if hey, it saves you 20 bucks, you know, if we can help you save 20 bucks, it's worth it. Also, a lot of people are probably going to check themselves and see how much to access spending on takeaways, alcohol, coffees and stuff to probably have it even for about. So yeah, all right. So from here, I mean, what else do we have? They probably all want to hear about the gear side of things. So we, we won't cover that quite yet supplements Cuba. What are the, the absolute necessary supplements that we have? How do we find deals on that? You gave us one tip already. I think that was a great one. I've got a couple myself too. Right. I think that's going to the essential, right? What essential supplements everyone should be taking and that should be in my opinion, creating number one, extremely cheap. Those were it says on the tin. Yeah, right. Magnetism, Omega, good quality Omega, Vitamin D free in K2. That's absolutely essentials. And locally, they are all relative the cheap. Way protein would be on the list. However, way protein is significantly more expensive these days than it was back in the day. However, my top tip is never, ever buy supplements on tell companies have offers on. If you are subscribed to a lot of the email lists from various different companies, companies have offers on almost every single month. So if you budget accordingly and if you're not patiently waiting for an office come in and you stock up accordingly, so you actually have stock there just in case you are better off buying a little bit more when the price is cheaper than having to buy at full price. That's exactly what I used to do. Every single time there was an offer on that 50% off. Oh yeah. I would stock up and I would make sure that I have enough to last me until the next offer comes around and more with extra buffer time. So I don't run out. We had a discount table at Vitamin Shop here class and I would get in there and just get everything. I didn't know, you know, different brand of protein ever uses protein before, but I guess I am this month. You know, and if I had the money to buy two of them, I would. You know, I don't even know how good it is, but I, you know, I don't good at tastes, but I know this is a reputable brand. I'm going to buy it up and I'm going to live off of that, or maybe they have a closed-dated vitamin. You know, and that's why I'm a big fan and this isn't, and it's a plug, but it's not a plug. SupplementsourStatCA. One of the companies that we work with, they have closed-out deals. They're like label-change products. So all of a sudden, you've got this product that was like an EAA that was like $45 and now it's $15. If I could, I'd buy like three of a amount of time, you know, because it's not always going to be there. Or true nutrition, I've always been a fan of them because I was on a huge budget. So like Carbo load, it's more of a waxy maze type starch product, right versus it's not going to be as great as highly-branched cyclic dextrin, but you know, I wasn't in a place where I'd afford 50 grams of highly-branched cyclic dextrin a day. So I would use Carbo load. What is it? It's like $20 for 15 servings of 50 grams per serving. So if I split that in half, I could get 25 grams of carbs intro workout for pennies. I was going to put them out too. For like 30 workouts. I used to drink the on a flavoured cyclic dextrin from my protein. Again, that was about 50% off. So I used to get the big bags to an off-key low-bugs and it's just stuck pilot all just so it's just so it's there. Yeah, and that wasn't too pleasant. But listen, did the job and I needed to do what I needed to do. In UK you have got a lot of sugar-free calorie free squashes. It's called that rhubbina or Robinson's Robinson's Squash. So you add a lot of it to you water and add the flavour. Oh, okay, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. I know what you're talking about. It's like, we have a pretty good one. When you come to UK I'll show you. Basically UK you've got a selection of these different squashes. So I used to use that as flavour and system to it because if you have a triad cyclic dextrin on flavoured on its oh, it's yeah, and I've done that. And then I tried adding to it on flavoured E8 to that. I tried trying to try blending tuna with it and that's even so what I used to do what I used to do is tuna, cyclic dextrin and then you actually get EAAs that were like apple flavoured and he used to put it in the freezer. Yeah, he's in for flavouring and that wasn't actually too dreadful. So I used to manage that a lot when I was working. Yeah. That's brutal man. But hey, that you wanted it, right? You wanted to do what you needed to do to make it work. Chief, chief, chief, and it did the job got the results. So wasn't the most pleasant for it allowed me to do? I needed to do and save a lot of money. Yep, I'm with you 100% man. So, all right, anything else on supplements? That's it. I think general supplements are not an necessity. I think when you're at the base it's covered. That's it. You don't need to be buying supplements. Just focus on food and buy the bare essentials. I think that's key. A lot of people waste a lot of money on supplements. I think especially when they aren't on a budget. So if you honor the budget, magnesium, de-free, creatine, omega, weigh when it's on all the, that's it. Job done. Yeah. I had to be careful too with even where I went to, which gym I went to. Like I had to find good pricing. In fact, yeah, good, but my first sponsor that I had as a bodybuilder was Nicole's restaurant. They were barbecue restaurant at nine mile in telegraph road. Love those guys. They have great food, but they were fans of bodybuilding in fans of MMA. So they would sponsor an MMA guy and they would sponsor a bodybuilder. In four like three or four years man, they sponsored me and they said, hey, if you'll wear one of our t-shirts in the gym, you know, sometimes we'd be happy to pay for your gym membership in exchange. So that was my first sponsor. I was so forgot to say, me and my dad actually approached the butcher's back in the day and he used to do me a deal every month on a certain amount of food at a discount and rate because we basically said, look, every month we're going to come and buy this amount of chicken beef eggs. Yep. Can you do a can you do me a deal and he, he obliged. So sometimes guys I think it's worth even approaching your local boaches and saying, can you do me a deal on this set amount of meat every single month? If you can, happy days, if not a look. What's the worst that can happen? People are going to say no, right? No. All the topic of gym memberships, I will always always say support your local gyms, do not do not buy cheap, chain gym memberships. Now look, there will always be reasonable price gyms that are local gyms to you. I think you should always support them and I think you should always always always give back to them. You don't need to sign up to your fancier gym that charges an extortion about a cash per month. Yeah. You can always find a privately owned gym that is well equipped. Is it fancy? Does it have flashlights and is reasonably priced so that it stays whipping your budget? Yeah, we have gyms here where like you get a towel and a locker like they give you a towel and don't ever time you. No, yeah. No. All you need is a good gym spares artists owned privately by a nice gym owner. Give them the money. Do not give money to change it. Please guys, make sure you support your local gyms and local local businesses as well. Yeah. Yeah. All across the board, man. I'm with you 100%. Unfortunately, we don't have as many local butchers and I don't want to keep muddying our topics, but I'm with you on that. What's your thing, too? I used to get chicken ground by a butcher and now he'd have to clean the machine in order to do that because he's always doing beef, right? But he would clean it and I'd get him to do like 25 pounds at once and put it in these big plastic bags. I'd have all this ground chicken which was cool because it changed up the texture. You know, give me something different in front of you. Well, I actually have a mincer and I'm in smith myself. Nice. That's awesome. Yeah. Yeah. I'm in sort of medicine. I make like a little bird. I make a little bird that's from medicine. So when you mince it and you vacuum seal it, yeah, literally creates a burger. So it's it's unbelievable. Scott, Venison, like it's leader than chicken. So it's yeah, I love red meat, but obviously a lot of red meat can be quite fatty. So Venison and the Venison burgers, it's like I could eat them all day, but I just have one a day and I'm like that that will do that will do pig. I love that. No, it's so kind of the way. I love that. I'm with you on the gym thing and just supporting local business in general. I was lucky like I said my first sponsor paid for my gym membership. In part of that is it's the relationships. We're talking about relationships here too. In order to get the membership you're talking about at a restaurant place, you got to know how to talk to people. You know, if you don't have a business ID, in order to get a butcher to work with you and give you deals or to find the place to get that cheap cod, you got to be able to talk to people. In order to get the deal I had, getting my gym membership paid for, which I look back at at man, cup a hundred dollars a year. But to me, that was huge. It was a huge difference for me, man. It really made a lot of difference in my, in my finances. Right. It's also nice. I mean, listen, if someone can do that for you, it's actually a boost of motivation for you because someone's clearly looking to invest into which is always an ice feeling. And listen, there's always relationships you can create by simply being nice to people and speaking to people. So do not be afraid to approach people. What's the worst that can happen? Someone's going to say no. I mean, if someone says now, you say thank you and you move on. I'll say it. Right. Yeah. And with you, hey, how about the gear side of things? We got it. We got to get into the gear. We're going to have to. We're going to have to. Right. This is a tricky one because we've gear very often you pay for what you get. However, there is different compounds that are going to more expensive than others. We're going to accept that. If you are on a tech budget, I would always opt for the cheaper options. We both know that Prima Bowler is extremely expensive. Yes. What? If you're on a budget, you probably don't have the money to spend their fortune on Prima. So the old saying test is the best. Comes back around because test is cheap. Test is the best in this scenario. And test is going to be your best friend. So invest in a lot of testosterone. If if you can handle some anxiety that can come with it, you can use a lot of EQ. But then again, if you can get good meal, a good good meal could deal on Master drum. Yeah. Master could be a go to. But personally, if I wasn't a budget and I wasn't a budget back in the day when I was younger, I actually stuck to Maylita, testosterone. Yeah. I could see that. Test, testosterone and even back in the day, they used to be am so 100 million decker from I think it was Greek. Oh, where did they like the blue? Yep. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Not as long as we're all going on. No, I'm a decker. It was normal. It was normal. It was all going on. Okay. And decker. Okay. Yeah. In amps. So pretty much the first few of my cycles was literally a hundred million grams of decker per week. And like, 250 or to 500 of me left test. That's it. And I did have to take a little bit of an oven expert here as well. Yeah. Just so I wasn't lactating. So where does a world is away, guys? I'm not saying that the cycle design that's most budget friendly is going to the healthiest. It probably won't be true. It probably won't be for guess what? It's going to be fair to cheap and affordable. If you are on an extremely tight budget and mushrooms, not an option, EQ's going to cause you issues and you know that you can't deal with things. I am a cause you or the damage with your hematic rate, etc, which we've been out a lot of people have ever had a problem with. Yeah. Test and an I. Both. Yeah. We have a cheap old school. Old school. It's going to get the job done and it's going to keep a lot of pennies in your pocket if you need it. So yeah, you know what I did to Cooper. I we used to get the the finnacart, the finnacart cartridges. Yeah, finnacart. And I got it was like maybe $30 for what equated to like I think we got like 20 mills of of trend out of that. So it was like $30 for the little cartridge and then from there, once you invested in buying the the solvents that you needed in the oil, which you know, it still came out to be a lot cheaper even in that first batch. And then you'd have all that oil and solvent to do it again for another 30 bucks. So I I went that route more than one occasion. And they were even points that a cycle for me may have been tasked with like I don't want to run a bunch of trend, but like I'm just going to run a low dose trend just to push my total MGs. Oh, you know, and it it worked for me, you know, like you know, what's got what yeah. I have changed my views on trend a lot. Okay. Because I have experiments with trend in offseason quite often. Yeah. And I have ran trend at a very low dose for like 20 plus weeks at 50 between 50 to 100 milligrams. And guess what? Now lipid skewing, no blood work issues at all. My blood work looked identical. So what it did on just the same cycle as a run without the trend below and we've just tasked mass and cream on 50 per week, 50 up to 100. So it's 50 for the first few weeks. And then I pre-muched it like 100 milligrams for like I think 17 weeks. Yeah. So 100 would be like, you know, 25 every other day. And I guarantee you that, I mean, like milligram for milligram, it's so much stronger than just dust around. It's not like taking 25 tests. You know, you're you're adding something in that's definitely going to boost that cycle up. Yeah. I've done that myself, man. That's exactly what I'm talking about actually is I I had done things like that because like I just couldn't afford to do more. And then I leaned into the training. I leaned into the diet. And I made sure that I got the most I could out of those things. And I still made progress. You know, the devil is always in the dose of trend below. I truly believe it. It's not the component self that's the issue. It's just more so how much you take of it. If you take a very high amount of trend, it does more damage than go to my opinion. So a low dose of trend could be an option where I think people needs to tread carefully is people that especially when it comes to compounds like tremble on EQ and PP are the people that are very prone to like overthinking and bodybuilding is full of people that overthink to death. You know, a lot of people that you know mentally need work, right? So if you are the type of person that overthink so lot, please just avoid 19 laws avoid EQ because it's not going to be a survey well. I promise you, even at low doses, I've seen it cause issues for sure. I mean, I've seen just normal test cycles cause issues. Never mind, I didn't tremble on our decoding PP. And so just tread carefully guys when it comes to these compound choices. And ultimately, if you're a good deal on the old antibiotics, again, speak to people, see what they can do for you, see if they can do your deal if you're broke by. Yeah. There's always always a deal to be hard. And like I've said before, whilst the worst thing can happen, they can say no. But if they say yes, yes, well, say some word again, win, win. Yeah. And you know, all the content that we do, we talk about how like the diet is this certain way in the gear, these compounds. This compound is going to change. I never want to come off that way that you must use something because I do feel like people get it in their heads. We're like, oh, well, what am I supposed to do now because I'm not running growth and Cuba and Scott are talking all about G8. I can't afford that. So I guess I can't do bodybuilding. And that's the wrong mindset. Instead of looking at the things you can't do, this is something that was once said to me, I'll never forget when Shelby said to me, man, instead of focusing on the things that you don't have control of and that you can't do, focus on the things that you can do. Absolutely. There's so many more of those things out there. Imagine if you spend all day thinking about the things that you cannot do or thinking about the things that are and it's so holding you back. I mean, I couldn't think of anything worse because you would just be constantly in a negative state of mind. You have to look at things as an opportunity to find a way to keep making progress. And when people say, oh, I can't take growth on my God, you know, I'm able to do this. I have had so many guys turn proud without using growth. Sure. Unbelievable. Like none of these drugs are an necessity. Yes, sure. They will help. But guess what? They will not override effort and consistency over time. Agreed. 100% most of you can absolutely achieve majority of your goals if you want to put the work in. If you want to stay consistent and actually rinse and repeat the process, focus on the process, not the drugs because if it was down to the drugs, the guys that have access to the best drugs or the biggest guys in the world, that's just not the case. Yeah. No. That's not, man. Believe me. No. True. All right. Is there anything else? I know we had some listener question. Do is there anything else on our budget topic though that we want to cover? May I think we've covered it from Saturday back. We've covered everything. I think guys, I guess we've got any questions. Yeah. Or anything, anything that we may have potentially missed. Just let us know and we'll probably cover it next episode. But body building in my opinion and Scott, I'm not sure where you stand on it. It's not actually that expensive. There is other hobbies in my opinion that are far more expensive than body building. Body building in last style can actually make you extremely mindful of your spending and in my opinion, in my opinion, it can actually lead to you saving money in various different ways because you stop wasting money and you stop wasting food. You're not wasting money on garbage. You don't fucking need. Yeah. That is absolutely true, man. There came a point where like I wasn't going to bite if it didn't have protein in it. You know what I mean? All right. So let's do a lot of bunch of listener questions here. And I'm excited to get at some of these with you. I like this one a lot. By the way, I can't remember if this is just a question or comment. It's kind of long but I'll read it and see where it goes. He says, I'm self-managed amateur and I'm going for my first local ever at the age of 44. I've been training and dieting seriously since I stopped training karate at the age of 26. So good. Well, now dealing with life and surviving okay prevented me from competing. But now is the time and now is the moment that I can finally see the path forward. So thank you so much for this information. I hope you don't mind me applying your year the way we we we we put the year together in the last episode putting goals together. For long-focused prep towards a show at this point, I can't afford a trainer. I don't even know how I'm going to allow the cost of additional days off of work to recover my legs better or the we're in general to grow some never mind the food and supplements. Thank you, Cuba. So anyway point being man that he I think is hopefully going to get some value from this episode we've just done here. In listen, you don't need a coach. Like a coach like coaching is great. I mean, Cuba and I both like this is what part of our incomes are. We coach. But if you can't afford a coach, it understand it's not into the world. You still can do it yourself. And that's a big part of what the podcast is about. We can only help so many people and I want to try to get that information out there. And if you really focus and listen to the things we're saying, like you really can't apply it, listen and and listen to your body and figure out what you need to do for you on your own, you know. Being honest, if you listen back to all of the episodes on this channel with me with Scott with all the other guys, you probably don't need a coach. Yeah, if you make enough notes and if you take in enough knowledge, you will know how to pick yourself. You will know all about drugs. You will know all about offseason. You will know all about prep, cardio, nutrition, training, the so much content that we have done and we continue to put out across all our platforms. You probably don't need a coach. Where a coach is going to be extremely valuable is to the clients that really want to step it up to that next level. And the clients that want the extra accountability and need that hands on approach. But look guys, if any of you are watching this and you don't have the finances, you don't need a coach. Yeah, you know what, sometimes whenever client leave and this say, look, like, I don't need a coach no more because I know what I need to know now to keep achieving my goals. That's my mission completed as a coach. That makes me happy. Yeah. So just put that into perspective. You don't need a coach to do this. There's so many people that do this without coach. All you need is just a good attention span and you need to be subscribed to think about a building. You know, we're gonna cook a speech too, man. You need to subscribe. I mean, you need to be listening to our shows. That's it. Yeah. I am with you 100 percent, man. All right. Next one, real quick one, what brand or Cooper's glasses? All right, optics. I have warned him since 2000 on 19. Okay. And I actually have a discount code of now. Cool, but I thought he did. Yeah. It is a cool button. Cool, but 10. All right. 10. Cool, but 10. Hey, give me a budget. Hey, I'm out of objects. Give me the link. I will make sure to post that down below to that. Absolutely. You know what, the guys are unbelievable. And I kid you know, I'm not sure who I have a lot of luck is, but these blue that blockers really do the business man. I'm not gonna lie. Really. So I have it. It's built into my glasses. I don't know. No, okay. Yeah. It's not that shade. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't know whether it would work or not, but they've offered that. And they're like, oh, well, we can just put it in for free. Well, I got okay. I'll take it. Whatever. It's cool. It's cool. It's cool. It's cool. Yeah. All right. I got a dextist scan today. After 5.5 months, I gained 13.2 pounds gained 8.1 pounds of lean body mass and gained 4.9 pounds of fat. I'm sitting at 14.7% body fat. Would you cut at this point? Or would you continue around maintenance calories? This was on T or T 150 milligrams of cast with 10 milligrams of var for 20 weeks. Wanna add to IU a growth soon. Please send as your pictures may instead of using a dextist scan. Dextist scans, not that accurate. And I would personally not use a dextist scan for any gauge of progression. Because I am pretty certain a couple of my clients use the dextist scan. And one week, he went, he had a test. It came up with all this data. Literally the week after he was a different company, different place, same dextist scan. And it gave completely different data again. So I do not believe in dextist scans at all. Instead, what you should do my friend, if you are listening, please send us over your pictures and both me myself and Scott. Me myself and Scott. Well, yes, well assess your pictures and we can then give you a bit of a guideline on what steps you should take next. I go with that. I like that a lot. Yeah. You can hit us up over at the great place would be joined the Facebook group for Think Big. And we have a bunch of good people over there. It's not a huge group. We've got like 2,000 people listening to the shows and they will post up things for critique and training and share things and all of that. So you're welcome to join over there, hit me up from there. I mean, that's in the group. Cuba's in the group. That's right. All right. So that's, so we're going back to what we were talking about when it comes to growing muscle. And Philster 81 says, okay, so that's 40 pounds in 30 weeks or a little over a pound gained per week. Technically, it would be 50 pounds increase since his from his most depleted state. So how can you accurately assess that the weight gain is muscle or fat or gear-related water blow accurately? Do you use the mirror? What if you can't tell the difference between blow and fat? What's the optimal amount of weight gain that should be expected per week during a massing phase? One pound even with gear? So, right. So let's just, let's just rewind first. I don't get bloated. I don't really push for that. My compound selections do not drive bloats or excessive water gain. I'm not a fan of that sort of cycles, because it's excuse the assessment. So all offseason, I take pictures twice per week. I take pictures on a Sunday fasted and I take pictures on a Thursday fasted. That's entire year, year round. So I am assessing my pictures every single week twice per week. So I know what is going on and I can see you cannot see a visual difference in muscular chin size on a week to week basis. But you can see shifts in fluid or body of that gain if things are starting to move into quickly. So if you are gaining a ton of blow and what a way, assess yourself and change it because that is not going to contribute to true contractile muscle. In fact, I would argue it's probably going to be of detriment to your training performance of recovery because you sleep, probably will suffer, your appetite and digestion will suffer. If you cannot digest your food, it's doing nothing. If you can't eat, you're not going to grow. So generally, the slower the better. And the reason why I have been able to add a decent amount of muscle tissue throughout that phase is because I started very lean and I was extreme at patient. I didn't push the drugs hard out of the gate. I escalated slowly. I didn't take any drugs that would drive and excessive amount of water. I didn't use how much of insulin. I didn't use any oils in the offseason. And guess what? This gave me a clear metric of assessment of my visuals week to week. There wasn't any variables that were skewing the water or the visuals to that degree. So food for four guys. And I liked that. I'm 247 to that free week. So the last amount of computers, my lowest point was like 226 and I competed at 230. Wow. And I very much doubt I am going to be under 240 this year. That's awesome. Dude, that's a huge amount of gain. I'll probably be about 15 pounds up from last year. Stage weight. That's an incredible amount of size. I don't care who you are. Like that's a lot. Think about what 15 pounds of hamburger meat looks like. And now spread that all over the spots that we want to see it. You know what I'm saying? Over the back, over the shoulders, over the biceps, over the quads. It's a lot of muscle. It's looking pretty decent. It's I'm not. I'm never going to be satisfied. Of course. If you weren't then I'd be worried. You know what I mean? With what I have done this year and what I've showed you the timeline. I am extremely confident with my approach now. That's today or that's now. That's from actually five days ago before my refeats. Can I post this on the show? Kind of. Yeah. All right. People who want to see that, man. Looks fucking sick. Dude. You look freaky. Yeah. It's a. It's getting close, man. It's getting close. Hey, a couple things I'll add to him is as that weight's going up. I'm with you, man. Nice and slow crawl upward. But it consistent, nice slow crawl upward. And then you kind of mentioned two digestion. How is that digestion going? How is your strength going? Are you getting stronger along the way? These are some of the things. And of course, the mere the pressure you. I'll show you my fatest body parts as well. Okay. Because there's no point in showing you my leanest. I'm not as a show in my fatest. If he's doing this himself, then I would suggest still taking those pictures just like you are because you can't judge it just looking in the mirror. You know what I mean? It's easier to separate yourself and what those pictures up compare them to two weeks ago, three weeks ago. And over time, you get better and better as as your eye gets tuned. I can't explain it. But the more experience you have, I do this all day long every day as does Cuba and that the longer you've coached. It's kind of like when you're driving on the road, most of us have experienced driving. Most people listen to the show do I'm sure. And you don't always think about when you switch lanes, why you're doing it. It's not like a conversation you're having. It just becomes an intuitive thing. You just know. Like I'm switching lanes. And if somebody stopped a less experienced person so why did you switch lanes? You might have to stop even and think like, okay, why did I do that? But the reality is you're taking in so much information that you're not even registering in a way that you can then articulate. You know what I'm saying? That you just, there's a level of gut intuition that goes along with it. So part of it is listening to what we're saying, but then just getting in there and doing it. And then seeing how the cards fall. See, you know, if seeing how everything goes. And then after that learning from it, you know what I'm saying? Oh, maybe that was a little bit too fast. You know, I'll go slower next time. Mate, this is what it's all about. This is why I love butter. It's so much because it's about doing the work. It's about learning from mistakes. And then applying yourself better next time. That's what it's all about. I, yep, I have gotten to the point when I am now because of all the years of mistakes that I've made. A lot of people are often on the impression that the more advanced you get as a bodybuilder, less pro-wish-make. For me, it's actually been the opposite because the more advanced I've gotten as a bodybuilder, more often than standing at half around when you're trashing training recovery, more progress I'm able to make. But yeah. A lot of people often say that sometimes like pay an attention to these variables, stressors them out. For me, it's the opposite. Like because I am in control and I am dialed in with these variables. I am completely relaxed because I am not only confident with a process but I know that what I'm doing right now is exactly what's going to push me forward the most. So you couldn't be any more relaxed because all this to it is just do the work. Be patient, stay chilled, do just enough, do what's required, don't do anything extra, don't do anything less, instead of in the course. That's it. I'm in Centipede. Yeah, you're fatty stereos are not that fat. Like you're looking lean. You cut all the way up to the hamstring, cut all the way up to the glue. That's from four weeks out. So that was from this week and just gone. Yeah, this is fantastic, man. Your back is looking a lot better, dude. Like it's come up with good enough. Back was dark shit. Everything is really balanced looking. Like you're top to bottom in that rear, you know the relaxed poses are so exposing. Yeah, that's what Garzboeakus poses as well. So I wanted to send you my like my fatest and moeakus pose, you know what I mean? Because if I said you're a front shot, you're like fuck me, dude, you're at a step of the stage. So yeah, it's a waste of time. I don't even look up a front shot now. I've not been looking at them for like six weeks out. Yeah, these look good, dude. I'm really excited to see how how this goes, man. And see how this looks stacks up, you know. I'm not honest with Scott. I don't care what it's stuck. So for me. Yeah, for you. For me as a fan, I do. For me, for me, the difference in my physique, I find a feel like a feel like a legit IFBB pronoun. I love that, dude. That's cool. That's how I feel. So I can I can say that with Bitmore price. Like I am an IFBB product. I feel like I I deserve that badge now with the progress that I've made this year. I love that, man. So yeah. Yeah, I got one more for this thing. And this and this just gets me more excited for the future as well because like I still I still know there's a lot more. There's a lot more to give. So yeah. Go ahead, me. All right. Okay. Love the show guys. Kuba came through with some great content once again. But we didn't do the word at the end of the episode to show that you listened all the way through. Sorry. I'm sorry. We're all going to do this time. Well, I'm going to do this time. I saved that one for the end, man. Yeah. Yeah. That was that was the best. That was the question. Listen. Yeah. If you have made it to very end, make sure you comment. What shall we say? Hmm. Show us a budget comment budget below and everyone that what we're talking about or I better good. What budget? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's quite fit. It's an inter. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's good. If you have made it to very end comment budget below and will know that you are the true true fans of the podcasts. And you know what? I always listen to the very end every single podcast. I like your podcast with Jordan the other day. Oh, thank you, man. Yeah. It was great to get him on to and we didn't intentionally do it. But we beat everybody else out. We were like the first people to record with him. So I tried to get that up as soon as possible. He's a cool dude. You know, he, he, he absolutely loves the sport. I love it. I love it. Sounds like he's training his ass off down there in Texas. You know, and he's getting those great results. It's cool to see him at Pino. His genuine, his super nice. I love his content. I love how how much of a good person is you can tell he has not got a bad bonus body. He's just such an amazing person. So he deserves all the success. I truly believe that. So massively true. Massive all them to him under and thank you for bringing in tremendous content. Oh, no. It's my pleasure. And with that, I have to run. I've got a 17 year client about to do his show this weekend. We're going to do some posing right now. Yeah. For me, it's bedtime. I'm not going to lie. I am going to bed in the Litchell 20 minutes. So guys, you should feel them lucky because at this time, I never ever do anything. So that is that special moments. I love doing these podcasts with Scott. So I've had a very busy day. And I am spent. I'm not going to lie. Guys, before we wrap up, if there's anything specific, you want us to cover up. Any more questions you have, please make sure you comment below. Scott, have you got any more questions that we haven't covered? That we need to cover next time? We had a couple of adds and ends. We could bring them back. Make sure you note them down when make sure we'll we'll cover them because I don't want any of the listeners to feel like they're left out. I want to make sure that everyone gets looked after and everyone gets the questions answered. Guys, thank you so much. We appreciate you and make sure you subscribe to the channel. Scott, some love he's doing a fantastic job. You can tell me that you know, this channel means a lot to him and if we can keep supporting him, we definitely should do that. So let's do it. Scott, you. Thank you, man. And hope for the picture begins soon. I let you take the lead and sign up. Absolutely. Guys, definitely also follow Cuba and everything he's doing as he closes in on the show. So you know, you have so much stuff that's coming out on Instagram. You've got your YouTube channel. I'm excited to follow along myself, guys. And of course, uh, true nutrition.com user code think over their supplement source.ca for Canadians. Thank you to everybody from Patreon. In fact, hit me up with questions for the next episode with Cuba on Patreon. We will get those out and for another episode of the podcast here with Cuba. Guys, we'll see you soon. Thank you, Cuba. Appreciate you all, guys. Thank you.

Like how they've taken a foam squat pad and they've duct taped it to the frame there. See, so you're not, don't get crushed when you're leveraging into the... Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. That's what that is. The one thing that companies didn't think about them, not pad. They thought people would just stand on the foot pad and push their chest on the pad, but they're not taking a branch and Johnny just leveraging into that machine. They're not expecting people to use the plates that branch. They're like, well, people use like two and a half plates on this maybe? Yeah, yeah. You can be fine. Yeah. The whole roll is duct taped on there. Yeah. Yeah. Hey, everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building. Reacts. This one's a good one. Branch-worn. Johnny Jackson training at Arlington Metro Flex. What year is this, buddy? 2013. 2013. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and... Great in the bell. There we go. I am mutant, born hard core. Get to IMU.com, get your ice of surge all in, and everyone should get on the gear. Bam. 2013. Walking in the front door. I still have never been to this gym. I'll leave her note. Oh, looks exactly the same. I was in 2018. Look like this. Yeah. I guess I was told that a few years ago, I think I might have been during the pandemic. Ryan took everything out in the parking lot, and he actually like cleaned the floor. Oh, wow. But, you know, I don't know if that was just a lie. That might have been a lie. That's great. I want to give a shout out to Bruce over at MOC. If you guys... I say this in the description every time. But if you guys want to watch the actual videos, I know some of you guys haven't seen this stuff before, we're just showing little pieces of it. But you should go watch the full video. I always try to put the links to the actual video in the comments so you can see that at the MOC video YouTube page. Yep. Yes. Yes. Okay. So, Branch with the gas-p-shirt. Same one. He's been wearing for 15 years. Ooh, Zach. They're Johnny. They're Johnny. They're gonna trap. Geez. Oh, Matt Lair. Dallas Cowboy alumni. Oh, really? Dallas knows Matt. Yeah, he played for the Cowboys, and then he trained with Branch and Johnny for a while. And I did a gas-foto-shoot with Matt. Me and Matt were doing like the street clothes. Okay. Right. You're gonna find that. Those pictures, that. Let's get to the view. Oh, yeah. I'm still be floating around in the gas barcives. So, hardest-foto-shoot I ever did. Hundred degrees, and they had us wearing hoodies and jeans and ho-ho ho-ho ho ho-ho ho. Tuicks. Oh, it's brutal. Okay. These guys get warmed up. What, what's that mean? What are they playing for music? Turn the volume up, honey. It's like overdubbed music. Oh, actually, no. They got rid of it. Oh, yeah. There you go. Yeah. There's some overdubbed music. That cables probably still on there, probably same cable. That just means a good cable. Hasn't worked. Yeah, nice and the one trying to. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Very key. Getting things moving. Oh, branch getting into it. Yeah, I fast forwarded a little bit so we get to the actual hard sets there. Let's hear him. All right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, yeah. Yeah. You all the critics. Yeah, exactly. What's not how you get big to the guys that looks like that. Mm. Meanwhile, he's got an enormous backpump at this point already. You know, I say this about that style of training is it's, I mean, you talk about that. You talk about activation. I mean, this explosive activation they get out of this style of training. I mean, and that's got to be so heavy. Did you see that he helped Johnny to get the bar down into position? Yeah. You know, I'll be full stack and it no problem. Yeah. Yeah. I think that's the magic. It's activation like you were saying Ron and what Dave was saying. Something I never really thought of the word for is not necessarily foreign, but activation the lats are lighting up. So whether you like the way the form looks or not, every one of them will cyber. Yeah. Every single fiber is getting triggered triggered the form triggers people, but it also triggers also activation. Right. Now, I wonder if they did any like band work to get the lat moving before they got in the form. Oh, I'm sure. Yeah. Sure. This sarcasm. Then I'll show you the secrets. Yeah. Yeah. So this is 2013. So let's think of when this was. So branch one, the 2011 Arnold. Okay. And then he tore his quad. Blue is quad right off the bone. How did it reattached? One, the 2012 Arnold, which is mind boggling. I've had that exact same injury. I can't imagine how he did that. That's just superhuman to me. Yep. And so now this is 2013. So it's really not that far removed from the quad tear. He still has an even back to normal. Remember, he told me it took like three years before he was kind of back to normal. Really back up his leg. But they're hammering away. And Johnny would be getting ready for. Now, I think he did 13 or 14 Olympias. Okay. Which he's on the list of the most Olympia appearances ever. I think there's only a few people ahead of them. Dexter's on that list. Sean Ray, I think. Might be ahead of him or tied. There's really only a couple people. I guess Al Beckles is on that list apparently. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I remember researching it because when Johnny was with mutant, we gave him a custom battle axe. I had this battle axe made by a friend of mine. Yeah. And the handle was engraved. Like congratulations on your 13th Olympia or something. I can't remember what year it was. And I remember I had to research the list. And it was very few people who had done more Olympias than Johnny. So, you know, you got to hand it to a man. Boom. Getting into it. It's a blast. You might put it down. Yeah. I wouldn't even trust it would stay down if I did that. Yeah. I don't like worried about the machine. Just assuming I might have to pick it back up because of fell. Yeah. Bounce is out in the hole or whatever. Yeah. I like that narrow grip on that. Done that T bar. It's like, you can't grab most of them that narrow. No. They all throw it down. Okay. That's part of the deal. I guess I'm not to learn that. Yeah. Like how they've taken a foam squat pad. And they've duct taped it to the frame there. See, so you're not, don't get crushed when you're leveraging into the... Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's what that is. The one thing that companies didn't think about, then not pad. They thought people would just stand on the foot pad and push their chest on the pad, but they're not taking a branch and Johnny just leveraging into that machine. They're not expecting people to use the plates that branch. They're like, well, those people use like two and a half plates on this maybe? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The hole or duct tape on there. Yeah. So, Ron, do you think this is the situation where you're not taking the weight off no matter what once again? But if I was 19, I'd train with them though, like you're doing nine plates, let's go. Yeah. It wouldn't even occur to them that plates would come off for the partner. Right. That's what the training partner is. You know what I mean? Like we talked about that. Like when it comes to that gym, that's how it works. You mean we're going to train with me, like plates do not come off. Yeah. You can do less reps, but you're doing the same amount. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So why would branch so sliced right now from the Arnold or what I mean, he is? This is the battle for the Olympia. So we're getting all over. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Maybe he is. I don't know. I look it up. Yeah. He loves the shape all year. Perfect. Awesome here. I love seeing the delt and arms just be so blatantly like so rare and wrapped in. Yeah. Oh, they dropped set of that. They're pillicently. Yeah. Yeah. You know, it's the most popoles. Sorry, just cardio back then. Right. So 2013 he only did the Olympia. Okay. Okay. Yeah. That's all that's listed on his page. His Wikipedia page might be wrong. But you know how it goes. Right. He was fifth in 2012 and that was back when top 10 recall if I. Right. Oh, that's why yeah. Makes sense. And this was the year. I think this was the year. He worked with George Ferra. And he didn't go that great and he got 9th. Okay. But I forgot about that, man. Yeah. And I remember I heard the story. He, oh, no. He worked with Neil Hill. Sorry. George Ferra was normally his guy. Wasn't it? I think you're right. I think you're right. So he went back. The George after. Yeah. He worked with Neil. I heard he just came off stage and he just walked up to Neil and he goes, well, I didn't work up. But thanks. Shukas Han walked with. He didn't like to make a post about it. You know? No, there's no post. There's no like release press release. Right. Right. And then while that works. Because you do see. I mean, a guy is with great track records. They don't line up necessarily with every single guy. You know? Yeah. Yeah. And that's where the coach bouncing comes in as people. Feel the realized that, you know, the coach they had was actually great. You know, and if they would have just stuck, you know. But obviously branched. Branch was at George a long time and he went back to him and continue to be good with them. So that would don't really well. Well, he had that track record too. You know, I think it'd be a lot of pressure to take a guy at that level. And then be like, hey, well, why don't you work with me this year, even though he's got a whole year or whatever, you know, whole prep to work with. I'm it's, you know, a assume it's going to turn out just as good. It's a lot. I've, I've turned people down. I've said, man, I don't really think I can help you like. Yeah. You know, you did these three shows that this guy and your glutes were shredded and you look really good. Like, I don't know what you want from me like. Yeah. You know, I'm just setting myself up for, you know, if you're 1% worse and all of a sudden, right, you know, what did we do? Right. Yeah. You know, and maybe you got divorced that year. So it's not even my fault. Right. It's not, it's just how it works, you know. And I think that's a mistake coach is make too as they get super eager to just take anybody that is good. But you got to ask yourself, can you actually help that person? Yeah. You know? I remember didn't remember Chris was saying that they had somebody reach out. I won't say their name and he was like, you want me to bring you in the way you come in. You're fantastic. Yeah. He said that to a bunch of people. Yeah. So he says no. People all the time. Yeah. Yeah. I had a question the other day on my story. Someone said, like, if you could work with any top 10 Olympian who would it be. And I said, I don't ever think of that. Number crosses my mind. Yeah. Like, you know, some guys are just dying to like build a name as a, you know, they want to be like a superstar coach. Right. And they're just foaming at the mouth for the chance of someone to ask them, you know, to coach them. But that's not, it's not like, never even accrues to me. Yeah. Coaching is all funny games until you have to get some, you have to deliver. You know what I mean? Okay. Yeah. You know, it's your job to get Chris as good or better than he's ever been. Good luck with that point. Yeah. Good luck with that. Yeah. You know, his last coach had 10 shows of them and knew everything about them. And now you just like, yeah. So here we go. I think it's more fun to take a guy or girl and take them to the next level. Oh, yeah. Then to have them already right there and like, yeah, you were a little bit better. And you're a place to say, you're welcome. You're welcome. Yeah. I love taking somebody who's never been peeled and getting the peeled. Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. You know, they did three shows without their glue tripped and now you get their glue tripped. Rip, and they're like, thank you. And they're so nice. Take them dark. Absolutely. There's my charm. Look at that. The back man. Ooh. Get the size of the dumbbell. And this is where the turn around comes in. You know, a lot of the, the lats are just in, the backs and interesting, you know, interesting monster when it comes to body parts. No negative on that last rep, by the way. No, he let's go to the top. Yeah. You actually pushed it down if you pay close attention through the floor. Through it into the floor. Yeah. Angry at that dumbbell. Johnny don't give his shitty words as good shoes. That's the only thing in the outfit he paid for, though, in fairness. Yeah. Yeah. I'm, I remember Johnny, I remember Johnny actually saying, I remember Johnny actually saying he has, he has lots of Jordan's. He won't wear it. Mattro Flacks. I remember him telling me. Oh yeah. Like he picked me up at the airport. Like I go to see me pick me up at the airport and I be like, No, there's nice kicks. He'd be like, oh, yeah. I don't wear these at Metro Flacks. You know. You know, usually work boots. If you remember these guys. Replaced dumbbells. I love that sign. No one reads it. This is not area. Replaced into this general. Yeah. They're against this wall. Yeah. But literally all over the floor. That's amazing. Those are still my favorite way to do dumbbell rows is hand on the top rack. Yeah, let me do. What's the, you know, what's the rule around when you're in a gym that's busy. And you want to get in there and do your, your dumbbells like that. Would you still do that if the gym was packed and somebody might want one of those dumbbells? I'd be very mindful. All right, you use something else to lean on. But yeah, or I'd go right down the end of the rack. So you're like, not like definitely not in a high traffic area, you know. Yeah. You know, I'm just being. If you're using like, you know, maybe you're using a, yeah, you can find down dumbbell. Yeah, I think you can put the England bench to about the same. It's not exactly the same. But when the gym is slammed. Yeah. I can't, I can't be blocking, you know, eight dumbbells while I'm doing my sets. Yeah. Good. Down on the end of the rack, maybe. If you train in my gym, you can do that all day. You can do that. Turn it up. Turn it up. All right. You hear right here branch y'all in them. There comes. There. Jump. And these two guys got crazy backs, man. Yeah, they do. You know, like exactly the same, but still a lot from the back and they train exactly the same. Oh. Remember, this is an inferior handle. Yeah, that hurt. These two nothing. Man. I love the explosion on each pole. Crazy as traps and body building for a while there. Oh, yeah. No kidding. I still remember that year. Johnny did the L and then he, he couldn't come do a photo shoot right away. He had something going on. So mutant brought him up like a month after the Olympia. And he came up to Vancouver to do a video shoot and he showed up and he looked fantastic. Yeah. Like huge and full and really lean. And I remember I said to him, I'm like, oh man, you're like really looking forward to getting, you know, this shoot out of the way so that you can like take a break. And he goes, take a break. I haven't trained since the old. And he's like, nah, he goes, I pumped a few times. This is when he had built his own gym for personal training. So he's like, I trained a few times in my gym, but I just been so busy having set up my gym and my new business and you know, busy with my daughter and just, you know, I've had hardly trained. I've even seen branch. No kidding. And I go, oh, well, you mean you look great. And he just looks down at himself. He's like, well, this isn't going to go away. I love it. That's very rare. But just to like, we are very different. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So if you're the one in the way when you start to, when you talk to Dre and she says things, you're like, it's not how it works with humans, honey. Yeah. Yeah. You are not the same. I know you don't know this is your such a nice person, but like, that's how it works for us. I remember Johnny wanted to do these. I was trained with him once for a video. And we got the very end of the workout and he goes, well, it's two more more things. Okay. And I said, hey, let's do, let's just do like straight arm rope pull downs, right? Okay. Because we've done like all these heavy freeweight rows in shit, right? Uh, and they go, let's do straight arm rope pull downs. And he just extremely fast goes, no. And then just puts that bench there. And I didn't think nothing of it. He was just, he moved fast. He walked fast. Yeah. Walk the talk fast. Walk fast. But that one, the video came out. There were like 10 people that were like Johnny's so savage. He just did not run just to get you. Like let's just rip pull downs. He goes, no. Bullshit. Boo's a pin. He just came across so funny. Plus the edit was so the way it was edited. It just looked so brutal. No. Yeah. You lose your ideas. Carbage. I had to laugh. Normally I would have been like, oh, no. I look like, you know, but I just thought it was funny. He was like 10 people were like, oh, Johnny just shut Ron down like. Yeah. Absolutely. I show Johnny. I remember I showed Johnny the comments. He's just laughing. He's like, That's great. This is by no means light either. You know, this like three quarters of that stack. Something like that. Yeah. This isn't just like a finass move or something like that. The only reason they're not coming off the bench is because they're heavy. Right. No. You doing this here for these? Oh, these are pretty towards the end. I don't know what would be left. These are kind of a finisher. Oh, yeah. Oh, this this row. I use this row at Metro Flex. It's famous for being in all their videos. It is so bent. You pull back and it just dives to the right. Really. Oh, yeah. Both handles are coming towards you. And then they both just dive to the right, like sharply at the end of the wrap. Okay. And I remember thinking like, these guys just don't give a shit. Yeah. They're still using it. You would never use that again. No, I would never use it again. I'm like this machine. It's got to be taken to a welder and like fixed. Based on their backs, it does not need to be fixed. No. And the right doesn't matter. Laptor right apparently. Yeah. Yep. They show up from the front. You'll see the handles kind of dive to the side. It's funny. It's keep pile and plates on. I just always love that when the guys would train together for the same show. Because you know that's going to bring the best idea. Yeah. They probably didn't discuss it once. No, of course not. Yeah. Bam. Whew. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. A little hinge move here for the lower back. That's an old school extension. Holy smokes. I didn't realize it had a pad on it. I thought it was just doing body weight. That's funny. You're looking tired at this point too. And probably like several pounds lighter. Oh yeah. It's all. It'd be August at least. You know. Look how soaked Johnny is. You get an agonizing lower back bump from that. Oh kidding. If you didn't have one already. Yeah. I think this is the last. This is the last exercise. Yeah. Oh good times. Why not many weeks out there. Champion two four. Don't matter. It don't matter. Oh, those are always my man. Yeah. That was a great era. You know. Agreed. That was a special request too. Yeah. That was a great honor. Yeah. That was a great honor. So you're just dipping into the beginning of Phil Heath's reign there. You're just a couple of Olympias in getting ready for number three. Yeah. So that would have been in most people's opinion. And he'd be greatest Phil Heath ever that year. Hmm. Twenty thirteen. You know. Isn't that when the battle with Kai was full speed two? Twenty twelve thirteen. Yeah. What have been? Yep. Yeah. That was a really cool time of bodybuilding. Oh yeah. A lot of fun to be at those shows. And I'll tell you what. I remember when he tore his quad. I felt like, ah, that's it. Like maybe we're not going to see him again. Maybe we're not going to see him for a long time. And then a few months later there he is. He does that. Wait. You know, Jace Quadstomp was at that. Yeah. But he had, he was, yeah. What was it? What song was that? It's the guy I can't remember his name. The musician Kid Rock from here in Detroit. Oh, yeah. He comes in and he said, I'm back. You know, it's maxes. Like a boy in full fingers at it. Because everybody was wondering. And they're like, oh, it's just like going to be any different. Is it going to look good? First thing he does is slam it down and points at it. You know. I remember I was hanging out with him at Fibo. Yeah. And would have been like twenty eighteen or something. Because I was like, I tore my quad in sixteen. So I remember I was really happy because I was squatting again. And I was training pretty hard. And I knew I was done competing. I was still was like really happy. My leg had come back and all that. And I was talking to him. I'm like, yeah, you know, I'm finally hexquating like where I don't feel crooked. And all that stuff. And he goes, oh, yeah, that took years. And I went, oh, well, I mean, you won the Arnold seven months later. I kind of thought you were back at it. He's like, oh, no, I was in complete agonizing for a companion. The entire prep. Wow. I just didn't, anyways. When I go, oh, and he's like, yeah, I didn't really recover for like two, three years after. Wow. And I go, oh, well, what were you doing? He's like, oh, just anything to get volume in the leg. 100 rep leg extensions. Because I was only squatting three plates when I won that Arnold. You know, like a barely squat three plates for ten reps. I was so weak and crooked. One side of my body was all messed up. But I just did tons of tons of light sets with the other leg. Just blow it out. I do thousand reps of extensions in one day. And then I come in later that week. Do another thousand reps. And just that's bogged. There's anything. Just anything. Can't train heavy. You do something else. Like yeah. I don't know if I can do anything hurt. And I'm like, oh, okay, I get it. So I'm on track then. Yeah. You know, I thought I was like, that was the hell with it. Good to hear you. He's human. Yeah. Oh, no, I was an absolute agonizing pain in the whole time. But yeah. That's amazing. Yeah, you know, it's all just branched. But yeah. And you know, those two know that break sense. Yeah. And Johnny too, like just such a, like, that those two guys, I think, I think, the thing about Johnny was, you know, hanging out with him and training with him. It's a lot of people thought they didn't pay attention to stuff. But they, they did. They just didn't give it the time of day. Right. Like people thought all these guys aren't thinking of this stuff. It's like, oh, no, they thought of it. They just, they just decided they don't care. Yeah. They waited. Right. Yeah. Doesn't matter to me. Yeah. There's so many little things that I realized Johnny, you know, people would say, all those guys don't, you know, they don't know about this. You know, but I don't know, they're aware. They've made the decision that they are not going to let it into their head. It's not going to be something they waste time thinking about. And I get that so much more now than I would have back then, honestly, I really do. Mm-hmm. Yeah, just like Johnny, what do you mean? This isn't going to go away. Yeah. Like, you know, I'm going to worry about that. You know, so this stuff like that. It's crazy to help you mention how many Olympias he had in the way he trained. Like, you compare him to like, Ducks der Head, you know, a ton of shows. But like, him compared to Ducks der Mann, that was some, like, no offense to Ducks der Ducks der Ducks der Train Hard. But you didn't train like Johnny Jackson hard. You know what I mean? No. Different hard. Yeah. And the way they thought about their workouts was, okay, well, what are like the five hardest things we can do in this gym? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Well, those will be the best things in. So that that rose really hard. And that rose really hard. We'll start here with my lead activation. And then after that, I need to get some additional blood. And I'll make sure I get a side. Yeah. Which part of the back does that work? Yeah. No whole of it. Yeah. I'm also at two one time I said to him, I'm like, yeah, you know, your back sort, I think we trained back. And I was like, I was like, yeah, you know what? I know I had a good back workout when I felt like Johnny would say stuff to just made you feel like an idiot with all meaning to make it. If you look at it, yeah. So when Tom said, yeah, you know, I know I've had a good back workout when like my back sore, but my biceps art. And Johnny looked at me like, like kind of like a head tilt. Okay. What? And I was like, well, you know, when you like, when you got a good back workout, but your biceps are like, everything's sore after back. Yeah. My calf's hurt after a good back day. Yeah. He's like my glutes and hands are sore after back. Yeah. And I'm like, oh, he just don't care. Just don't care about the overlap. You just don't give a shit. Yeah. And so yeah, that was just like, this is just funny, man. A lot of funny moments like that with him. And you got to hand it to him just that attitude of just put your head down and smash your brick walls. Yeah. And that's both those guys represent. So good reacts. God. I'm glad someone requested that. It me too. Okay. Look, it look like Donna. How's she doing? She's good. She didn't come over. I think we went a little long and she was like, hey, pick me up. So I did. So real quick, I see Dusty's wearing a different t-shirt. Are you trying to show us some? Is that a friend's brand? Or you just happen to have that on? Or what's it deal with that? What is it? What is it? It's Lewis barbecue. It's just an awesome barbecue place, but our house. Oh, yeah. I was like, this place is awesome. So they don't know what it'll make them look like. They'll show their fantastic. Okay. Unbelievable. I'm wearing my favorite shirt from Fibogo, this year. I love this one. That's a nice one. They always do the Germany shirts, you know? So, yeah, a big fan. Okay. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Oh, Donna with the bell ring. She's on Twitter. She looked pretty at you after you said it too. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. And remember, I'm mute.com, born hard core. Last five minute crew, go to I'm mute.com, get your ISO series, get your all in and and everyone should get on the gear, Dusty 20, Ron 20. Patreon subscribers, keep a producer home. We appreciate you, think big body building network. Okay, everybody. Remember, it's just body building. Reacts. Thank you.

I truly believe that you cannot learn this watching a video. You just can't. I'm going to be honest with you. You can watch what we call them in a thousand times. And I did that. I did watch Ronnie Coleman. I did watch Brad Chwaron. I watched pretty much every single MLC video that you can imagine. I've watched them all twice over from a very, very young age. And let me tell you, just watching someone train versus being in the gym, smelling the atmosphere and feeling the energy. Yeah. It's a completely forgotten. What's going on, guys? Welcome back to Think Big Body Building Media. I'm Scott McNeilly. Back again, I am joined by I.P.B. Pro. Kubit. Shell and guys. All of our programming is brought to you by True Nutrition.com. Use our code, think for additional savings on high quality, third party test and supplements from a company that you can trust. If you're out in the UK, you've got to go to Alter Flex. What's Alter Flex? Do you have it again? Where are you at? So, I'm going to. Roger. Roger. That's, I can't say that word very well. It's a very British name. Anyway, we are going to have a lot of fun today, guys. We're talking about basically harnessing intensity and Cuba. This was my request, really. And here's the thing that I see. I see a lot of guys out there, younger guys that are really trying to do the ultimate best they can. They aren't training in Alter Flex with you. They don't see what your intensity looks like. But they are giving their best. And sometimes I see their tops at VACO of set, push pull legs and they're just not going hard enough. And I understand that intensity is something that we build over time. But how can we help people today to build their intensity? This quite a few things that I want to unpack here because it's not just clear back and white because there will be actually a lot of that goes into it, especially that comes to someone's psychology to actually build up the intensity because realistically Scott, everyone has a very different pain threshold. And I think ultimately having the ability to train with all our intensity and train to failure will have to come with high pain thresholds. Yeah. Now, unfortunately, that is not for everyone, right? And we have to accept that. And I think as much as some people want to be able to train extremely hard, I just don't think some people naturally have it in them. Now, that does not mean that they can just accept mediocrity. That's not what I'm saying. What I'm saying here is it will take time for someone to develop resilience and build up to be able to actually train with such high effort. Now, let me unpack things for you a lot of bit and give you a lot of my background and my story, we're on how I actually learn how to truly train hard and go with all our intensity, right? They're now ready. I want you to pause your in Harrison. So, type in Ian Harrison, but I'll be able to pull him up please if you can. I'm just wants to talk about it now. So you don't know, I actually boxed before training before I bought it, Billion. I was an amateur boxer and I did actually compete. I did have eight fights in amateur's and I did pretty pretty pretty damn well. For me, the hard training was ingrained in me from the coaches that I had from a very effort early age because back in those days, especially, I can actually say that back in those days, I am 29 now. So I can say that back in those days when I was 11, going into that gym, especially the first boxing gym, the coach and his brothers were actually all very well. They're still a very well known family in Rotterdam. They're just hard people, right? And you go in such a gym, you knew you would get pushed extremely hard. So that was somewhat my first exposure to knowing what true effort means and it was simply training and again, I will have it in that a little bit more. From a very young age, I always trained with more developed and older individuals. That was from the start, even when I was boxing. Now, let's go on, what I built in and move onto my first point. My first real training partner, get picture of you in Harrison, please, because my first real training partner was called Tony Mexton. He was a competitive bodybuilder as well and he was the training partner of Ian Harrison who is a British bodybuilder legend. Everybody that knows British bodybuilder especially from the older days will know who Ian Harrison is, tremendous quad development. He actually told both we need and he still managed to rebuild his quad situ and enormous size, his legs were huge. That was actually a belief, done through the training intensity that he had. He was one of the best juniors to come out of UK. He was actually pretty pretty young there probably as well. As you can see, actually you are developed and you see, you look at their physique and you can see that this Giza trained super hard. So, I didn't. His training partner Tony Mexton, he was an absolute savage, a pretty much a cycle back in those days where he came to training. For me, my first exposure at 15, 16 years old was training with Tony and I came to your job Scott. We were trained like Sunday morning every single morning. Yeah. That was a single week, I week. My legs would be so sore, it would hurt to sit down on the Tyler, open till Friday. Yeah, so people may say no, Cuba, well, you, that's too much. We don't need to do that much to grow muscle. I could not call us. I could not call us. If I could go back in time, I would absolutely just not change a single thing because the lessons that I had learned with Tony of pushing myself above and beyond my limits. I will carry them for the rest of my life. Yeah. I could just go, we were trained like Sunday. Monday, it was just a disaster. I couldn't hardly walk. The only day out of the week for a year straight where I could actually have pretty much normal function of my legs or saturday. Every single session and that is no exaggeration. Every single session would be the same. We would follow the old traditional Dorian split training four times per week. And I could not even at that young age, I needed all the recovery ability that I could get because every single session, it was done complete failure, four straps, rest four sets, drop sets, every single set, every single rep. And there was no surrender. And I don't know if I'm back in those days. For the first six months straight, I would get nervous starting from Saturday, knowing what's going to happen on Sunday. And because I had such a high regard and such a high respect and I still do for Tony and the people that was at that gym at that time, it was Bruno's back in the day. And I had such immense respect for those people. And that there was one thing to give me the time of the day. I almost felt like I needed to push myself even harder, not only to impress them, but not to let them down. Yeah. Yeah. That is huge, man. And I have similar stories of learning intensity from other people. People that I looked up to, people that I wanted to, basically, you know, I wanted to them to know, like, hey, you're not wasting your time training with me. I might not necessarily be as strong as this guy, but I sure can show the same level of guts. And you know, talking about this topic of intensity, it's something that is very difficult to explain on a podcast comparatively to actually being in the gym with someone. I just want to say right now, I think this point that you're making, like, learning it from someone else, that if you want this bad enough and that you want to figure out how to train hard, that you'll seek it out, you know, you saw it out. Like, that wasn't something that somebody came back then your door. It was like, hey, I want you to come train with me. You saw that out, just like I saw it out. I'd be willing to drive hours, you know, to get that workout in. I'm not going to be able to do that, you know, every day. But my day off? Yeah. Heck yeah, I will make half the day about driving out to train with somebody who's going to help me up my game because just like you said, that's lessons that I'm going to take with me for the rest of my life. It's not even about that workout. It's about the lessons you take with you moving on from there. Yeah, absolutely. And let me tell you Scott, whether the training was production or I could not care less. Yeah, yes, it could have been better. But it does not matter because they have taught me the level of intensively that is quiet operate across anything that I do for the future. So, my training and the intensity that they applied to the training was the same for life as well. So, the lesson was huge. Obviously, not everybody is going to be privileged to have this same experience as I will with having such a great training partner. And if you're watching this right now and you know that you don't have the option of having a great training partner, this is where I would seek how actively and look for coaches and actually get some in-person training and pay someone to take you for a session. I am pretty sure that there will be a bodybuilding your area that will be happy for you to go and get put through the session with them if you pay them unfortunately. In this day and age, if I don't reach out to someone who is going to do their time for free unfortunately, unless you are willing to be someone's training partner, then that's a different story. But I truly believe that I would not have been able to reach such level of intensity training by myself because nobody has even ever shown me some for that this in person or I never actually understood and realized that I was capable of doing the work. But until I actually did. Somebody else told you, somebody told you, you know what I mean? You thought you were done and somebody told you, Kuba, you have more in you and you blindly listened because you trusted that person and then found out you actually did have more. Yeah, 100% it's not just about the true support. You don't want to let that person down, you've got a lot of respect for them. The problem is that you're going to be the problem with the problem. You want to give you a best and because I was so passionate about training from that age, they saw that and that was willing to invest into me and give their time to me, which again, I will be incredibly grateful for the rest of my life. But I truly believe that you cannot learn this watching a video. You just can't. I'm going to be honest with you. Yeah, you can watch what you call me in a thousand times and I did that. I did watch Ronnie Coleman, I did watch Branch Warren, I watched Pray which every single MOC video that you can imagine, I've watched them all twice over from a very, very young age. Let me tell you, just watching someone train versus being in the gym, smelling the atmosphere and feeling the energy is a completely boggling. When you have someone standing over you and in my case it was a group that was trained and I could feel for you. When you have two guys standing over you telling you to keep going, they're lifting the weight up, they're making you do four traps, they're making you do the drop sets, they're not letting you get off the machine until you get more reps, they're pulling the weight up for you, they're making you hold this entry and then squeeze it down, especially in layers, tensions, I can remember this like was yesterday, and it was hell. But it was just such a great experience because once you learn how to take things up to that level and once you learn how to unlock that gear, it's like riding a bike, you will always know how to tap into that dog inside you. If you can find that dog inside you, it will always be there and it will always be there ready to get let loose whenever you need it to. Yeah, so you don't have the opportunity to train with someone like I did, hire someone, I urge you to do that at least for one session and some people might think, you know what I'm going to learn if you want to session it. Well, no, not when it comes to training and execution, if you know what it's about, if you don't need that, hire someone just to put you through a horrible intense workout and see if they can truly test you without hurting you. Let me just put that to the brackets first because I know that there will be some people out there that will just want to hurt someone and that's just not what we want to be at. Everything that I did Scott was still incredibly safe. They've made me do the extra or it wasn't done with Amy risk of me hurting myself and I and touch what I never actually did hurt myself back in those days, Eva and it was help. So another option that I'm going to throw out there and that's something I heard Matt Jensen actually speak about probably about 10 years ago and a podcast is I won't people to actually get on a spin bike. Put this spin bike onto the hardest setting so it's very, very hard to move and then this is going to require someone's honesty to really be there because if you're not honest with yourself, you're not going to know if you're truly given everything right. Yeah. So what we do get on the spin bike, turn it the spin bike onto the hardest setting and then I want you to drop it to the pedals pedal as hard as you physically come until you cannot turn the pedal any further. And I mean until you literally cannot move your foot any further, no matter what you do. And there's a difference. There's a difference between the burn in the pain and the actual muscle failure because I think that you start we can mistake that feeling that that burn that starts happening where like, oh there's like a lactic acid burn and this is the end because it hurts so bad. You could still move the pedal through that pain and you're not going to hurt yourself and you're not going to tear a quad on an exercise bike, you know. When the pain starts, that is when the set starts in my opinion. Yeah, because in my opinion, when you start to experience that burn in pain, that is when you start to reach or come close to the effective reps that you need. The set is only just by going in my opinion. So you need to lean into that pain and I've definitely seen that so many times as people start to experience that pain and to stop and I think leaning into that pain and learning how to stay locked into that set is going to be super, super beneficial. Now Scott, can you access this to come on there? Absolutely. Yeah. Can you get all my page in on latest please? Yeah, yeah, yeah, give me just a second here. Hey, I want to mention to careful with pounding the the desk, it's echoing into the microphone. I know you're passionate. Oh, sorry. Give me just a second here. I'm pulling this up. All right, let's find Cuba. Let's see, first of all, I'm seeing the sound here. She sounds all pretty awesome. There we go. Give me just a second here. It's not going to be like full screen, but we'll do something like this. There we go. The legness. Like extensions. This one right here. Close that's a fairly point. You're going to want to do everything you want. Power to change out its acution. Yeah. This is one of the most people. I've got a misunderstanding with training and what training hard is or what's in. Right? We don't allow an acution to change the complete more reps. That's a lot harder than just spashing out on a machine and just get more reps. Now the pain you pull had your quads versus the pain in knees. Exactly. That's the whole point. So without saying just now, last one, just the last one. No. As we get deep into the contest prep, you remove those fucking raspberries because they're not spasped, not the other the trade off. Right now, and through the tie, complete the round. Same to force reps, same to rest, set extensions. The seconds you don't have the food intake to support that kind of work gets pulled out. It's all about that. So I put it up to him through the tie. Okay. Cool. That is great. So my whole point getting back on topic here is there's a there's definitely a bit of a skill to train into true failure as well because what you're wondering, you'll notice as well, Scott is when people learn to train nod, the experience the pain that you've mentioned, the second the experience that pain on any, any given exercise that they're doing is what happens then is they start to change their execution to make the movement easier and basically start using all other muscles to continue getting more reps. Yes. And that is completely half the resist and that's the urge you have to fight more to not do because ultimately, let's say you're doing a self-biacepicolored right? You want to take your bicep to complete failure. You don't want to all listen and start throwing your body into it, more body, you listen, or you're meant to, or even your front delk, to start to complete more reps because that kind of defeats the object. So I do think there's a lot to unpack when it comes to learning how to truly train with all that intensity. What for beginners, for people that just need to learn how to train hard, it's not something I even want them to concern themselves about. I literally want them to just go as hard as the physically can and stay reasonably safe in doing so because another conversation that we need to have is this is we don't want someone to go into the gym when they're not experienced and start lifting with crazy intensity and then potential hurt themselves because that's just not going to be productivity anyway, shape up pull. Let me jump in and ask them, then what what qualifies somebody as experienced then when do you reach the point where you can say, okay, now I'm going to try to really push this intensity like Cooper's talking about. That's a great question to go. I think a great question to be honest. Qualifies someone as experienced, I think. Someone that's learnt the basic principles of training. Someone that's actually learnt how to execute movements well with full range of motion, with good quality and they actually know what tempo is. So someone that's got a basic understanding of training and basic understanding of what's happening to their body because one thing you'll notice anyone that first starts training and they're going to the gym, they don't really have any awareness of what's going on, especially if they have no previous athletic experience, they don't really have any awareness of the limbs or even the movement like you see someone doing a squat when they've never done a squat before in their life and it's like watching a giraffe trying falling half right? Yeah, so I think what qualifies someone is learning these movement patterns well and having a basic understanding of training and understanding what tempo is, what range of motion is and what can potentially hurt them and what can't not because if you just tell someone to train as hard as possible and they don't have that awareness, it's so easy, I think for someone to really hurt themselves. Even when the still start enough and they're not really that strong, they can still hurt themselves. If they do something stupid enough and if they do yeah early on I hurt myself a lot in that fashion, you know I'm bench pressing in my basement and on my old waitset that my parents had and the next day on my neck is feeling tight, I pinch something in my trap, I'm not training traps, I'm training chest but I didn't understand how to really how to focus on that target muscle. After you do get to that point where you can push the intensity, I've heard something I really liked from John Meadows, he said that he would let it slide by about 10%, meaning he's going to focus on that pack through the press movement and of course you're not going to just stop once that's completely like you can take it a little further, you can almost cheat it a little bit, you know what I mean and that's kind of what part of that intensity is but once he gets to that point where he feels like we're getting past that 10% of other body parts starting to work in that's where he would call it quits, I liked that a lot. I do that a lot as well, there's also risk-lessive reward ratio that comes alongside of that as well and it depends how much volume you are actually using because what you'll find is for a lot of people like myself having that extra 10% leads me to actually getting pretty smashed pretty quick because if I do every single set and I do give myself leeway for the extra 10% it's just way too much to be able to recover from so it all depends, I think for majority of people that works but then once you start to see what the progress looks like and how you actually feel of the back of that then you have to see if the trade-off is worth it or not for some people I think the trade-off is absolutely worth it taking the extra 10% but for so other people I don't think it is like for example Nick Walker I don't think that extra 10% be a worth trader and it would be both in terms of his recovery and in terms of injury risk as well okay yeah I still think 10% is minimal on say something that that's going to be and I wouldn't do that every set but when we're talking about like hey we're going to failure let's say you do John did you know two warmups eight let's say eight reps with a couple reps and reserve and then one big set that's where I think he was talking about it would be in that one big set I think for me personally I might disagree then because I feel like 10% isn't that much if you're if you're at that level in Nick Walker you're still keeping the majority of it in there it might be that last rapper too so we made differ a little bit there but I see exactly where you're coming from you're digging what you're saying is you're digging yourself further into that hole by being flexible I guess my thought might be that a lot of the audience that are learning to build this intensity and learning to take it further I see them cutting it short just because they're they're like they kind of they reach mechanical failure almost and at that point they're like okay I'm done you know and they just rack it versus trying to give just a little bit more yeah I agree but there's also another way that you feel like is this I I'm a fan of the 10% but it has to be case specific okay I wouldn't allow my I'm a I'm a sentence to be on it's to flipping on a swap button or I have you like press the 10% I would only allow for isolation movements are movements that are much safer and externally right so basically any machines any mostly isolation exercises where you know the risk of injury is extremely small this is where I would even argue four strips can be utilized pretty well I mean there are covering the demand that you are going to get out of a four strip or a tracet of extension a bicycle is very very slim so you have to also get which movements you want to truly take it there and another movement that is how to agree with that. Yeah another movement it comes it's horrible when it comes to pain is a leg extension I mean taking four strips and I mean true four strips on a leg extension is potentially some of the best quality stimulus that you'll get but this is where I don't think the 10% trade-off is worth an improvement like an RDL because if your form breaks down even 5% an RDL this is where you are risking either a hamstring tear or a low abacking driven because it is a big complex movement and another movement where I don't think you would be able to trade-off is for example an inclined dumbbell press or even a hacksquat like these are movements generally where I would not want to see that much of a break down uniform for people that bigger and stronger individuals for someone that's learning how to train hard you're probably not going to hurt yourself for a 10% breakdown but you still have to have to have to settle awareness of what's risking and what isn't and how your body feels in that movement because if you feel something off you probably are better off dumping that way rather than trying to take it and hurt yourself. Does that make sense? I'll go with that yeah I'll go with that let me ask you something you mentioned say the better. What's that? I said well like me to disagree here. No I agree if you I'm I'm on it I wouldn't I wouldn't want to break the form down in a squat. I wouldn't want to break the form down in an RDL so I think that there is some middle ground I wouldn't say that it's a black and white thing but I could definitely see looking at where you could utilize it and not through your entire workout but through through you know like in that the the most important elements actually was going to ask you about four shrubs so I'm going to hold on to that because I had one other one other question then so one of the common questions we get asked by you guys is what would you do differently with your body building if you could go back in time given all the experience and education I have today there's a number of things that I would have done differently one of them is that I would have started using collagen sooner. Collegiate is one of the few supplements will actually rebuild connective tissue. It took me tearing my super spinatus in 2021 to get with the program I use true nutrition's hydrolyzed beef collagen I get the unflavery version I pay for it myself just like you guys do I use 20 grams a day makes it into my coffee it's totally unflavery you don't even taste it plus I use 10 grams of their micronized creatin. Creatin has been shown to improve brain health especially for the aging brain I need that and of course you know we've always know about the muscle building effects so this is my morning routine every day and I'm encouraging you guys to do the same. Use our code thank for savings plus it's the only way for them to know that this advertising is being heard otherwise they just think you're some random dude that clicked on an app and not doing what they're doing. We're talking about this high intensity where you are taking things as far as you can now how how does that apply to a workout when we're talking about say you know if you're if you're doing how many sets did you say you do we we talked about this last time on how many chest movements do you or chest exercises how many sets do you end up doing in a push workout? I would probably say six direct sets from a chest that's what I thought now are all six of those actual working sets are all of those taken to this level of failure that we're talking about here. Yeah absolutely there's our single set that I'm leaving tank. There's gonna be sets even recently if my training partner sees that it's a 5050 rap meaning that makes execution still locked in and let me explain the 5050 rap here. So last repetition was a very hard rap the rap speed moved super slow but it still looked like I might have a little bit more in me that's when I'll take another rap and that's gonna be a 5050 rap because I'm not entirely sure if that rap is in there. Now if I take that rap I'm not going to break my form to complete that rap. This is one of the training partners steps in and this is where they will assist me with a false rap if I need one. But let's say for example I've been doing a chest press I wouldn't fail at the bottom and I wouldn't have someone pulling me out of the hole. It would literally be where I'm free quarters through the press and then I hit a lot of sticky point and then I almost stop that's when the training partner jumps in and then give me assistance. But it's actually took me about four years to train Mark to be able to do that effectively without pissing me off. So you will need someone that will be quite skillful up doing the self to be able to catch that and do that effectively. Yeah it takes time to have a good training partner that actually knows how to spot you. All right let me let you take the lead here again. I interrupted it us a little bit and I want to hear what else you have. No that's it that's it. Okay. All right well listen then what about forced rap send? Because you did mention that I thought to be a great way to talk a little bit more about intensity techniques which we have talked about you know on the previous episode but I don't think we directly talked about forced rap. How does that work? So I do think forced rap is an excellent tool to actually learn how to take your sets completely there or even past failure because generally let's say training with someone you know they've got some reps in the tank and potentially the hard moring them it's not exactly forced rap but you put the force in them to do the reps that the generally wouldn't do. Now when you have someone that's a little bit more advanced my preference for forced rap is again on movements that are safer or if someone simply gets stuck I will get on a plus one. Now the use of forced rap if you are training with moderate volume like myself I think the use for forced rap needs to be somewhat limited so personally in an off season for me I like to take one forced rap per session so let's say from training legs. I would even take a forced rap on a leg press if it's safe to do so or a leg extension but to be honest my preference would probably be the leg extension because that is the movement that I find gives me the most pain out of the more it really is horrible especially when you're working like 12 to 15 rap range and then you do forced rap on top it's just another level hurt but back on the topic of learning how to train more intensely I think especially at the beginning of your journey I would sway towards people training with less training volume so less direct sets but more intensity and more intensify so more forced rap or even drop sets to truly lean into the harder training side of things because once someone can harness training to failure training with effective rapes that's when they can actually afford to scale things back and do more sets and keep things a little bit more tame does that make sense absolutely it does yeah show what show false on it yeah I agree with that a hundred percent man I really don't have anything to add I'm pretty much on the exact same page with you there so do you want to move on to our questions? Yes sir we've got quite a few good ones all right yeah and there's one that's kind of a reoccurring theme whenever we've talked about in-depth training stuff there's always going to be the one guy who says something I don't want to put this question up on the screen because he mentions some specific compounds that the algorithm may not like very much and we've done a pretty good job people enjoy the way you've mentioned creatin you know when we're adding creatin back into the plan people have enjoyed that they they know exactly what you're talking about anyway um he says um why does he make it sound so complicated well I don't we just go to the gym train hard as we can with good form eat clean food and take compounds like everybody did back in the 90s you know are we wasting our time here Kuba for an hour at a time on these shows when they could be doing that right so I have absolutely nothing nothing against what you said you could absolutely be doing that but fact of the matter is just that will only take you so far I mean unless you are the one percent genetically you are probably not watching I think big bodybuilding because you are all red getting big you don't need to think about it you don't need the knowledge you are going in the gym you are lifting weights you eat in a little bit of food taking a little bit of creatin on top and you turn into a monster yeah but like to the marries and even work you can with some of the higher genetic threshold individuals just doing that when only get them so far the welcome at time where you will have to think about what you do and you will have to get a little bit more nuance with your training in order to keep getting more out of it it's just inevitable over time you are going to have to find a way to train harder you are going to have to wait find a way to train smarter so you stay in your free you are going to have to find a way to break through a plateau it's just inevitable so if it was just so easy and as simple as he made out I mean we would all look like Jay Kuppler but the fact of the matter is we don't this definitely huge variance on an individual basis as to what kind of response people see from a training stimulus and how much people can actually get away with and what they actually need to do to keep making progress and that's the biggest fun part of training and fun part of bodybuilding in general because you can always find a way to improve your process and get something more out of it and at times that might mean doing less at times you might need to do more it just all depends on the individual right so you know if said person is looking like Jay Kuppler then you know I see no problem keep doing what you do and you probably don't need to over if think about stuff if you are making progress however if you come to a point where you hit ball neck in your progression that's when you pull it and you just stop thinking about what you do again think big yeah I think first of all we do have good pros at listen by the way so there is that we've got you number one there there was a time that you you've talked about this on the show that you had to figure things out to bring up your back I think that isn't a prime example you know even without having developed your back further you had a great physique like you were well beyond what a lot of people will be able to put together so it's not as if you had a crap physique and then you figured things out so you already you already did everything he was talking about right you you ate the food you trained your butt off and you know you took your creatin and you grew a lot of muscle but then you realized you're like hey my back this isn't improving the way everything else is and you and that's where these conversations literally come in where you were able to change that absolutely and held it 100% it's just part of the game you have to you have to find a way to keep moving forward yeah yeah we always get questions like that so you know whatever people you know and if if he's not at that point then I like you said too I'm with you man I encourage him to just keep doing what he's doing how about this so we had a few that were kind of follow up questions so this is follow-ups from the last episode where you talked about matching your training to your food intake and a couple people had some stuff they wanted to ask at what body fat percentage do you recommend to drop the volume or is it when the strength starts going down so personally I only recommend to drop a volume when you start to see a drop off in strength and generally the easiest way to spot that is if you do have a logbook and let's say for an example you've got free work in sets of a cable flight right if you notice that in the last two sessions the third work in set one the drop off in the load that you are able to use and your repetitions is pretty much starting to plummet and you're not really getting much out of that set and you'll feel if that sets productive or not you will know in yourself whether that set was quality or not that is the set that will drop off and that principle I like to use as a whole across your entire session when it comes to volume reduction so it doesn't matter what body fat percentage you are it's more so dictated by your training performance and your logbook ultimately and if you're not using logbook again I'm not going to kill you I'm not going to shoot you don't worry but if you're not using logbook you still need to have an understanding of how these sets feel to be able to adjust your training volume when it's needed and realistically some people don't adjust the volume and instill your fantastic results but in my opinion from experience with myself and clients I believe that adjusts volume when necessary will allow you to stay bigger in prep that's just that's just you know there's something too I think a psychological component to doing something different that I think is exciting you know what I mean I I like that because also too when you change that rep range you're no longer comparing yourself against oh man six months ago when I was all saw stop I was pushing this now I'm only pushing this you know I think there's something even if you were to get slightly weaker just doing something different it kind of disassociation you don't have those same expectations now once you change the exercises change the rep range of stuff like that that's a great point actually it's gotten one thing I want to mention here is I know how much my performance differs on certain lifts when I'm lighter all when I'm heavier so I have a reference point of where I need to be when I'm actually lighter across certain lifts so I somewhat expect that and I can actually work for a previous logbook from previous preps and dia phases to know where I need to be at as well but again that's not for everyone that's just me one thing people need to remember is weight moves weight, lighter you get some movements I'm just going to feel worse and inevitably you even need to change them or just drop the load slightly and accept that you're not going to be able to stay strong at certain lifts but as a whole you need to stay strong yeah you used the bird accept and I you need to accept it I think that's important too I think sometimes people meet themselves with judgment and they start feeling you know they'll have feelings related to their strength and then that's where I think things can get negative you know people start having less fun in a dieting phase you know you want to stay as positive as possible I truly believe that I you want to be happy going for any phase that you go through you don't want to be miserable in any way shape or form because I think prep sometimes for some people especially if they don't you know really like the process that much it can be a miserable process right so you need to try to make it as fun as possible and sometimes if that means you know ditching a lot of book in certain cases then do so you know you've got to do what you need to do to protect your happy bubble in that opinion and agree with that 100 percent all right let's see you got a couple more here how about this one question for Cuba it's very interesting the choice of rep ranges an exercise selection off season in prep is it do you do the same thing when reversing out of a diet backing out of a a compass a comp so coming out of a show I will stay in somewhat safer rep ranges so initially it's not going to be super high rep ranges but I would like to sit between 10 to 15 reps across the board in my opinion that's going to be the rep range that's going to allow me to stay pretty safe and it's going to be a rep range that will allow me to not only use less load but in a fashion it forces you to use less load if you focus on your tempo and obviously spend a little bit of time in the stretch and what have you control the end ranges think about it a set of 12 reps on a hot square for example if you've got good tempo it's probably going to take you around a minute so you are going to be forced to use somewhat lower loads than you have been previously and this is where I prefer to actually introduce some of the heavy loading when I get into a place where I am fully recovered post-show so post-show recovery I tend to try and keep it on somewhat of a safer side where I don't venture into lower at ranges that I know can come with so high load and I'm obviously high risk as well but when you lean you don't really want to be taking the chances or risks yeah hey just quick question you said you know hacksquat might take a minute if you heard a good tempo how would you define a good tempo full control of the eccentric so again that could be a second and a half it doesn't need to be a five second eccentric right but for me you need to have full control of this eccentric and the most important one for me especially in a hacksquat is having control in the bottom of the wrap so what I see often happen is a lot of people come down into that eccentric and then boom they use some elasticity of the joint to change the direction now yes that's exactly that that is what I want to see people avoid like plague because one you are taking quality stimulus off the actual muscle and two you're kind of using your joints to change the direction and you're using momentum to change the direction now one thing there is to say back in the days momentum kills gains and I think toy degree that's probably not that true but what momentum will do is probably put you a little bit more of a risk of an injury and in my opinion if you can spend a little bit more time in that position where the movement is hardest you are going to get more from it absolutely I see it in one exercise I've witnessed it in a lot recently is the dumbbell row that somebody can use a lot more weight on that dumbbell row if they get they get kind of like a good rhythm and up down it's kind of and I just trained back yesterday and I was feeling that out for myself because I broken myself with that habit you know for every action there's an equal in opposite reaction right so as we're coming down if you don't give enough time to dissipate that energy from the negative then of course it's going to this scots Stevenson's talked about a tonne and muscle minds you know there's going to be that elastic response that's going to happen I like to I like to almost imagine like like I almost cushion it down into the whole same with the hacks why I have the most control like you said it's going to be right in that bottom I want it to I almost want it to feel like it's like like a space shuttle landing or something you know what I mean and to like a soft spring imagine like a cocking up a spring right yeah so it's coming down quite fast and as you get deeper you slow it down even more gets harder gets harder pause and then boom explode yeah that one step one thing I see coming mistake with that the moment as well is people are overly cautious and almost slow on the concentric portion of the wrap now when you get to point when you are using a lot of load that concentric is going to be slow anyway but you need to focus on being as powerful into that concentric as possible that is the portion of the wrap where you want all our effort and intensity whether you're pressing or doing any movement I think if you try and be slow in a concentric I think you're actually probably creating less quality stimulus in my opinion I'm so happy to hear you say that Ron Dusty and I talked about the exact same thing and here's what people are seeing they see the way Nick Walker Trees Nick Walker has a very slow controlled concentric and eccentric and they're judging it off of that it works for Nick you know works for Nick what's that right Scott there's a reason why Nick has a slow concentric right what's that he's pressing 140 pound dumbbells right yeah if you're all 80 pound dumbbells 90 pound dumbbells your dumbbells you are putting all the effort in seconds centric they are going to move a lot faster than Nick's 140 pound dumbbells yeah yeah there's an amount of you can you can feel the weight get away from you you know what I mean you could feel that weight get away from you if you in other place I've seen it is I've had people do a hard squeeze at the bottom of a seated hamstring curl and they're bringing it down they're bringing it down aggressively they get it down to the bottom and it bounces back up before they catch it they can't stop it directly at the bottom there's got to be that little bounce back first and that's that centrifugal force you know what I mean that you bring it down you can't just and if you just slow it down a hair still driving as hard as you can but you just slow it down a hair then you're keeping it in the muscle you know all the way down and you can bring that right down to the bottom and stop it without getting the bounce back and I had a couple clients recently I said hey try that you know try to not let that little it's it's a minuscule thing and it's not like you're not going to grow if you if you don't do this right but just that little change of not letting it get that little bounce back at the bottom before they catch it it made all the difference in the world they said oh my god my hands are fried plus you know what too a lot of this stuff kuba we're able to not go quite as heavy like that dumbbell row you know you said you know the elasticity elastic response could it cause an injury what about like using heavier weights than you need you know there's a certain point that I think the weight starts to get scary the heavier the weight I'm using the more risk I'm taking if instead of getting a arithmetic bounce out of the bottom and my dumbbell row with a 150 hey maybe I could use a 120 and and cushion it into the bottom and give it a slight pause and get just as much if not more out of it you know I completely agree you're a point about the hamstring curl it's something that I am a massive fan of I'm not going to lie so I'm so happy actually I mentioned that if you don't have the ability to complete that wrap and fully stop in that deep range when your hamstrings are fully contracted you simply use it too much load you are it's just like do it's quite exactly like doing a bicycle going here and then bouncing back and then coming back up on you it's just not you're not going to get the same benefits in that opinion you're not using more load so I would argue less load but having the ability to have that control in that deep range you are going to get more from that yeah yeah yeah I like that I'm glad we're on the same page you have your mess around with with your upper body in the hamstring curl because I've done some stuff in it it was Shelby who had shown me this leading forward at times holding onto the handles and then you get even a deeper stretch I like occasionally I'll do I'll rotate sometimes I'll do that for maybe six weeks and then I'll go back to sitting back but if I'm leaning forward you get a much deeper stretch because your body is basically folded in half I'm not I'm not completely swollen that to be honest I think it might actually be sensation but it depends one thing I'm a final there right is this and that's regardless of what any biomechanics geek say if something feels better for you and you find a way to do an exercise and turn it into even more of a painful exercise and you feel like you can get more out of it then I think you should go ahead and do it yeah regardless of what people say yeah I like that so it's something that I probably wouldn't do because I know it wouldn't work for me but if it works for you absolutely go for it man if it helps me you know it's all good I think if it helps you develop even more of a sensation you hamstring which I think a lot of people can lack yeah I think you should go ahead and do that and then afterwards if you feel like that sensation that was not needed and you feel like the position you're in is almost limiting your lower exposure go about the strongest position and then build up your progression from that so one thing I really really want people to understand is there's no rules to training no matter what the most educated people say in this field there's no rules to it if there was rules to it there would not be outliers like Ronnie Coleman that you know trained everything twice per week and looked away he did you know because for me immortals doing that they would just look like a bag of bones yeah so it's a it's a point that I really want to get across to people it's like I try and put out a lot of helpful stuff and like you do here with this channel I think a lot of people almost get paralyzed to a degree yeah overload information I think a lot of people get paralyzed and scared to do certain things in case certain educators do not agree with it and look if someone does agree with it so what anyway can have an opinion right it doesn't mean that you know it should hold away so you know just do your think and if it feels bad for you go ahead and do it as long as you don't hurt yourself that's my most important thing right yeah yeah I'd agree with that 100% with that hamstring curl you're absolutely right I used that to get that to feel the engagement at the you know the I guess it would be the top of the rep because I hamstrings were lacking for me and by getting a good stretch in the muscle and then activating from the stretch number one it does make it harder you know trying to activate from a deep stretch it's it's like a precarious position but I do believe it's safe though and it's something that I you know you hear people say you know they I want a new plan I want a new plan and the comeback is often I've been doing the same you'll get the huge body builder it's because I've been doing the same plan for five years you know but for me that variation will be I've done more or less the same plan for a long time but that said there's variations within it so I might set that up and say okay this is what I'm going to do for right now I'm going to sit back in the exercise and then later in the year you know I say I did that for eight weeks or whatever and I want to change it up now I'm going to lean forward again and I'll try that out and do a run with that for a while you know yeah mate I love that point because I have followed the same train in structure and similar movement patterns for it in which for the last three or four years and this is what I have made the most progress but there's no nuance within it right there's there's small changes that are happening like you've talked about all throughout the year yeah small changes to execution small changes to certain movements but as a whole the program looks very similar like comparing my program now to what it was in 2021 I'm probably doing a little bit less volume but the program is a whole is pretty much the same yeah that's why I'm with you 100% I'm glad to hear it in fact I'm getting pumped up man because I'm training some legs today so I can't wait to get on that hamstring curl let me see it all forgot here because I know we had a couple more people are really loving the show by the way and also two before we laughed I want to ask you about where you're at with with your your contest season right now let's jump to this one so this is going to be off topic from everything else he says uh could you guys talk about stretching like uh when to do it what do you want to focus on and how much so I'm just vlogging the school YouTube so I'm just going to get it because quick and look clip it what's up so Scott hello ha ha what's going on Cuba YouTube this is like the it was an inception that fell with you know the coffee yeah and then and then I'm going to share that you know after you post it so it's just going to be like a mirror looking into a mirror you know what I mean if you don't know I am on fake fake channel I mean a podcast with Scott twice twice someone from that into that twice a month yeah I'm very much love it so I'm going to get back to it and I'll fill you in after on what with Cuba yeah thanks Cuba back up the question where I'm out what am I all I'll cover in the question of stress question I'm stretching and then before we left I wanted to know because everybody's going to want to know where you're at with your contest prep right now but yeah so the question was stretching what do you guys think about it like when to do it and what do you focus on and how much I'm not going to let Scott um and I'm going to not a fan of stretching at all really I am more of a fan of it's not really stretching because it's actual movement so I'll give you an example a lot of people stretch before like training and I don't actually do any stretching before like training but what I do is some active drills so generally I'll do a re-affirming of it and split Scott and last time doing the split Scott I actually pause mid-range so I'll start the very top I'll come down I'll take a pause I'll come down I'll take a pause again then I'll fold depth in the stretch I will spend some time in that stretch and then drive up I will do around 10 reps on each leg and then I will move on to a walk in lunge five to 10 reps on each leg and I'm ready to train yeah so for me I think stretching is literally what you should be doing in training when you are training with full range of motion like that if you have not if you have got a well programmed training plan that should cover all your mobility needs and stretching because there's no better stretch than getting a dumbbell and taking it through full range of motion taking a pause in the stretch and then driving through there's no better stretch than hitting full depth on a leg press on a hot squat or a lunge right you're not going to get any more stretch than that man so in my opinion what you should focus on is full range of motion and good execution will be training I had such a hard time with that full range of motion on chest I was doing kind of half reps for a long time I guess where I bring it down to like you know elbows at L L you know upper arm was parallel to the floor kind of thing and it wasn't until and I'd go a little bit deeper than that but I always had shoulder issues and and I found that if I went real deep that that bicep tendon up in the front doubt would just scream at me it wasn't until we hit the pandemic that I actually said like my chest didn't suffer like my chest was still okay you know but it was in the pandemic that I only had initially my little at home bench and my dumbbells that I bought when I was 15 with my my my after work my after job excuse me after school job bunny and and I I started doing like 40 reps sets 50 reps sets because it's all I had guess what I could take it all the way down and then I rebuilt it from there as I got heavier dumbbells and I kept that range of motion for a guide that's doing let's say he's pressing the 110s and he's not getting that full range now I don't think either of us are going to tell him you need to just jump in there with the one tens and drop it down right how would how would he approach it because in my opinion it took humility for me and it took backing way down on the way to work on that range you know in my opinion half the solid ego I had to do it at your most times because I always took pride in being quite strong and when the time came to really focus it on true true full range of motion across certain movements I really needed to solve a pride so I do think sometimes you just need to swallow your pride and you know accept that you are going to lift less load put with more range and I think less load more engine motion not only safer but I think you just get more from it I think a lot of people that use a very short range of motion they're not really challenging the muscle in the stretch and again there's new research that suggests you know stretch me yet how perched we all is balanced right we knew this for years like we've been doing this for so many years it's nothing new that we don't know right we know that the biggest bank for you got that biggest bank for you booked that you get out of any exercise is always in the deep stretch because it's the hardest to agree and to me it feels the best like when I go into a stretch on my chest across a peck fly or a press that is what I feel like I get the most out of my peck's yeah I'm not sure what you're saying yeah oh I agree with you you know john medows always had a stretch component to his training so there was the the warm up exercise making sure that all the like the connective tissues all the muscles everything's feeling good then you're heavy meat and potatoes exercise then you're volumizing exercise like just trying to get as much blood into that muscle as possible follow it followed by a stretch or there might be a combination but that stretch might be like a dumbbell pullover for instance some type of pullover movement where he's getting a stretch so there's that I believe in that stuff and then I also which would be stretching within the workout and then the other thing I have believed in and I'm not good at it I'll be completely honest is the DC stretching so I don't stretch after before my workout but I am a fan and I do believe there is something to like the heavy loaded DC stretches I'll be honest I haven't done it a lot myself though I'll be honest I actually do these these stretches after my push and pull yeah okay if you go on YouTube as I just have some very good to mention so generally after a pull session I will hang on a bar straight bar yes I will put the stack up and I will hang for a minute and a half after pull and then I will actually hang on a dip in the stretch position for a minute and a half after a push days and that just opens everything up and it the amount of blood that I get in some muscle with doing so is huge so whether it has any benefits or not I don't really care because I do it because it feels good and secondly it also exposes me especially in a dip into a very deep stretch it exposes me to range of motion that's deeper than any press that I do with my body weight as well and that means for me that if I can stay in that stretch holding my own body weight the likelihood of me getting hurt on the load is going to slim yeah yeah I'm a fan Scott Stevenson would tell you that it will make a difference you know we we had talked about it on the show before the science behind it it shows that it is it is going to be beneficial but but you figured that out for yourself so you didn't need to know that all right got one more question it's my question for you and really the audience wants to know too so how far are you from your show and how are things going where you at tell us all about it so I am currently at 11 weeks and three days out from a show I am leaning now then it was at six weeks out last time and my body weight is 248 pounds now comparing my pictures now versus when I was pretty much at six weeks out in the same sort of condition I was probably about 235 to 36 okay so I'm leaning out and all the 10 pounds up as well what are you going to be further just taking time away from the stage to be honest Scott I think the way I structured my push-up and I think the first push it was no as productive one I should have probably prepared to have that the post shell face for me and the push-up that I did was was tremendous because I really taught my time I didn't go hard on the food and I really protected my appetite meaning that I spent a 30 two weeks in a surplus and my appetite didn't die my appetite was still high okay and the body fat a corals actually quite small as well so I do think that the biggest error that people make is rushing their body weight up and I think they all repeat themselves and just go too hard on sheet meals in my opinion I think that is where people lose the sensitivity and I think there's a massive correlation between your body fat levels your instances and the appetite I kid you're not Scott you can ask my life to can ask your I was eating 950g of carbs per day I was still caught watching a meals really yeah I would couldn't ask for my wife man I would eat a meal and for a minute's later I would be starving but let me tell you one thing Scott it was probably the hardest thing I had to do because for the first 10 weeks post show I was actually home rear then I wasn't prep yeah I believe it so if you can I don't listen to this if you can handle that and if you can take time and be patient you will make the most pro ever have to because your body is just so responsive and the instance that you so high you're training progression will be incredible and more importantly my health mark is my health in general is never been as good and I really attribute that to towards the diet with the fruit the veg and simply just not eating any garbage to be honest and the way I feel both physically and mentally and have felt it's been the best to be honest and I definitely attribute that to more so the diet practice 100% and you know keep in myself away from all the feeding all the stuff in myself and my fruit choices as well I haven't really rarely a off plan to be honest and if it was it would always be something like sushi and I actually massive shout out to Edo in the chef field rocco the sushi chef actually makes me a special dish called Kubadish and he actually weighs me the fish y'all the rice done so I know exactly what I'm having a single time love amazing boy that's cool man it's good I call that learning that's what I call that you know I call that learning you're improving you're getting better and that what more can you ask for in bodybuilding like that's the goal right there is to do better this year then you had in the past years otherwise if you're just doing the same thing it almost gets to be like well what's the point anymore you know what I mean listen scoff me it's literally about self development it's all about getting better yeah I know I'm never going to be still in here and I've accepted that right but why also know is I gain a tremendous sort of a tremendous amount of satisfaction from going through the process and I simply love the process of bodybuilding right yeah so for me it's literally all about self development if I can be 5% per year on year I'll take that and I'm happy God this is what I've placed and what happens yeah I feel the same way man and we can all do that you know I our our situations are always different my situation is different today then it was 10 years ago but it doesn't mean that I can't still work to be the best that I can today and work on self development you know it's at the end of the day that's that's really what it's about and if you can have that in your heart then really the placings don't even matter you know that's just it's part of the experience doing the show but the the real experience is happening now you know I also think you'll be much happy in doing so because you know there's no pressure apart from the only pressure is you be the best version of you right there's nothing else that matters me it really doesn't matter I mean I'm very secure in what I do I've got a lot of things going on my life that you know are great but more importantly I can very much enjoy my bodybuilding with no added pressure or stress because ultimately I don't compare myself to anyone else it's just me and it's all about my process and nothing else is really relevant yeah I love that man I love that well thank you Cuba for coming back on sharing your positivity sharing your insights but also sharing your positivity because I think that's what a lot of people connect to is not only the deep insights that you've shared but but the the attitude that you bring you know and I think that the world we need more of that you know that's that's what we all need is to kind of focus on those positive things and how to better ourselves you know versus going down those there's darker roads because bodybuilding could be the complete opposite if you let it you know Scott bodybuilding has given me the last outlive now and the lack that I really love so I all lots of bodybuilding so anyway I can make a little bit more positive I think people showed because to me it gives me so much fulfillment and I only wish that other people would experience the same fate I feel the exact same way man I want people to have their own version of my experience you know all right guys and yes thank you Scott oh yeah doing this is this is absolutely my pleasure as much as you know it's great to do it for the channel but it gives me an opportunity to be like hey let me talk to Cuba from literally around the world and just shoot the crap about training for an hour man I you don't have to thank me this is my pleasure if uh Dr. Scott quick shower as well oh yeah yeah be your bodybuilding coach be why obccoch dot com also going to Amazon to get the hard cover it's like the foot it's like the foot time we need it I read everything from do you really that's fantastic man yeah I always read a lot of crap so anything you want to plug or shout out anything before we went anything going on all good all good all good all right cool well definitely guys follow Cuba I'm gonna have the link for both his YouTube and for Instagram I'm sure you're probably already following him though and and thank you guys for watching thank you thank you to our Patreon subscribers we should put this out there too we didn't have a training critique today so guys if you have a training critique let me know comment and and I'll reach back out to you guys can hit me up on email and send it over we'll figure it out and of course thank you to true nutrition dot com get all your supplements that you need over there especially for you guys in the US use our code think and of course supplement source dot c a for Canadians great deals that change week to week in patreon you guys are freaking the best I appreciate you guys for not we just still don't have a name I was about to say for another episode of Cuba talks training I don't know I mean I think what I'm building that's the name so we'll just we'll just have to a little bit of a spit off you know that sounds good to me all right guys we'll see you soon thanks Cuba thank you all right cool that was great man it was really good

And one more thing before we leave the subject. I wasn't sure if I was going to say this. Yes, I brought an out of him. Anyone who comes up to me and says that they want to chase a pro card is talking to someone who plays second at 10 pro qualifiers. And did 13 nationals and four North Americans. They have no fucking idea what the term chase pro card even is. And their wildest imaginations could they put together that concept from where they are at the point they make that statement. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building