of it's just bodybuilding. Yes, that's insane. Okay, we got all that shit out of the way. Sean Clarita is a mutant now. He's a mutant before. He's a mutant before. So I was trying to get Sean Clarita on the team when I worked there. And this was before he'd won the two 12. Why just saw he was, sorry. Well before well before. Yeah. And I was trying to get him on just because like I thought height weight or height to strength ratio, you know, is weight to strength ratio is probably the strongest pro on the planet in some lifts, right? So I thought it would he just made sense to be a mutant. I was like, and plus I like Sean Clarita is a great guy. Like I was got along really well with them. He's and he's hardcore bodybuilder. Like that's that's all he does. Like he's a bodybuilder. He's a pro, professional bodybuilder. You know, I've known pros that were, you know, out all this other stuff like to do or, you know, they were maybe a little loose with their diet or, you know what I mean? Stuff like that, not Clarita. Yeah. He is like he's a robot. That's why he's a champion. So he belongs on the team he fit right in and he brought a great dimension to the, the week that we just had. We just spent five days in Vegas shooting mutant content. We call it the mutant mansion. And we've done a few of them. They're like content gathering trips. Yeah. You know, and, you know, we did one in LA with, I remember the first one we did in LA in 2013 with Rich. And then we did one in Denver in 2014. And Rich was on that one as well. And then we did one in Vancouver when I tore my quad. Yes. 2016. Yes. So this is a fun trip. We got a lot of content, you know, dusty night train together for video and photo, you know, you know, website content stuff. And they put the giant with Clarita for a workout. They had to work out together. So it's probably pretty cool video, you know. And, you know, that we had Andrea, shot there, you know, two-time misalimpia. Yeah. She's a mutant with Shelby or Canadian physique athletes. So she's awesome. And they were great together. So check them all out on Instagram, you know, and, plus me and Dusty, the old fox. You know, we're just trying to see how long we can hang on for dear life. It's better. Yeah. Yeah. It was a great trip. We had a lot of fun. That's cool. I like your short. My legs are short from that work. Yeah. You know, we did like a really low volume late day because like on those trips, you know, we normally do a heavy set and a back-off set. Like typically that's high, but it's kind of trained. Even before we use those terms, we used to just say two work sets. But yeah. That's how Dory ended it. So that's how we did it. But when I shoot for mutant, I typically only do one working set. And it's because the guy shooting it tired too. And they don't need two working sets because the way the video gets edited, they only show one working set anyways. And, you know, it's all kind of montage, you know. Try to move it faster pace. You know, I think the old style video where you just like show the, we used to show like the whole set like from one angle. Yeah. The material style. Yeah. It's a real style, you know. But you over the years. Nothing. Yeah. Everything's evolved and you know, you want it to, you know, he's cut up more. And so yeah, they only need one work set. Give them all you got, give them a really, really great set. And then move on, you know. It's, it's a long day for everybody. They've shot three workouts by the time they shoot me and dusty doing legs. They've been on their feats at seven a.m. They've been sending the kitchen, shooting, shake videos. And like those guys have a lot, a lot to do too, you know. Yeah. So I used to be a professional photographer. So I can tell you, it's, it's a lot of work by the end of the day. You're just as tired as the models. And, you know, models that you don't think about them getting tired, but they get tired too. And I can only imagine you guys lifting, you know. Yeah. Like their real work. Right. You know, we, we had some fun though. Did like a totally, like something I don't normally do. We did, just wanted to do 20 reps on a leg press, which I failed to do on my work set. And even 20. Yeah. And then we did a heavy set of pendulum. Like a real good like double force rep, pendulum set. Nice. And then we did a single leg set. You know that arsenal leg press with the, the, the rider. Yeah. Yes, we did like single legs on that for 30 to 50. Oh, shit. That was totally, he wasn't a dusty. That was like your, yeah. Yeah. Right. And so I did a set of 30 reps on there. Nice. Looking back, I could have done more, but you know, the first time you do something, you're like, Hey, I just feels weird. Yeah. If I would have done another set, I probably could have done up a plate. Yeah. So I could say, you know what I mean? Like, you know what I mean? You know what you do that weird step up, and you actually had stronger. Because you just haven't done an exercise for so long. So you have like that first work set almost is like you're, I don't know. You're. We also forget because we used adaptive set. Usually when I do a single leg, it's still a normal platform. Yeah. So we had that. Yeah. You were truly only doing five plates. You know, because we had 10 on the machine, but it's one, one time was locked in. So that was good. I could have probably left after leg press, which was the first thing we did. Yeah. Yeah. Like pushing through and I had one of those moments where I was like, I'm not going and see what I can stop. And I got like 40 reps. And I had to literally, we went straight over to the pendulum to do those. And I almost had to feel like I was pulling myself down with a plate on a side. Like gravity was not enough for my legs to like, but it was so long. At that point. So it was brutal. And then rockets, the idea to do, see the leg ground blaming him. You know, I said it because they fucking hurt that, which, which machine, which company is like the old side backs at, we're training at the dragons layer all week. So it's flex is jam right. So flex, thank you, flex Lewis and the whole team at the dragons layer. For welcoming the mutant crew and letting us just come and go and leave our shit everywhere and fucking put our camera stand in the corner. And you know, and all the members were just great. Like, you know, they were all like smiling at us and head nodding and saying hi. And that's several guys coming up and saying they watch a show. Nice. So that was pretty cool. And people asking for pictures and, you know, people following us on Instagram and looking at their profile and their life from the dragons layer, you know, like a whole bunch of that stuff. So yeah, it was really cool. And a great place to shoot because the lighting's great. Like, you look really good in there, you know. I got to spray tan with what I got there to Vegas. I went the morning. I got to spray tan before day one showed up at the gym with a fresh spray tan on. You know, like I've just been to Mexico. Good vacation. You guys like, okay, no, I know you guys have both done a lot of different shoots, you know, through your careers. Do you do anything either of your both of you? Do you do anything different? Obviously, Ron got a spray tan before the whole thing started. Do you do anything different going into one of these workouts compared to just your average workout that you do every week? I, I, while I used to, you know, like, I mean years ago, if they said, hey, you know, we're going to do a shoot. I might die at a little bit and, you know, throw some wini tabs in and something. You know what I mean? Like, just, you know, because that was always like a great, that was how I always say that's one of my favorite contest compounds, right? So I would throw like some wini tabs in for like three weeks. And it would like literally make a difference. It could be like way more. And, um, but I don't do any of that now. I just do everything normal. And I'm always in this shape. This is a shape of them. I was in. In fact, right now, I actually had a little bit fatter than I was because I was like, you know, pre-lews on my diet the last month. But, um, yeah, I didn't do anything different. Other than get a tan, you know, essentially, pre-workouts, all that stuff. Same. Yeah, just half a scoop of all in, which is like, the main pre-workout we have with all the citrline and it's stuff. I do like two thirds of a scoop, I guess. Nice. And I just make sure I put salt in my shaker, you know, really, you know, really make sure you're hydrated for, for these workouts. Um, another thing too is your foods kind of off while mine. I'm, because, you know, I don't give as much of a fuck. So my foods kind of off. But I find that my food being off doesn't affect me in the gym at all if my hydration's good. True. You know, because you're, it take, would take a while to deplete. And it's not like I'm getting depleted. I'm probably eating a surplus of calories. So I don't have to worry about my food at all. I just have to make sure I'm hydrated. You know, because sometimes you're shooting at like nine in the morning too, and I'm not used to that. So I'm going to make sure when I get up I'm like, okay, get a leader in. And then I can drink my fucking three cups of coffee. Mega Man. What about you, Dusty? Do you do anything different before photo shoot or video shoot? I don't do anything as is, um, you, you don't have the luxury of your typical drive to the gym. So yeah, and when you get to the gym, it's very chatty and hang out, and, you know, relaxed. So you kind of have to like, like, when we went in for legs, because I wanted to have a good one. Because remember, I had missed the week before legs in a few days of training. I got sick after Phoenix. So, um, I didn't try and train in seven days when we got to town. So I literally told Ron, like, we walked in, we sat down and kind of everyone's chatting. And I just looked at him like, all right, I gotta get ready for this. And I went off and just kind of put head set in. So that even the photographers were coming up and like filming, thinking that was time to start, like there'd be some band-trients in sailing. And they're professionals. They figured it out real quickly and gave the space. But I probably took 10 minutes on leg day to just get my mind going. So I could put on a, you know, a good workout and a good show. So it was, but it was fine after that. It's just, it's very different to be so relaxed for me going into a workout. Because you're not just relaxed, but you're talking about what we're doing tonight. And what got done this morning? And what do we need to do? And after the after you're done shoot, like, we don't like get done training. Go eat a meal and lay down or whatever. It's like, okay, change your shirt. You're gonna film for the products now. You're gonna film for the new clothing that we're gonna shoot stills for the clothing now. It's, it's, once we get to the gym we're there for about six hours. Okay. You know. Yeah. So yeah, you're kind of that kind of deal is there the whole time. But other than that as far as like leading in, I guess the thing I did different this time is I didn't train her eat for about a week. I don't recommend that. It's not how you, uh, you, uh, you, uh, you definitely, so either there's two things about the leg workout we shot. The first thing is I wish I would have done another four-strap or two on the leg press. I'm pissed off. I did two four strips and I thought you really helped on that last four-strap. Right. That's why that's why I racked it. And then I think you said right after you're like, oh, I barely touched it. And I'm never being like, um, fuck. You know, I was just pissed because I wanted to put on a really good workout for the video. So on the pendulum, I did a four-strap where I think you had to lift pretty hard. Yeah. Yeah. That was a, if you go for another one, I have to get this off. Yeah. And I made it worse by like sitting down on it. Like I went real slow down and I was like, okay, I'm gonna give everything I have on this one because I feel like I didn't entertain enough on that first set. You know, so I really took that negative down like six second negative and made dusty lift like half of it off of me. And I thought, okay, there's nothing more I can give you. You know, this is how I can give. Yeah. It was good. It was really good. I thought the whole, the whole weekend's that way. Plus the other thing Scott is, I am a creature of habit. I can train anytime but I do like to be a consistent time. We trained at nine in the morning. We trained at one in the afternoon and trained at four after the afternoon. So it's like each day is different. And you have we trained at three totally different times. But the three separate slots that we had. We trained in each slot. Yeah. So it was a bit and then also the, you know, it's different because you're the house, you're hanging out with people. So you're not really, I mean, we all took a little bit of time to like go get a, get a rest little nap and or something because rest of them were actually all in conscious prep. It's only rather than I do whatever. Everyone are all. How they're all kind of dieting like they're all in some stage of dieting, you know, you know, so yeah, I just, I just tried not to complain about a single thing. It was not to complain about, they're the ones that we're dieting. You know, they've been cooking fish. Oh, so, so did they shoot video like all around the house, too? Like, yeah, like real world. Do you remember that show real world? Yeah, they got, they got something that. That's cool. They, they shot a lot of stuff. You know, cameras were rolling. They might be shooting shake recipes or something, but cameras were rolling. And then like in between takes people are walking through the kitchen, like talking and grab a shot of the fridge and like there, who knows what's on the, the cards? Like, I don't know what's on those cards. There's a bit of chaos that goes on at the same time. And you just run with it because like usually if you were doing like a cooking video in your house, you would like shut everyone up. It's like quiet on the set, you know? Yeah. So they're doing like a day in the life with Dreha. And she's in the kitchen, like talking through a recipe. And then we're in the kitchen talking. Okay, like right behind her. So it's like, it's probably a bit of a cluster fuck, but I thought it was acceptable because it wasn't a cooking video, it was a day in life video. And yeah, it was the beginning of the recipe, you know, at that time, it's like, no, this is a shit show, like there's very few moments in that house. I mean, there were what? We had six athletes and four staff, right? Yeah, four staff, three photographers. Wow. Yeah, all in the same house. It was like a 10,000, eight bedroom house. 13 of us. Was it? Yeah. Yeah, it was, it was big, you know, George's wife was there. They could share bedroom obviously. So that was, that was good. But yeah, it was, it was hectic in the house. But, and it was cool too, because we get there. And it's just crazy lot. Like it's the entire call the sack is one lot. The whole thing all the way around. It's a big keyhole called the sack. It's all one giant lot. There's a golf green and a golf tee on the one side. And then on the other side, there's green. If you wanted to. Wow. And then on the other side, there's essentially what they did was there's two houses and they joined them. Huh. And then they made the one garage like a big living room. Oh, crap. And they kept the other garage. Or did they keep the other garage? Yep, the other garage is there on the right side. Yeah, the garage is there, but we just didn't have access to it. Two full kitchens. Two full, what a big full kitchen at each end, because it's essentially two houses, right? Yep. And then on the hallway that they joined them with, they built giant bedrooms off of with the on sweet bathroom. So there's like so many bathrooms in it. I don't know how many we had eight bathrooms or something. So it's pretty cool. You know, it went really well. We all had space. We all had our own room. We all had, you know, our own weed. You know, had our own weed. They didn't supply that. It was wondering. We had to get those. No, no, no, that does not come from. I'm not going to get the air busy. But yeah, you know, it was fun. And you know, I haven't stayed in a lot of Airbnb's. Yeah. I haven't done a lot of that. So, and I'm interested in that business. You know, like I'm looking to do that. I'm trying to think, like how can I, you know, what's a good move? You know, it's it's easy to get into, but you don't just want to just jump in. You want to like, you know, you want to step in when it's a good time for you. You know, so the least stating 12 separate Airbnb's here. Yeah. So I'm kind of observing. I'm like, looking around like, what is, what's the quality of this? You know, how is what's falling apart? What state is this place? And like, how is, you know, how does it look? You know, just trying to learn. Yeah, what are they? That one was actually not, um, it wasn't as nice as most of one's estate. And I've granted most Airbnb's stay in aunt 10 bedrooms. Right. That's a thing. I don't think you really have to. Like, I think if I would own that one, I wouldn't invest in the other things because when you're looking for that, you're looking for a place that can house 13 people. You're not saying that's a thing that the nicest one I've ever seen, you know? Like the awesome, like, that was an awesome place for what we needed. Yeah. Awesome. Perfect. Yeah. But like some of the door knobs are loose and like, you know, the shower thing was like broken and like the one knob was wiggly and there was water dripping out of the one tap and like, you know, like, shit like that. Yeah. You know, my light switched didn't work, you know? Like, so there's just like, you know, that's how it works, I guess. Yeah. And they're like, when you go to smaller ones, like what I would like to own. People, it's for people like me that are like, okay, I'm going to go out of town. I don't care if I spend more money. I want the place to be awesome. Yeah. Right. Because I'm going to be in it a lot. Yeah. And then, and those ones are, I mean, and they're usually remodels. So like, I do a lot of, I really like mid-century modern architecture. Me too. So I look for those. And I always get, like, I got one of those in Phoenix that was sick. Yeah. It was probably built in the 40s, 1940s or so, but completely remodeled brand new. They even added on to the house. I knew where the add-on was because you could kind of tell because it made the house much bigger. And then it had a brand new pool in the back, but they made the pool match the house. So it had like an older feel to it, you know? But it was obviously you should send me, we should send me what you're talking about. I can't, I can't quite like hopefully it's ahead. Oh, okay. He's going to send me something. I got you right. I'm going to send it to Scott. All right. Oh, this is happening now. That way I'll throw it up on this thing. That's funny. Because I wanted to ask Dusty about real estate stuff. Because I know that, you know, you have a ton of experience with that stuff, Dusty. And I was thinking, I was like, hey, initially, I was like, I wanted to call you at some point. And be like, hey, can I pick your brain and then my second thought was, well, I don't know, I just ask you on the show, because every time we ever talk about business, people are like, oh, man, I love that. You guys should talk about that stuff more. I actually had a, oh, there it is now. I had a couple questions. Okay. I see what you got going on here. So this is the outside of the house. Let's see, let's throw that up. It doesn't look like super special, honestly, from the outside of it. No, because it's, it's, that's things that's a mid-century modern. It's an old house. Okay. But I'm sending, I sent you more pictures. So you're going to get, you got to open floor plan. It looks like here in the inside. Oh yeah. So I love simple shit. Yeah, me too. And that looks simple. And clean. Can you put up a video? Scott or no? Yeah, yeah, I can. Yeah, send it over to me. Here's a shot. I just sent you a, I sent you the backyard. Okay. Yeah, like that, it is very simple. So, and you can't really tell like his picture. I like the fact. That's what the modern look is. It's just clean. Yeah. I feel like, like, MCM is getting a real popular now. It reminds me of the 60s. Yeah, absolutely. You know? Yeah, the 60s. And that's exactly what it is. It's supposed to be cleaned up era, you know? This is a lot like my purpose for that pool video. I've sent you last. All right. It's still coming through your house. It's a mid-century. Yeah, it's a mid-century. I think 1950, eight. That's. Oh, here it is. Let's see. Yeah, I'll see what it goes. That's when you're coming up here. There we go. Oh, that's nice, man. And she's like, like, fire pit area. You got the pool. Yeah. Then again, lounge area. There's a little green for puttin' down there. Ah, this is cool, man. Another sea layer. Dilt, ciphered. I feel like you could stick the cast of madmen on this yard. And you wouldn't have to change anything. You could just film a scene. And it would work. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Right. We're like an old Bond movie. Yeah, so that's what I was talking about. Oh, old Bond movie for sure. Yeah, like how I get. I like to get the work. Yeah. Yeah, I started to see what time I like to check out when we do those. And that. Oh, are you getting a leg dusty? Oh, what's the best? This is yet an a leg. Testies getting a leg. Yeah, I think it was after he sent the texts. It threw his phone. Oh, yeah. His connection wasn't super great today to begin with. And I know he could. Data doesn't or not. Here he is. I'll add him on the right. Boom. Crystal. There we go. Down to the math. Okay, so I was talking to Dave Calick yesterday. He's in the real estate. And we were, I was doing the math. And I feel like I could buy a home somewhere. I would need to obviously take a loan out for part of that. This is what I would like to do is start an Airbnb with it in order to make that happen. I wouldn't just do that personally. Like I would want to first have like a corporation and then run them through. Like, is that is that what I would want to do? That's what I'm kind of asking. How would that work, Dusty? Well, it depends. I mean, it depends on what the rules are where you are. Number one and where you're putting it because there is a certain distance from your home that you can, so you're business doesn't need to technically own the house. So you could buy it on your own. And if it's far enough away, you could use as a second home, which gives you a better interest rate. Okay. You're going to do that with two. And if it's right down the street, it doesn't work because they wouldn't be like, a idea of two houses that are telling us which doesn't make sense. That has to be an investment property. As far as taxes, everything goes. You can use it as a second home is one option. And then depending on the rules there, you're going to need the corporation. I always do, I don't know what to do. If you're doing many of them, I'd have to ask a Cito what type of LLC's, S Corp. It would have to be. I use S Corp from my business, but it's different because those are self-employments. I'm not quite sure what you would do as far as your business setup. You'd want to talk to your, you definitely need to talk to your tax guy about that because there are holes that people make mistakes on like a lot of people's like us, open up an LLC. And they don't make it an S Corp. And in the U.S., you don't dodge self-employment taxes if you do it that way. Okay. So you're now self-employed. And it's going to cost you $3,000 just because you didn't do that. So I would look into that detail because I don't know the answer to that one because in the past, I only ever had two at a time. So I just bought a second house. It wasn't like really much of a thought process because I've never done rentals. I've only flipped. Okay. So, bought flipped. You know, because that's a little different. That's easy. You buy the house, sort of deal. You drop 50, 60k into it. And then you sell it immediately. Even though you're going to have obviously the capital gains, it doesn't matter because you're making enough and you're going to do it often. Capital gains, you got to wait two years if you want to avoid that. But as far as those, what's beautiful about it is you're buying it through the business. As long as the business is paying for it every month, paying the actual mortgage, it's fine. Okay. You don't know what I mean. It doesn't count towards you. Then obviously you're going to have the renters and stuff pay that business as well. So it's really smooth. The only question mark for you is what kind of house do you want to get. I think not knowing how much money you've got to throw at it. We rent a lot of condos. Okay. Because it's easy. Typically, we don't need the whole thing. Like if we're going somewhere like when we go to Tennessee, we're in and out a lot. We're not going to go hang out by the pool. We got friends and stuff there. So we're like bouncing over town. But we still want a really cool place. So we'll get like a two or three bedroom condo and rent it. And that's super easy. Because now you don't have to spend as much money upfront. Because you are going to, if in my opinion, this is just me. But we've never rented an Airbnb that wasn't just awesome when you walk in. Yeah. Okay. Like we want that like oh shit. You know. And some of them are crazy. It had a pink panther like that era theme. There was a giant pink panther wall in the house. Like painting. You know, but it was just cool again. They had a bit. They all have a vibe to them, which I think is kind of awesome. You know. And they base a lot of times on where they are too. Well, obviously, like Tennessee, you get a lot of like music walls and style in there. Stuff like that. So it's pretty cool. But you know, if you are, you plan on doing it like up towards you. I was thinking out of state. I was thinking, I was thinking maybe Las Vegas. I was thinking maybe somewhere in Tennessee and maybe a couple other places too. But the idea being that it could be something that we did like short-term rentals at. But at the same time, then we could we could also use it as well. And I'm thinking because I, you know, I have some money saved in the bank and I could put that toward it versus just let that money sit in the bank. It's not doing anything. And then from there, be able to eventually own that property as well as the house that we're living in. And then I could possibly be a way to move from here into a new location or even be able to just like go visit sometimes. Like we want to go to Vegas and we'll block that week off for that month off, you know? Something like that. Yeah. I mean, there's lots of little things to know. Like, I don't know how it is in the States, you know. And I know like here, you know, if you buy it yourself, it's 10% down. But if a corporation buys it, it's 20% down. Oh, really? Okay. So it's you need a bigger down payment if you want your corp to own it. And then, you know, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. And it just, so yeah, you just buy your son and then you just have them pay the corp. And yeah, there's a lot with that too though. Because if you don't put 20% down, obviously now there's mortgage insurance. So it's, you know, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, and that goes for any house in the States, in the States, in the, unless you have to spending money on nothing essentially. So if you have the money to pay down more, it's good to do. Um, obviously that business is not a must, you know, but. Um, the only thing you, you have to look at too, because we're considering doing some in Nashville. Yeah. Um, uh, us and then actually a couple friends are going to buy like a few of them. But then you have a, obviously, in the property management company, because you're not there. You know, so to make sure it's run tight. Because that's one thing I think that is nice, uh, to me as a, as a, as a renter, I have found that every experience we've had when we've rented from an individual was better than when we rented from a giant corporation that owns 500 of them. It's always different. I mean, like the personal touch is completely gone. If you need something, you're fucked. Uh, you know, like we've had issues where the only thing they could do was give us money back, because that issue was an issue in Kisas. Yeah. Yeah. Whereas the other ones, I mean, we went to one in Nashville or in, uh, chat, Nuda. I mean, when we got there, there was a handwritten note from them, you know, to us, you know, Dustin, Nicky, glad you could stay. Well, and like they personally were checking in. I was, it was all at Charles. That's true. That was like, okay, if I was going to do this, even if I had a, you know, management company had to be like, these were things I want, because it's definitely that warm fuzzy, like, oh, like we immediately said, we will run this unit again for sure. Yeah. Yeah. That's the thing that that business is evolving like crazy. And we're seeing, you know, the real entrepreneurial spirit, like, you know, coming out in it, like, and you stay at places like that, and you see that people taking that approach. And, you know what I mean? Um, so there's lots of different ways to play the game, but, you know, it's interesting stuff. Um, I think the intangibles is what makes you special, though, saying with like, I told you, I'm not going to run this over the weekend. Like, is, is West Coast iron the best gym minus the people minus just the equipment that I've ever been to. No. But, it's really, really good. And once you bring in those intangibles, and not me, every single member in there, then know, the owners, they know the staff, like, it is legit. And I hate this term because it's overused. But they're a part of the gym. Yeah. It's their gym. If I open up down the road, and my gym is, let's just put it number 20% better equipment, I cannot take wrongs customers. Because he has the intangibles. Even if they come in, if I'm running a corporate style, they come in, they're like, that's a great gym. But after about a month or so, they're like, yeah, they go back. So I feel like those intangibles get me when I go anywhere, whether it's, you know, business like that. I said those little details. I remember thinking, like, oh, that's cool. That was the first moment walking, and I didn't read it. Yeah. Because I don't give a shit. But I literally was like, that's cool. You guys did that. And I know Nikki read it. Yeah. But I'm not reading it. It's too many words. Don't want to do it with that. But you analyzed it like a cyborg. You just looked at it. You're like, I know what that is. Yeah. That's the very nice. Very nice. Personalized greeting note. Personalized greeting note here. Check. Well done. Check. I think the, the coolest airman is the Indian community. I've stayed in a few cool ones. I think the coolest one, this couple moved their US couple, they retired, they moved to Belize. They literally built a mansion. And when they realized that they weren't going to be able to continue building like all the cool stuff on it that they wanted, they built a small little house and used that as an Airbnb. Literally on the side of a mountain, overlooking the rainforests, overlooking the jungle. So this is like a little Airbnb, a little building, stand alone building. It had to be maybe 600 square feet, just completely open floor plan, complete kitchen. Everything was very nice. Like they added all the really high end stuff inside of this little building. It's like tiny house, but bigger than that. Anyway, so they started renting that place out and creating income to continue building their home, then they put another one next to it. And another one. Now they had, when I was there, they had three of them lined up. And a beautiful landscaping, you know, the lady would bring flowers, or their help would pick flowers from their garden and put them, like, you know, that personal touch in this little place. And it was managed by them. They had their house workers and stuff that would clean and all that. Like it was a cool setup. And these people, like, I mean, they were, they were living the dream. The guy took me, showed me his house and he had his own gym, by the way, because there wasn't really good gyms down there. He had his own gym and he was bringing a quick man in from like Guatemala and stuff. Like that, his basement was, it was sweet, man. Yeah. And it was reasonable, too. You know, it was not that expensive to stay there. So this cool. Yeah, I like the idea of the short term though, because I've been considering what we want to do next. And actually marrying someone for a year is a big commitment if they suck. Like if you, if you rent your house at long term. Yeah. That's, that can be a nightmare. You know, I have done it once. And it was a mass abuse. People have fucking slots. That's what I wear, you know. It's like, and I don't care, even if it's your rental. And this is like, I don't have a romance with homes. I don't care. Like it's not like, oh, that's my house. It's far as buying and selling. But I don't like when people fuck up my shit. That does buff. Yeah. You know, so it's like, if I bought a place just for that and you shit on my place, I want to beat you and can't. So that's a problem. Airbnb is quick. If you get an asshole, he's gone in four days. On to the next. You know, like the last one we went to. We checked into one in Tennessee. And we got there. This was our first complaint. It was one of those telling about where there was a management company. We got there on the cleaner was still there cleaning. It was very obvious. She was nowhere near done. So I'm already irritated. And like now we're like an hour and a half into being there and she's not ready. And we were supposed to be going to dinner that night. So I'm getting pissed. So we just had to screw it. We went in the house and put in stuff away and we're like, she can deal with us. And one of the girls comes in the room and they're like, what's this on this counter? And there was literally leftover cocaine before other counters. It's wasted. I mean, cocaine. But it was like, those are the kind of people you have in a place like that, though that you got to be considering is that is what's renting a place. A place in Nashville for four days. Because it's become a bachelor at like, it's actually outdone Vegas now as far as bachelor and bachelor at parties is Nashville. So turn as wife created an entire company to help people throw their bachelor at parties. Like a side gig and she quanks with it. Yeah, you just hit her up and you're like, this is what we want. And they take care of everything. And you just show up. So it's wild. Well, now I'm excited to see what you do Scott because Scott's looking, Ron's looking. I'm over in a holding pattern sucks. Yeah. You know what you should do. Yeah, that was a. As Chris Asito questions ran, I mean, like my my knowledge is negative five and could like, I'll never know what Chris knows ever doesn't matter if I got into this hardcore for the rest of my life. The amount of information he has because I call him even just on buying houses here. And the only thing he said about the house, I just bought he's like, don't sell it when you're done because I want to buy another one a couple of years later. He's like rented. He's like high in renting is awesome. It's easy. People that have 800 credit scores aren't fucking up your house. Yeah. They're spending 4500 a month to live there and they're happy to do it. He's like, trust me. Don't sell that house. No more. Done. Yeah. You know, I would have never guessed that there's a market for that. I just sent him a few questions actually just like this morning. I hit this up. So the city has to say, I thought he might respond in time for the show, but nothing yet. Yeah. In my main reason for all this is because unlike a lot of people who probably listen to our programming, being a full-time nutrition coach and running a podcast, it doesn't have a 401k. So I need to think of something else. You know what I mean? Because one day, I want to be able to retire. So I'm trying to just look for new avenues, new streets to try to keep building that out. So that one day, I can stop doing everything and just hang out. No, no, you're not allowed. We need you. Not that I ever would. I'm sure that I'll always be like, you could quit coaching people, but we need you for the podcast. We ain't going nowhere. No, no, no. So what do we got? Yeah, we got some questions. We didn't do any YouTube questions yet. We have a bunch. Yeah. And as a matter of fact, all right, I'm just dive right into them here. There were some fun ones. I don't know what I've got here. Oh, yeah. Okay. We got to ask this a couple times. I forgot it last time. Did Ron ever compete in a pro show if so what show in place? Love the show guys. Been following the show since I saw Dusty's post on Instagram, Instagram of just a microphone saying, him and Ron, we're doing this. Day one. Nice. That's awesome. Yes, I did the van pro in 2015. He was one week after nationals. So I turned pro and then I said to Chris, should I go, should I do this show? And Chris said, well, do you think you're ever going to do another one? And I said, I don't know. Because I was like 30 and I'm already. And he said, well, if this might be the only one you do, you know? So I was like, okay. So I went one more week and did the van pro. And I got seventh, which was last. Because there was only seven guys. But it was a crazy lineup. And I just got my butt kicked. But it was a food add, food add, John Delorosa. So like everyone knew I all walled. One of them is going to win. So we were all just sitting around backstage. Like John Meadows was there. John Meadows got last in the 2012. Okay. I remember that. That's right. Yeah. Me and John were both joking. We were like, we both just got our butts kicked. You know what I mean? And we were both like, pretty lean. You know, so we were like, ah fuck whatever. But yeah, I was, I was a bit of a massive that point. I was pretty beat up. I managed to get my pro card. But on a pro stage, you know, you could see that my one lot was a little bit high. So it really hurt me from from some shots. But yeah, it was, it was definitely a lot of fun. There was a ton of support there. Sean Ray MCed it. And I remember he actually cracked a couple of good like comments about the crowd I had. So it was good. Yeah. And there's actually a video on YouTube where I look pretty good. So yeah, you're going to look for it. Nice. There you go. And then I blew my quad boom. Oh, is there? All right. Um, question for the next show. What is a movie? Y'all could watch anytime. It's on or have watched multiple times in still. It's just as good as the first time you watched it. I'm not going to go with my traditional here because I have a few that I've already mentioned in the show. Like I think Shawsh and goodemption is always watchable. But I want to go another route today. And I'm going to say every single year we watch elf because elf is fantastic. There's something terrible about that movie that I can't get enough of. Yes, that's a yearly watch elf. Okay. Understandable being a Christmas movie. I try to think of other movies to say. But it always kind of, it's always kind of pop fiction to me. That was a good one. I was like, I don't even know. I think one of the reasons why pop fiction is is always that movie for me is because it's the movie you can come in on at any point and you're probably catching the start of a new scene. And since your scenes are out of order anyways, it does not matter. They're still fun. Like you're just hopping right in at this point. Whatever. Like, you know, and you know how it goes. And you know what you missed. But you're still, it's still, it's like a great album. You can start on any track. Yeah. You know, it's like that. And it's just such a such a wild and well done movie. And it's all the dialogue that makes it crazy. You know, is there a more enjoyable movie? Yeah. When you watch it more and more and more, you get the dialogue is better and better. Because you're like, oh, fucking, yeah. You know, there's a lot of just so many little references in there. And hilarious little bits, you know. So it's good shit. But yeah, how courtable is that, eh? You know, there's, there's gotta be at least like a, once a week, something will happen that you could easily quote. I mean, you know, I mean, we had some tasty burgers this weekend. We did. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know that's a tasty burger. It's a tasty burger. Yeah. I still say the onroch, right? You know? And, and, and it's funny, because I've been around people who've said, oh, I wonder if they have a $5 milkshake, right? Like looking into menu and, and I always say, I hope there's a shot of bourbon in there. Because that's his line, right? And they always get, they always get it. They always appreciate it. They're like, oh, yeah. You know, that's the best when you, when you, I hate when you drop a line and then they don't know. Because then I can't be their friends anymore. Yeah. They don't know. Yeah, you lost a lot of friends to a good line that they missed. Ha ha. All right. I got another one here. Let's see, question for the next episode, cycles for offseason. Our most pros just running high test, test plus Deca, there's always talk about prep cycles, but not a ton of talk about offseason. Curious is to what the pros and coaches would suggest for this, assuming training is on point in eating enough, of course. Thanks, Jans. Hmm. Well, one of the, one of the things that I think is a bad trend is that I think guys are using DHTs in the offseason a lot more now. And I think that that's a real problem because I think they're, they're great contest drugs. And yes, they're probably great offseason drugs too. But you got to kind of pick one because they're bad for your cholesterol, like real bad. Yeah. I don't think people realize how fucked up their cholesterol is getting by running DHTs all the time. Because we didn't see like, I don't know, man. I've been looking at guys' blood work for like 25 years. You know, I don't remember seeing like everyone having horrible, like really low HDL. Like everyone's like 0.7, 0.7, 0.6, 0.8. They were just, it was never like that when we were all just running test and stuff offseason. I don't, I just don't remember it. That's just how it seems to me. Again, not a scientific study. So I guess I feel like, I just feel like I see, like it would make sense if guys are like 35. They've been cranking forever in their HDLs low. But when they're like 24 and their HDLs, like 0.7, I'm like, what are you taking? And they're like, oh, master on an anavar and test. And like, oh, yeah, like all the time. Yeah, that's a problem. Yeah, that's, yeah, that's sort of tons of pre-mo. I don't know. That's my opinion. That's my opinion. That's a new popular thing right now is like the pre-mo or the mast. And I get it to an extent, but I do think that here's the thing is that everybody has gone. And I've talked about this before anti-Eastrogen, that we came to realize that you don't want to just hammer or remadex year round at a high dose. It's not like completely innocuous drug. It is a drug and it does have effects. But now it's like the way bodybuilding looks at it. It's like, we can't take that. It's terrible. Don't use it at all. But let's use this because this is the answer. For now, that's what it looks happening. Right. That's a back and forth. I think the reason there's not a lot of talk about it is because this is the essence of it across the board. The reason I don't talk about a lot is because I don't find it as important in the off-season what you take. It's within a reason not to go to say the old last week program of his long Instagram. You're good to go. That's not what I mean for those who are about to twist it. But I'm like, what do you, I literally will ask clients? What do you have at your house right now? Oh, cool. You got tests and deck on that would do. Let's do that. And the other reasons is because I like to spend time. This is something I'm adamant about if clients in my clients will tell you. If we're not seeing absolute gains when they're on TRT or nothing, then we don't go on a cycle. Because to me, the mistake is is when you're taking a bunch of gear, they hide mistakes. Next thing you know, you're growing, but you're not growing, you're trying to get a plan. You're growing, you're taking a ton of drugs. If you're seeing a little bit of gains from your diet, OTC supplements, you're resting your training, then good news. When you add any basic cycle, you're good to go. I also think that athletes need to be thinking about, especially as I remember when I was competing more often, we were hitting two shows back to back. Like I would do the USAs and North Americans back to back there, five weeks apart. And I always liked long preps. So I'd be dieting for 20, 25 weeks, which means I was on drought for 20 to 25 weeks. I didn't, I'd maybe do one cycle in the all season before starting that again. So I think that's why some of us just don't talk as much as A, it's not that important. There's not a magic. I've never said, and I have played with different cycles based on what people have, and I've never been like, oh fuck. Yes, they'll never stumble upon the, oh my god. Now I know, and that's why the answers never change. They're like, oh, I'll say like, oh, can you take Deca and they're like, oh, I don't have any of them like what do you have? And they're like, why got, you know, MPP and my god, and my head, I'm like, same thing, not really, but it'll do. Same drug. Same drug. Yeah. Yeah. So that's fine. You know, I don't get into the specifics of it. So easy. Nice. Got one from Jeremy Jason. Oh boy, this is for Ron. Yes. Guitar. Guitar Thunder Dome. Two men enter one man leaves. Ron Partlo versus Dorian Haywood, the loser dies. The winner has the winner. The winner has the honor of being strapped to the front of a post, a post. Occalipdick, monster truck to trash on guitar while chasing down his enemies in the desert. Who's your pick? Actually, so it's, I think a question for me and Dusty. Right. Right. Well, have you seen Dorian Haywood play guitar? I haven't seen Ron play guitar either. I have. But what's, is Dorian like very good or something? I think he's a lot better than me. I think he had play solos and stuff. Yeah, yeah. I think he can play solos and shit. I can't play any lead shit. He does. I can riff. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I can riff pretty well. I've played with guys that are in bands and they've said that I have it. They're like, yeah, you have it. You could jam. You can jam with the band. You know, like I have a bunch of chords. I mean, I just, I just, I just my skill level. There's that musical like ability to like keep time and like play along and knowing the beat's are and stuff. No, like, oh yeah, okay, that's there. So you have, you know, I mean, I can play entire, I play the entire album of never mind almost on guitar and bass right now. So, you know, I have, I have a bit of musicals ability for sure. But I can't play any lead guitar. That's just the level I haven't practiced enough. Like to get good at guitar, you can just play for decades. To get to be like a lead player, you have to like invest a lot of hours in a concentrated period of time so that your skill accumulates. Or else you just keep re-learning the same basic shit over and over because you lose it like I do like I'll get a little bit of lead ability and then I'll like not play guitar for three years. So, you know what I mean? You just can't stack it up. Are you as good or better now than you've ever been? Or not? No, I'm, no, I'm just, I'm still working on that. 2007, 2007 was when I could play like a lot of tool songs and lot of rage against machine stuff like almost all their stuff. I knew all their riffs and a bunch of old Metallica. I could play like headfields part like, like all the rhythm. Yeah. And it's just this speed with some of that was the problem. I'd have to have a really good day to be able to play that fast. But I can't do that anymore. So, I'm trying to get my Nirvana back at least, which is like the easiest shit, but it's super fun to play. So, you know, it's a good question. I was wondering. I had a friend named who's also named Scott. And when we were like just out of high school, he took this job working at a bagel factory at midnight. And he spent every money, every penny he made on weed. He'd have this like just big old bagel weed all the time. And I come over his house, be like noon, whatever. It was a midnight job. So, I come over his house, be like two o'clock in the afternoon. And he'd just be like waking up and he'd be like, hey, what's up, man? He'd roll up a joint as his eyes are still closed, spark it up. He'd be like in his boxer shorts in a bathrobe, bathrobe, hanging open. I remember he had, he had his nipple pierced with this upside down cross, right? Take like five hits off of the joint. Yeah. Take like five hits off of joint, put it out, light up his Marbro Red, and go get his, his, his, his, his, his, flying V. Is that what you call it? The flying V guitar. The flying V, yeah. Yeah. And I just thought about the mighty dogs. But go ahead. He'd like take his hair all back and you know, put it like back in a ponytail to get out of his face, cigarette, all hanging out, and he'd turn on that martial stack. And he'd start out with like, any Metallica song, and not only did he play it, but he had like the steps too, like that hat feel to do. So it'd be like, bup, all when they like take three steps forward and three steps back. And then just, yeah. Do do do do do do, but I'm, but I'm, like, any of that's how we woke up literally everything death. Yeah. Oh, this is that real. Every day, man. That's how we woke up. Yeah. Because they've recently, yeah. They've weaky low. So yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I love it. I love it. I've met some, I've met some, some, I've met some people that were unbelievable guitar players. Yeah. There's some guys out there that just, you know, they just never, they never really go for like the, you know, they're like part time guys at like, you know, self real estate and playing a cover band. Yeah. And you're like, oh, dude, like you got like, like, you know, they can play anything. Like I remember this one dude I knew, I go, can you play any Van Hilling? He's like, yeah, he wants a Panama and he starts playing Panama. But he plays it like perfectly, like all the little romantics and the little, to crazy little things that Eddie Van Hilling throws in on that song. Because that song's like a Panama and hot for teacher. Those two songs off 1984 are to me like everything about Eddie Van Hilling that I loved guitar wise. Like he puts all his tricks in those two songs. So he could play that stuff and I'm like, Jesus Christ, this guy just, he sells houses, you know? Yeah. Yeah. It's an awesome, awesome. Yeah. All right. All right. See, Ron was on fire with this one. That was that was the episode where you did the whole breakdown in the Texas show. Oh, yeah. Yeah. My apologies. It was good. People loved that. Question, build the ultimate Mr. Olympia from the current pros. Imagine them at their biggest, leanest, dryest, et cetera. But also taken to consideration who has the most beautiful physique, best flow, shape, and representing bodybuilding physique wise. And also marketing wise, social media, brand ambassador, promoting the sport. Like Jay did, excited to hear your answers. Huge fan, all the best to you guys. This is from Luke E. It's a big question, Luke. It's a lot. Do you want to praise you though? Like my knee jerk as I was reading, building the best Mr. Olympia of all time. Here's what's scary. And I believe this to be true. If I could literally piece together, the best physique I could with as great as the competitors are now, they couldn't beat Ronnie. He's still better. Like literally, you cannot, and that's not a genre that just how good he was. Like I really don't think you piece together a better bodybuilder than Ronnie Coleman from the stack to the currently there. Yeah, like 98 to 2003 was just to be Arnold. They're just fucking, yeah. Crazy. He was, he was the best. 2003 Ronnie especially was the best. Right biggest. You know, that was as big as it could get without anything going wrong. You know, and because you know, like we've talked about like the actual physical limitations of growing that much muscle on a body, you know, nerve and pinchments, discs in your back, collapsing, you know, cartilage disappearing in your joints from the weight, you know, like there's physical limitations to the human body, you know. And that was kind of like where Ronnie, I feel like 2003 was where like that was the last show and then the body started to like, you know. All right, so let's try to answer the question though. All right, let's so we'll start in the middle. Who's? We'll take pills. Let's just start with Phil Heath. Yeah. Okay, we're, these just put like bodybuilder. He's put 2000, 20, yeah, but let's just take 2012 Phil Heath or whatever, 13th, so Heath, whatever, here and just put him like as the base. So what do you do? He's got a widening shoulders a bit. I don't know. Or you, or you take O3 Ronnie as the base. But he's not a bit, but he can be a car. Obviously he said current. So we can't current. Phil, we can't have Phil. And we can't have Ronnie. You gotta, sorry. You got to follow the rules. You're already cheating. How did I tell me miss the current? I miss the current. I didn't see it. It's right there. It was right there and okay. Old black letters. All right, so who's our current base? Well, I guess, I mean, you'd have to kind of like, you have to allow for structures, the skeletal size differences if you're going to be moving body parts around. They all have to scale up and down. Yeah, of course. Well, I don't know. I'm tempted to start with hotty. That's why I was, I was going to say Hunter. So, right, because Z can hold. That's got the shoulders. Got the waist. Yeah, you're right. He's got a bigger throne. Okay. So, we're going to start with Hunter for argument sake. Okay. Try acepts. Ah, the socks. They can actually. I can't really, as a current guy or no. Make a peda like a year ago. Do you bother switching anything? Hunter could just win. But I just want to make him even freakier. Because I would love to take really his triceps. Because I'd like to put them on anyone. Yeah, you just want really his triceps. Yeah. Okay. So who's, if we're going to just do this, we have to pick like, who has the perfect skeletal frame? I don't know. Brandon, who's who's wider than that? If you're going to first skeletal frame. If you're going for like that pleasing, well, I guess frame. I mean, we've got our current Mr. Olympia has the biggest skeletal frame. Okay. I mean, so you have to set. I'm just starting to start. Okay. We'll start with. Okay. We'd always like change the waist. You know, was that possible? Yeah. Yeah. You're going to hide his waist. Is that just how you do it? Just give him a waist. And then you have to give him, I don't know, someone's calves. Who's got the craziest calves? We give him a hunterscast. It's fun. Hunter's got a hunter's ridiculous. So scale hunters are calves up for his frame and scale hide his waist for his frame. And then, you know, I mean, Rami's back isn't the most detailed. No, it's the widest, but that's the frame. So who's back to his swap out? I don't know, but he's got these frozen. He's there. Yeah, yeah. He's there. I'm just trying to think. Who's got the best back in the life, B.B. right now? I'm confused. No. Like I'm getting really lost in the. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, really lost. It's see, well, that's we've honored. We've we've honored the question with this much time. It's a difficult question. Yes, we've hit philosophical roadblocks. That's it. We just still frozen for a minute. Yeah, I know. And yeah, I think this is a philosophical question that is going to be, you know, can't be answered. You just try. Right now. All right. We have like a hundred more questions still. Oh, good. Yes. Yes. Um, we're about our inch. Throw it out there, guys. Oh, shit. Look at this one. What's around the pinion on a panteria? Excuse me. Panteria reunion tour will he be attending it if it comes to Canada. So my first reaction was, oh, God, don't do this. Yeah. Right. That was my first reaction because I mean, dime bag and veneer both dead. And like without the dime bag and veneer, like pentera is not pentera. It's fill and wrecks. Which is fine. But then you could just say fill and wrecks from panteria doing a tour. Right. And if he said, like, come see fill on Somal with wrecks brown, playing panteras classics. I would have been like fuck yeah. I'm going to go see that. You know, and they probably get an amazing guitar player to do his best job to play dime bag stuff and get a drummer going to do lots of amazing drummers out there. Just played to their best ability. You know, that sort of thing. I would have been fine. Then I saw that was called panteria, you know, panteria. I was like, oh fuck. But then I saw who they had. They cut Zach Wild playing guitar. I mean, Zach Wild is, you know, the closest living thing to dime bag in his own way. His own guy, his Zach Wild. But like, you know, he's the only guy that fits to play dime bags music. And then they got a can't remember his name because I wasn't a big giant fan of the band. But the drummer from an anthrax, which is one of the original four thrash mill gods from, you know, the 80s anthrax is, you know, in the arithmetic, I can make a death in Exodus as the original four thrash metal bands. So they've got an amazing drummer who is metal to the core and fucking loves panterra music. And they've got Zach Wild playing guitar. And I'm like, I might go see that. So that's where I'm at. That was my emotional story of hearing the news and realizing what was going on. I actually thought that was great because I liked it just the way they named it. Made you consider time to fuck off. Because you were willing to go if they had worded it the way. Ron, not everyone knows your rules, Ron. I know, see that's an exempt right out of curb. Right out of curb. I have all these rules and not everybody knows my rules. And I can't be so upset with people. I know I've given myself this speech. That's being a nutshell. That's great. I'm super upset with you because you don't know the rules. And what rules? My rules. My rules. All right. We've got another one here. This is from Lucas. He's a long time follower of the show. Big supporter. He reached a lot of our stuff. And I want to mention you. Lucas is awesome. You guys both know him. He works with a company called Prometheus.nl. They're European. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So. Yep. Yes. There's a lot of business with mutant. Yeah. Okay. Okay. So yeah. You guys can shop if you're in Europe. Check out Prometheus.nl. He says a question for the next show. What kind of decor do you plan to put in your house dusty? Are you planning to incorporate that body building vibe into it? Or are you going to go more modern style? Definitely nobody willing. Five. I don't. I've actually never brought a trophy home. No. Mm-hmm. Never mother has all of this. He's never one a show. Yes. Oh. That was amazing. Hey, I almost got an 11th place. No fears of hope. Yeah. No every single thing is gone. I don't have any magazines, any anything. I do have a painting that was done of one of my photos shoots that I'll put in my cardio room, but that's like, that's it. I would never put anything like that in the house. Because of where I live, it's going to be more than modern farmhouse style. So not as modern as I would have done it solo. But it's three to one in this house. I don't really like they they're going to want a lot more function than I need. I don't actually sit on the couch very often. So it doesn't have to be comfortable as a look cool. They will actually sell. They'll make it comfortable and look cool. But on a bright note, there's multiple couches because there's a loft for the kids and a down search for us. When interesting interesting point, I really like the look of minimalist furniture. Yes. But I break it. I can see that weird out. I dropped down on the couch, throw my feet up and still 245. So I'm still heavy enough to be really hard on stuff. Oh for sure. I used to break stuff like all the time if it was like windy. You would definitely need to be cautious with that. But yeah, my old furniture, I absolutely loved. I just sent you an inside glance there of the what they did the other day. Scott. So this is we got now. Yeah, that was just yesterday. Just a little, they've got the backsplash thrown up there. There's they've got the floors all covered. They're done so they're just kind of making sure you can see them. But yeah, it's kind of, you know, modern feel, but it's definitely going to be more cozy. It's the place. That's cool. So yeah, basic stuff. Like the Lucas came with that. I haven't seen him in forever. I've known him for like a decade. Oh yeah. From going over there, yeah, at least a decade. All right. Well, I got one more here because I know we needed to do two programs. So I wanted to close this one out with this. Yes, good call. With a comment. Andy Holden says brilliant podcast as always lad, lads, just so you know blowing someone off means something totally different here in England. So it sounds wrong when you say it. So he's all right. So we're blowing someone off or just blowing them. I think this, I think this is getting, I don't remember what we said, but we talked about like, well, not just blowing them. Blow them off. It means you're really good at it. Well, if I was going to finish it, I would be good at it. That's key. I agree if you can start it once a difference. That's funny. Oh, God. Well, did you see that was, that was asked of Jose on the last, uh, he was on bro chat, I think it was. And in the question was, uh, you're giving a guy a blow job. It is a five minute blow job from start to finish. Are you doing the first four minutes and 30 seconds? Are you just finishing with the last 30? And Jose, Jose goes five minutes that's easy. And he was thinking that they meant that he was receiving the blow. And they're like, Jose, no, you're giving the blow job. He goes, he goes, the hell I am. My promise you, I've not given the blow job. Oh man. I was crying. He should be a permanent, I don't even watch because I don't like have time to watch a lot of shows, but that little clip I was like, how is Jose not on there every time? Yeah, like it's too good. Yeah, he's great. Too good. This is what, and this is how much rivalry there is in podcasting. We talk about other podcasts on hours. Good thing used to do that. People didn't used to do that, you know? People used to say it was on another show when we won't mention it. Oh, that's pathetic. We won't mention the name. That's so pathetic week. Anyway, sorry. Now I'm not going to rant. I'm going to stop. Ron, Jose, sorry, we're done with this one. Okay, remember everybody like share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. And go rent Scott's new Airbnb as soon as it opens next month. We didn't give him a lot of information because I don't really know that department. I was like, oh, I don't have never actually done that Scott, but good question. Well, after I find some people that can actually help me, someone will actually answer within our comment, all the questions we have no idea about now. Yes, and if we didn't get to your questions, then definitely comment again. We do our best, but you know, it's a lot. You guys can send us a lot too, so it was awesome. Which is awesome. Okay, thanks everybody. Remember, it's just body building.

It's all about setting yourself up for progression. So I would always out on side of caution when it comes to picking your loading. I would rather undershoot the weight than overshoot the weight. Keep your red ranges between seven to 12 reps. I think that's the best red range for bodybuilding across the board. Seven to 12. A little bit less in the compound work, a little bit higher in isolation work. If I was to give you your real franges, okay? That is the right range as that will like to set for all of you guys. That's where I think you will make the best progress and be able to most importantly keep your execution tight. The further you are from your natural set on your muscle, the more gear you will lead on fortune to hold it. And that's the reality of it. So I've been giving you an average between 200 to 600 milligram total of antibiotics. And most of that in some cases, it will be testosterone only. In some cases, it will be a mix of testosterone and the HT. For me personally, it's going to be 400 milligrams of test initially for the first two free weeks. And then I will probably add in a 100 milligrams of creamer for a couple of weeks and then my off season begins because based on my blood work, I will not need longer than five weeks in a health phase now. What's up guys? Welcome back to Think Big Body Building Media. I'm Scott McNeil. Of course, I am joint again by Kubitelling. We got a bunch of stuff we're going to cover today. Thank you for joining us if you're new to our content. We'd love to have you along for everything. We've got several podcasts. So like share, subscribe, and as Dusty would say, Kubit, what would Dusty say? Ring the bell. You got it, man. You got it. Dude, you're looking pretty sunk in there, man. What's going on? Now listen, man, for me, post-shelf A is an extension of prep. Essentially, the prep that I've had, what was the best prep that I have ever had in my life. 24 week prep, we started prep activity. I ended up on stage up 242. And last year, my lowest point was like 225 this year. My lowest lowest point was 239, I believe, like, depleted. Yeah. So substantial, substantial bit of progress. And to be honest, didn't really push the drugs. Nothing really exotic. I definitely think I could have made more progress just through simply lowering my training volume. I started off with my training volume way too high post show last year. And as I actually brought my training volume down, each phase, I made more and more progress. So that is a lesson that I have taken into this year for this post show phase. But this prep's got it was so easy and so manageable, because I wasn't really a fat when it started. And I was in a very healthy position. I was mentally and physically in a good spot. Blood work was amazing. And blood work actually sustained for our prep. So I was looking for ways to make the prep harder. You said that in the last show. Yeah, I got a bit careful, man. I want to keep doing more. But that's exactly what I did. I definitely, definitely with and relax away because what I ended up doing is instead of doing my normal steps that I would normally do outside, general walk, 10,000 steps, which again, my steps never went above 12,000. What I started doing instead was 40 minutes on the treadmill on an incline walking up five kilometers per hour on a four percent incline, not holding on. And the thing is, it's like a run basically. Because I am super fit. And I sustain a base line activity level year round. That's nothing for me, but my legs just got flatter and flatter. Especially when I was comparing my legs and the off-season versus like prep and be quick. And like I just completely whip it my legs away. But listen to this, listen, listen. Let's just be real. I am still not in a position where I will be creeping into the first call out. I still need at least another 10, 12 pounds and more. So I need to be on stage. Lena, then I was this year, heavier, than a by and of a 10 pounds at least. So this year, I've got to appreciate the progress. I've got to appreciate the package that I've brought. I've got to appreciate the accuracy that I had in prep and the lessons I've had in prep in the peak weeks. But I essentially need to do better. And this is exactly why time has definitely come to maximize this post-show window. And this for me is very much an extension of prep. Post-show, the first meal that I had was free hall eggs, 200 grams of egg whites, a big ball of fruit. And I actually weigh it out and I actually put it in my tracker because that's the way I am. And the thing is for me, it's much easier, especially the post-show to stay locked in. Then it is to eat off plan and be a peak. And next day, I walk up because I was feeling devastated because I actually partially torn my brocaleist tendon and even my right bicep on stage posing in the first round in Germany. So that's some people can touch on. And maybe a little later. But first, I kind of want to go step by step. Yeah. Step by step. Yes, essentially, I always, always treat my post-show phase with the same importance if not more than the prep itself. Because what you do post-show essentially set you up for your entire off season. That five to six window of time that you have post-show is either going to make your off season or break it. Now, I am not telling you guys to not enjoy yourself. I am actually saying the opposite. Your post-show recovery phase is the time to get back to your loved ones. It's a time to spend more time with family, but you have to put strategy in place, especially when it comes to your carific intake around that. Your post-show phase doesn't mean you actually stop your diet. Your post-show phase, you should immediately start your off season diet, which is exactly why I did. Did they, after all my food was cooked and prepped? And the main reason why I didn't really eat off-planet is because I wasn't in the mood. I'll be honest with you, Scott. Because the prep wasn't severe, because I didn't have the push. I took my timing prep. I have no food focus. I didn't use any GLP ones. I didn't control the hunger. I didn't control the food focus. Any point in prep. And I'll be honest, like previous prep's, hunger was extremely high. This year, yes, hunger, you know, I never felt satisfied with meals. And right now I don't feel satisfied with meals. But fat at the matter is, I think, because I'm a soul hyperfocus on the goal still, I think it's someone negates it. But yeah, essentially, I wasn't in the mood to eat off-plan. Normally I would always eat off-plan to allow my body weights come up a little bit, but I'll be honest, I would rather take my time, give it a week or two, build up my actual baseline calories and Scott, when you are patient with this and when you do not drive your body weight through off-plan meals post-show, you would be shocked how quickly you can actually rebuild your calories back up. Oh, absolutely do. Versus if you have that cheat meal, then it's like, well, that we can't do anything else until you deplete again. I will give you an example, right? My client Tom, he's five week post-show now. He didn't really off-plan post-show and listen, I had to tell him to take his message out. I was like, listen, you have to take the life out. So he literally took her out for a steak and brought his own potatoes. Ah, he brought his own potatoes, right? Yeah. So, it start point with calories. Post-show. On training day, it was 3000 and 600 on rest day. It was like 2,900. Okay. Now, we are exactly five weeks post-show. His calories on training day are 4,300. On rest day, 3,400. And his glutes are still fully straighted. Wow. And we have been able to do that in such a short space of time because he controlled his eating and we've actually gone from 99.4 kilos up to 102.1 kilo now. And his condition, his condition has barely changed. Yeah. He just looks fuller, bigger, rounder and genuinely, his transforming, he's just getting bigger and better. So this is where the value of taking a time post-show and really committing to that phase and treating it like your prep is going to bring you so much benefit in guys. Listen, I understand it's very, very hard. And the biggest issue is people often chase the tiety. People expect to feel full after meals post-show because they are food increase. Let me be real with you guys. Do not chase the tiety. You won't hurt them. Not to get fat. It's the only way that it will stop. Like you get fat. And that's where the hunger goes away finally. Now, your position to wear them around the only way to take the home of the way is get fat. But guess what happens? You get fat. Your ability to build muscle diminishes. Oh, yeah. Your interest to be get shot. And the huge thing people opt off them for get the fat you are in my opinion, the less of a response you actually get from engines. You go here to do. I believe that you get a lot more conversion to estrogen from its testosterone dose. And I do believe the more body fat you carry. It's almost like the cycle is less effective. Yeah. I have no scientific explanation. But I have seen this myself and with numerous clients. When you add drugs in and you are already holding a substantial amount of body fat, not much happens. When you are drugs in and you are lean, that is when the magic happens because you have the opportunity then to not only lay the drugs on, but you also have the opportunity then to keep laying on the extra calories as of when you need them. Yeah. Let's give us an example. This can be like a take home for everybody. Let's say you take a guy. He just competed at 190, meaning he walks around it like 220 in the off season, maybe even a little bit heavier than that. So he just got off stage at 190. Let's say he's been eating 200 carbs into the show still. He's able to handle 200 carbs. What would you do with the food then post-contest for, because the main thing I'm trying to get at is how quickly should we increase what would be a good start? Oh man, it's an amazing question. If someone can control themselves post-show and not binge, not drive up a huge amount of body weight through, basically, fucking pizza and burgers, the first step I would love to expand the chain has expanded just high. So let's say he's doing 12,000 steps in 20 minutes of cardio daily. I would remove cardio completely. Out, I would keep probably 20, 40 milligrams of clenium for the first week post show, then I would remove it. I would also add in an extra 100 grams of carbohydrates on his training day and potentially 50, the pending OS cards was on rest day. Let's say first cards was 200 training day 100 rest day. I would probably add 100 on training day and 75 on rest day. Okay, okay. That's the first step. And that's 400 calories added from food alone. Plus you also get some calories that shaved off from the expenditure. So essentially, it's like giving him 600 calorie bump. And I could promise you if he had adhered to the diet, then I would expect to bring in his food back up again by additional 200 calories maybe over probably 10 days if not even a week. So with Tom, he actually started his post show diet. We gave it 10 days and he started losing weight. So we brought his calories up immediately. And then again, seven days going again, we've seen a little rising body weight. Body weight started to hold again. And then, guess what again? He's looking leaner full around her, body weight dips slightly and holds. Guess what? Green light to add more food. Yeah, training performance keeps increasing. Volume stays low, strength increase in energy levels are getting higher. Sleep restored within 10 days. All these things play a massive role and what people often forget is, if you gain too much weight too quickly, your rest in heart rate is crazy elevated. You're holding a lot of water. You're a cover actually diminishes. You start feeling sluggish and your sleep is impaired from that alone. So it's a fine balance that you have to have between gaining just enough body weight to restore your sleep recovery training performance and energy levels without gaining an excessive amount of body weight to the point where you will feel sluggish, ruin your sensitivity and ruin your sleep essentially because you've gained so much weight. You're probably giving yourself sleep up, yeah. And again, you can't get comfortable you're letting bed tossing and turning. All these things play a huge role. Now, I don't like to work in averages. All of coaches like to give like roof guidelines with percentages because realistically, what we have to understand working with real people is if it's going to be different. Yeah, I'm going to be different. I'm going to be different response to that 200 or 100 carburet. Absolutely. Absolutely. Some people might gain it and almost not away of it. Some people might not. Some people might just be at the front of it. And a ball is coming to play. How hard someone trains comes into play. So it's daily routine. Someone's lifestyle. It's like everyone's on this magic convry kick at the moment. But the easiest way to fix your magic convry is sleep lifestyle nutrition. If you stress up, reduce stress, absolutely. If someone's nailing all these variables, magic, magic progress can happen. Yeah. So I don't like to work with averages because some people post show meaning to gain a little bit more than others. And that's fine. You have to assess the response post show for at least a week or two. I like people to still check in with me daily as they have been for pretty much five, six weeks before the show. So that way, I can actually see the biofeedback. I can see how the feeling, I can see how the weight trending, anywhere can make adjustments based of that extra-estase extra food here and that as of what it's needed, especially the fof emails. So you have to work off the feedbacks client, give it a view. However, one bit of feedback that you have to ignore is when a client tells you the hungry. Because nine times out of ten, what you have to understand is hunger and drive to eat and not the same. I mean, something actually had a conversation with someone earlier about because his car is to put it high now. And he's actually eating the seven meals a day. And I was like, dude, you're not hungry. You just have a high drive to eat. Yeah. There is a lag time between your brain and go. When you eat a meal, it takes around 20 minutes for you brain to register that there's actually a fully stomach. Guess what happens, post-prep, when people have a high drive to eat. But you keep eating for that next 20 minutes, right? The kind of super fast, the eats the fast. So they do not even realize that they are eating so fast. The brain hasn't even registered the beaten. So they will not feel like the beaten. But you give yourself a little bit of time, keep drinking water and guess what? You will feel a little bit less hunger. But the reality is guys, post-show, you are not going to feel satisfied or the hunger is not going to go away unless you are ramming in 10 milligrams of drizzap inside a week. And that is just something you have to accept. But the way I look at it, it's more so like, and I don't want to wear it like a budget on it. But I take a lot of pride in nailing the post-show, where I can almost extend that post-show window, where I can do a third to eat off season's got. And that's essentially my plan now. So let me just break down what my pre-liminary plans are now. And I think that will give people a great deal. Let me ask you one more question on the rebound. What do we do with gear? Oh, I know that everybody's going to have a different situation. And part of that is going to be how far out did we start the gear, how hard were they pushing it. But I'd love to hear some scenarios. I'm going to give you an average. OK, yeah. And the average is going to be based of someone's the most skilleture. So someone's size. The average is going to be based off the goals and the previous gear use. OK. And what they actually need to sustain the muscle that they actually have, the further you are from your natural set point with the muscle, the more gear you will need on forging to hold it. And that's the reality of it. So let me give you an average between 200 to 600 milligrams total of antibiotics. And most of that in some cases, it will be testosterone only. In some cases, it will be a mix of testosterone and the DHT. For me, personally, it's going to be 400 milligrams of test initially for the first two free weeks. And then I will probably add in 100 milligrams of pre-mum for a couple of weeks. And then my offseason begins. Because based off my blood work, I will not need longer than five weeks in a health phase now. OK. That's my example. But I have clients where this will range between 200 milligrams of test out stroke, which is almost a legit TRT, or two 600 milligrams, because guess what? If someone is stepping on stage at 250 pounds, 260 pounds, they are not going to hold their muscle on 200 milligrams of gear. That's just burial. Groth hormone between five to 10 I use. I think if you are looking to actually get benefits of groth hormone, over-than-h-h-h-h, which is hormone replacement, I think you need to be doing more than four I use. Really, that's OK. So groth hormone post shell, I like to leverage it. And if someone, if someone can afford it, I would always say, listen, we'll use less antibiotics, and we'll use more groth hormone in this phase. You will feel fuller, you will recover better, we'll keep that condition, and then we can always scale back the raw groth hormone use in the offseason portrait phase if we need to. Yep, commutral. I do not like to remove commutral completely straight away. I like to taper it down again. I never remove clen completely, because it does skew electrolytes. So one thing you'll notice is, someone will always get a lot of it soft, they'll when you remove clenched right away. Yeah. So I tend to keep in a very low dose of clen in the peak week. And when someone's ready, I will always reduce the clen from the doses they needed to use for fat loss down to a maintenance dose of even 40 or 20 micrograms daily. I will extend that post show. And then I will remove it a week to 10 days after. This way, you don't just get an instant rebound with removing everything, with a lot of people that do, right? And it's like, and then they wonder why we play to the lock of bag of potatoes, because one of the probably bench to remove clen and all the other drugs that they were taken and they've got like a double line. Yeah. Fire right. If someone's using a HRT level of fire right or you have to have use fire right in prep, I personally do not use fire right above physiological level. So I do not leverage fire right for fat loss. I do not believe fire right is a great tool for fat loss. It's a great tool to lose muscle. If that's you go, but personally, the max with fire reduce, I will go like 30, 70 free and 150, 4. And ideally, I will always have clients check the blood work. And I will always want the fire to sit in mid to upper range. And never want that fire on sitting in above physiological levels. That cost to benefit really starts going down. I think you're right above that like 37.5. Absolutely. You can definitely get more fat loss. But yeah, that's where you start risking more flatness, more muscle loss in the process too. More flatness, worse recovery, worse sleep. Very high risk in heart rate. It's just not what you want. Yeah. Post show. I think you should not remove fire out immediately. The quickest way to recover your fire road function is through an increase in carbohydrates and your body weight. So your body weight, if you have used fire road, even a HRT doses, and you while looking to remove it, you need to have some time spent in a calorie surplus. You need to allow your body weight to come up because guess what? Your fire rate, essentially, is all about keeping your metabolism in a baseline level. Right? Right. What is going to increase your metabolism score? Food. Food. Body weight and food. Yeah. More your way, the high metabolism. More your carbohydrate to eat. The quicker your fire rate or comments, therefore, it doesn't make sense to remove your fire road when you are eating a low amount of carbohydrates. Guess what will happen? Your energy levels will dip and you likely will have that fire rate dip. And that then does not give you the opportunity to one, recover your fire rate optimally. But also, it doesn't give you an opportunity to get your calories back home. Yeah. So it's a double line. I'm trying to cover things later about let by layer here just so covering our bases with obviously the antibiotics, fire rate, clan, what else? Elcarnity. I love our level of carnity. And I do think it's something that can be used. If you have used stuff like SLUPP, any mitochondrial function stack, keep it in post show. Again, it gives you an opportunity to maintain and improve your metabolism. And it gives you an opportunity to think again, recover quicker. It's through being able to add more food quicker. 100%. If anything, if someone hasn't used any of the mitochondrial function stacks, it could be a potential idea to even introduce it post show. It would be a lot of it's going to keep you. 100%. It would allow you to stay leaner and it would allow you to simply eat more food. I love the idea too. If you start there, because I even we talked about it before, starting at before we start the off season. So you're already preparing for that off season right now, right? Yeah, absolutely. And that's it. You can always lower it when the off season starts. So let's try using SLUPP. If you use that 500 milligrams in prep, keep that 500 milligrams in post show. And then you can always remove it or drop it down to 250 when you start your off season. Yeah. So these are the things that you can also leverage post show. I love injector locality for me to great rate tool. I definitely think potentially if someone is struggling with appetite and if I have a client that I know, is going to binge, I'm not against GLPs. Listen, naturally everyone has a very different appetite, naturally everyone has a very different draught to eat. If I have a chance or an opportunity to have someone reduce some of that food noise down and prevent them from binging, guess what? I'll take all day long because the most damaged you see athletes have within their blood work is always the diet. It's never the drugs. Yeah. Yes, absolutely. I have, I have literally probably 1000, 1000 sets of blood work. I would probably give you, if you gave me five minutes legit, I could give you 50 examples of guys that I've worked with in past and current, with using vanilla told drugs, but eating shit, yeah, yeah, the blood work is trashed. And then I can give you 50 more examples of guys with pristine diets, taking between two to three grams of gear, and their blood work is significantly better than the guys with the shit diet. Yeah, no, I can see where you're coming from then. That's the point. Yeah. So listen, we're always circling back right. We're all circling back to diet and training, diet and training, not the drugs. Remember guys, when we talk about these things, one thing I want you to understand is the importance of diet and drugs, and the fucking highlight, the most important thing now that you need to be focusing on is productive training post show. Last year, guess what my total volume was per session on average. I don't know, but I was going to ask you there, because you said you, you, you, you, you ended up doing too much, right? Wait too much, I started off a like 20 working sets on average per session. Okay, okay, now that's total for everything, everything you're training, any, any, that was a body part. I'll push that you, I think it was like 21 sets, I pulled that I think it was the same, and I think a leg day was like 17 sets. Okay, yeah, we did do a breakdown of that. I remembered thinking like, okay, but then at the same time, I was like, well, I guess Kubo's a pro, he handles a lot more volume than I do. You know, that's that was what I thought. No, no, no, the more accurate you get, the stronger you get, the better execution, the less volume you need. Yeah, for sure. I, I have literally wasted progress with the volume that I was running. So let me break down my current volume post show for you. Pull up push likes three days on one day off. 12 work in sets on push day. 13 working sets on pull day and that is only two work in sets of bicep at the moment, only left bic