of It's Just Bodybuilding. Dusty Han-Charm, myself, big Rob Parlo, and on today's show, the return of Jordan Peters. I love these are the return. It's like the third time. He's our only triple, right? Did he say three times? I was only once. Was he only in a once if I was twice a year? Yeah. No, we had holidays. Ted twice. We had a couple of people twice. But just now we're getting to Jordan twice. It was time. It was time. I got to him. He's actually already ready to rock dude. I've been organized for once in my life. I did things. Remember, the first time doesn't count because we weren't good at things yet. Are we now? Isn't that how it works? Okay. That's when I tell the ladies. That's what it doesn't count. That's what it does. I didn't know what it was doing. Okay. Okay, let's just, we'll bring him on so we don't keep him waiting. Absolutely. There's no other reason. They're good. Jordan Peters. There we are. I wouldn't miss that face anywhere. How are you doing, buddy? Really well. Thanks. Good to see you guys. I'm wearing my Dino's gym too. I got to mention this in honor of my good friend Dino. Aren't your gyms open today in the UK? gyms are open today in the UK with chess. And everyone is pretty happy around. Yeah. No, so congrats on on everyone in the UK. I'm sure you have a lot of clients and a lot of friends that are losing their minds. Yeah, it's been a bit of a relief. I'm, I'm coaching much less, but the clients that I do have a really struggled. It's been difficult. And I'm sure you guys can understand that as well with the clients that you have that it's been a really difficult time for a lot of people that rely on the gyms as an outlet and without that it's been, yeah, tough. Yeah, yeah, we all went through it at some extent. But we're happy to have you here, man. You got the mustache here on like a mustache kick now. It's a, but does see that I got to ask you about that. Is it extra powerful? How does it feel? I'm, I think it is dying because for some reason, it's a very light touch. So at some point, I would, I would, I, I called grow a big. I can grow a, I mean, a pretty decent touch, but I, I can't grow a bit. It's holding a growing these strange patches. Do you find your front double looks more like Chris Bumsted now? That's what I'm thinking. You're waste go down immediately. It's on the way down. So there must be a correlation. I'm already learning. We've lived it on the show for three seconds. The more bumps, the more bumps you grow on your face, the time to the waste. Yes, definitely definitely. People freaked out. We put up just put up a graphic late last night because if we put it up too early, we get too many questions, right? And I still got way too many questions. It's only up for a few hours, and I still got way too many questions, but, you know, You're such a like, iconic. Do you, do you think you're a cult figure in the sport? Would you, would you, would you focus on mainstream, or do you think you're still cult? Like how does it look like? I have no idea. I'm just me. You guys know what I'm like? I love to train. I'm very honest and transparent. And such as some reason people seem to enjoy that. So I don't know what kind of category we can put that on. But it is, it is just what it is. You, you, you definitely come across as a, you know, like there's some people where you think, oh, this guy is just like this in person. And then, and then of course, you know, you got a bunch of people like Dusty and myself and all the UK boys that confirm that, like, yeah, that's him. Because you know, people say like, what's JP really like? You're like, well, you follow his Instagram? They're like, yeah, I'm like, that's him. So this, this really no change. Yeah, I don't, I don't hide anything. And I just, yeah, I'm just me. Well, he says, yeah, if you look back at a younger version of you, you know, like maybe teenage you or whatever, do you ever imagine yourself being so open and transparent with so many people like just think of the numbers, you know? I've always been someone that's keen to share. I don't know, it's called to explain. I've never been someone like, I'm happy to share everything. Even in regards to like my vulnerabilities and my emotions. I'm not afraid to share any of those things. So I just, I find that the more you communicate, you can end up in a pretty good spot because of it. And as I know that from a really young age, and it's going to serve me fairly well throughout most of my life. Where, where do you think you get that from? I had quite a strange upbringing in regards to the way that like my dad raised me as an only father. And he, he was an exceptional father, but he just encouraged me to just go off to everything that I kind of wanted and really pushed me. I said, but when Corona, I talk about a she jokes in the way that she says that he managed to just really head fucking to be able to just think that these ideas were my ideas, but really he was just pulling on the strings to get me to go in the right direction. You do really good job with it. Is it good guy? Very fortunate. And yeah, I think just from him, this is just a great influence on me. The power of social media and you know, you've built yourself using digital content and you know almost weaponized it. To spread the gospel of of J.P. and you know, when when you look at how you've done it, is there anything you change if you look back on like, the last five years of social media and how you've handled yourself, is there anything you wish you wouldn't have done or what have done? That's a great question. And the thing is, is that none of my decisions in regards to kind of the way I do things are hugely calculated and advanced. Like there is no kind of like, I, you're so basically now now we're in a position where we own our own nutrition line. I'm our own clothing brand and not of that really, they were like. Things that would have been really nice, but there were never things that kind of like a calculated plant. So nothing that I do is is calculated in that sense because I just do things that feel right. So when you know that something feels right. If you reflect on it and you think, okay, I should have done that different, but in the moment you did what you wanted to do. So you can't really say that that was right or wrong because you just, you just went with your kind of things, that's what I do. So so no really I have no real regrets. I didn't, I wouldn't change anything. I feel very fortunate to be in the position that we're in now and I really feel like now we're starting to grow. And business is really starting to take off and really starting to enjoy that side with things and trying to like teach myself. A lot of new things. I'm stepping into into the world well, well, for something as a clothing and then it's it's it's good fun. It's really enjoyable. That's that's exactly where I had a bunch of questions that came in that asked like, one of them was worded is where do you see your brand going in the next 10 years. So this is right on track with that. You're like like and then also people asking if you have any business mentors or people that you think have really helped you with business. This is a lot of business questions I got. Yeah, that's right. I couldn't tell you where the brand is going. All I know is this going in one direction with us forwards. That's because that's the way I get my life. I'm a very obsessive person as you guys know, so progress is absolutely everything to me. So on any given day, I have to take a mini victory out of that day in some fashion. That's an absolute must of me. I've always a day is a failure. It's just there's no excuse to end your day having not taken some kind of any success. And that could literally be anything quite literally anything. I could be for someone that's 400 pounds getting up and down off the sofa 10 times there you go. That's a that's a victory that so we've all got our own little mini victories that we can take so I'm looking to take those every single day. So where's the brand going to go? I couldn't tell you. I'll just keep taking those mini victories and where ends up is where ends up. I think your mini victories are getting bigger on that scale because I think it's funny just in the last year. I mean, we've known each other for a while, but I can wear this shirt in the US now and people know what it is. Sure. Whereas a year ago, I would have got what's that or those are initials, you know what I mean? Like, it's not because of the clothing line, it's because of the brand as a whole. It is it is very cool to see how many people know exactly what it is when I'm wearing them. So I was given insight into one client for next year and that is to have a American fulfillment sentence. It's established and then our manufacturing of our supplement line will start in the US. Shit, twice a film and sensor will fulfill orders throughout the US and then our current international clothing. When I factor that we have really strong relationships with, but then ship in the American fulfillment center and then we're better for the orders. Because obviously our athlete, roti is growing with American athletes because the guys that and girls that that we relate to over there. I can have I can have I bond with and I want to work with and I want to be able to grow that ethos on that side of the world. But realistically to do that, you do need to have a fulfillment center or a base in that country or at least on that continent because shipping prices are going to restrict you to next year. But we're still quite fortunate that we've been able to grow thus far, but I know to really start to grow in the direction that I feel that we can especially with the athletes that we have representing us because. For all of us there's one common theme and that's that we truly love to trade. And and despite where you're at in terms of your own kind of physique or your kind of your goals or where you stand compared to other people, you can still have that love for training these absolutely off the fucking charm and you know if you have that and then if you have that inside of you. We're potentially the brand for you and I believe that we can grow. And to the extent is yet to be seen because those are the hurdles along the way and we just keep trying to jump over those as we get there, but so far I'm really proud and I'm really happy for the. You run either. It's like paused out for a minute. Yep. Yep. I'm here. And I feel for a sec. Yeah, we're just for a brief sec. We're all good. So I have a million questions. I know you do to run. You want to a taximose directly for a bit. Yeah. So I want to know my question. We're skipping everyone. I want to give a fuck everybody. I got a lot of fuck them. Okay. Where'd you get your plates made? What are those plates you're using? I see you went extra thin so you can fit like. I like on the hammer leg press. Yeah, the custom code joke late. So I'll do the primary training of silice. He's called code jokes. Obviously. Coran or Jordan. There's no there's no way now with how fucking good. Coran is that I could possibly start a gym with alcohol. With alcohol name being in the star of it because realistically now you again do you guys know she trains harder than I do. And she's away from me. You're best for the money. Absolutely. Leave me her other name. I think she'd have fucking stabbed me. So I'm rightly so. So the co-gear plates. There's company you take all pro plates. And we obviously came to our arrangement that we would have some plates. And then if they provided the service that I expected. Hope they would then I would promote those plates. And then they fulfilled their end in every way. And then some great service, great communication, great plates. I have zero issues kind of promoting them. I feel really good about promoting them. So how? So obviously there's no handles on them. There's no lip on everything. It's to get off the floor if they lay down. Yeah. Yeah. You're over the scrap with those. That's the first thing I thought. Some other fuckers can leave one flat on the ground. I'm going to lose my mind. Oh yeah. I tried to pick one up the day and I tried for a good 30 seconds. And I was like, bent over that whole time. And off the 30 seconds down as you're fucked this. And this is where I was supposed to do and just go when else somewhere else. That's it. That's it. It'll be there permanently. Oh yeah. It will. What happened is in like a week it will get moved. That's a bit bus-steam print of where the plate was. It looked awesome. They look badass. It was funny because my first sort of like realization of what you did was when I saw a clip of you on the hammer leg press. Yes. And I was like, and you were just, you know, you're fucking flipped a switch man. Like you're in the, you're going. And I'm like, I'm going to place her on there because it only looked like five or six. You know, especially there the fat rubber ones. It's like, five plates, right? And I was like, where is this? I'm looking for bands. I'm thinking you must have a million bands on it. You know, like, just banded the fuck up. And I realized I'm like, oh, fuck. He's got all these tiny little plates. And at first I thought you had like those thin of like, you know, the avant-gopower lifting ones. You know, but then I realized they were even thinner than that. And totally custom. They look at it. Because I was a bit shit loading the plate. The hammer string thought that day. And the goal is to ask because we got black and silver plates. So the goal was to stagger them. So then you should clearly count how many plates were on there. Oh, they're making a restaurant. I thought, yeah, I thought that. Oh, wow. I mean, we were all into producing content. So we have to think about these things, right? For sure. And what's the world at topic of plates? Do you guys happen to own any of the rogue eat dish plates? No, I don't. All the kabuki ones. Of no. Oh, those are some nice nice plates. The rogue ones, especially. There's a funny video Brian Shaw unboxing his on his YouTube. He's like a 400 pound kid. He just can't wait to get these things out of the box. Right. And since I saw that, I'm pretty, pretty excited to get myself some sort of a, but they're sold out everywhere. Yeah. So I've had to get to go hunting for like who do I know that has anything to do with Rodel to just try to get my hands off. We were on a waiting list to buy an echo bike for like six months. Yeah. Yeah, crazy crazy. You know, COVID equipment shortages. Oh, no. So once once those plates become available, you'll see some deadlift videos on those plates because they look very small. Yeah. So how's the set up for the GMR? Are you really, are you super, super done? Or are you thinking there's two notes I want? There's three things that we got to switch out. Like you know. Every time I step in there, we end up moving care around. Yeah. But we still have our prime delivery this week. We have 16 pieces of prime kit coming. And so once we get those in, all then kind of know where we're at. And then if we've got any more room for me to then get some of the Atlantis pieces that I'm asked about. Right. What size of the gym? It's 3000 square foot. The thing is it's not a gym, it's going to be open to the public. It's literally just for me in current. Right. So that's why I was asking because we were running into the same issue at my spot now where it's removing pieces and adding pieces. Like, okay, I need this. Okay, what's going to go? What are we getting rid of? I thought yes, as she said, it's a crisis. And I was like, should they go 4,000 square foot? Like just a little bit more room. Because we were measuring up for that astray turf. Right. And then I'm like, this isn't quite where I want it to be. I'm like so frustrated. But when we make it work, obviously. But the time we're eventually finished is it's going to look pretty smart. And I want a virtual tour. I don't want to be there. Yeah. Wow. Yeah. I'm going to have the virtual tour. I want to deadlift there. I'm thinking as a Canadian. But when you boys are over for this world, every returns to normal again, we're only like 40 minutes away from Birmingham. So, when you're in for body power, it'll be a trip that might be worth it. So, oh yeah. To be honest, you guys can just stay here with us if you want for the body part of the account. As you can see, my plan is just to get on an airplane weather. There's body power and not on my clock. I've got this up going. Yeah. I've got to go see you guys and you know, everyone's losing their mind. How much we were used to traveling and then dial back to zero has been really weird. You know, like once a month I was getting on a plane all year long. You know, just crazy. As well. Yeah. Yeah. What's what seeing if you had to pick a single thing that, you know, body building related. That you missed the most this year. What event would it be or what thing would it be or what show would it be? Um. It's hard to say. What obviously. I imagine that you guys have been to Vegas a lot for the Olympia. So then that not being a, in Vegas I can imagine for those that are used to frequenting it. We'd be pretty odd. Um, well, I myself am a bit of a permit. So for me. Not much has changed. So like I don't really miss anything myself. He's like, I don't like people. It's not that I don't like people because I do, but I just like people when I choose to like them. I'm ready. I'm ready. Very, very good loud and clear loud and clear. Yeah. You guys understand. So I can sometimes be a bit of a rubber clip. Because if that how how exhausting is body power for you usually. Last year was tiring, but I was running off of just pure adrenaline and emotion last year. Because we had people that had traveled from different countries to come and see us. And it blew my mind. It really did. We had a young girl called Belinda that traveled away from Sweden to see us. They had a really, really bad eating disorder. And she came and gave me a hug and as soon as she put her hands around me, she burst into tears crying. And she started to tell us about her story. And it was things like that. I was like, I'm really shit. I was just kind of buzzing all year last year. So I was exhausted after it. I'm absolutely exhausted. But it wasn't the last year. It was the most, 2019, yeah. 2019 body power. 2020 is just like a right off. Yeah. It's like, did that year even happen? Did I age again that year? Do I have to act that year on to my birthday? Like, yeah. I think I aged way more than a year. That's for sure. Yeah. But yeah. But how's the fun one? So I'm looking forward to it being back going to get a new shit. I remember the 2019 body power because your booth was right next to ours. So I was like, I was hanging out at your booth for a while. And I remember like, you know, when you're out of booth for the whole expo, you hear certain names like people are like, Oh, hey, you know, I came to see you guys and Jake Patler, right? Or I came to see you guys and they'll name a few people. J.P. is like, was this everyone's like, oh, yeah, I just got to go see J.P. and then I can leave. Like, there's a ton of people. I remember like hearing that from a lot of people. There was no. Without as a general wife, like anywhere I sound, say this, it might sound ego to score. And I don't mean it's somewhere that any way shape or form. But like, there was a cue for our booth for like, normal stop, see it out. And like, Karen had to like stop the cue at one point just like a quickly even meal with 30 seconds. And and stuff like that. So it was it was a crazy, crazy weekend for us all. And when I said, I went just coming to me to see me at the booth. James was on there with us and so is Jamie so was Cuba. So we had a lot of the British guys there. So it was a busy piece. Is it a trip though the first time I remember the, because I went for years as a sponsored athlete, where you just kind of there and people would take a picture at no idea who you were. And then you remember that year when, oh shit, these people are actually here to see me. Like, what the fuck? I remember the first year with I force that that happened. I came into the booth because they let me come late. I put my stuff down on my back to where I was supposed to be. Yeah, I want to go, you got some people. So I went to turn thing in like three. And there was a line. I immediately could have you. That was like, who do you think is here? You know, so that had to be a trip to have a line like that all the time. Because I mean, you know, what two or three years ago, you guys were essentially local. Yeah, it's, it's nice. I'm really pleased that we're able to have a positive influence on people's training in that way. They draw energy, motivation or whatever it is. It's a positive thing. So it's a really, really nice thing. When I reflect on it, it's a very grateful that we're in this position. How crazy is it, you know, like if someone went back years ago and told me, Oh, you know, some day people are going to be telling you that, you know, you got them into training. You can put muscle on, you helped and get stronger, you helped them compete. I would have believed that. I would have thought, oh, that's cool. But like you said, that girl came to you, girl, first of all. Yeah. Right. So that's already like from your whole life as like that's crazy and sane body builder. You just never, how many, you know, young girls from Sweden did you expect to influence? And then she wasn't even talking to you about, you know, being a champion body builder. Or any, she was talking about an eating disorder. So how, how crazy is that that your, you know, what you are, the influence from that can leak into something as far away as that. If you know what I mean. That hits us on the drive on the way home. But I'm currently, I will discuss saying that we would never in a million years of realize that we could have been able to get someone out of a spot where they would nearly dead. Just to be able to eat and get stronger and motivate them to get their life back on track, just to be able to live. And allow you to be able to think about aspirations in regards to competing. It was a, it was a real revelation for us. And one that we took really seriously in honesty, one that we were like, okay, so we were actually in a position of responsibility here. Right. Because if we're able to have that influence, then you need to, you need to own it. And it was, it was an interesting conversation that I had on one that we, yeah, we took, we took on board and we thought, okay, it's fantastic, but it's certainly something that we've got to make sure that we're able to, I suppose live up to in a sense. We really be there to help support people when they need it. Yeah, it's, you know, I mean, Dustin, I've talked about similar stories, you know, hearing from people and just being just blown away that that even has anything to do with me. You know. It's crazy. What, what about, what about the actual, you know, I mean, the news with you now, obviously, you're late as saying, no, we're going to get to it. But this personal shift that you've talked about, you know, we just want to kind of let you talk about this in your own words and hear it from you, you know, I went through my retirement and realizing that, you know, it was time to not do it. I was doing any more. And so I know I think I should probably have a lot in common with, you know, some of your decisions, but, you know, let's just hear it from the man. So, again, you guys know the extent to which I've pushed my drugs, I'm open with it. I, I, I, I can guarantee that I am one of those guys out of this pushing a lot harder than most, because I have that obsessive mindset, that obsessive progressive mindset. And I know that unless I took a real control of my situation, the in 10 years time, I would die without doubt. I would die. I would have killed. It would have been at the end of me. There's absolutely no way it could could go any other way. Someone that's barely five foot six that sits most of the time at least 285 up to 300 pounds. Was pushing drugs hard year round with short four to six week cruises just to kind of get their blood work back in line, just to pretend to themselves and their healthy. Right. Oh, yeah, my blood's a good now, yeah, close to there, because you've just taken six weeks off, so your blood's are acceptable. What about the rest of them's high one, they're fucked. And then you're just so, because I do have these goals in regards to business and I do see myself now in a position of responsibility like we just discussed. I felt like it was just it's just not smart for me to carry on the way I was when the rewards on that investment are not worth it. Because I'm not a champion on stage body. No problem. No problem to me. I did everything that I could do to and because I'm so hard, I created a physique that is never going to be one that looks great on stage. You can't put 20 pounds of potatoes in a 10 pound bag. It doesn't look great. It looks freaky as fuck, but it doesn't look great. And that's why if it's a most must of the world, I'm really twice a competition, fuck yeah, I'm going to win. But sadly, there's a few more other poses. And you're going to do the whole walk it on and off and. Yeah, so. I love to break down there. I smoke the poses, but that walking on and off thing. Yeah, I'll take one step back and guess what's the first scene is steps onto the stage. My god. We need to go. No, but we're going to help big and get this task. There's a helping up on. Stay away. We're all in mind. It's like okay, then now is the time to really take a step back on things and challenge my self to see how I can look on the drugs that I allocated myself. I like it to myself. So in my long record at T.R.T. plus because I remember I'm just taking 250 tests. By the way, you have to brand that. Oh, I know. But I have to kind of go into this a little bit because one clock soccer is already put. I'm going to say, it's not T.R.T. I'm going into all this stuff about it. Then laying into me some more so do. I just know my drugs from three and a half grams to 250 billiards. Like give me a fuck if break. I want you want me to. I was like T.R.T plus because technically 250 isn't. T.R.T like one 50 to 200 is. So I got T.R.T plus a little bit more just. There's some extra funness and we're going to see what happens. In two weeks I'm already down 11 pounds. Like because I lowered my gross from 15 and I use a day to four. And I was barely moving before because in my head I was like, if I move I'm not going to be strong. So I was a pretty sedentary on a daily basis. I feel like I'm pretty. For the last two weeks my steps have been over 10,000 a day. And already I feel fucking awesome. I think the weight is dropping off me really quickly. I feel really good for really fat. My strength. Yeah my peak strength will diminish. But our bread of still do things that I'm fairly sure will be half decent in the higher rate range. So I've never been fit enough to do that before. So once my legs are used to the steps that I'm doing are then starting my H20 cardio. And I'll be doing H20 really fucking hard three times a week until I'm fair enough to do a five click stiff leg for 20 reps. That's one of my goals. I want to stiff leg five plates for 20 reps. Because that's, you have a serious gas tank to be able to do that. And I know that I'm going to have to play in some serious work on the, on the bike sprint to build that fitness to do it. And I'll be able to do that on 250 tests. So I've set myself many goals like that. And that's the moment, sure. But nothing's going to change in regards to the way I eat the way I attack my training. Just in sort of sitting all year to 85 to 90, I'm probably going to be 240. And I'm just going to feel really that good. But the thing is 240 or five six lean. Still probably going to look okay. Oh, look, look, look, got down good and it's leaving a shirt. It's a shirt. And genuinely already that 11 pounds of shit that's come off me. My waist has literally come into inches. Already. Because you guys know, when you take your 15 units of growth a day, the water from that is, it's all in your gut. And then when you're taking grams and grams and grams of drugs, again, the water from that is all the ways all were my guy anyway. So obviously I've still got a good few weeks of the long esters floating around. But I foresee another two or three weeks being another 10 pounds down again with the way that I'm moving. And the once I start to my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, my, I have you changed your diet at all. Are you like, you know, taking your calories up a little bit to kind of match it. Right now I'm not know because I want the way to come off. And because wrong, honestly, it's been, it's the last few years of my life. I felt like I've been changed to the chair because moving around that way has been so difficult. So I'm just, I'm just done with it. Like I just want to feel good on the daily basis. Yeah, I want to be able to go on. Come long walks. I want to be able to enjoy those things. It's just I've just shifted the goal post slightly and regards to my fitness and physicoes. Do you remember. Oh, sorry, dry. I didn't mean to cut you off there. It's cool. I just want to just achieve that. I know that I don't need that. There's fine levels of drugs anymore. Hmm. Do you remember like, I, I've actually never talked about this, but I want to hear you talk about it. Like the first time you maybe got like a little scared about being so heavy. Because I remember being like 325 a whole bunch of off seasons. And then I remember one year I was like, Fuck, they existically, like statistically, this isn't good. Yeah, there was, there was a time I was, I was 380 pounds. And I was so heavy that even with my CP, that CP had mask on, just laying on my back awake. I couldn't breathe. And that's what's with my mask on. I was so scared to fall asleep because I thought I was going to die in my sleep. Someone was 5, 6, you should not be 300, 8 pounds. It's the bucket. Stupid. But this is, I, I have problems for sure. I, I, I, I'm the first of it. I am, my, my obsessive nature is dangerous. I know that. Like I said it in the past, if I wasn't addicted to this, I'd probably be addicted to some other kind of drug. Right. It's just, it's just the way I am. And now that that's being channeled into business. And now my obsessive brain is taking over with that kind of thing. And that's why we're, we're kind of growing at the right we are because I, I just fixate on something and I just go to work on it, go to work on it, go to work on it. And then that's also one of the reasons why I suppose I was never, I never able to really bring my look to the stage because I was so fixated on creating this in same level of muscle mass and strength that then when I felt I'd start to sleep away during the dog ends of diet. And then I felt so counterproductive to what I'd fixated on. And then I could break away from that. It would, it would have been really cool if I was able to do that fixate on getting peeled and then letting go because I am so obsessive. I was so, so like, okay, I need to be the fucking biggest thing you've ever seen at this high. It was a, it was very difficult to break out that mindset to then really get fucking peeled. So again, another reason why I was always kind of like six to seven pounds off of that really being on the jet because it just couldn't break away. I couldn't go through those training sessions where I was weak because then to me that was a failure. There was no mini victory that day. Right. And when I saw to strick along those days where I'm like, I'm failing, I'm failing. I'm failing. I'm stepping the gym, I missets and I lose my shit in the training sessions. Where I'm talking, I'm throwing plates across the room. Like, I'm going to give a full on. I'm going to keep pouring, it's pouring stepping out of the room because she's scared. I'm not scared of me, but you're scared of getting hit by a ball or a plane. Bye. Do you remember that video? You said me where you, the, the plates shook when we were doing the, the 405 dead stop rows. And they were coming off on him. So we had to stop. And he steps up like here, him start to scream and scream. Yeah. She cuts the video, I'm like, no. You know what? You just don't, and he's all stand there and go, my wife fucking, and he's going off on one. And like, the Smith machine was right next to the, the bathroom. I remember one time. This is the turning route and trying to flip over the Smith machine. This, this, this, this machine over. He's just like, right now, like, a fucking, like, lift this thing. So it was, I can tell she knew, because as soon as you stood up, it went off. She's like, I'll fuck that. What on tape, and that's it. I'm crying. She's so used to it. So so used to it. She will sense when it's coming. And I'm, I'm managed this situation pretty perfectly. She can't be down very quickly. That was lap, because I saw the plates moving and while I'm watching, he's at like 16 run, and we're trying to get to 20, but they're getting too close. I'm like, that plates can fall off before he can finish this buckets, because he had to set and the whole, wait, which shift. So we had to readjust every time I'm like, oh, he's getting pissed. He's getting pissed. Then he fucking went off there. Because it's, as well, because like this, for days leading up to it, I'll be talking about that set. That's the problem. Yeah. Fucking, going to get 20. Fucking. That's the problem. If it's a day, it's a good show about doing it. And then in that moment, I'm like, okay, this is everything. But this is like life or death. This is by world in this moment. So there's something kind of like, fucks with that. I don't know. Yeah. So it's funny because Ron talked about that last week, and I've been trying to, I've been using that with clients is the obsession, you know, most people when they go to the gym, they're like, oh, I got chest today. And like, the obsessives, when you get done with chest today, you're like, right next week, I got to do this. And you have seven days to obsess over what you're going to do on that movement that day next week. And when you tell that to even most bodybuilders are like, what? Yeah, they weren't expecting that at the whole time. I'm, I'm just like, yes, today, when we finished Paul's at the beginning, the moment I stepped off the platform, I literally was like, already talking about the numbers that I want to hit at the next session. I should, before we even go on to the next exercise, I was like, right next session, that's what I got to hit. So I fucking love it. Can't get enough of that. I had Dante actually, message me. So I have to make sure his question slash comment gets added into this situation. He said, I can't help but laugh that you think you're going to be shrinking so quickly. He, he and I have a long going bet because I told him when I was done. I was like, yeah, I'd like to get down to like 230 within a couple months. Yeah. And he was like, you'll be lucky to be 260 in a couple of months. So I literally have got a little quiet wager with him. I'm like, look, I bet you 500 bucks. I can get down. But what I think the point is, people don't realize and the reason I wanted to bring it up truthfully was when you've carried the kind of mass you have, the only reason your goals of coming down are possible is because they have become the obsession. It wouldn't happen on accident. Yes. And I think that's what throws people off. And it's funny that you and I are doing this almost at the same time in the opposite direction. It's like, I've been telling people, yeah, well, for the last two years, I haven't been pushing to grow. I just train. And they don't realize I'm like, I'm eating three or four times a day. It's not because I'm genetically gifted. I've been this heavy for so long. This is normal. Like you're talking about being uncomfortable. I feel like a ninja at two ninety. Like I'm just walking around like it's nothing. Whereas we're getting to where you are. It's like I'm dreading slash looking forward to, oh fuck, my shoes are way down there. I gotta put them on. It is fine. That's when the flip flops become life. That's another two-shown flip flops become life. I'm like five-foot and then one flip flops. They'll get around snow, whatever flip flops. Don't get a flip. Did you ever see like I assumed you got tagged in it, but someone sent me a photo once of a gym. They trained at and it had the gym rules. And it said, must wear proper shoes. No sandals or flip flops. And then one of the members wrote except GP. I didn't see it. I know. They're like, well, with that work or on the sign like except GP. You know, it's just funny. If I go to a gym, I don't know. I will have trained as in my bag. Oh, the sea out of respect. I would try if I can to be in there with flip flops. And then I will only put them on if I'm forced to. By the way, it's a meme that's a thing. If they asked me to leave, I'll be okay. I'll put my shoes on. You're, there's a meme of you coming out of the change room with your flip flops on. You know, with your eyes sideways like that. That's freaking classic. Don't see me. I got a good question here about the early days. Yeah. What was the first thing like when you look at the important elements of body building? Sure. What was the thing that you found easiest to nail right off the bat? What came the most natural? Like intensity or form or understanding mechanics or food training intensity. Training intensity. Yeah, from from from day one. So I was first thought first thought to lift weights. I was a weightlifting center, a national weightlifting center when I was 12 years old. And all we were doing was clean, statues and then pulls from the floor. So and when I was in that center, everyone there was a really high level lift up. And I used to watch him as a 12 year old and then really get into their groove before a big rep. And that became the normal for me to emulate that from a really young age to the point where then like when I was 15, 16, I was pretty damn good at it. And then was really, obviously as you go deeper through life, you then have more things that you can pull upon to kind of target those strings in your head. They kind of take you to that spot that you need to be able to train even harder. So as the years of past, I managed to get myself when I want to into just darker and darker places to just keep taking things there. So yeah, training intensity is always coming very, very easily. What would you say would be the last thing that clicked for you, the last thing you're element. Yeah. I suppose understanding the difference between moving weight and contracting muscles would be, would have been right that I didn't really collect click with that until like 2017. But that's what I can jump forward again and fill in some gaps on my muscularity that just with there because there were certain things that so when when when we live weights and we just move weight. The things that are favorable to move those weights will do with the null hyper trophy because something's going to move the weight. And then when we are really focusing on specifically moving away with something in particular. There's never really going to hyper trophy to the same extent until we kind of master that so it wasn't until 2017 that I then started to get better at that. To know some of those gaps. That's interesting because you know like you said something's got to move the weight. So even if you're not thinking squeeze and feel and activate and all those fun words that people use now. Bottom line is something's moving that way and that's that's why you put on what you say the first what 80 pounds we're from this training. Yeah, oh, just getting crazy fucking dense you just got to get strong. Right, like as long as you've got some kind of eccentric control of the muscle. Just a kiss strong as hell across all rep ranges and you're going to explode. But then yeah, you're going to be left with some gaps and then it's just knowing about what you need to do to fill those gaps in. Hey, what's going on guys? Thanks for watching another podcast here. Think Big Body Building Media and thank you to our great sponsor True Nutrition.com for making this all possible. True Nutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudeau, the creator of DC training. You wanted to create a supplement company that offered high quality third party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors plus health and performance supplements. Check them out True Nutrition.com and hey, if you use our code advices, you directly support our podcasting. Thanks guys. Let's get back to the program. I think you nailed something that's important there where you said strong across all rep ranges. That's an issue I run into. We all do every day why I'll use I hate the word heavy because they'll say, Should I train heavy or in the 12 to 15 range? I'm like, I still have it. It's going to be as heavy as you can do for 12 to 15. Yeah, you know, and I think that that gets missed because I'll I'll guys say, How do I how do I get past them? I'm getting X amount of reps or wait for three reps. I'm like, what can you pretend? What can you for 15? You know what I mean? Yeah. So there are some things that over the years because I know the way people were here things that they want to hear. They're heavy at that I will add to sentences regardless. So when I say they get strong, I will always say the phrase across all rep ranges after it. I will say every single time just because I know that these people have selected fucking hearing. So when they hear me saying get strong, they're thinking, Oh, don't just do doubles and trepons. So until you specify to ensure that they understand that we're going to get stronger everything. Then they're going to just misconstrued what we say and then they're going to misapply it. What I think if you do it correctly, it's funny because I you know when you and I worked together last year or two years ago, I guess now. My pressing was always weak still is compared to the rest of me, but you know what was funny was I had never explored the lower rep ranges. You put me in those ranges then all of a sudden my other lifts went up and I'm like, Oh fuck, even someone where I'm at the reason I wasn't strong as I wasn't training all the rep ranges all of a sudden my other lifts started to increase because I was never doing a six reps set that was what. Yeah, for me, so I use the phrase touching new weights and and it's just the idea of load exposure. So even if that's just for doubles, trebles, for us, if all of a sudden you start to put really, really, really heavy weights in your hands. All of a sudden your sixes and your eights feel like. Right. And they'll start to jump forward quickly, but the huge issue in that is then the propensity for injury. Right. And I never programmed doubles or trebles into anyone's programming because of that and then even with myself. They are pre planned double choice. So when you see those videos that go up with me sometimes doing doubles and trebles, they would days where I was like, Okay, it was probably going to be a six by thilf fucking food today. So because I feel good, I'm taking the trouble and touching new weights and creating that load exposure. And then I'm going to come back in next time and all of a sudden my sixes like 20 kilos lighter. Right. And it's going to fly. Would you say, would you say it's a good idea to not like if you're doing doubles and triples, are you training to failure? Are you you dialing back just a bit just to have load exposure? It depends. There's a great question actually. And I think the answer lies in as to whether you can safely fail at that lift percentage and most people cannot. Both people will start to break down in form in some manner or another. If they're not used to that kind of level of load exposure for me. I can do it to failure on most things. There are some things now that I can't decide like hurt myself in like last year I tore my quad. Shooting for a four rep banded leg press. I literally had everything on there. I had all the bands at the bottom of the repair. The press just heard it rip open. And since I did that, there is I every set I've done back on the leg press now has been 20 repers and I'm not going below 20s. I'm not going to do that. Honestly, I'm too shit scared about people thinking again. So it really depends on the exercise and the individual as to whether you can take that shit to failure. I think you find out too during the movement, especially when you're trying new movements with that. What I did that paused RDL that you posted up there. I quickly it was because I am in touch. I knew I could have pulled one more rep but at the bottom of the stretch I could just feel. Okay, this doesn't feel exactly like the last one did. So I'm about like, you know, something is shit. I don't know what it was but it's not the same. I'm just going to call today, you know. You spend time in the pauses under load. The damage that you can call or my saw is absolutely fucking huge. The mechanical structural damage. Yeah. Because from those, those pauses are crazy. And the only way that we managed to to top those is doing the double pauses. Pause off the floor. Come on. Lower down pause. I was like, Jesus Christ, these are hard. Yeah, those are run run. I did those as funny because I watched this video on the pauses. So I was like, all right. And I went down to the pauses. I literally in my head. I went one two up. So I was, I thought I had a rhythm, you know. Then I watched the video back and it looked like one up. I was like, I swear to God, I held that longer. You got to spend an age down there for it to actually look like a pauses. That was a full pause. But it was literally half of what I thought it was. I'm like, yeah. Is that fucking real? Like, I literally felt like I was hanging out there for a second. Time to stand still at the bottom of a stiff leg deadlift. You don't shit. But you see, you see, you see, you see. You see, you see, you see, you see, you see, you see. You just take that deep breath of the top of the wrap and like, okay, I did it. Exactly. That's where you need it. Is that the top there? Yeah, those things are freaking, I love that though. This is what he does. He finds a moment that's already hell. Then he goes, wait a minute, if we had a pause, it's worse. If we were to pause twice. I guarantee you, every time he says out loud, I have an idea. Everyone else than Jim goes, oh fuck. Well, I can't be good. Well, I can't be good. The gym is current. Yeah. Thankfully, she's fucking nuts. She might be sicker than you. So I got to ask about Coran. Tell us, when did you guys realize that you were both crazy? Like in the same way? Yeah, it was it. Was it after did you get together? Like, were you guys together and you realize like, we're both like, or were you already like that and that's what brought you up? She was, she was really totally normal. When I first met Coran, she never used to step forward. It's beautiful. What I met her, she was normal. Yeah, she never even stepped forward in a gym. And then all of a sudden, she's, she's very competitive. Right. And that was there. She was there. Yeah. And then she saw me competing at shows. And then I know that just one day on her head, she thought I could be these bitches. That's literally what. Because Coran was very kind of quiet and she would never say something about the housebound. But I know that in the back of her head, that's why she's thinking. I kind of fuck it's like everyone's in. But she was talking about everyone's planning. Not just the women. Because you know, you know, one time I did the math, what was it? Fuck. I can't remember what lift it was. But I did the math on her weight and her lift versus mine. And I'm like, she is kicking the shit out of me. Like it's not even close. I was like, well, I hope no one else does this math. Because that was embarrassing. Yeah. Yeah, she's she's an interesting one. We're really excited for the season for her this year. Because obviously last year she did get a stage. You guys probably were the single stage. The conditioning was. And landing. Just ridiculous. But she got told that she there wasn't women's physique. Rightly so because that on the day, I don't know what that was. But it definitely wasn't women's physique. She don't like it. So she's moved out to bodybuilding. She pushed up 40 pounds from her stage weight to her peak. Off season weight. Um, looks like she's probably got about 10 pounds new muscle from that 40 pound push. And now she's just dying coming down. She's ready to beat her conditioning from last year with a few more pounds of extra tissue. She's ready to sack off a few pounds of muscle to to bread a beat that level of conditioning. So I think that we're ready to see something that is going to be interesting this year. I think most people can even understand what that is though. I mean, truthfully, even if you share it because my very, very best conditioning was 2011. And I remember like I went to a story a million times. A Cito would tell me you're only allowed to think an hour ahead. Because when you're that conditioned, the idea of taking on your entire day mentally will be overwhelming. So he was like, look at noon, you can think about one p.m. One p.m. you can think about two because it's not you'll get overwhelmed because you're just tired. So when I look at her and realize, I mean, she annihilated my best in conditioning. I'm like, what kind of a dark fucking place was she in for like a month? So this is how fucked up is right. Did Deepa she gets into that spot the more she comes to life. And not exaggerating. And as a because she loves being in a place, if she knows other people can't get to. So every second of the day, she is running off of just this crazy feel. You wouldn't even know she was pregnant. I swear to you. Because it's fucked. It's really, it's a, that's the point when I really realize, okay, she's actually with a jet in all that. Because because I swear to God, she doesn't act tired. She doesn't act hungry. She goes into sessions still being her lifts. And it's because she's just absolutely loving it. And then that was also a realization to me where I was like, okay, that's someone that's made to compete at a really high level in this. Because they're not only able to get there, but when they get there, they excel there. And that was like, okay, I can't do that. No, my whole life in the world, that just isn't there. So that was kind of like a loss. She was like a bit of a realization from me. That said, in terms of my own competitive aspirations because I realize just one it kind of, I suppose there must be some kind of genetic component going on there. Yeah, definitely because we're like a joke around, it says she's crazy. Like there is definitely going to be some kind of brain chemistry where things are happening in her brain, that the art happening in ours and vice versa, that maybe she has something switched off in her brain at that point, where in ours, where even if we just fucking smell a bit of cake, we're like, get all our like sensory shit laying up all over the place. Whereas, how would you beat someone to see that position? Well, you said that the fact that it's all day is what blows my mind just, I can do it in the gym. I'll say that every ounce of energy I have for the 90 minutes I'm there, but the rest of the day, like throw me in a wheelbarrow. Did you need me to go somewhere? You're going to push me there like that. Oh, touching, I mean exactly the same. And I would be the grumpiest, nauseous, moodiest person ever. Like, so, yeah, it's interesting. I'm excited to see what she can do this year and how she fares. And obviously, if we can get her to the Olympia, like I never want to assume that we can, but I feel like that look is going to be hard to refuse on a bodybuilding stage. I'm pretty sure. It just depends how she compares size wise, but certainly condition wise she's going to make everyone look soft. That's for sure. That's for damn sure. And then it just depends whether they like her that look so fast. But at that point, that's kind of like where you are too, where it doesn't even matter because that's what you want to do. She absolutely does not care. Like, if they turn around or they're like, no, you're too hard. She'll come back and hard on next. She just wants to bring what she wants to bring. Well, I love that because it's you know, it's fun. I had literally six or seven people have asked me in the questions. If you could go back and change the way you train to be a better bodybuilder would you? And I'm like, I didn't even have to ask him that because the answer is no. I know he wouldn't. The only things I personally wouldn't have done is I wouldn't have abused the food as hard as I did. Yeah. Like, I don't, I don't want to comment about the drugs because that's just it is what it is. But there wasn't a necessity to abuse the food in the way that I did. Because I can't say whether it was a necessity to abuse the drugs or not. Because to create like that level of masculinity like that most muscular picture that you guys shared. I certainly couldn't get there without that level of drugs. But I do think that I could have probably got there without abusing the food to the extent I did. And then it would have been a more pleasing look. It's not a bit the only thing that I had a person to change. Yeah. Now do you think, now this is a question. Do you think that part of that is also the obsession with getting to that massive size as quite as possible? 100%. Like, I, I, I, I wanted it, I wanted it now. I wanted it yesterday. Like, Um, I, I, I, I, I, we're all in, in, in our, in our process, right. And it takes a very strong, world-individual. Right. And it takes a very strong, world-individual to kind of map out a game plan. There's a patient one as a bodybuilder. I believe, but especially when you're kind of social media influence. Right. And you're looking at these boys that are absolutely monsters. It's quite hard to say, okay. That's my five year gameplay. whereas some people, well, they've been a fact that I want that in 18 months. Right. And for someone that does have a tidy, way slimy, beautiful lines. If you do want to succeed on stage, you have to protect those things. Really? Really, do. But then again, you have to make the decision of what do you want. Do you want to be thick as hell? Then, okay, you're going to have to push some food. You're going to have to push some drugs. Both of those issues. I would count on us, but I never want to encourage people to push drugs. Make your own decisions about what you need and try and get whether it takes place least as possible. I kind of, I'm kind of talking about what I had to do with that. But, yeah, you just kind of come to those decisions as smartly as you can. That's what I think having the right coaches are good set up to. Because it's something that I tried to do now for my guys that are good. Yeah, I'm like, look, I was on the fast track. How quickly can I do it now? I actually don't regret it because like you, I think my physique is my physique and I had to get big. But I think, had I waited two more years for the same peak. What I look like today would be better than what I am today. Yeah, but undoubtedly, if you wanted to be a better, all the stage body builder, you certainly could have done things differently to achieve that. Is this, I have no doubts about that, but it's just too easy for us to look back and reflect. Reviewing things in retrospect, it's just too easy. Yeah. But, you know, we can impart that knowledge on to others and stop them from making the same potential mistakes that we made. Yeah, I like these potential because I also think and I'm like, yeah, I probably wouldn't change shit because it put me here. Exactly. That's always what it comes back to for me. Yes, it's, you know, if you find yourself at a place in life where, you know, you're happy and everything's going well and business is good and all that. It's like, you don't want to change anything in your past. You know, you just don't want to alter a single thing. I mean, so that's the boss of my effects could be unbelievable. Yeah, it's actually, you know, it could be just complete destruction of everything to, to actually go back and change any of our decisions. It's really bizarre, but that's, that's what gets me through not regretting anything. That's a hell. That's a hell. That's a hell. Oh, you know, but it's, it's funny, you know, myself looking back, you know, like I managed to get a pro card and all that, but you know, that was, you know, it took me my whole career just to get a pro card, you know, and, and a lot of people asked me, they're like, would you rather if term pro earlier and I'm like, nah, what have been pointless, you know, it would have changed so many things. I might not even do a whole show yourself that by saying it's pointless. You have to prevent this disease. Wow, you know what I mean, though, like, I understand what you're saying. Yes. Yeah, I would have changed a lot. You're a small fish and a big pond earlier and you know, I think it's changed for you that way. So, you know, I wouldn't want to all tell me that I'd be sitting here talking to you guys. Absolutely. I don't know. And I got to say, you even come to her for us. We're really, really happy. And I actually didn't come right here. I said, it's a stone. One of Cards, heavens. Oh. I actually did not come my hair. So, because this is the best that we all face with right now. Right. But easy up to just still one of her mouths. Well, it's appreciate that. Oh, yeah, I just want to make that. Because actually, I did not. So trust me, my level of fucks when it comes to coping my head is less than zero. Yeah, I kind of with low. I knew it was. Oh, it is lower than lower. It's lower. I'm pretty loving. We may have mentioned before that we saw you at an expo without your hair combed once. Didn't didn't seem to matter. No one cared. I surely don't. I got a few questions about, you know, those sort of ultra simple break it down questions. And I know that I know that that's an area of expertise for you. Looking back, if you had to pick one movement, for loading, they asked specifically about biceps and triceps. What do you think? Looking back on everything. If you had to do one movement for biceps and one for triceps, I know how you think, maximum tension, maximum overload, all that stuff, brutal, brutal exercises. What do you think actually are the best? For biceps, in my opinion, it would be probably just sing along. Standing cable curl or a sing along, preacher, machine curl personally. I think that all of the heavy barbell dumbbell work work in the world is not going to compare to just training your biceps. What are about a time? I think literally conquer a wrong wing. Do that. And then being locked into a decent preacher machine for me is just perfect. And then if you have the ability to have something like a striver or a prime machine where you could then adjust the resistance profile. As soon as you finish that set and they're like, wow, okay, that's pretty perfect. Doesn't feel much better than that. And then for triceps, and then actually the opposite. And then one alone, the valve is absolutely heavy as I can. And it'll be either a close grip press or a heavy sculpture. Sadly for me, but always don't really last very long. I do heavy sculptures. But my wife was feeling really good not so long ago. And I'm going to just sculpt pressure 100 kilos, like four reps. Be like pretty decent form. But then they were shot after that. Yeah, it's been, it's been, more typically like a narrow grip Smith. Something where you don't have to stabilize. And then you can just load the poundage because one of the kind of the rules when it comes to creating huge progress of overloads that we want. Something where we can create quite large amounts of stability. And then a Smith machine with a narrow kind of just shoulder width grip is going to allow you to really lose some decent weight. And then realistically from that, something's got a row and it should be a triceps. If they don't, then the row thick. That's interesting that you just said both the things that I know Dusty Toli agrees with. Now it's not shocking why I haven't ever even said out loud. Who I was hiring to help me grow in the softsies and everyone already knows. I don't even say anything. I'm just like, so JP's doing like, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's sent the contract. But yes, it's interesting. Yeah, you know, like a lot of people still have that mentality where like barbells and dumbbells for everything like you said. Yeah. No, but I completely agree with you about certain exercises, even on certain machines, just you can out load any freeweight exercise by removing all the, you know, stability factors and, you know, all that sort of stuff. That's, that's one of the principles that attracted me to like, hit training back and like the early 90s, you know, reading about men's or having guys training on almost all machines. Yeah. And I think he was so revolutionary in his thinking. We, we, we, we, we, we don't know that the him and then, Doria and the Dante that they were, there was so, so ahead of anyone else in my opinion, when it came to really understanding how the stimulate muscles to grow. I feel like, I feel like a lot of the guys at the time then just lifted weights had good genetics and then grew kind of just, because they were always destined to look that way if they just got a pair of weights in their hands. Yeah, but if you think about like curling a barbell, I'll tell clients all the time like they'll say, why do you like to use the cables on a curl? I'm like, do a set with a barbell curl? Now do the same thing with the cable. The constant tension you can't deny is ridiculous. Absolutely, no. But the way that you could feel every aspect through the range of motion through where the cable cow is is very, very different. Mm-hmm. Yeah. I've worked my way up again to 100 kilo barbell curls or 100 kilo easy barcals. Right. That doesn't even remotely compare to a single-arm cable curl using a small proportion of the overall load. Yep. I still think that, you know, Dorian came along. I was right there for it. I saw it, the arrival, the whole thing. And he changed everything. And everyone was thinking differently. And then Ronnie came along. And all of a sudden everybody wanted to squat again. And deadlift and lunged in the parking lot. And it was all good because they all wanted to train hard lightweight baby. But it wasn't Dorian's style of training. It was a, it was volume training. Yeah. Yeah. No, one, two, three, four sets. And the fourth set is a heavy hard one. And then the forms a little loose on it. You know, that sort of training. And he was super fucking strong, which was impressive. But he was also Ronnie. And I have no idea, still how he was capable of doing the things he did. Yeah. It's mind-blowing. It's, it's my, like, I'm strong on one set. If I do singles and doubles, working up to that one set. He was able to do some of that shelf to do like 12, 8, sorry 12, 10, 8, and then he'd then go like, I work eight or like a work in 12. Like it was crazy how much he was fatigued as muscles before he would then even do kind of work sets. Yeah. And the level of pounders that he was unable to use was astronomical. Yeah. The funny thing is is that whenever one started training like Dorian, I saw the whole sport progress. And then while everyone was training like Ronnie, I didn't think the sport really progressed as much because Ronnie's Ronnie. And I think that sort of interrupted the progress at Dorian's training brought us in a way. Took it out of the, out of the spotlight and put it in like the dark closets like where you were and where dusty was and I was and it wasn't necessarily the way everyone wanted to train. And sometimes I was wondering like, you know, we're seeing, you know, the popularity of progressive training, you know, largely because of figures like you, obviously. And I'm just wondering if, if, you know, what would have happened if that style of training would have remained in the main stream. Do you know what I'm saying? Oh, 100%. I think we just said they seem, well, I don't know if it's hard to say because the four whatever reason that we're still incredibly muscular and physique that came along. But certainly, yeah, it would have been interesting. I think what you see is the your top guys are always your top guys. Yeah, like they're always going to lose their, but your guys that are that next group and the one behind that those are the guys that are impacted. You know, I mean, let's think about JP, if guys like you and I trained like Flex Wheeler, you wouldn't even know our name. Like, but you'd say nothing. I mean, I would care how much drugs, how much food it wouldn't have happened. That's just the way it is whereas I think some, that's why I hate it because I've had people say to me, I've never seen Phil Heath do that. And I'm like, I'm a white human average genetic guy and he is the best genetics possibly ever. Why are we in the same sentence? Sure. Like, you know, or they'll on the flip, they'll say, do you think Phil should have trained more like you and I'm like, absolutely not. Why? So he's really injured. He doesn't need to risk it. The risk to reward is shit. The risk to reward for us is a must. But as he is, when you have a physique as talented as him, he doesn't even have to consider taking those mini victories from a training session. No. Whereas for us, please don't take this into disrespectful way. But that's kind of what we've got. Over to you. That's not doing that. That's a fact. That's that's so I totally relate to what you just said, dude. Yeah. So that's why we love training to make certain that we do. Because that's where makes, that's what it's what completes us essentially. And then that's why we have to take the risks that we do as well. Because the risks, the rewards, the bigger the risk, the bigger the mid-eventory. What's the talk of the fun? Like I said, I mean, like if you took away all the the the fame of trained by J.P. and you had a job working somewhere, you would go to the gym and do what you do now. Oh, because of something. Like that doesn't change and that's that's why like people got confused because they're like, no, you've been blasting for the last two years. I'm like, I don't know how to train in the other way. That's what I like to do. I wasn't trying to get bigger. I was trying to beat numbers. That was that was competitive against myself, whether there was an Instagram or not. I don't think most people can understand that that's just loving lifting weights. Yeah. Sure. You know, yeah. I wouldn't trade though. That's what's funny. I wouldn't trade with those guys even for their wins because I don't imagine that they love it the way that I do. Maybe they do, but I just have a hard time imagining it's as fun to squeeze weight as it is to squeak out one more rep. I believe that they love how to motivate the different things. Right. I genuinely believe that I believe that training for a lot of them is often a choreo. I've sadly witnessed it firsthand with very special individuals. They just don't love it. It's always like they have to do it. It's like fuck. I've got to go train. It's for us. It's like, I've always trained. They definitely love something else. I think they love the money, the notoriety, the fame. I'll take those as well. Can I both please? Thanks. Yeah. I got a few questions here that I want to get to because they're sort of a little more fun, a little more lighter. What's one thing about J.P. that you do right now that would surprise people in your average day. When I get excited by things, I'll happily do like your dances on the spot with Corrid. I'm a little dancer around the kitchen, but I think that's fairly normal behaviour. It's exactly, you should have you have your side by something that don't be afraid to express it. I think some people might find that quite amusing if they saw me do again. Because I'm not the most important day to personally. It only comes to me. Maybe get away. Do you guys play music around the house? Is that why you're dancing? No, it's just this if we don't get good news about something, something like actually goes right with some kind of the business situation. When you're dealing with so many other businesses and you're relying on so many different people to pull through, you get left down on a daily basis multiple times. When something goes your way or string things go your way, you're like, holy shit, this calls for a little victory dance. This does. Do you find when you're doing business? One year number one thoughts is I can't believe these people are in business. That phrase comes out my mouth about five times a day. I want to give you money to do something for me. It's crazy. What someone wants to know, are you still listening to the Lion King? You're ready to play. Of course, that's it. It's not really the Lion King. I say it is a couple of the songs from the Lion King musical. Yes, they're really really, I'm big into orchestral music. I'm really fond of classical music when I train. It allows me to really transcend it to be mentally. There's a few songs from the musical that are kind of orchestral versions. They're pretty special. I think if anyone shut their eyes and listen to them, they would really fire up some emotions in you. You should post those to your Instagram so that people can swipe up and have a listen. Oh, I'll close them. Yeah. The closest I have ever come to training to classical would be Metallica's S&M album. I have the orchestra. It's symphony, right? So there you go. I have a question for training, which I choose a good one. A guy says, belt use. JP paused without dust to use the belt on pause and rose. Why? I think it's just what you've been used to for a long period of time. Like if for example, dust to see when you first pulled, if you were told, you're not allowed to put a belt on, because that's what I always told when I was 12. And you pulled a lot, because I was pulling three times a week, always beltless, because the the the coach did like people for training belts. That was just the norm for me. So then that's also. So then I can't pull with a belt on. It will distract me. So I put a belt to squat if I'm just going to squat about it. Just because I can break so hard through it. But my heart increased my intra abdominal pressure to feel right. But when I pull it will just distract me. So then that's the reason why I don't get any additional support whatsoever. So I think that's what most people don't realize. I found out from a power lift or actually I was down doing my doing a training with a power to a filming and I put my belt on and it goes, what is that? I'm like, what do you mean? You're like, yeah. Why do you wear it like that? And like what do you mean? You're not even using the belt. He shot me. I had like three inches too low. He's like, put it on your stomach. Yeah. I'm pretty fucking thinking of like, so I've been bodybuilding for like 10 years and I've never never knew how to play belt on immediately that day. My left went through the roof. I was like, oh, don't you see the squat? If you don't put a belt on properly, it's a squat. And then you put it on and then you you brace hard into the belt before you squat. Holy shit. That's like 20 kilos straight away. Literally insane. I used to put it on like you put a belt on your jeans like around your hips or just kind of hit down. It was tight and completely useless. He's like, what the fuck are you doing? Frank's on your pelvis. Yeah, exactly. My hips are right in place now. Don't you worry. I'd dusty. I do have another one that I've had a few people last. And I don't even know about this. So are you intending now of finishing your PhD? It wouldn't be finishing. It would be starting. They're being generous there. Yeah. Because I have a masters. So then you're typical progression after a masters degree would be to move onto your PhD. Which at one point wasn't aspiration of life. But I think now that with the way the businesses are, I just don't see that as a realistic thing right now. It's not something that appeals to me. Like, occurring last fell a long time in academia. We did our undergrad. Then we did a postgrad and then we did masters and then current in a second fucking masters. So we spent a long time in that period. And then we kind of done with it now. I don't quite absolutely want to do a PhD at some point. Just because she just likes to one up and the on everything that she does. I love her. The real reason is because I don't want to. She just wants to just gain titles that she knows that I could never have. Like, European champion, well champion, I have to be pro doctor. Well, as with all those titles, she should also be paying all the bills then, right? You get to, it's pretty, I think they've got that actually to control as well. So we're good to go. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, dusty nose with where the payments come from. It's certainly not me doing it. Actually, I don't actually, I actually reach out to like, how do I pay you? I know how I can handle Corinne, but now that I want to hire you, how does that work? That's fine. It's good. Oh, someone says now that Corinne's going to be stronger, are you going to load her plates for her? Sure, let me load plates. You're not afraid, but this is, so this is one of her strategies of the way that again, that she increases her energy exposure when she gets into condition. So if I start to load a plate, she'll bark at me. Hey, yeah, or if someone else is there and they start to load plates, she'll be like, oh, never. Because the way that she sees the day is, she's, she's very good at understanding with her and body how much energy she needs to expand to hit the condition that she needs to hit. So she has to load on and off certain of our plates of a session. As burning a fair amount of calories. So yeah, she wouldn't let me do that. That's actually funny. It's a great way to help people with conditioning. I took clients that too, like, oh, you know, the grocery store, cool. Pick at the very end of the last parking spot. Now, while you're in the future groceries, push them all the way back at their put your cart back, like move. If you focus on a daily basis, every single task you do, it be able to expand to the most amount of energy possible before you know it in two weeks. She'll be seven pounds down. Yep. So you only have a JPEC, can you ask a relatively joking question and get a lesson in conditioning? And a lesson in how to make your physique better and your mental it's it's it's it's it's it's it's it's just I have a bit of a pep in regards to people just not understanding energy balance. If talking a noise made a lot because if all people did in the world, we just moved a little more in a little less, you know, we kind of have this obesity situation on the bit more of a grasp. Oh, and it actually just takes very, very minor alterations to your daily happiness. Sure, you you've clearly highlighted that, but really serious, a boring person. So I'm just going to try to fuck it up. Well, that's what you, what's funny is, you did it on the opposite of the spectrum too, like you said, when you when you're focused on growing and strength, you felt our way. Yeah. Yeah. And that's something that I think more people should just think about like same thing. What do you if you're trying to grow, everything comes down to input and output, same thing when you're trying to lean down, input and output. So which direction you're trying to go? Increase one decrease one, you know what I mean, it's it's really that simple. And that's why I think the Instagram world in the internet has made that not sexy because everyone wants to create this magical formula. I'm like, oh, you just need to move more. Yeah, for sure. One thing I used to do all the time, back when I worked in the bar, you know, all those years I was competing. Most of them I was working in the nightclub's bartending, right? And I would always make, I don't know why I did this. I just felt like it was kind of part of the fucking grind, you know? I would always make Saturday my lowest carb day. Your business and Saturday night was always fucking hell. And you know, you'd get there at 830, I'd shovel my meal down, I'd start at 9 and it would be just head in the ice, pouring drinks as fast as possible, ear plugs in, fucking crazy, thousand people. And then at 2 PM, you're done pouring drinks, have a meal, count your money, you know, fuck up through that, your soaked, your pants are soaked, your shirt soaked, just crazy, like hardcore, like fast working. And I'd think I got leaner today, real fucking lean. Yeah, this is a way I didn't burn, you know, you pound away isolate shake at midnight just to get through the stretch. And I'd always think those Saturdays, man, that's where the glutes come from. That's what I'd take tell myself, you know? And then Sunday, be my high carb day and I'd like fill back up on Sunday. You know what I was like, this is so ritual just to get through the whole process, you know? You know, it just make that the hard day. So is there anything that you sort of find yourself doing like that? Like, is there anything you always do on leg day because it's leg day or where don't you or, you know, just stuff like that? I'm sending a bit short of my daily tasks every day. So like every day is kind of identical for me. So it was one of the last couple weeks of been quite strange because then all of a sudden I get up in the first thing that I'm doing in the moment is getting out and doing 3000 steps. Like, there's 3000 steps every morning before my breakfast. Just just getting out and getting that walk in. And then as soon as I finish my breakfast, I go and do another thousand steps. So my kind of my habits now are changing because I'm trying to move a lot more. How long of a walk is 3000 steps? Like, what are you doing? It's about 25 minutes. Okay, I just have a little like circuit around where you live. Yeah, so there's this like a filled up where I live. Like, just just just really like, right up in my house. So I go out there. I just do a few laps of that. Come back in. Then have my breakfast. Simple. It's all about the simplicity. Well, I know we're we're we're winding down here. But if I don't ask my training partner's question, he'll kill me. He wants to know gold numbers wise. What would be a goal that you have for the double pause RDLs? He did him last week and he said the disgusting. So the last session I did a double pause. I did six plants for three reps with a double. And then we'd desuppose as well. I think I can probably get up to doing a seven place deflagra with a double pause. I think that would be that would be impressive if I could do that. Because it's getting that stiff like the getting that seven place going off the floor with decent stiff like shape and then pausing and then getting it going again, that would be tough. Oh, yeah. It is to be, I think that could be doable. I say that over like my peak strength is going to start dropping. You're mind of finding that the next question mark is how much weight can you do for 10? You know, it's going to be 20s. That's where it's going to be. I know the armamentiational cool stuff for 20s. Right. What would be some of the lifts you know when you look back on your peak strength to date? What are some of your craziest lifts that you're you're proud of stuff? 220 pound inclined dumbbell press double. I was fairly tough with that. That was second exercise in as well. That was after doing a machine press. It wouldn't have been any better fresh, but it just do. Because I was feeling like super warm, super ready. That was a good one. I pulled up. Just how you've been seven and a half plates for five pulled eight plates for three. So those were those with decent. With 220 pound dumbbells, are you, someone putting them on your lap for you? Oh, yes. I want to split them on my lap. I can't take them on off the rack myself. It would be too much. I'll see. Yeah. I take I pick one up off the floor and put it on my right leg because I quite like to do that and there's someone puts the left one on for me. But yeah, I haven't done my press in ages just because I can't be bothered with doing that anymore. Fuck around with the dumbbells. It's just a pain in the ass because you need someone to pass them up. So for me, I absolutely love the Atlantis inclined. If you use the Atlantis inclined press machine. I have. Are you talking about the plate loaded one? Yeah. Yeah. So we have like the one where you're seated pushing up. So yeah, so we have the flat one at our duty and it's just awesome. The strength curve on that is just awesome. So the inclines exactly the same, which is just a nice angle and the shoulder press of that as well as exactly. It's absolutely stunning. And then I don't like the flat line prime. I find that open up too much at the bottom. It's be vulnerable. But I do like the incline prime. So for me, those are their way more fun than dumbbells. So I said this to people before like, I mean, there's some very impressive stuff. We see on Instagram, obviously. But I've seen some guys that are like very, very good top pro guys who and you know, 160, 170 pound shoulder presses where they're being handed dumbbells and it looks really sketchy. And I just think to myself, man, as if I were that guy with that physique at that level, I would be locked into a Smith machine or something. Absolutely. Like the the the Atlantis shoulder press machine, I think that that is the best shoulder press machine on the market. I don't think that there's one that beats that. The on-puff handle the strength curve. Every part of our machine is. Are you talking about the one where the plates load down below your elbows and you can adjust the height of the handle? Yeah, fantastic. Is Star Machine is the one. Yeah, yeah, I love it. And you have one coming to your gym? Yeah. It's a lot of the yeah, it's going to depends on the space. I won't. I won't. I need that for a thousand square feet. We see. We'll see. What do you have coming then from a primer right now or strive? I mean, for prime prime. Everything. Do you said 16 pieces on it? You all played loaded? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, basically. Basically. Yeah. Yeah. Do you have much pinloaded stuff in your gym or you don't even bother? A few. Well, I don't know. I have a strives, tricep press machine that is incredible. It's just lovely. That's pinloaded. I have the arsenal donkey car phrase. I have to pin plates to it, but it's still it's a very nice pinloaded machine. I do have a couple of the prime pinloaded bits. I like the prime last year all that's coming. I like the prime pec deck. That's coming. Both of those are nice pieces. Beyond that, I think everything's played loads. Yeah, I start to be sick. I'll be sick. I can't see you guys playing Django to pull that shit in your gym. Did you already like literally no exactly where it's going and the figure that as you go? I was about. I was just one of this one. Yeah. I remember that's so funny. I remember that. If I look on this, I'll find about five more of these where I've changed my mind multiple times. Yeah, I'll wait till it's in the gym. Trust me. We do this like literally every week at the gym right now, because I've got two more pieces coming now. And I already know, I'm like, well, the entire gym will change three times. Okay, sure enough. Before we decide, I'm just going to stop doing that. I think so it's old and because I'm driving myself fucking nuts. We don't happen. Did you put something in the position? For example, yesterday, we had just changed where the hack squat was. Yeah. For space. And then because I have to factor in my job that I have to film it, I got on the thing. I handed my guy the camera and he goes, where am I supposed to go? And I looked him like fuck, we got to move this. This doesn't work anymore. Like, yeah, because we're backed up to the to the power racks. I'm like, you can't get the same. It's got a look. I can't get the angle ready. So I'm like, well, we're going through in this tomorrow. It's one of the biggest mistakes I've made so far. I had a really lovely platform built by some guys in the UK. I'll mention that they could land soil probe. Great guys. They bolted it to the floor. That's a good nice of them. Until that I was like, shit, I need to move that. So now I've got to work out how we get that back up off the floor and then re-git it back on the Yeah, it's not that terrible. You just want to put a million holes in your floor because we have uh, so so I have guys stand on the pendulum, the the humblur when I'm using it because I'm not ready to commit to where it's going on the gym and we've had it for like seven months. That's a good idea. But it's moved five times. He's hit a higher someone now. I'm like, you're a key. Well, you're a pretty key right now. She could just stand on it. I have people that they're always asked me like, why you got that guy up there? I'm like, I'm afraid the machine because it it flexes. Yeah. I think bends. So I put 200 pound plates on one side and then I have a guy stand on the other and that'll that should do until we can bolt the lances for. Yeah. But now the I think the problem too is as we've it's I think it's the best one. Yeah, saying, but I've had to add weight on top of where it goes because it only holds six of my plates. Yeah. Well, that's what it's got. It inflates for exactly the same place. I have the Arsenal pendulum. I only have a play on it so far because I like the idea of the adjustable foot plate. But I'm yet to actually go in on the work set. So I'm hoping this is nice to see Atlantis because the Atlantis is very, very nice. But I got to like nine plates on the Atlantis and it's still felt smooth. No, that things unbelievable. Like, as we I can't remember what the other one was that that my old gyms had great machine, but you were grinding through the machine and the weight. The first time I got on this, I was like, oh, fuck. This is another level. Like, it's super smooth. So I think I probably sold about 10 of them for them. Yeah. You should be on commission skitties. So South with an Atlantis kind. Yeah. Well, that's you know, that's what happened with with Prime. I think it was with Rob Bailey. They did a video one time and they were like, he was like, oh, this is my favorite piece. He kind of went into detail and all of a sudden, to guys at Prime, like, what the fuck's going on? They started selling this one piece. Yeah. Yeah. So they actually, they found out they had no idea who we was. They were like, hey, time. Yeah, this back in like 2015. Yeah. Who are you? Yeah. And what can we do for you? And they ended up like giving them a bunch of equipment for free to just keep promoting it. That's fair. I mean, the thing is that that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's that's how it should work. Yeah. I mean, if you if you're able to like transparently, that's why like the kid I just mentioned now, like with like the asshole kit, I'm not going to jump straight and say, oh, I got a lot of it. I haven't tried it yet. Yeah. So I and if a little of a sudden you see that piece of kit disappear off my gym. I wasn't that key. I haven't I have faith in that because of like the hack of the leg press. I love the hack. Like if you use the slightly shallow a leg press, I have to agree. I haven't yet. The solid is that's very nice. Yeah. I love the hack the one thing is I think I might be one of the first people to break it. I had a bearing fall out the other day. And he called them. He's like, the guys at an arsenal were like, we've never seen that before. There is like, we haven't seen what happens on this one. This 12 places, I don't miss my point. We we we we were bearing on the leg press, too. I replaced that, but our our leg press at our gym is like filled up 20 times a day. Yeah. It's just yeah, I mean, it's amazing. How much abuse our stuff takes. Like cables just break all the time. And I asked my repair gun. Like what do we do in wrong? He's like, well, it's just said everyone here trains heavy and and you know, people grabbed a little ball. Yeah. These two rear belts and it kinks it. And if you got like a bunch of people using 30 pounds, it'll still last a while. But when you got guys doing rear belts, like 80 pounds, and they're holding the cable. You go in and see people do things and then be like, oh, I just have to look away because you know that they're fucking the kid. No, I usually say I'm like, oh, hey, uh, I try to use a handle. They're like, oh, fucking, you know, we put stories up on the Instagram, like, hey, when you grab the ball here, God kills a kitten. You know, if you leave a plate flat on the floor, God kills a kitten, you know, like we put that up a few times. It's pretty funny, especially in your gym, plates on the floor. And uh, yeah, that means a carine kills you. Yes. Yes. In another couple weeks, she'll fight me because she'll just get her extra toss or a way to expand energy to badly dig that play also through. And as well, we appreciate everything, Jordan, you know, as your second appearance on the show and, uh, you know, it's it's it's obviously, you know, your time is valuable and you could be on anybody show and you're here. So we appreciate it. I'll land and feel on anyone else's just doesn't even go past the chat with you guys. Honestly, well, I genuinely mean that because I actually just don't really like go go podcast that much anymore. Unless I'm friends with the people and I know I could actually have a fun chat with you guys as always that's a thank you. Oh, no, Jersman, good luck with your brand and thank you very much. All 10 things that you're doing at once. And, uh, and I can attest you that even if you lose 40, 50 pounds, I guarantee you keep a lot of your strength. Well, because the only things that my strength is really shitty on are things that are injury related. Yeah, but the stuff that I'm healthy on, my strength is still pretty good. You know, and that's like yours down the road. So I can imagine you're going to be six plates stiff legging at a bodyweight of 230. We'll see how it all unfolds. But no, I really appreciate the guys on that. I look forward to seeing you by hopefully as soon as possible. Yes. Travel. Okay. Thanks, man. Cool. Have a great day, guys. You too, Jersman. There you go, Dusty. Smooth it. It's really good. Smooth the silk and we kept it for like two fuck of that was a poor guy. Almost. Yeah. It's fine. I didn't even, I feel terrible. And I hope that the fans that do watch us realize that that was a jam packed episode. And I did not intentionally ignore 700 questions. I got to like four of the questions that were on here. And I sort of like kind of grouped some of them together. And a lot of things I had a lot of that to where a lot of guys were similar questions. You know, one thing that was very cool that I that I didn't bother bringing up because it came up naturally. A lot of women asking questions about training and stuff, which I fucking love. Like, yeah, the crossover that they have created is unreal. You know what I mean? And I think it's also because the respect is is across the board. I mean, how can you not respect what they're doing on all levels? You know what I mean? You can, you know, that old saying like, you know, if you're a hardcore body builder that is able to make it in whatever that means, you know, it gives you all these, I mean, in order to do that, you have to have all these other skills that later can translate into something else. That's a skill too, it's like switching, switching focuses is also a skill. You have to be able to do that. But if you can turn that corner, it's like, watch out. I mean, you could tell, you know, he's holding up blue Francis talking about 10 businesses and yeah, I imagine it's, you know, I imagine it's pretty interesting to be around that house when they're talking about business. Oh, God, it's going to be awesome for sure. That's that's why they're they're good to watch so because I kind of laugh. Somebody asked me, well, the questions was where he sees himself in 20 years. I didn't bother to answer because I'm like, who fucking knows? Yeah. Well, I think he sort of, that's why I asked like, where did you see your brand going and that sort of thing, you know, so it sounds like he, he just sort of does what he thinks is right that day. Yeah. What I did, I mean, and I've got a little bit of an inside being that I'm working with him on the clothing is his vision is different. So we didn't have discount codes. And I told him I said, hey, you know, I'm, I don't need any more financial upside here. I was to have solid, but how do you know we're helping? And he's like, oh, I don't, I don't even, he doesn't even view it that way. He doesn't want to make sure Dusty selling clothing refused the brand as exactly what he was describing the beginning. If you are someone who loves to fucking train then this is your brand. And that's why if you look at who he's got on the brand, they're all people that love to fucking train. Yeah. You know, I mean, we're all very, very different athletes, guys, girls, you know, classic freaks the whole bit, but the one common denominator is if you threw all of us in a gym, we'd have a good fucking time. Yeah. Yeah. And I love that though. I read, he sent that to me and I literally read it and I was like, got it. I like, I felt like I had a media understanding of his entire business model. I was like, oh, okay, you don't need Dusty to sell T-shirt. Yeah, you know, which was, which was really cool plus it fits my style because that's where I took to condemned when I went over there. I said, yeah, I'm not, I'm not really a guy that's like, I use this, but you'll see me use it. And I'll love it and you'll see me in the clothes and people will start to click. And now the only things that I post or the things I use and that's why people buy it. You know what I mean? Yeah. The whole, you know, like he was talking about just being open and real and all that stuff and, you know, he's just got such a personality for that because he's able to just, you know, let it all out and just be, be, you know, himself, which is, you know, the reason why you're sponsored and reason why I'm sponsored. So, you know, and as the love for the training being the bottom line, you know, like a lot of people, you know, ask, you know, what motivates you to train now? You know, and my father is, lots of things like, you know, obviously I want to stay looking like this, right, you know, and then there's a mental health thing. And, you know, my day is not complete without it and I just love to move weights. You know, I love the feeling of the pump, blah, blah, blah, blah, there's all a whole bunch of reasons. But yesterday, actually, a trained chest yesterday and I had one of those, like he said, those little victories and there's not a lot of those now, right, because, you know, training for different reasons and thinking about it a little differently than those like micro victories. But I did, I did a working set of dumbbell presses, right, and I got eight reps, like barely got eight, like the eight wrap like, Braden was like hovering, you know what I mean? And then he had this spot. Yeah. They spotted me on the ninth and the ninth was like a spot. Right. So I didn't go for a tenth, you know, put the weights down and I was like, fuck, that was a pretty good set, actually, because I wasn't expecting, I didn't know if I'd get eight or not. That was an easy. That was like, fuck, that was pretty good set. So I was happy and I thought, and then we did our second set. And I was actually going to do a back-off set. But we're at the stage now where Braden's stronger than me on his opener. Right. So he rolled his dumbbells out of the way and he rolled my, dumbbells that already used back in place. Well, that already there. And I was like, well, I guess I'm doing a second set with the same dumbbells, right, right? It is, but I have a fuck, you know, I'll get five or six. Right. But then when I put him up, I got him up on my knees, I just thought, fuck, why can't I get another eight? Right. And I just, I don't know, was it's able to like dig a little deeper or something, you know, and bam, got fucking eight. And then the ninth was a feather spot. So I did a tenth with a song. So it was a better set. So it's actually a better set. Right. And afterwards he's like, that was a good set. And I was like, yeah, that was a fucking good set. I still got it. You know, now it's still there. I still got it. That little like, let's flick that switch. Flick that switch. I love that though. When you, when you, when you, but you said though, I think it's funny as I described it. When you put it on your knees, it's almost like you knew. Yeah, I'm like, no, one time there. Yeah, what, why did I already commit to less? You know, that's, that's kind of it's funny. But I did the same, same, but totally different. I actually yesterday, because I, I used the machine yesterday, the newbie while training legs. And I've never done that before. And I know it, it makes it harder. So I just, I told Dom, I'm like, I'm just fucking training heavy anyways. So I'll either get buried at five and find out it was too much or whatever. And he was like, okay. And then I did the workout. And I mean, I don't, I have nothing to compare it to. So I thought it was good. I, you know, it wasn't the same weight as I've done before. But that was also strategic. I've been off for a week and a half. But I thought it was good. I had multiple people message me that used the newbie all the time. And they're like, what the fuck was that? I'm like, oh, I didn't, I don't know anybody. So just seem like the right thing to do. Apparently, you're supposed to be way weaker. And to me, that means you're making the decision right to be, and I'm like, no, because I don't know any better. So I just trained to fuck that. Just, they do feel it. Is there a feeling? Or does he turn it on in your like, oh, yeah, I know, like, because we, we were doing different things switching the currents during my set and after my set, he, I mean, the depth that goes into, I'm not going to insult the equipment by trying to explain it at this point. I don't want to hear your suit. It's good enough. It's good enough that I'm, I'm I'm one. I was on my own. I was like, I've used it. He's been using it now for digestion. He's been using to help me sleep, which is actually fucking working. I slept seven hours last night, which I don't do. So it's worth the 18 grand. I'm like, fuck, I don't know get one. Thank you. I mean, literally those things alone. And then the recovery stuff. He's been, yeah, recovery stuff. He's driving on the PayPal. Exactly. That's pretty much that was working out. What I have to have one now for, not for the training stuff though. It's funny. Everyone's using it. And I'll pepper it in here in there, but to be honest with you, I'll just have him do it. I'll pay him to come do those, because yeah, I don't want to manage it. But I'm there to the one thing Dom was really, really good at in the beginning. I mean, I've got a fucking tail now. I've got this thing attached to me. After the first exercise, I forgot he was there. I was just getting in and out, because he was moving for me. He was adjusting the only thing he'd do it. He'd like him to flip the current. So if it was in my quads, he'd flip it to my hands and you'd be ready, because you'll feel it, because you're just, when you'll feel your muscles tighten, if somebody didn't tell you, it would fucking scare the shit out of you. I mean, they fight. Oh, okay. But, um, incredible. So it's funny, you've got this piece of equipment that everyone's using and respectfully, 90% of people have no fucking idea what it is. They're not using it right. They're not doing it right. Multiple people in the city have them, and I wouldn't trust anyone to touch me with that thing, but him. Yeah, so it's like, I don't, you know, that was I told him I said, look, I don't want to start a business. I don't compete with you. I will send all my people to you, but I need to buy one. I need to teach me how to use it and he's like, okay. So I mean, it's not what they're doing is sick and he's actually starting, he's going to have a recovery gym. He just took on 5,000 square feet and is actually going to have a place where he and Abby his girlfriend are running them in there helping people train with them, recovery, posing the whole bit. So, uh, pretty excited. There's always something going on in this fucking city. I love it. Well, if I ever, if, if I'm ever allowed to leave Canada without having to do a government quarantine upon return, I'll come down and we can, I could finally train at that gym you're at. Oh, yeah, I'd love to do a session with the newbie. But put it on one of my fucked up body parts and see if I can feel it better. You know what's crazy? So he started doing he did some bone work on my shoulder where I had the surgery. Literally set it up again, not can explain what the fuck I don't know. But he worked on me for two and a half hours the other day, and intermittently was plugging in different things on to me. No, no manual pressing on me. My range of motion within 20 minutes on that shoulder was night and day. Yeah. I'm not going to ask. Thank you. Yeah, just relaxing tight tissue and yeah. And then he did, he did a digestion one. He literally told me he goes, okay, this is the end of your session. So I'm going to do this real quick. He goes, but go straight home. You're going to have to go to the bathroom. Yeah. Like Dr. Kipati coffee. He's really, he was like, yeah, you'll have to. He goes, probably a couple of times today won't be nothing drastic. He goes, I think it's going to be a work better. And what was funny, he also did some stuff. He's like, you know, I mean, everyone in the world knows I don't sleep. He was, I'm going to put you to sleep. So go home, eat and then you're going to need to sleep. But I was like, we'll see. I'm driving home. I had to call my girl and just stay, keep my eyes open to get home. I got home forced my way through some work and finally I submitted. I was like, dude, I got to take a 30 minute nap. Two hours later, I woke up. Two hours after that, I went to bed for eight hours. I called him morning, like, what the fuck is this thing? Like, yeah, this could, this could take me to another level just being able to sleep. So yeah, immediately worth the investment. And Roden has won a couple of the guys bought him to just to have so pretty sick little, so awesome, man. Well, I want to hear more about it when you get one yourself with a fucking issue. Yeah. When you actually know what the hell you're talking about, that'd be great. Yeah. Also, a lot of people were like, did you guys take a week off? And I don't think we posted anything. We just missed didn't work. Yeah, we're not showing up this week. We pulled the opposite. I thought we were going to like put up a pipe. We should have put up a post. We just like didn't roll in. It's like, what's my look? Is that's how I approached the entire thing? I actually went on the trip. I emailed all my clients who are not in prep. Right. And I said, hey, I'll be checking emails. But I mean, it's going to be three or four days before I respond. So like, 22 hours into this vacation. I'm starting to, like, I can't move and finally, she's like, go work. Check your phone for an hour. So every morning, I spent two hours on and literally, I only had promised myself I wouldn't do a start in new clients. Right. But I couldn't. I'm not wired to take breaks. I don't know how the gym was fine. My body was beat up. So I had no problem not training. But so every morning I had work for like two and a half hours to start the day. And then get rolling. But yeah, we just checked out completely on telling everybody we weren't doing the show. I forgot people watch. Yeah. That was it. I had people to gym. I liked it. You guys, it's not do one. Like, I guess we didn't. I bet we forgot it was Monday. Yeah, I forgot anyone watch. But here we are with JP and I hope everyone likes this episode. He's great. Always great. And so looking forward to next week. And I think actually I've got a few people requesting to be guests. So we don't get back to maybe every other week. Because some people, we just out that I was like, I'd love to have you on. I forgot that. Well, let me know. Yes, let me know. Yes, I'm going to say, well, let me. Let me. That's telling me who's on. I'm like, what? What is that? I told you, Rogan. I wanted to do this. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. Thank you, Dusty. And remember everybody, it's just body building.

And I'm already using insulin pre-workout. I'm gonna take a closer look at my entra in it. You're repairing your mitochondria and you're bringing them up to optimal levels. Your cells are healthier. You're gonna get more life cycles. All right, let's try again. All right, let's get nasty James. That's a big dumbbell. Yeah, it is man. And it's matchery on pillows. Makes it even heavier. Yeah. And the cuff are, I'm over he is too, you know? What I'm noticing that positioning is that his back is not coming off more than like, like an inch or two. And that's my biggest critique with people on his exercises. They start here, then they're up here by the end of the set or by the end of the wrap. Yeah, he's on his elbow. I'm going to allow him to, he'll run his hand, he can get up. That was a great point. That was a brutal set. What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Coaches. Skip Hill and you're very, I've Scott McNeillied. All our programming is brought to you by you. The people of Patreon. Thank you guys very much for your support. I think we do have a couple of Patreon questions today. Load us up over there. Try to put out early releases on Patreon. And you guys get priority and getting your questions answered. Our programming is brought to you also by trunetrition.com. Use our code, think over there. Get some additional savings on high quality third party tested supplements. And we are brought to you by supplement source.ca for Canadians. Guys, they have great deals on short dated and label change products. Plus all your normal stuff too. So if you're often candid, check them out for some good deals. So we've got listed questions and you guys are welcome, by the way, everybody at home to load us up with questions for the next episode. And thank you for watching. If you're new here, we'd love to have you along for all our shows. We have several body building podcasts that come out each week. For those of you who are cooking your food while you're watching us, thank you. That is the highest honor of a YouTube bodybuilding channel that you would prepare your meals while you're or doing cardio while you're watching our show. We wanted to start out today. I haven't watched this ahead of time. I don't think you guys watched this ahead of time either. James Hollings said like nasty trainer like old school kind of hardcore dude. But he's also got some new school stuff too. Like he doesn't go quite as dark as he used to. You know, he has a video called How I Built a Top Tier Back. And I was like man, I want to see this. But not only do I want to see this, I want to watch this with skip and angels so we can talk about it at the same time. So I've got that one all cut up here. We've got James. I don't even know like what's going to happen here if there's going to be any kind of preamble looks like he's not in the gym out the gate. We're a find out. For it's a school 101. 8. 8. One hour. And the girl reading on sugar bar builds company. I don't know if I can get out of this bar. This does not look like a gym. He's got some work. He's looking for a look. It's like an art studio. Yeah. Yeah. That is what we did today. We'll be training back. And I've got a high day because my body weight is really low today. So it's going to be fun. It's going to be a bit. All right guys. Welcome hopefully check out the last video, which was the Lachar and Tux. Here in the gym. He's back day in house gym. My favorite gym in Norway. One of my favorites in Norway. Oh, I hope you can check it out in the previous videos. That gym is not on the floor. In my bedroom. The most down to earth. Biggest from good natural lighting pictures. It's available. That's what I'm seeing too. So you haven't checked them out. Go and have a look on there. Now we're going to mix up today. We're going to take a little bit different. We're going to show you some exercises. Some alternatives that you haven't seen yet on the channel. Because there is so many different bits of care here. So we're actually going to... We're actually going to use an assisted pull-up machine today. Which is something you've forever seen for a long time. Guys, do assisted pull-ups every? Great old piece. That way. Really. You can kind of really hurt my shoulders now. And I'm doing how to shoulder stuff to increase mobility and crease capsular space. I do love them as an exercise. I know skip like so. Yeah, I do. I'm a big fan. Do you do a memory week or? No. And I typically only use them with a neutral grip. So feel better on your shoulders? Honestly, it feels better on my bias. Okay, well that too. Yeah, it's just an add. And because I'm so narrow or shouldered anyway, it's not a great feel with the traditional grip. You know what you used to have Andrew? It was we do this. You may have heard of this term. I think you called it like the gauntlet at death or something. It was a John Meadows thing where you would do... assist to pull up too wide. Too medium grip into narrow grip. And you would get a full stretch at the bottom. And when you pulled up to the top, you'd pull all the way up to the point where you're like looking over the machine, seeing all the dust that never gets wiped off the top. And then slow negative down, like a gymnast would, you know, like that gymnast level control. Oh my god, dude, every time we did those, my back would literally spasm on the right home. My lats would. We used to do banded with John. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Sorry. You start out with regulars. And then immediately throw a band in there. So you get a few more reps and then take the band off and then he pull on you as you held it in the midpoint for like 20 seconds. And you're like, yeah. Call the Eiff contraction in the back. Where's the really wide it changes the emphasis on to the mid back. So I'm trying to get a little bit more lats. So kind of like a shoulder-width grip just a bit wider. Since like Skips Jam. And uh, thank you for applying the right upwards. Oct. And my hands a lot to keep roll forward like the other of the motorbike handles rather than roll back. Just a quick note to about the assisted chin. I much prefer the old school side backs that you put your feet on. Same versus the middle. Oh yeah. I agree. I know you're talking about. Yep. Just take it time. I really think about way you're talking about. Skip, can you lean into your mic a little bit more something because I feel like you're a little bit quiet. Compared to the other volumes. How about now? It's good. Okay cool. Now is it true if you pull with a really wide grip. It's going to work with with and if you pull with a more narrow stance, you're going to get more thickness. That's what that's an Arnold side, right? I think so. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For a bit more progression. Like an outer pull down or a pull over. Something else this also essentially going to work the lats. Well that's what we just got to close up with that beard. Yeah. That's a man beard. Yes. 30 kilograms on there. System. So, by way 120. I should only be put in 90 kilos. You're not a weak eye on them. Also this though, I do appreciate assisted and banded over regular pull ups. Yeah. Yeah. I just I feel it my lats way better. I feel it my back overall way better. You could control it more. You can control it. And I know I'm using my shoulders if I'm using. If I'm if I'm doing it, you know, freestyle. Yeah. Two. It's counting. Five. I know that feeling you keep reducing the amount of help resistance. And you go to that point where that work on set comes and you're like, God, do I even have anything on here anymore? You don't have any? Yeah. Yeah. Thank you. I think it's good because it just keeps you your your your your your your body straight up and down. You're not doing a lot of this lean and back stuff to make the movement or a row. 100%. 100%. What much longer position? I'll tell you. I like the look of this jam. I like that. There's good. This particular movement. I feel like you get a initial talk under the armpit. Which is not working very well. Sometimes you know what I mean sometimes he's talking down into it or when he's breathing when he's when he's training. I think he's like, you know, because he's training. He's moving around. Yeah. We got a little different angle here now. What is that? Jingle all the way that poster on the right. Yeah. It sure is. You talking about that calf machine? No, no, the poster shorts and egg your movie. Oh, I think they're about that calf machine back. Those are hard to find. Are they? Yeah. I think I've set pretty good. I'm so excited as well. So I'm just a. Sliding up those reps. If a little bit less load, see you still got a product to set. I'm here because the movement the way I feel is I'm just going to repeat. You're saying, hopefully, get a few less reps and just push towards the thing. Probably hard to find just because if you have an angle like pressure basically getting the same move, the same movement, the same angle on the calf anyway. But they're pretty uncommon from at least from the gym's I've been in. About as uncommon as a regular pectac. Yeah. Good luck finding a regular pectac these days anymore. Yeah. Good stretch there on the east that he's getting. Yeah. I like that big stretch. You know, skip. We're talking previously about favorite comedians on the pre-roll before the episode last time. Yeah. And it underrated, I think Arnold's actually a good comedian because his acting is so bad. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That is overacting like a serious movie and you just start burst out laughing when he says something. Yeah. I love you. Okay, I love this gym. This place is cool. What's it called? Harol. London gym. London gym. It's a little bit different. You do like a underhand or another hand. Harold's? Harold's gym. Oh, they're in Norway so they spell Harold with the day. Yeah. Can't we go into a pull down? I'm about to lean about here. And then pull to the upper back. Okay. Does the lower back be different? Make sure elbows travel a little bit forward. Is the art is arc and arch the same? This far as British? I don't know. Well, uh, because they're not the same for our, I'm not. I mean, I mean to be pedantic here, but they're not the same here. So I didn't know they were there. How often do you guys do like a pull-up and a pull down in the same way? No. Not often. That's the first thing I was thinking. Okay. How about you? Rarely it's usually one type of pull down movement. And then usually a row with a neutral grip, a row with a pronated grip, and then a pull over or something else that I'm working on, typically. Yeah. If I'm going to be redundant, it'll be out. Or you're going to fast. Now, sometimes people really do try and hold back. It'll be unrolling. If I'm going to repeat. And a lot of time, then they get to this weight that's heavier than that warm up, and then they can't even do eight. Repeat and that, this is repeated and exercise. Like eight on a warm up. And that isn't a warm up. It's just be really honest, because that's something you don't see happening a lot. I see a lot of people trying to go away heavier because some inside does all suck in such a thing. You notice this machine, you have to have a certain level of quad size. Yeah. And the machine and it actually like gives you some resistance on the thighs. Yeah. Just using it now. Yeah. Which is powered at him. I mean. But I don't think there's any adjustableness of that thigh. That's not even a thigh pad. It's a metal tube. Yeah. You see someone do five plate bent. Don't do this machine the day after like day. Yeah. That they will dig right into the quads. I think that he lower that down. Yeah. Watch it jumps. Change is it? And then the bug cuts might keep your eye in that pad. Go that bar. Here we go. That's some old school equipment right there. And it's down. It's lower. You're right. You're right. Oh. He's going heavy now. So I was watching him before. And I was like, okay. James isn't really moving that much weight. It was just a warm up. Now he looks like he's about to see the ground. Now he's only going to do one or the other. Which one are you going to do the lap puller of the gym? Depends on how I'm feeling. If I'm feeling energetic, I'm doing the pull-ups. If I'm normal, I'm doing the pull down. Because as far as the feel is concerned for me between the two exercises. I'll take the assisted channel daily. Would you? Yeah. But you know, I'm just going to do it. But you're going to do it. If I had to use that grip that he's using right now, I would never do pull downs again. For the rest of my life. It's too wide for me. I can't get a new trigger. Oh, really? That's my money right there. Is it? Well, you're a big guy too. Yeah, you know, James is a big guy. He's got a wide frame too. So you guys can make use of this. He looks good on it. Looks like it's working for him. Dude, the other thing I'm noticing. Look how close I think that's going to be. I noticed in look how close his knees were to that frigging stat coming down. A second ago, it was like a centimeter away. And I'm like. Like it's deep in the. He's working this set too. Like this is hard. A little bit of body English air. Yeah, oh, yeah. I don't think to the point of unacceptable, OD. No, I just being an armchair. I just say for anybody watching, they may be like, well, that's a lot of moment. I'm sure the 135 pound broccoli head kids are going to have some to say about it. Why he's not achieving the lat development that they have. Right. Yeah, right. Yeah, I have nothing to critique on anything James does if it's, you know what I'm saying? It's like if it's working for him. Oh, what I'm just making commenter, I wouldn't personally know you are. The critique, but an athlete of James's caliber on pretty much anything. Yeah, no, I don't know what you're saying. The guys still squat seven plates for ten reps or something like that. Like, you know what I mean? And I tell you, there's certainly a pattern where extremely well developed physique. Rarely will have flawless mechanics. I think people like Nick and, you know, like even Roman Fritz and guys that. That's true. Yeah. Justin Shire, another exception. It's almost to the point where it looks like there's no intensity with some of these guys. And this isn't a critique, but with like Nick or just just in particular, it almost looks like there's no intensity in the training because the reps are so textbook flawless. Yeah. And obviously it works for them, not knocking what they do in any stretch of the word. But whereas like you see James here, like he's grought in, like you see like he's more dramatic looking. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But then when you lift and you see like the weight that there he is in, like Justin on that chess supported T bar and he's got like six and a half plates on it. It's like, oh God, just moving that at all, you know. Yeah. And you're absolutely being nothing can ever get in the way that I feel. And that this is a normal to you is breathing oxygen. All right. We'll see this set and I'll jump forward a little bit into the next. Next. Next. Next. No more more than breathing fucking oxygen. Many only want to jump. It's got to be like the increasing. Unconditioned love you have for a parent. We miss some stuff here guys. You have the same love for this. You won't be married to this. You've got to turn up every single fucking bay. And love it just as much the first day if not more as your athletes. Very long the line because it's really hard ever. You know, everything he's saying makes sense. Like to people who are, you know, passionate about training and everything else. But do you know how bizarre that would sound to the average person? It would just literally make people roll their eyes and be like, yeah. Okay, buddy. I see you meet about those knees there dude. I'm getting worried. Very close. Maybe it's the angle. It ain't that much of an angle. I see what you mean skip that like to me that was a completely normal statement. Like I totally understand that. But to somebody maybe who's like not into what we do they'd be like, dude, it's just weight. It's just been lifted. Get out with your life. Yeah. But I also think it should be pointed out to maybe people that aren't in a place in life, financially or you know, career wise. You can't necessarily have the body building as life attitude because well, you got to support yourself. You got to pay your bills. And you should be moving forward because at some point your physique isn't going to look the way it did in your 20s and 30s. You know, I think I totally, you know, relate to what James is saying with an asterisk of like, but also as long as it's not deterring you from moving forward in life in general. Yeah. I read it as this personally. I read it as that when he says like show up, it's like, you got to bring that intensity. Oh, god. I'm you get in the gym. You know, like there are no days that you just kind of like just halfway do it. Like every time you train, you got to be on. I got you. Don't say one side show because you're in the rush. Oh, dude, I see that all the time. He just said, don't sell one side short because you're in a rush. You guys are everybody sends you video and they do one side of a row and immediately jump straight into the other side. Without having taken a break and I'm like number one, that wasn't really hard enough if, you know, you didn't take a break and number two. Yeah, I don't know what number two is. Number two is if it was hard enough, your short change in the other side. Yeah. Just from an oxygen utilization standpoint, you're going to gas out before you're even hit muscular fatigue. This gym has a third floor. Well, tell you though back in the day. One after another. Yeah. Yeah, like it wasn't waiting. No, you never waited. Really? No, never. Is it because you had a buddy training with you? You were just like, yeah, I don't know. I think it was just so because I was trying to think of the reason. It was just accepted that had you waited. It probably would have been like, you doing. Yeah. I get after it. Seriously. You train one side of your body today. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I feel in James is going to go hard on this set. It requires a lot of energy. So I remember Evan Rissane. He's going to move into a new and a prep. Calarific. That's what we're going to power. Let's get next. Alright, let's try again. Alright, let's get next in James. That's a big dumb buck. Yeah, it is. And it's matching up with the wheels. Makes it even heavier. Yeah. Yeah. And the couple I'm going to over here is, too. You know, what I'm noticing that positioning is that his back is not kind of more than like like an inch or two. That's my biggest critique with people on this exercise is they start here. He's going to be up here by the end of the set or by the end of the wrap. Yeah. He's on his elbow. Yeah. He's on his hand. That was a great point. That was a brutal set. Beautiful. As he said, beautiful. Yeah. That was good. Left on. Yeah. I love to get. Yeah. We're in a position in the world now in today's society where you can, he can have that. This full-on conversation with us in this gym talking to himself and nobody cares. Like they totally get what he's doing. Yeah. Flashback 20 years ago would be like, this guy's crazy. You know, talking to himself while he's working out shooting videos. I don't know. I feel like the guy's back the day that we're on his caliber body building. Why is there beware in the zoo baths pants and, you know, the t-shirts with like the strings cut into them. So you're like, oh, that's a bodybuilder. Stay out of his way. He's going to be a crazy shit today. Yeah. He's he's talking to himself. Yeah. Come on, James. That's the last one. I'm getting pumped up now. I want to see this. Yeah, my back. I'm getting ready to row. Yeah. Me too. I'm going to do rows next time. I'll bring back. Come on. Oh, yeah. That angle dude. Nice. Come on. Good stretch. Let's go get his elbow up too. Yeah. Nice. Those are all full reps. Good point, man. A lot of full reps. Come on. Nice. How about that? Yeah. Nice. Those are all full reps. Good point, man. A lot of full reps. Come on. Nice. How about that? Nice. Nice. How about that? Yeah. Blue the whole set about that. Good job. Resisting negative on the way down. This is not even left. Yeah. But so far, you know, what these, these three exercises, bread and butter, they're basics. Yeah. There's nothing now, old here. Well, and I also want to point out he's in a contest prep. Right. As he's saying, like the calerific exercises, he's probably not having to do a shit on a cardio. Because he had to do a, you know, machines that are comfortable, that are keep them and, you know, a seated position. I'm going to hit the most ridiculous. He's doing the hardest stuff possible. We're here, relax, short. Loans are man, so you can win the show as soon as you turn around. You're only going to do that by lifting some serious 10. Yeah. Yeah. Lift the 10 for the win. That was a decently short break if he's going to move into it, considering what he just did. Yeah. Strike it. Yeah. How many reps and reserve was that? I know. My the only one checking out all the people in the background, too. Of course. I'm watching it. We don't see really well in the right angle. So you can just get straight in there. It's a pool. Just pool with all of you. I think that calf machine is older now. It's muscle. It's got the chrome plates on it. So let's just make sure that we use as much force as we can. It gets a really nice stretch on everything he's doing with his back doesn't he? Yeah. What's his machine called? I don't even know man. Yeah. Skip. Have you seen this? No. Not from that angle. I think it's a pinata. Is it just mirrors? It gets a little wider as he pulls out. As he pulls back. Yeah. I think it is a little. Yeah. That's nice. Yes. Yes. Yes. Let's see. It gets into some cable. Yeah. This gym is amazing. I love any gym that has the old pictures up around the top. It has some level of some type of wood paneling in there. Yeah. You know there's been a lot of good physics through their old years. Yeah. I always say like I like my gym's clean but not like back clean. You know like a lot of the gym today. Yeah. Like I like it. It's got some some life to it. Some you know it's got some history. You can just kind of smell it near. Quite a lot of things. And notice like it's got the pinata stuff but it's not the brand new pinata stuff. I always like the older versions of good equipment versus the new stuff they make. So do I plan? I don't be beneficial for back. People always think. But it's definitely fine. I felt pretty good to be fine. So we'll do that again. When it comes to time. Rest up a little bit first. Be nice if they made a. Again pully row along pully row within adjusts. Seat bench too. With the what? Just a little seat bench. Oh yeah. Yeah. When you get adjust the pully obviously too. The seat bench will probably be easier. Let me ask. Let me ask you guys. What do you think about like when you're doing the rows? And you notice how he was like lean forward like Arnold style at the stretch. Yeah. And then kind of using his back to pull and then got a full full row at the end. How do you feel about coming forward like that? I can't do it. Yeah. I don't like it. Too much. I think it depends on the situation. If I had somebody who really need to. Bro, they're like they needed a lot of lats. I would want them to be more locked into it. Because I'm afraid that they're going to start using more momentum. Yeah. Whereas if it's a guy like with his experience, then I'm going to be like, well, you know what you're doing. You know. And if you even if he is using like some level of momentum, maybe that's alone him to get a better negative. Like I have your negative, you know, But for somebody that doesn't have a back, I'd be like, yeah, let's not do that. I think it would be said though that technically. The directors should be used for bracing only, not for movement during that exercise. Well, the extension is the wall. Yeah. So he's not going. He's going to want to see a solid. That all in this workout during contest prep, you know? Yeah. I'm sorry. I should have said for our audio people at home. I should have been telling them exactly everything we're doing. He's getting into that. That's now. The director's going to be terrible when I'm in it for audio. And how many working sets so far is he doing? Two lap hall arguably two assisted gyms. That two, I think what he's doing is two top sets. Trying to match reps on the second floor. I think what he's doing is two top sets. Trying to match reps on the second floor. One is closest. He can to what he got on the first floor. Yeah. So two four six. Then the banana machine for eight. And then this will be the second set of day or ten. Oh. I'm liking. You're like seriously. He's got to have some fun. You're like seriously. He's got to have some Viking blood in him. Yeah. This is where I tap out. Oh. At the end. You know, all that other stuff first. If I were to do deadlifts, I would absolutely put him at the end. This is what we used to always do training with Shelby. Yeah. I'm not walking around with Lord that. I'm trying to do other other back exercises. And it limits you overall strength. Yeah. I'm going to use on that exercise. So it's going to be a little safer theoretically. Yep. Yeah. I don't know how I'd be able to do those. Don't want to have them done. After doing that. Yeah. Exactly. Come on. Yeah. Yeah. If we did a DNA test, that's how you see the his Viking blood. We've been wondering more stuff. Some use intersection. We have the industry. Rist and wrap with the rubber adhesive. So I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. It's a good thing. The black and closing the back. The thing about hip-ing and two muscles. I'm still doing some hypers and tapping that. Wow. Get enough low back. This is an old school back workout. Yeah. Really. It really is. I remember doing work. Probably the exact same workout to a T20 times over my 20s. Pulled-down. Pulled-downs. Pulled-downs. Rose. Deadlifts. A couple other machines. Another thing up with hypers. Yeah. None of this. I wouldn't call any of this easy. Like, no, this was like, here's the easy. Here's the pop stuff. Yeah. I just sent you guys a picture of the new straps that I have. And I've training for 41 years. This is the first time I've used them. And I love them. I have always used the old school cotton. I've tried other things. I hate them. I go back to old sheep old school. Cotton ones. But I got a pair of these and I freaking love them. It's obviously it's a pair. I'm not going to train on time. Yeah. I don't see either. Oh, really? Oh, maybe it probably went to Instagram. Sorry. Oh, okay. That's my favorite. Oh, yeah, dead. Yeah. Okay. Just because I know this works. So the grip, they're comfortable. They're super easy to get onto. Just. I really like that. I really like that. I still know. I always do muscle rounds. But not. Muscle rounds are going to make sense. I thought four sets. Let me see. Muscle rounds. That's not the one I'd discuss. It's a little bit less. I'd say it's a little bit less around. Because the fatigue is pretty real on this. And I can't even do it. Muscle rounds for my legs. I don't need to do two sets. Yeah. Yeah. Because you only go to failure once. But you get a lot of volume in. And it's helping me to limit the central nervous system fatigue. I get while still getting in a good amount of volume. Okay. And then my legs are feeling pretty, pretty toasty. You know, the next day. Nice. Without trash in my central nervous system. Because it's the same volume. Oh, you sent that to Will Chung, too. Oh, did you? Oh, yeah. Yeah. Oh, I see them. They're like verse of grips. Yeah. Yeah. Lead FTS version though, huh? Yep. All right. How much it was on the website? Free. Oh. Yeah. Everybody else? Ha ha ha. Gosh, I don't even know. I'm not sure. Verse of grips are expensive though. Like 80 or 90 bucks. Yeah. So they weren't anywhere near that. I want to say they were 30 or 40 bucks. 35 bucks. Something like that? That ain't bad. No, not at all. No. The outlive of men is anything with elite FTS. I think it's just, I can't damage it. I use these sheepskin ones that I have had for years. I love leather straps. Yeah. See, I don't because they feel slimy. That's why I like the cotton. I can't even really nylon because it's, it feels slick to me. I like the old school cotton. And the only reason I like these is because it, it almost feels like it's, has tacky on it. Ha. Like, this is sticky. This is a different exercise. Yeah, it's going to say this isn't strike me as like a traditional rear Dell. This is like kind of, it kind of goes against the grain of trying to keep your knuckles as far away from your midline as possible. Like bringing your knuckles to the wall. Okay. It's, I mean, I'm not going to say it doesn't work. It's obviously. Yeah. It's like a great broke. Yeah. It's kind of his version of a dumbbell upright row. But the pronated grip though, it's making your target those redouts a little bit more. I don't really count as well because it's not. By intense. Yeah, for anybody who still is listening to this on audio guys, go to Spotify or to YouTube. So you can see the video box this with us. Just tickle the red out. Just tickle the rear doubt. So again, I'm on a 16 key. I saw. It's all right. I think it was one of the, every time that I think it's done, it's not, it's not it. So, let's go to got to do calves at the end. All right, James. You're a freaking monster. And I think we can all agree on that. We'll stop it at that. Wouldn't it be nice if your job was to continue becoming the best body builder? Like, like your livelihood, your, your sponsors are paying you to do this. So those calves as an afterthought, they're not an afterthought. They're, they're what you do. You're perhaps, you're stretching everything, you know? Yeah. That's pretty cool. Yeah, I agree. I agree. It's pretty cool. I'm a huge fan of him too, like just his personality and everything about James. So I, I'm excited to see what you can do over this, you know, in this next show. I don't think the issue with James is ever his preparation or his musculature. I think for him, it's those last three to four days where the pictures we see where he's bone, dry, a collococcation field like seen his so thin. And then what you see on stage is you're like, where'd they go wrong? Because he tends to have a, like, a watery, not as dry look as some of the other competitors. And sometimes it's skin tone and the way the tan hits some of the white guys, you know? Yeah. I, I'm like, I mean, you've got, I've always been a fan of his. I wanted to see him nail his peak. And I think he did a good job. I got to see him in person at the Detroit pro. That really best. Yeah. Second row man six feet away from him hitting his most muscular in the post. I don't, you know, and yeah, it was so good. And I talked to him and his wife afterward. And what it's been to is that they, they've had to load him was so much food. And it was her. She had said that she had said, like, hey, with how much food he's eating, Stefan wanted them to keep it clean. She was like, no, he needs to eat a burger. And they let him go out and eat a burger and fries or whatever. And like that worked better. And so they realized like they got it, they've been trying to keep it super clean with tons and tons of super clean food going in. But they, they found like, they think there's something to it adding something that's going to be a little dirty or to really get that pop they need. Mm-hmm. Makes sense. He did look a lot better Detroit than he did was at the Arnold. I believe. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. He was still pumped. Like he was number one just like honored to be there again. But then number two he was like, we're on to something. You know, like he had that attitude, which was cool. Nice. Yeah. It's awesome. Hey, do you notice this Andrew jumping straight into listener questions? And you guys are welcome to comment with more questions. Rascal says does SLU raise heart rate. I noticed it raised my heart rate and it initially it raised my blood pressure too. Yep. I'm not going to say it's a side effect that 100% of people will experience probably 50-50. Yeah. And so to the case where some people it's like we have to back off the dose because you know, there it's bedtime their heart rates 110-10-10-10-5. Yeah. So yeah. No. It is a potential side effect for some people. So, you know, we talk about compounds being pretty innocuous in terms of side effects. This is one we probably should mention that I always do forget to bring up. Because I see it as, I don't see it as much of a body building supplement as an anti-aging kind of health supplement. Yeah. And I know what I'm saying because I really do think you're repairing your mitochondria and you're bringing them up to optimal levels. Your cells are healthier. You're going to get more life cycles. You're going to get a longer healthier life out of it. So, when I talk about these things, I think of a more as a background health supplement slash. Like taking your car into the shop to get the oil change, the fluids stopped off before you get on a long journey. Yeah. I love that analogy, man. I think that I can't think of a better one. You said that I'm the show a while back and I've stolen that and I've used that now when explaining it to other people because I think it's so just bang on. I have so many analogies in my training partner. She would always be like, oh my, hold on. Let me write this one down. She's going to start an Instagram page with all my analogies. You know, I'll be sitting there and I'll be like, we know a prep is like a journey. You know, when you're going off to see and you got to make sure that you got the right amount of food and you got the right amount of clean water and you got the right amount of vitamin C. So you don't get scary. Yeah. Like a lot of all these funny analogies. I end up with a bunch of them too. Like, well, it's like driving a car. It's like building a fire. It's like cutting a lawn. You know what I'm making. I know this. What about the Daniel Ask Us how many weeks into EQ cycle should one check for thickening up the blood? It's first off, it's this is an exclusive to EQ. You know, all PDs. I don't know of a in a ball of the endogenic compound that doesn't have an effect on blood viscosity and whatnot, right? Can you guys think of any any. So yeah, so I mean, I would just say that as a as an aside, but I mean, I don't know, I've never started a cycle and had a full panel done four weeks into it. Right. It's more like, okay, let's see after 10 weeks or 20 weeks of the cycle or after the cycle or usually before a cycle to make sure it's okay to do the cycle. So I can't give a direct answer. I don't know if you guys ever done labs like three or four weeks into a cycle and been like, oh, my blood's already up. No. And even if it was elevated, my next question would be, well, how much more is it going to elevate? So to really three or four weeks in just doesn't. It's not, yeah, or would your question be like, what are you going to do about it if it is? Yeah, in a sense of, are you going to stop your cycle? I mean, I would check usually, well, usually we want to know before the cycle, right? Yeah. Are you already borderline? Like, because you know, there's the argument nowadays that used to be 15 years ago that we, we would like everybody was like, we got to keep your hematocrit in range, you know? And now everybody is kind of taking the opposite approach where it's like, oh, it doesn't matter. Metacrit, did you hear it doesn't matter at all? Yeah. You know what I mean? That's kind of the vibe I get. But it's like, well, okay, so then is okay, so 50 is that's, that's all right, right? How about 55? Okay. How about 60? About 65? Like, how, what, when does it not become okay? Like, what stage of kidney failure is acceptable? Right. Right. Yeah. I mean, I think the, what you got to look at is you do in the cycle understanding that you're doing some type of damage to your blood work and your organs, right? And then the reason, the only reason why we ever go off PEDs is to have that time to recycle replenish and and reheal those markers, right? Otherwise, if these things didn't happen or they were not a big deal, we would just stay on massive cycles at nauseam for the for all the time, you know? So I think it's the, if you have the thought process of I'm going to do the cycle, I'm going to see where I'm at afterwards and figure out how much damage quote unquote I've done and then have an appropriate amount of time to deal with that damage. Not just to clean it up, but to have a period of time where you're in a good health phase, you know, because in Dante, you always used to say this, okay, you got your labs and eight weeks after your cycle and everything's normal. But did it just get normal, you know, seven weeks and six days into it, or have you had a period of time of, you know, a month or two where things are good and normal. So I think we always got to keep that in the background in terms of our our thought processes. I have clients sometimes do blood work at 15, 16 weeks out and because they'll say, well, how long, you know, do I do the cycle? Yeah, how long are you comfortable doing the cycle? Because these are the risks and these are the pros and cons, but if your markers come back and they look pretty good at 15, 16 weeks, we should know the four to five weeks. At that point, it's not likely that all of a sudden in four to five weeks after being on for 15 or 16 weeks that you're going to then all of a sudden have a grieges, you know, number. I'm going to fall off the cliff in four weeks. Yeah, and that's it all, so I'll check before and if everything was in a position where we're like, hey, we're probably pretty we're good here, you know, these at these levels. I might check again at that 12 to 16 week range if we're going to say to ourselves, let's try to push it. That would be the thing of like, okay, we're at say 14 weeks in and we're thinking, everything's telling us like your strength is getting better. You've got a lot of room left to grow, you know, like you're not holding a ton of body fat, yeah, everything's telling us like, let's keep doing this, but let's get your lab work done and see where your hematocrate is, you know, that's kind of where I've usually taken it and then we can make it decision based off of that. And sometimes we could still stay on, but you know, looking to supplementation or maybe that is where bloodletting comes in. I almost feel like nobody wants to bloodlet me more because. I've had a crits totally fine, wherever it's at. Yeah. 65, it's fine. The other thing I'm seeing a lot of is clients sometimes that maybe they're not as experienced in terms of, you know, competitive cycling, all that stuff. They they run the health stuff that we ask them to run when they're on the cycle and then the next check and comes in and like all this stuff we had them taken was missing is missing. And I'm like, hey, I noticed he stopped taking such a burger mind, he stopped taking you know, X, Y and Z and I'm like, why? Oh, I'm off the cycle now. I don't need it, right? And it's like, oh, no, no, no, no, like like, and this is one of those layered costs of bodybuilding. In my opinion, you should be on those things, especially when you're off cycle when you're going to get the most benefit of it because let's just say those things are keeping you at a certain level. This is not a apples or apples analogy or whatever, but let's say they're keeping at a certain level, right? You want to improve and you want to improve it a fast rate in terms of your health. So wouldn't it be incumbent to keep those things in because of the health benefit? Like some people take these health benefits without ever taking PD's for their health benefits. Yeah, I'm saying, you know what I mean? Hey, what's off guys? I've a lot of people who reach out to man and regular basis who are trying to more effectively reach their goals. One of the biggest mistakes I see people make is that they're not getting enough protein and there's only so much chicken breast we can eat through the day, but we can easily add a high quality protein supplement to boost those numbers up. Trinitrition has just about every protein powder you can think of from high quality weight isolate. If you don't tolerate lactose, then you can use their beef isolate or you can use their P protein isolate if you don't eat animal products. So literally have everything you think of. I believe in them for like a decade before they advertised with us and they never went out of their way to say like, hey, we want to promote our stuff through you. I literally asked them because it's a company that I believe in and at the end of the day, I want to see you guys reach your goals as effectively as possible. So if you use our code, thank you Trinitrition, you'll get some savings, you'll help to support our programming and you'll get some high quality products to more effectively reach your goals faster. Hey, skip, question for the night show after a cut how long should you take before you bump up the calories so you don't get fat. And how how to speed back up your metabolism. Cheers guys love the show. Mmm, that's so individual. And at the same time, we've tried to put numbers on this before trying to give people an idea. You know, coming off of a really aggressive cut, you're probably good to go, you know, 20% on your calories at first, 20, 25% and just evaluate, you know, from there and you know, cool thing ahead of. I have a client who came off the show got into great condition that we start to reverse out. And his calories are literally over twice what they were in the cut and the skip load is all day on Saturday with a meal Friday night before bed. And he is out, continuing. He's only added three pounds to his stage weight. The metabolism is responded so well to the adjustments that we've made. This is only over the course of just, you know, eight weeks or so. It's in there somewhere, eight, 10 weeks. The calories have come up considerably, but because the incremental changes are relatively small outside of the first one being, you know, and I had soft top my head that it was probably 25% Yeah, it's just been 200, 300 calories a week after that. Now it may not have been exactly that, but it's in the ballpark of that just changing every week and then adding another skip load meal and then adding another, you know, there's getting seeing what I call a baseline. Yeah, or the first four or five weeks and I'm like, man, I got to throw more calories at you because you're literally returning to your baseline weight every week as we add on these calories and of course he's getting significantly stronger because recovery is, you know, much better than it was before the calories are higher. And here's very, very low. I believe it's TRT, but I have to check on that, which just reinforces that a lot of times when you come out of a cup phase, whether it's a show or a pretty dramatic cup phase where you got real lean and that means your real insulin sensitive. You're going to grow without that gear. You just don't need a ton of gear coming into an increased calorie, you know, basically going into a surplus and building those calories. Now I'm not going to sit here and pretend that who does this anabolic is gear, but I do think a lot of people don't accept how anabolic the increase in calories really can be. It's almost as if you can count on the food before the gear in the off season, especially coming out of a cup phase where going into a cup phase, you start to as the calories get lower and you get into a deficit, you're almost kind of relying more on the gear and less on the calories. So it becomes this, you know, this switch. 100% I agree with that. Andrew, you could have a jump in the next question. Well, I think I'll say real quick is that, and it sounds like that's a reverse done 100% right skip in my opinion is why not get in shape early enough that you can really kickstarter start that process four or five weeks out. Yeah, you know, I mean, I can use a wife as an example right now she's eating more food than she was in her off season at the peak and she's in her contest condition. It's just kind of continued and yes, there's some help with retto and there, but it's been kind of cool to see just how being someone can stay well essentially almost doubling their calories. All right, what about what supplement Andrew, would you look to add pre intra and post and do you guys notice the difference between creating forms like monochidrate versus HCL so he's looking for supplements that you would take pre intra and post workout over the counter stuff. I'm guessing is what he means so no halo. Okay. Yeah, pre workout, you know, honestly all the supplements out there the same in terms of pre workout pumps there they're there to increase phase of dilation to increase your pump so you know, our genin, off key to glu rate. Citroen, I probably going to forget a bunch, but those are main ingredients and a lot of these pump products right and then intro workout. It depends which goals are, but I'm a big fan of intro workout carbohydrate, it's a high molecular weight carbohydrate like highly branch cyclic dextrin with essential amino acids and then I like to include creatine or creatine depending on who we're talking to or talking about. In that product in terms of creatine, creatine is the by far the most studied sports supplement in all of human history. I think I looked it up. They've spent something like 400 million dollars on experiments with this between creating monophosphate. Creatine, Ethelester, creatine, Alphacuticolourate, creatine, Malay, all the different creatine hydrochloride and what they came back to after spending all that money trying to find a better, more efficient creatine. Creatine monahydrate. The same will fashion, creatine, pure from Germany is the best source. So yeah, I think what you find with the other creatine sources sometimes is some gastric issues. I'm a creatine malay, creatine Ethelester was causing some GI issues for a lot of people. Creatine monahydrate and I'll say this too before I move on. Creatine monahydrate. I'm a big fan of larger doses of it. There were periods where I was like, creatine doesn't really do much compared to testosterone or compared to some of the other compounds. Yeah, which it doesn't, but, okay, obviously, if you had to take one or the other. Yeah, I'm under trend E or creatine monahydrate. No, but you know, I think upwards of 20 grams a day for a guy over 200 pounds is totally fine. You know, not necessarily on one dose, but the guy myself, I take 10 grams in a morning and I take 10 grams into workout. I've been blasted in 10 to 20 somewhere in there for the mental, the brain stuff all the stuff with like dementia and all that. I'm like, man, I don't, I don't need that stuff and I probably will be the first guy to get it. So why don't take some creatine if that's going to help it all. Skip, do you have any any supplements that you would like to say like this in because I think Andrew covered like a lot of the bases and I know you're not a creatine fan, but is there anything that you're like, man, I do like this one around training. I don't know if I notice anything specific with any of them. But on paper because they're relatively inexpensive, I have put creatine is a good example, but I'm not a huge fan of it never really have been then I thought you know what. This is really inexpensive and I'm already using insulin pre workout. I'm going to take a closer look at my intro and I put in like a hydromax and I put in and put in the creatine as well and I can't say that anything is like, wow. But on paper it all fits together well the EAs the the carbs I tolerate I have a hard time tolerating intercarb well. So my body has been very picky about the intercarb's I can use so I have stuck with carbonyl just because it okay just seemed you know I go back to like the days of waxing me is an and I still say I will continue to say Dante hates it what I say this. But I believe this I'm not you know battle in him or anybody else on it I could be wrong but I say that when you leave waxy maze like you shake it up and you leave it for three minutes it starts to separate. I think it does that and you're stomach it has to to some degree to the point where it's completely separate no probably not but does it doesn't don't it separates well if it it my point is just that it it will end up that it will be I almost see it in my brain as a thicker sludge in my stomach. I probably you know what happens because in G I I'll tell you I happen because it's not an isotonic solution anymore and if the water is separating from the actual carbohydrate source. And you're absorbing the water in your lower GI as it's passing through now it's telling the rest of your body it's saying hey we're in a sympathetic situation where we're trying to train but we're also engaging parasympathetic we're engaging blood flow and and water to the gut. I'll dilute the solution so then we can keep passing it through and absorb it in the small intestine so I think you're right skip. About the waxy maze a hundred percent it'd be the same thing is trying to drink um. I don't know like a way further example is you know you can take ground oats and mix them into water and yeah if you drink immediately it's in solution. If you let it sit there for two minutes right oats are all in the bottom the water is the top it's the same thing now we wouldn't drink be drinking oats during a workout but. You know what I'm saying it's we wouldn't be trying to drink oats and workout but it's sending mixed signals to your body via the brain saying are we in parasympathetic rest and digest or we in sympathetic fight or flight training right so. I can see why somebody's carbohydrate sources wouldn't work for you. I remember you guys might too the the Targo experiment just Justin Harrison Steve Kukulo and they both said that they tried to load. It would be a big part of it that he had to be a little bit older because it would on the Targo and it just felt like this massive lump of gel in their stomach and and I can see that because the viscosity would have been so. I mean think about how thick and nasty that would have been not enough water it just seems like it's just but for whatever reason like to say the carbon and I don't know why maybe it stays in solution better maybe it's just the type of carbohydrate it is. I think it's going to come down to the molecular weight of the carbohydrate and the whole. Yeah. And I'll say this too, try it for yourselves. You know what I mean? Like, because I'm thinking back 15 years, there was a time that like, I did buy some highly-braged cyclic doctrine, but in order for me to buy that, like I was really tapping into my finances to do that. You know what I mean? Especially at the doses that we were running it. But I could afford to nutrition's carboload because it was like, yeah, I think they have it. And this is, I mean, it is a plug, I guess. It's the cheapest carb on the market. You get, I think it's 15 servings for $20. It's 50 grams per serving. So if you do a half a serving, you can get 25 grams of carbs for your next, you know, 30 workouts. Like, that was cheap. And so I used a lot of carboload. It worked fine for me, but what I was warned was, hey, see how it works on your digestion. Because it's not going to be as likely to digest as well. As highly-branch-sick-lic-ductrine. And it was like, you know what it's working for me? I'm going to keep using it, right? So I'd say if you're in that position financially where you don't have an option, don't completely sell yourself out or shut the idea off, try it, but be prepared, you know what I mean? That'd be my thought on it. What's the most interworkout carbs you ever used got? 200. Okay. Yeah, but I've been there. Yeah. Hi, haven't. But no. I don't think that worked very well for me. No. I've been as high as only like 90 or 100 with EAA and with you know, so I'm like, I feel like I'm pregnant while I'm training. Yeah. And then to the water content matters, I mean, I have, yeah, I've got a gallon jug. Yeah, exactly. Two and a half liters. And so it just depends if I'm sweating profusely, okay. I might be able to move through it quicker, but. Andrew, did you have to train yourself to drink that much? Because I don't, you know, for me, I didn't start it 200, but you, we built it over time and you got used to drinking more and more fluid. Yeah. Because I couldn't handle the gallon intra, you know, and have it finished before the workout was over. I think I could do 200 grams of carbs with about two and a half liters of fluid, which honestly, I drank that probably anyway. Okay. I do like, I keep it, but you know, it's nothing for me to go and use the rest room two times long training. I was wondering because I'm thinking the kidneys are only set up to process. What about a liter in an hour? Is that true? That's, I think so. About a liter. About a liter. One point two five liters an hour. Something to that effect. Okay. Remember what it was? What if you're training in Highland Park powerhouse into trait that doesn't have good AC in this summer? Yeah. Yeah. Miami. I have this gym here. I absolutely love going to busy body and train my wife. We'll go to busy by she doesn't want to go to the other gym. It's the garage style gym. Yeah. One of the things that I don't like about busy body is they just will not use the air conditioning and I will be pouring and I don't mind pouring down sweat. I'm that, you know, where if it's dripping off me cool, but if I'm training legs and I'm I mean sweat, or so, if I'm prepping and I want to, you know, get some pictures. If you're pouring down sweat, you don't look very good because you're not very full because you're sweating your ass off. And what you're living in there is pour. So there's that too. With your 200 grams, were you also using all the insulin in the world? To work with that 200 grams as well as like I was. There was a fair amount of insulin. Yeah. All the insulin. Yeah. I was going through pens pretty rapidly. I mean, in fairness, I think anybody listening would be like, there's no way that you're going to get to 200 grams of carbs without insulin. What's up? Well, let's just say actually, I wasn't using pens. I was using the little mini jugs of insulin. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Let me see what else we got. I'm going to show a couple of these. Anybody going to North Americans in three weeks from the time he posted this. Dusty's going. Oh, yeah. Team up with Dusty. Say hi to him. Yeah. He's going to be getting a workout in with, uh, who's he getting it? Is he getting a workout in with? No. Can't remember. No, Turner Riddle. Him and Turner Riddle. Oh, good to see. Chris doesn't go to the go to North Americans and work out. Yeah. Whatever you see Chris at any show, he is just buried in his computer. Look, someone is athletes around stage. Y'all. And then he's like right back to his computer. Right back to bangin' out work. So he's telling me they're training at that LA fitness across the street. I'm going to go to the powerhouse. Powerhouse? It's like 25 minutes away from the new. Yeah. Yeah. So I met John Jewett there. And this before John Jewett was as big as he is now. And I didn't know it was John Jewett at the time. And I worked in with him. I was like, hey, you might if I use this back machine with you. He's like, no, no, go ahead. And I looked at it and I adjusted it and put the way that I needed to use. And it was pretty heavy for me at the time. And I put it down. He's like, he jumps in and he took the pin and was like, do do do do do do do do. Like 7 down. And I was like, okay. I remember thinking, oh, it's like, okay. This bro is going to have some pretty wacky form here with that much weight. Like he's going to start. I get ready to see this dude start yanking this shit. You know, no, he perfect form, perfect technique. And then afterwards, my girlfriend was like, hey, I think that was John Jewett you're training in with. And I was like, really? I was like, I think you're right. I'm terrible with faces in person. You know what I mean? Yeah. So yeah. And then I met him like a week after that or something. That was some some time ago. Nice. But yeah, team up with them. I know. Sometimes we go because you referenced your girlfriend. Yeah. I've got a couple clients. I'm probably going to meet up with out there. So okay. I love that show man. Oh, it was good to be last year. I had three pro cards. How? Yeah. Do you have to get the cinnamon rolls at 350 bakery? I don't eat junk food, man. I'm just telling you, you have to. Oh, that is getting pretty friends. I don't know what to tell you. But there's sticky buns and cinnamon rolls are some of the best I've ever had. 350 bakery. I have to bakery. Yeah. I think about 10 12 minutes to get there. It's up in the hills a little bit. Everything is. Yeah. Everything takes 20 minutes to get to. Even if you're free bridge away in three bridges. Yeah. You're going like this and you're going back across the bridge again. Just take a break turn. Yeah. What? You're like, ah, it's the crow flies. I should be there by now. Yeah. Oh, good friend of the show. I. I think this is our first. Yeah. I'm still honored and you recognize me and said hi to this. When I was pumping up to go out for figure. Listen, she looked fricking incredible. She had a great group. I think this is our first. Was this our first pro season? No. Yeah. She did. I think we leave the Chicago. We're going to be able to go to the The Tampa. And I if I'm not mistaken, she, I don't know if she did text us. But I think she probably did. If I saw the other day. The Atlanta show. I'm going to try to make a mental note to drop a picture of her in here. Sorry. Very, very. Very, very. Very. Very. You look very. Very. So very. I saw it at the Arnold. Very off season at that point. But she was like looking like she put on some size. Yeah. And you saw this with that dress on her face. And she was like, You can always listen. Listening, please have a duck fat burger For me. That. While roots in Milwaukee. But you're probably probably Prapping and dying too boring. But you're not. Get a duck. Get a duck fat burger for me. I find it. I feel like any contact with skip is like, hey, Great to see you get. Get the right of the show and so on. So yeah, sure you get. Go to this restaurant. I haven't been there. away the month because they're move one of our daughters bought a new, bought a new house right next door to their other house. But it has like this guest house. What was that? I'm just having a lot of spasms. I'm just like, what's up with the guest house? I just moved my arm or anything. Anyway, and it comes in a ghost, thankfully. But they bought the house next to it, has a guest house. And my other daughter, the two are graduating together from the University of Wisconsin next June and her next May. And they're going to rent the guest house. So they're going to, they're that tight because at first I was like, that's a bad idea. You guys are going to be way too close. But they're like BFFs. They're going up they weren't. But they are now. So they're moving next door. We're going to visit them as soon as they move in. Nice. Nice. All right. So peak week training philosophies or training systems. What do you guys, what do we all suggest for that? Lex, I'd call it stretching, stretching squeeze. It's just, I don't know, what do you want to call it? Like vanity shit. Pump it post. Yeah, there you go. Pump it post. I mean, that's the time you were your tank top. And you know, your workouts are of actual training is 45 minutes tops. And you're just getting a good pump and making sure you look good in the mirror. You're not testing anything out. You're not, you know, no matter how strong you feel because you're all loaded up. Yeah, that's not the time to do your max hacksquad or well, you shouldn't really, I like the poll leg training about two weeks out. Maybe you touch up a quad hamstring day eight to seven days out. But, and that's for women too with the exception of like the bikini ball in this class of course, because you know, figure you want to have that quad separation. So I wouldn't be doing any hard like stuff after I'll say the latest is like 10 days out. But yeah, pumping pose. Really, you should be spending more time in your posing, working through your posing routine, making sure your, your quarter turns are perfect. And that's where a lot of your energy should be actually towards the end of that prep, towards the last 10, 12 days. Yep. I don't have much to add there. You want to go into the gym, get a pump, get out before you do something stupid. You also don't want to deplete yourself to the point where you're just making a harder for your coach to fill you back out, right? This is the time to do endless workouts just because it feels good and you look good. Just enough because you're not building any muscle in those last 10 days. No, and you're not like etching anything in. You're not etching. No, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. I'm going through guys a hundred percent on that. I think that's a great place to call it. This is a fun show. I hope you guys enjoyed the reaction hangout that we did. I had a fun time doing it. I hope you guys, did you guys like that? Yeah. Yeah. All right. Hope everybody had a great background. His noise was his video was a little loud. I don't know if the viewers are going to be able to hear us on that. I think that it's the, so post-production skip at all, on several genals. So I can adjust that. But I've noticed too that sometimes when we do, it's just bodybuilding reacts that one of us, it's usually like Ron will be like, holy shit, can you turn that down and I'm like, it's not that loud. So I think it's like maybe the channels are a little bit weird the way they come through and you might be hearing it louder than everybody. Yeah, because I had a hard time hearing you or Andrew. I did too, but like you said, you can edit it post-production. Yeah. We got it. We got people for that. Yeah, you know. Got people. Scott. Hey, I got Peyton to help me out with some stuff. So he's, he's been on the ball. He's our, our future editor of Think Big. So we've got him on the case for a lot of things. We appreciate everybody tuning in and go to bodyberry.com to reach out to Andrew for some coaching. And you can hit up team skip dot com to reach out to skip. Hit me up at McNally diets at gmail.com. And of course, check out true nutrition.com. Use our code think for some creatin. Do you guys ever say creatin, by the way, ever? Or is it always creatin? Critin. It's given. No, creatin. I don't cry. Create team. I don't get that one much that. I'm not sure on that. I don't either, but I got called out on it on the show. And now it's every time I say it, I think about it. It's, it's probably like one of the least mentioned compounds when I'm talking to clients in person. How often do you say it? Not all about bringing it up. What's your creatin at right now? Yeah. And check out supplement source.ca for our Canadians. They do have awesome deals that change week to week. I'm talking like, close out deals, blow out deals. You don't want to miss that stuff. And thank you to everybody from Patreon. We'll take some more Patreon questions. And I try to message everybody on Patreon when you guys first sign up and say, hey, where you're from, what's your favorite podcast and the network. I try to get to talk to everybody over there. So, you know, hit me up. Make sure that you check your DMs if you guys are on Patreon. And for another episode of the podcast, guys, let's what and gear. We'll see you soon. Thank you guys.

Can I could wax poetic emotion on that voice is woven into my body-building life? I mean, times you've heard of the back of your head? Yeah, I don't know if, if I wonder if Leroy really fully understands how impactful his voice is to someone like me from that era. Yeah. Well, what's here in the video? One of the videos, can you remember the guy that was training with the person you were watching over here? Yeah, like it, I can smell things when I hear the horizon. Hey, everybody. Welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding Reacts. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. I am mutant.com. Dusty 20 big round 20 for 20% off. Everyone get your all in, get your ISO surge, and everyone should get on the gear. What do we got today? Scomic Naly. We've got some James Hollington. Now, this is training with Leroy Davis, and it's on Leroy's channel. So, we weren't going, like, as far back into the, the archives this time. But we did get a request for this one. So, I thought that this would be fun. This would have been from, from last year, would have been or the year before. I think, yeah, I'd be the year before if he's getting ready for the Olympia. Okay. Yeah. That would make sense. So, we got Ant there. You're going to say that's not Leroy for the record. Yeah. So, are they at Ant's gym then? They must be at the peers at his location there. Now, more just immediately the Lumberjack shirts for everyone's everybody. Everybody. They even want to make sure. Business that day. Yes. Remember we talked about the, the Lumberjack shirt uniform. Oh, yes. Yes. Tell when it goes quiet. Remember. When you go quiet, you like it? Tell. When it goes quiet. Every day. Don't, it'll get the boys together like this. I know what the one section is to do. Ah. I think we're going to get to, because it's a machine that I haven't used. I'll see on a familiar machine probably like maybe three to four warmaps and then I'll work. I want one. I'm going to get to the second one. I probably only need one little feel and then I know. You know, I mean, the first exercise was the one that I take it on the spot. You want to come more warms. Yeah, I pretty good up one or two more. Oh, yeah. So we're at, we're, I think we're pretty much at ultra-flexive. What does that mean? Yeah. Probably Ant's, uh, Ant's location there, which I haven't been to. I went to Cuba's location. It was closer. Okay. Ant's location is like another couple hours drive, I think. I love to get up there. See him at Lee Roy. I got to say too. I'm excited to see, I think I mentioned it before. I'm excited to see how James looks on stage, because his physique is looking crazy right now in the stuff I was posting on Instagram. So he had exactly the same tempo on those as Ant's tempo. Oh, there was exactly like on Blood and Guards if you watched. I was like the same. You can always tell. So we don't have the steadiest cam. We got a little bit of Blair Witch going on here. Yeah. I was thinking that same thing. Also you can tell there's no editing going on here. So that's good. I love Lee Roy shirt. It says leg day. And then it says big fuck off tree trunks. It's a Sunday shirt, obviously. It's a Sunday shirt. It's a Sunday shirt. It's a direct church. Where to church. Let's see. Maybe I want to get a zoom into where James is being James. Yeah, yeah. Let's go to here. This actually might be a working set that you're getting into. I'm not sure. Yeah, take a peek here. Let's see. Now I'm warming up. I'm warming up to here. Hold it there. Let's go again. I roll back slowly. Let's enjoy it. Just the hamstrings moving all the way down. And pull hold it. You got one fucking more. All the way down. Oh, that's a joke from his eye. It's a temple. Hold it there. Hold it. Still got one more James. Still fucking one more. And pull. Pull it. Pull it. Hold it there. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. Hold it. And slow. Come on. We're coming down. Okay, sookie in. Yeah, talking down. There we go. Just want to like to kind of partial rep failure. You know what I'm just going. Yeah. Right back to it. I don't want to go. All the way down into the full stretch. I'm pulled. And hold the air squeeze. Pick a pressure on. I'm pulled. Hold it there. Let's go again. Hold Here come the forest wraps yep, once you slide behind you hold it What Okay, you hold it hold it hold it hold it And slow whoo That's all in last one last one last one mind over later still go in Forest rest we got positive negative and a drop set on one just an easy day That is the most iconic voice in bodybuilding It's funny and oh All the bodybuilders to make training videos All the the top Olympic guys that that put up content Remember last week we're talking about how the guys in the UK maybe Like hard for guys, but not have all their screws tightened up and they were had properly I think it all starts with this voice I can't I could wax poetic about that voice is woven into my bodybuilding Life I mean times you've heard it back here. Yeah, I don't know if if I wonder if Lira Really fully understands like how impactful his voice is to someone like me for not era Yeah, well, what's here? What is it video? Can you remember the guy that was training with the person you were watching the video like it? I can smell things when I hear the rise You know what I mean like that's Marvel Yeah, that's Marvel. Yeah, and check We won't be able to watch the whole thing because this is like over an hour long and you just shot the whole thing straight So I'm trying to focus on shit. There's nothing straight It's definitely not You got a quad movement coming up here Something Looks like they're going to add duck oh, this is extensions after that we get into some extensions man So that's the old flex extension. I believe Love that thing that might be Dorians. Is it not because I know that It is yeah, I'm not sure if that's the one but I know Ant has some of Dorians equipment in his gym And he got like a like a package of it. You know he's got the pull over on a few other items And I know Dorian had an old flex extension. I just can't remember exactly what color it was Yeah We'll plus he would have refurbished it for his gym anyway as crap Immaculate looking as far as color No, it's not like See you can see the set is it's about like Trauma and and workload and you know taxing the fibers as much as possible Yeah, you know all this you know controlled negatives and the whole the partials and four straps and everything you're just trying to just Causes much stress as possible in the tissue You also got a point out a few guys that watch James's videos this isn't how he always trains You know we had talked about that on previous. It's just body-bling like so I'm not I'm just good to just go in there and get your ass beat You know, yeah, yeah, I mean he's clearly you know people go to leave right for one thing Yeah, yeah We're like I want to just get obliterated with maximum intensity You know sets that are such deep water that you know I don't know if I'm ever gonna come out of them. You know that sort of thing But I think it's important that you got the people see too. That's like so that has value But it doesn't necessarily mean he needs to go to it all the time. He's not going to our amount change my training style You know I think that James is if not definitely one of these strongest overall body-builders currently. I mean it's ridiculous What he is yeah There's a lot of things James is he's one of the most hardcore guys have ever mad Yes He when I think of British body-building. He's like One of the best examples of it in every possible way When we had Luke Sandor on the show he talked about James He was talking about we were talking about strength and he said you want to know if someone who's really crazy and James wasn't as know and then as he is now You know You know you say in James he had trained with him but on it that point you was like James is something else Oh, I'm getting dizzy. I'm getting dizzy. I don't know I return to the camera side to say But watch and we turn left Yeah Always hold nicey yeah He gave him a little burn break and then put it back down That's just a brutal pain. I really hope today then move on to like a crazy Compile movement just because they're come already smoked. I mean all we've done is two hand movements and extensions You could go home after this But you know I do sense to these work sets of endropsets He's only got like a hundred pounds on I was close to the stack at the beginning Hey, fuck off I love it I didn't round I think his video gets monetized very often That's nuts just see amount of time under tension for this set. Oh, yeah, I said you know it's like what minute and a half long set easy yeah easily We carry it on a whole multiple conversations there. That was a good mess Right now a hug Yeah, I get the hug them Well, they made it through that together so that deserves a hug thanks dad All right, I'm skipping this is like 25 minutes down now Yeah, now we're getting to like leg press I It's not like a Ronnie yes sir. We're dead right there. Yeah, actually that's funny We I didn't hear it until you said that I was like I heard it backwards That's about I saw a guy at the gym like pressing the other day pretty impressive weight and he had good depth But the set was still shitty and what I mean by that is he James just did those warm-up reps there Like they were like precision controlled, you know You guys I was getting good depth but it was kind of dropping the sled and he kind of rebounding his knees off his pecs and There's a bunch of jolting and at the top there was almost a jolt at the top of every rap You know right yeah, and you want to take all those all that motion out of it You know have full control I I used to think one of my cues was that my feet were strapped to the leg press like a snowboard And I was rolling the sled down to me with my feet Okay, and then driving the you know what I mean so I was like I was in control of the sled So if it was coming down it's because I was pulling it down. I had that mental cue. I loved that cue I never once thought of it that way like never once but I'm certain I will next time as well Everybody watching this right now By the way, how does everyone in that gym do math based on those plates? I just got to know What do you mean it just be points? No no 25 Kilgram they're 55 pounds of peace. Oh, yeah the 25 kg plates probably I've actually moved by the leg press Yeah, so you're just imagining for everybody who's who's got their math out that only knows how to do 135 2225 Like oh 20 I pound plates. I never did the math on the leg press. They just count plates So yeah, yeah, like press just load them on there, but that's I mean 55 pound plates. That's a whole different ball game there Yeah, those are big ass plates. I know him. I mean you go to some gyms have a couple hundred pound plates over by the leg press Yeah, you know I like those as long as they the thickness makes sense like sometimes a hundred pound is bigger than the The 45s it would have been a place like it lost its value That's right like the james and in JP got going on an edge of me those teeny tiny 45 pound plates Those are good I don't know how you even get grabbed them to I don't put one on the ground it'll be there for the rest of the No, it's Those days they're like You guys are retrained at bad Francis powerhouse. Yes. Yeah. I remember they plumbly used to always do the videos there and he always said that those weights were a little heavier Then average 45 pounders. Do you yeah, does that ring a bell at all to you? Yeah, yeah, I actually I mentioned that one time There was a guy in Instagram went in there and he like weighed a bunch of them and he's like they're all 48 pounds Oh no kidding. No kidding. Yeah Because that was the thing was beves plates are a little heavier and Steve had those unique plates that I don't see anywhere else And he had like hundreds of them there was no stray plates in the gym. They were all matching Okay, all heavy and even like I even noticed when I trained like you grab a plate go per honor like That's You know if you know 45 feels like I like how lorized like you know how old is he right 50 something oh Yeah, he's just in there training training with him doesn't know any other way Damn Almost start the volume up Good beard too Great beard You have just the homenset My favorite hero story is Rob Bailey told me hilarious story about he went to like a two-twelfth show in England one time Yeah, but anyway sitting in the front row with Jay and Dana and Lira was behind them And Lira had a UK bandana on union jack bandana and an airport because like pretty guys do air horns And whenever a British guy came on stage Lira would stand up and blasts air horn like he's at a soccer game And just yelling at a crowd going crazy for the UK guys and Robin Dana were filming it They were like this is crazy because they go to show in the states Have you ever seen someone just stand up at an auditorium blast an air horn? Loan screamer You're looking at a clap I mean American Americans are sitting on their hands, right? Yeah, there's just he was laughing his ass off. He turns a camera on Jay and just his laugh Like he kept all the evenings, he's just crazy It's normal to them Lira is yelling at bombs, you know Yeah, I drive this one. Do more I ask fucking piston one more. There was nothing brief Okay briefs okay, so keep talking I drive come on come on you fucking freak That's amazing Breaming in come on come on let's shock them let's welcome let's go I drive She's got his elbow on the sled Piece of piss neighbor British saying ever First 12 reps are a piece of piss I was loved that one I loved that one I had a Canadian friend that used to say piece of piss and that's where I got it from but then I realized later that it came from It's classic James speaking another language at this point We're going to hex what's next Here we go I love this You know When you start going on the fields heavy them one if up midcent Perfect perfect warm I go down if you want to go nuts Fast chin oh they're talking about rack and you nice yeah down going down Oh Oh Actually made me dizzy when I live back Oh, that feels naughty fuck Which hack is that wrong that's a flex oh yeah, okay? I don't think I've ever used that machine before Where would that fit run on your on your scale of favorite to least favorite hex glass? That's a really good hack. I like it that One thing I don't like about it is the platforms not a josty boy. Okay, and I feel like it's slow the platform on that one's a Sometimes I feel like it's a little bit low Your light your toes are going to the front of your shoe a little bit Which some people like but You know tell us our gym too Yeah, that's brutal But but they're good hacks but if you that that same hack is still available under this the I guess they moved it to not elist now, but Star Trek was making that design for a while and then I think it's now not elist is making those designs But you know same angle and stuff, but obviously the flex one is kind of the classic Okay, except it's like a set Oh, it's gonna go up yeah, you can tell as soon as it went up Damn what's the ad eight plates now said eight or nine Couldn't tell eight great the attitude We're going to see the story so He didn't like need two minutes to reset from that one ramp. I just train in Under for so long 100% or nothing 40 years thatively right shirt says yeah, yeah, or forever On nice and deep and I drive Still one more This ties in really well with you guys talking about not going later Yeah, exactly Yeah, you know always it made this me about James is like obviously that was a brutal last couple reps Complete silence Yeah, you barely hear him breathe. I'm like if I I can't be that quiet on my warmup I try I literally have my car you gotta stop being so damn loud It blows my mind that he'll do stuff like that and just you know those squats seven plates in silence You can hear the plates rattling Very pumped oh god exploding Yeah, not a minus separation left it at this stage. You know what I mean? I don't know other I'm shocked yes any any does it's pretty wild Yeah, I cannot wait to see him at the Arnold it's gonna be awesome is on track to be his best ever you can tell Yeah, who's a coach of again. I see is just kind of creating with JP as an E as he got a coach There's meals helping him. I can't remember I think I don't know if he still is I can't speak to that for sure Yeah, it changes quite a bit so I'm not really sure, but whoever's doing it. It's working to mean that he always looks awesome But this is this is like a couple weeks ago. Now I think but like they just he's looking incredible You looking it up around or something. Oh, I just message I just message him again. All right Just yeah, I just saw it throwing another message. I'm gonna be doing them what a it peers like I'm doing a mutant on a mission at him and JP's Oh, yeah, when I go there in April for when I go to Germany for Fibo We're gonna stop by England and doing episode with them This is a few weeks ago this shot. Yeah. Yeah, I love it That's fun stuff man. I It's uh, I mean Leeroy is just you got to give the guy credit he truly Freak him loves that shit He's been doing that for 40 years just yelling at people and training like that and and you know it would be It would be kind of weird like being Dorian's training partner during that peak like where do you you know how does the rest of your body Building and GM helping guys it doesn't they could ever gonna recapture like helping Dorian and Yeah, but but he loves it so much that he's just and and I also another thing I've heard about Leeroy Was he just gives and gives and gives and gives his time to these guys you can see all right You know I've heard it repeatedly Yeah, yeah, this is like you know it's like you can see that it's his life mission You know, he's just like oh, I do this. This is my job and then I go home at night like this is what he is Yeah, like a bomb could go off and he's like and busy with a set right now James James has a couple reps left so whatever just happened is just gonna have to wait You know Yeah, yeah, you can tell he's one of those guys it just wants to like oh like a missionary You know yeah spread the spread the gospel You know I want It's it's it's great and and and he'd be one of the reasons why you can bodybuilding I mean he's one of the reasons why you can bodybuilding is but it is I mean he's one of the foundational reasons for that I'll show you how Luke trained how James trained a JP trains like all these Cuba all these guys that I that we know I mean that whole scene comes from that video man It all comes from that video. It's just really crazy like I I look back on like you know the certain things that have triggered You know cascading effects and You know why are things the way they are now and you think of like it's because it's really like key players Been some real key players in our in our body bodybuilding culture and some of them were mr. Olympias and some of them weren't Some of them were Other people that have like had like profound impacts on Hundreds of thousands of of young guys like me that That wanted to be bodybuilders and I thought how the hell do I develop that crazy looking physique like I'm on a mission to find out how and then You know blood and guts arrives in the mail You watch it for the fur you pop it into your VHS player for the first time in 1997 and you watch that video and you're like My your world has changed and Yeah, and it just it's really cool to see him still doing it guys like James and you know, and I mean And the ant is another guy like everybody loves that dude and he just wants everyone to train as hard as possible, you know I don't know I like to give a little bit of credit just take a second to recognize like the really hardcore bodybuilding scene is is Is still alive and well with like guys like these and a lumberjack shirts and this Let's talk them the socks and maybe maybe even still the odd fany pack Maybe we know what's in there now Yeah So anyways, thanks everybody That was fun reaction. I like watching this stuff. We love your suggestions keep sending them We like doing old videos We like doing newer videos and you know sending shout outs to our buddies and the people that You know really make this industry a lot of fun. So thanks for that and I'm glad you guys like this stuff Remember like share subscribe comment and ring the bell ring the bell get your mutant stuff I am mutant dot com dusty 20 bigron 20 save some money get your all in get your ice a surge and then you really should get on the gear Right Scott all the gear all the time here. Okay Remember to go off it. Yeah, you don't have to go off it ever just keep boarding different flavors stay on it forever Okay, remember it's just bodybuilding reacts

five okay yeah yeah yeah there you go that's failure set for sure absolutely failure set you know question boom yeah screw your dumbbells yeah just drop them even though that's the magic to that yeah that annoys me when people say all well jaded volume not failure like no how to spot on a lot of sets yeah I think the latter the latter really shred it out there that's a great look for let's see last like what is it this is so crisp let's move over here and do the same thing yeah when did I see you last yeah when did you see go look at that that is better lighting yeah hey everybody welcome to it's just bodybuilding reacts I'm your host big round parlor with dusty handsha and Scott the producer McNally what are we looking at today remember like share subscribe comment and ring the bell ring the bell Scott's gonna bring up j color a cut-up of from 1999 remember go to im mutant dot com buy some supplements off i am mutant dot com go get it used dusty twenty or big run twenty get your twenty percent off get your eyes to search get your all in and everyone should get on the gear white tights what do we think of the white tights gentlemen it was cast i'm even jealous if you look like that you're allowed i mean it is what it is it's the tights to get share the headband i mean that's a cut off sleeve i believe yeah is that a waistband off of a sweatshirt yeah yeah that's i don't know what that is it's a thing didn't you didn't we ask j about that headband when he was on the show i think we did oh yes he did he still had that that's frame something's all it's done yeah for sure for sure this is a good old days so people forget j got second the last in ninety nine yeah i often say you don't know that yeah but you got second second to last in ninety nine and you looked incredible so this video and i wonder where he's training this one of that was he still in Vegas at this point there's a still he's a nice he's a man yeah yeah he goes to Chris's condo yeah he's still driving he's still driving the old latel pathfinder in this one isn't easy he got that old pathfinder yeah land cruiser and land cruiser old one yeah carried all these lights up for the video also carry spot no you know she's been doing cardio in the garage to look good for this video man they had like the best divorce of all time did you know that oh yeah what do you mean when first they went out for a steak had a glass of wine he cut her check for like you know fifteen mil every half of the had and they just were like awesome all right they built together they split it and call the day yeah we built it together it went for a steak and glass of wine and that was it yeah not a huge deal that's how you do it boys and girls okay of course it helps if you have thirty million to split what it happened right not quite a sour I was going to I would have just split the bill I'm like wow he got a split this I mean yeah yeah he's gotten tight with one income yeah he was so great at that at the Arnold I was going to say that he was going to be a good guy with his accepted speech for for winning his the life time achievement award like everybody was so pumped for him to be up there that made so much sense you know this is hard to skip was I thought about going just to watch his because I knew they do do it like a video and I was like I don't know I missed that video yeah it was good he spent a lot of time giving credit to other people to the ganna I said we had a lot of money I never felt like we were only generating money sorry I'm just telling them that you think your buddy probably got a promise going threats make a story but I know they're probably trying to turn my heart off butooo that's really hard I just got to be with that Chris telling me how he told Jay like multiple times you are going to be Ronnie Coleman. Like he believed it and I think he told Jay so many times that Jay believed it, you know. Yeah. And you know, I know Jay says he didn't beat Ronnie at his best and all that, but Jay just can't help but give other people credit. Yeah. So that's a quick second to remind everyone that this is what second to last at the Olympia looks like. So now is it time to remember to stay in school kids. Yeah. And yeah. I remember watching this way back in the day. It was probably two, you know, a year old that was before Jay, you know, got second aka one, the O1 Olympia. And it just baffled me to see the size him plus having her spot him really helped me understand how big he was. I hadn't met him yet at that point. Mm. Right. And it does help to have a reference of other humans around guys. It really does. Yeah. To see how big they are when you don't know because I didn't know bodybuilding yet. And that I mean, the mass is out of control and that's nothing compared to what he was by the end. Yeah. Do you know how old he is here? He's only 26. You're kidding. Yeah. Yeah. A lot of bodybuilding left here. See this stride of glutes through the tights. Yeah. You know, it's crazy stuff. I'm not trying to get crazy weights. Three plates on the incline for multiple sets is plenty strong. He's done multiple sets with it. You know, three and a half wasn't he? Yeah. Three plates to and half plates he was using. See his glutes is strided through the pants. This whole, this whole thing, the like the set, the speed at which he takes his plates off. The kind of moving around the gym. I am having flashbacks to like every workout I had in the very early 2000s. You know what I mean? Like this was the look of every single workout. The cadence, everything about it. Yeah. Yeah. The gym. The gym. Yeah. Exactly. This is everything. Yeah. I mean, feet on the bed are off on a cable with it wrapped around his wrists of some. Oh, no, that's not. Yeah. And a good old feet up on the bench for the dumbbell presses. I remember I had a coach back in the day that actually told me to do that. Really? Yeah. He was like, well, it forces you to be very even with your, your, your power. You know, if you have one side stronger than the other, you'll really, really notice it. If you put your feet up because you lose your base, right? Yeah. But I mean, obviously, Jay is so perfect with his rep performance that he's still quite stable there with his feet up. Yeah. Yeah. A bit of a different feel when you put your feet up. How close to failure do you think that was? That's pretty close. Yeah. Yeah. Isn't she touching his elbow? Yeah. Right. Because you hear people say, like, oh, Jay, Jay didn't go to failure. You know, I had, yeah. I had this chat the other day with people about Jay that someone said, Jay didn't train to failure. And I'm like, Jay trained to tons of failure. Yeah. He had a spot. He had her hands around the bar a lot. Her hands around the elbows a lot. If you watch his press downs, he'll do like 10 reps. And then the last four or five reps have quite a bit of swing in them. Mm-hmm. So your past strict failure, his T bars and Benofer Rose had some swing in the last few reps. There was plenty of swing. All right. Let's see. Let's see how close he doesn't go to failure here. Yeah. Okay. Four. Five. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There you go. That's failure set for sure. No kidding. You're set. You know question. Boom. Yeah. Screw your dumbbells. Yeah. Yeah. It's just a drop of me, even though that's the magic to that. Yeah. Yeah. That annoys me when people say, oh, well, Jay did volume not failure. Like, no. Yeah. How to spot on a lot of sets. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. volume. Yeah. Yeah. volume. Yeah. volume. Yeah. volume. Yeah. volume. volume. Yeah. volume. I've also. I've also. I've also. I've also. I've also. I've also heard that he only took really short like 30 second rest periods between the set. Yeah. Yeah. but it's gonna be slower for back. Yeah, so that was another fail set. She spotted them on that one too. Every single one had some face. We got three sets of failure on dumbbells alone. So far. Yeah. These are great. I love how he sets these up. You can see that pack is just like doing all the work. You know what I mean? Mm-hmm. When I do my dumbbell fly as a specialian, kind of really like that thumb in, you know, that's slightly kind of thumb dominant. You know what I mean? Yeah, no training. Yep. People forget the pack is an internal rotator. So you're, you know, the old school guys used to turn their pinkies on the flies. They thought they'd touch their pinkies. Right. But that's not actually the full contraction of the pack. It's actually your thumbs. So that's a great fly. And she's spotting them, you know, a little bit the whole time. Boom. When are many sets she spotted a bottle over the years? Oh, God. When does she get to see those bodies? She knows bodybuilding more than most coaches do these days. Imagine what she's seeing. Yeah. She's with him when he started bodybuilding. Yeah. All right. And that'd be funny. Someone comes out. My next coach will be. Yeah. Caretop. Jay, Jay's ex-wife. She's like, yeah, I just really missed the space. I wanted him back into it. I'm taking some clients. You know, yeah. Yeah. Ten grand a piece. You know, she got charged more. She got a little empty. She's not limp yet coach. Like Ron. Yeah. Very impressive. When she sends you your first check in template. She asks what the temperature of your fridge is. He's got, you got to buzz it to the, to some posing. With the in Jay and Chris's house. Right. Not Ron, is that the temperature your fridge in the kitchen or that little fridge. She has in the bathroom, which the little fridge in the bathroom. Okay. Just check it. I deal ideal temperature for that one. Let's see. Let's see some posing. So this is a crisis house, huh? We've got pullovers going dumbbell. Providers. We're all school. I think this is about the end of the workout too. So he's going to finish with pullovers. Little later in the video. Here's, uh, look at this. Look at this. I don't know. See, though. Here we go. Oh, Chris and his ex-wife Laura Corval. Second place at the Olympia. People forget. Look at this. Second last at the oh, everybody. Who has not done the 900 different spots of posing for Chris. Chris and Chris look down there. Yeah. Look at that. What's Chris saying? It's turned it up. I've got to turn it up. You just watch it right now. I like when they're, he's writing on the paper. He's changing his food on the paper. Yeah. It's called a pen for kids with neurons. Oh, look at the last. Let's see if that's what it's trying to do. Let's see if that's what it's trying to do. Try something. Just go ahead and put that. Take a step closer to the sink. See what I'm going to take. See, I'm out sometimes. That was not so even then. I'm still thinking that second to second to last right here. Yeah. That's when I should have quit bodybuilding when I watched this. Yeah. For some reason I was motivated. Yeah. It should have debilitated us, but it might have been a bit of a excuse. We're not smoking. That's right. Oh, young that muscle was to look. I mean, it was huge, but didn't have the look it did by the end. I was just freaking wild. The lads are really shredded out there. That's a great look for kids. Let's see. Let's see. Let's see. This is so crisp. Let's move over here and do the same thing. Yeah. When did I see you last? Yeah. Look at that. That is better light. Yeah. And you know how it is. It's better for the back, but it's not as good for the hands. You got to try to another room on the hands of it here. Yeah. You know what? Let me take one shot from there. I love this so much. It's just so cool. And then last night, we have to remember. Yeah. Chris never changed ever. No, it was the same the whole time. Worked then. No. I remember Chris came to my room once and closed the shit out of me. He just kept asking for shots over and over and over and over again. Yeah. I sweat through trunks before posing with Chris like days and foreshadows. I think it was on purpose. Yeah. Yeah. On hindsight. I just can't wait to run the fire. Two. Two. Two. Two. Put this in it. Yeah. When did it come up here? Sunday? I sat at a day. Sunday. Can you remember what day it was? It was a day. It was a day. Who died improperly. He literally is. Looks like he's so young. They both do. Another piece of paper. This is paper. This is paper. This is paper. This is paper. This is paper emails for kids who are watching now. Jayey, no meal. There's probably more footage of him eating oatmeal than any other food. I watched an hour of it once on a material video. I'll be at my assumption as there should be a set. You should be less than 2601. It might be 258. Not like that set. You should be less than 2601. You might be 258. But that's it you're done. I can't be so many. Maybe that's the fact that you're up a tide. The thing is the high days are not really put it in. I'm trying to do what I did last time for the last show. That's a belly you're setting salt. My high days and my car days when my load days are jacked up. Yeah, just jack keep it high all the time. It's better to keep it high all the time. I'm just worried about. No, if you wait, we bounce at 272 to say it's only water. This is like, it makes you look so cool. This is so cool. Not as cut but it'll make your muscles swell. So on your load days, they want to flate. The more blown up they are on your foot, the higher it is, less than when you die tough. You're not going to shrink. You can see Jay just taking it in. Okay. Okay. I'll do that. But it's closer harder than four days ago. That's why I said was a young, you can use this week. 10 days is a good progress for a week. That was a good week for a quarter. Good progress for a day. How many kinds of are we going for? Every kind of. Every kind of. Every kind of. Which is only four. Five kinds of. You're going to miss your lumpy. Five little kinds of. Five. Five. Every kind of. Teen nationals. Full moon champion. Tried a minute champions. National champions. National champions. Arnold. I'm going to. I'm going to. Olympia. Pretty quick progress for him huh? Pretty much as his best. You know. Right there. You know nothing crazy. Loose a couple of poms and try to be as caught in his bag as you can. Try to avoid mistakes. That's all. Yeah. It's freaking awesome man. Man. It's just that that brings back so many memories of Prep and with Chris like everything he said there. He said to me a hundred times like, yeah, like just how. I just. Man, it reminds me of how people try to sound so smart. Oh, do this and do that and do this and do that and do this and then he's like, Hey, he lives a couple pounds. No, no, let's say you're done. You learn. No. Just try to be big. Yeah. I love that line there. Try to be really cut and really bigger. Yeah. It's big as you can. You know, how many days ago did they see you as a four. I thought it was a good progress for a week, but I guess it's been five days. Yeah. Yeah. They just that that's just so Chris man. That's funny. Everything about that is accurate. Yeah. Probably didn't even make. I know the cameras were rolling in the edit, but I. I am not joking. It is very possible that they did not even discuss pharmaceuticals in that. And that check in. No kidding. Well, he saw him five days before. Yeah. Maybe he made an adjustment and there's this no need to speak of it. Yeah. It might not have even gotten mentioned. And people just they have a hard time understanding that that's possible. The amount of time that that wasn't discussed. I mean, I've had him say like weeks into a prep. What are we doing? What are you on? Yeah. Like he won't even know. The second prep I did with him. I remember I asked him a question about a specific thing. Like, hey, why aren't we doing this? And he goes, oh, he looked good. We don't need it. Yeah. I didn't even know we weren't doing it. But when I brought it to everybody, it was, you look fine. Don't worry about it. I still tell people that I've said it before this story. The first time I worked with them, I was off everything back in the old days when we were off. I was off, right? Yeah. And I started with him and he's like, okay, well, take a sustenance. What do you have? And I go, I've saved some sustenance. Take a sustenance and send me picks and ten days. And that was it. And that was it. It was very from that. Just take one app. Send me picks and ten days. Send him picks and ten days. And he goes, you're up six pounds. Oh, yeah. Okay. 10 more days. You know, at one point I message him one time and I said, he's Chris, like, I'm real happy with how I look. But I'm like 10 weeks out. And I'm just wondering, like, am I on enough stuff? You know, I am supposed to be doing a super heavyweight show. Yeah. Yeah. You know? And he responds like, yeah. You're way, it's pretty high. I guess. Really on anything. I can get some of this. Let's get some of that. It's, you know, it's just funny. Yeah. Not the priority at all. Not the priority. Just the pictures of the priority. And if he saw it in the pixie would have told me to take it. The break up, you know. Yeah. And if he saw an issue, he would have started asking more questions, right? You know, if you were big enough for hard enough, then he would say, he, you know, he'd figured out. But yeah. Yeah. I love that. Okay. Okay. So good. So good. Me too, it was more of a thing than anyone else. Sorry, guys. Hey, it just as a viewer here hanging out with you guys. This might have been my favorite reaction so far. Honestly. I was, you know, that it was, I watched you guys light up watching their circus. It was a success. Like, that was, that was really cool to me. Oh, right. To the react I. I, that was never good enough to be that great of a body builder. I was never good enough to work with Chris Asito. But I have a ton of respect for him and the work that he did. and the CEO guys laid up like that, watching him. And it is pretty special. That's pretty special. Yeah. He is a funny dude, man. It's just, and my never-wings it's treated the same, too. Like that's Jay, you know. And I know that he, he sold us before. We've heard the stories many times, but that was back in the day where, you know, like obviously we were just opening email accounts back then. We weren't sending pictures yet or anything, right? So Jay would drive two hours to see him. Pose for Chris even said many times he was there for 15 minutes. Sometimes he'd eat. Sometimes he was, sometimes he was, sometimes he'd eat in the car and carry it with drive, you know? Like, and he would just come and pose and then leave. And that was every, every week at least once. And he did that for a whole prep, you know. So just that commitment to get those eyes on him at those times, it was a different age, you know. You got training, cardio, eating, and four hours to driving once or twice a week to go to Chris. Reminder for clients who have a hard time getting the time to take photos to send you. Good pictures. You can't even get good pictures. Oh, I got a great recording. Yeah, right? Right? Yeah. Yeah, try to drive backwards back and forth to him to go. Yeah, everything looks good. I'll see you in a few days. And no change is nothing. Yeah. You imagine the wife that be like with Chris, it'd be like, you know, in a 18 week prep or whatever, there'd be like at least 10 visits where he says no changes. And you know the wife is sitting there the whole time home. No changes. I can't believe it. We're going to race. I put a scene my mother today. Yeah. I think to do. Yeah. Yeah. OK. OK, everyone remember like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Dusty 20, big run, 20. Everyone should get on the gear. Go to I am mutant.com. Of course, thanks to Scott to Producer McNally. Remember the big Patreon. Thank you guys. Praise to a cup of coffee. You can contribute to making Scott filthy rich. There we go. We got my grill. Yeah. We're just so good. Well, you don't want to like, you want to like show your money off. It makes people cool. It's true. You got to get the like the health care first and then the grill. Yeah. That's the stuff for the future. The grill's the last thing to come by the time you get to grill, you don't care what people think. Yeah. OK. We're set. We're everybody. It's just body building. Reacts. I never get sold. No. Thank you guys. And both of you have a safe trip. And thank you again for hanging out with me and stuff. It's your awesome. When you get a chance, I sent both of you that link to I put together a little little. Yes. I'm going to watch it. It's no big deal. I have one regret. What's that? The next time that happens, we have to go to the show together. Oh, I was just so tired. I couldn't have done it. I was understood. Like kind of clocked that night. I couldn't not go. Like I was exhausted too. I couldn't not go. Like it was such the next the next time we have the chance. We have to all go together, sit together, walk around together. People will engage us. They're like, oh, it's just body building guys. I know. I met a bunch of listeners, by the way. Yeah. After the show, I met a several love them. And then one of them, I met Dave years ago, Palombo. But I hadn't talked to him and forever. And somebody was like, I was like, oh, hey, Dave, can I get a picture with you? And then the listeners were standing there and like, do you ever listen to his shows? You ever listen to Scott's shows? And that's why I was like, Dave, we'd love to have Yon. And he's like, yeah, I just have, you don't have runner dusty text me. And I was like, OK. He didn't want to give me his number, but you know, that's something. OK. Well, I know Chris has mentioned it to him before. So we should do it. He'd be great. He'd be great. OK. OK. Thanks, guys. Thank you guys. OK. I'll see you in a couple of days. Bye.

I look at some of my fashion guys back in the day. Oh my goodness. I mean, the pants like, I mean, way too long because they had a fit, you know, I would talk them up in my crotch because my legs wouldn't rub together. I would say, the cardio right, we talked to short it to there or whatever. So I mean, the shirts, I wore four axes. I mean, I was, I was hard to order four axes. But I still look at it and I'm like, how did I look like a clown? You know, wearing those big outfits. All right. One of my favorite things that you're as is in some of your really old videos. Like, I think you're still living out east. Um, you've got it. It looks like you cut the waistband off a shirt and use it. Use it as a headband. You wear a belt. It was a little gym towel Ron actually. Oh, you cut a strip off of it. The strip that was like this much night, I just, it was a thing. And this is now world famous. Like, price sell that headband like now sell like a market those. And I wrapped around my head and I was sweating and I'm like, I'm going to put this, this ripped up towel on my head and I never realized now, it would catch. I don't think people cared about it 20 years ago to be honest. I think now it gets more attention now than it did 10, 15, 20 years ago. No. Right. It was a part of our core headband ever. We watch everything gets watched now. So they pay attention. I can tell you this week, along four people have hit me up. I even today, Val hit me about the headband today. Yeah, this morning he sent me an old video and he's still reminiscing about how big I was and he's like, dude, what about that headband? I love that thing. It's a good thing. What's great is it was a video. You might have worn that like one to we were like, I'm for that chest video. And you know, I was flexing and I think I put it on just for like a couple sense. I think that was it. That was part of your life. If here's here's a good one. If you had to start a concrete business, but you could only hire pro bodybuilders. Who would you hire and who wouldn't you hire? Branch, good. Sure. Branch, Lauren would be the best worker ever. No, everybody knows that. I mean, I'd branch. What about who wouldn't you hire? No chance. Probably big ramen. We've been for me because he's just too big to do anything. I think. Right. He gets too hot. He'd be like, I think it, you know, I don't know if he would like to be like, if he would work. I just see Branch like, I don't know. I can see. I see Branch taking over the job site. Yeah, yeah. Branch is intense with everything. I guess, both of them one time, Jay, we were walking through a casino. And he's walking. I thought we were hunting something. Yeah. I'm running behind in a final branch where we going. And he's like, what do you mean? I'm like, are we going to kill something? He just starts a laugh at him. Like, he has a certain even walk about him, right? That he's just like, I thought he had a knife. I mean, we were going somewhere. Did he ever invite you to go hunting? Now we never really kids. I'm not into, like, I grew up in the farm and I hunted as a kid. And I never want to kill anything guys. I'll be honest, like, I was working as Latin. I just, I don't know my brothers. My brothers hunt still. And I had to kill the chickens and, I mean, I used to shoot wood trucks and stuff. The night learned to shoot a gun when I was like, six years old. I'm just, I have guns, but I'm not a huge fan of, of, well, you better have a gun. You live in Vegas. Yeah, and Hans. And how pretty much, over here. What's your favorite moment with Ronnie Coleman? My favorite moment was in Pittsburgh in 2003. We were in a night club, getting a, like, a, like, a bar, like, it's a bar club, whatever. And I remember like, we were kind of like interacting and having a good time. Whatever. And Ronnie Coleman sat against the wall. He was in in the plaid, you know, the NPC plaid pants and the matching top. Any have that the sleeves cut because we just guessed closed that man in show. And I was there. Gunther was there. All the top guys, whatever. And we were hanging out. And Ronnie sat there against the wall and he just bobbed his head and they just played hip hop all night. Right. And we would probably, they had, like, three hours, right. Ronnie didn't move once and people walking by like, they would double take because the veins were sticking, you know, he was 300 pounds. And I remember we got in the car and Rico from NPC says he said Ronnie, did you ever good time? And he goes, Hell yeah. He can move the whole night. He just didn't talk to one person and Ronnie was like, he asked a question if he lit up like a little kid. He goes, Hell yeah. He just sat there listening to Dr. Dre on night. He's probably he is the most happy go lucky guy that there is like he loves like he just loves his life. And that's so great to see. Well, what do you think, me and Dusty have talked about this a lot, but the, the whole body builders thriving on routine and routine being necessary to be good at body building. What do you think comes first, the person who needs routine or does the body building create the need for routine? I think you depends how deep you get, but it's funny. I just did a YouTube video on this this morning for Jay locking actually. We talked about routine because Dave was telling me how he went and shot Flex Lewis like two weeks ago and he was in a good routine and he's like dude, I don't know how you do this. The balance, the meals and the training and still have the energy to do all this and then you come home and you get back into the and you guys both know traveling like crazy especially in ranch or national stuff like it's hard to fall into that so. You need, you know, you create that lifestyle right and I taught that's my box like that you're talking about my box because you have to fall into. I mean, we talked about even training with certain outfits like when I do legs, I had to wear a certain pair of shorts that draped over my legs the right way when I swatted to make it feel right. I had to wear a certain shoe. I had to train in a certain gym on certain piece of equipment or go under a bar that was in a certain corner because that mirror just worked well for me. We come very superstitious right like so much. Oh my gosh if I changed this, this is going to affect like I've had progression so I don't want to regress right so. I think you create that lifestyle, I think you create that boxy lifestyle. I think it's not for some some people can never seem to find the. The perfect atmosphere. I think if I wanted to give an example and nothing to be negative like Chris Cormier, right, we always talk about the potential. But Chris never seemed to hone in on, okay, this is the routine and use the top, Chris used to tell me you're too serious about what you do. And then of course I had the success and I think he respects that but you know he was a huge mentor to me by the way he was very, very helpful with my career. And but I always respected the fact that Chris could shut off and then go live his lifestyle and then he come back and you know. Direction like relationships and how you live your life. And I think I'm a little too anal about things still. Like I have to sometimes find myself like, wait a minute, Jay, like you're not training for this or you know, you're diving for this. I just think it's a sickness and so on. I was just saying, but they've become a, yeah, it's a personality thing though. Yeah. But when I say a sickness, you both laugh because you know what it's obsessive, right? Yeah. Well, that's the thing is I mean, I joke up at that all the time because I find the body builders that that I know that are very successful are like me because if someone said to me, you know, where's your, where's your light soy sauce? I'd be like third self up, third bottle on the left. Yeah. And they're like, okay. Yeah. Yeah. It'll let people like put shit back in my house because they won't put it where it goes. No. It's a, I, I saw, I've seen a few pictures of you standing on a skateboard and it made me think, is there anything that you, is there anything that, you know, if you could have had a free hour a day during all those years to do something else, what would you have picked? And it wouldn't have affected your body building or anything, just like a free hour where you could have done anything else. Anything besides my couch, my desk or the kitchen. Yeah. Yeah. Something else. Something like a free hour. Yeah. I mean, listen, I do it now. I skateboard. I ride the quad, I even go up and down the street. One thing I miss, I was, I wrote ATVs growing up. I'm jealous of how a Reagan Grimes right now that he gets to go to that dirt track. And I mean, he's a little big for that 450, but I like what he's doing. And people, like, say, oh, he's crazy, but you know what that kids live in his life. And, and now I wish I had a track that I could go to right close to my house like that. Did you'd read some ATVs or some dirt bikes? I haven't been in my garage. It's just a little hot and vague as to be honest. Like, I wrote motorcycles, you guys seen the videos I've had bikes. It's just too dangerous. I just value my life so much now that I just, I don't want to risk things. It's funny at 25 or even 30. I didn't think past all when you're 40 or 45. Like, I was one of those guys that, like, if I had a choose, okay, you're gonna have to cut your life short, but you're gonna be the greatest body of the plan. I would say, okay, I'll take that. Where's today? I can, I want to live to 70. And I used to think 47 was coldest. It can be, right? Oh, yeah. Bearing out. I'm like, man, I don't look so bad for 47, right?

I mean, the moment here we go, boom. History. History. What do you think when you see that photo? I mean, listen, man, it's, I never imagined being one of the greatest poses of all time. I mean, it was just those, goes by proudly spines. They went crazy for the striations. And you know, I look at all the leg development. You know, look at the plaats and you look at, you know, big ramen. I mean, people that have the crazy wheels and tiger. But like the detail in that one quad week, I don't know if it's been rivaled sense, you know, like with the striations, how to head and all that. Hey, everybody. Welcome to It's Just Body Building. I'm big round part. Low, coho, dusty hand shot. The producer Scott McNally. And of course on today's episode, special guest, four-time Mr. Olympia, business man extraordinaire. And the King of Body Building, Jay Cutler, remember, like share, subscribe comment. Ring the bell. Yes, sir. Okay. Remember, I am mutant.com. Good. I am mutant.com. Get your all in, get your ISO surgeon. Everybody should get on the gear. Dusty 20, big round 20. Okay. Jay Cutler, great to have you, man. Is it good to be home? Way to be back. I actually was out North Carolina this weekend and now I'm heading to Boston, the end of the week for another cover classic. So I'm excited about that. Oh yeah, that's coming up. How many airlines are you like, I got frequent flyer on, you just get, I'm going to mean. I try to stay with the United, you know, that's my chosen airline, but I did American to Charlotte this past weekend and I try to keep it on one just because you get better service, especially when you get stranded. You know, those delayed flights these days. It's good to be great. Yeah. It's nice to be. I've got some Americano to status. So it's nice to get taken care of in those crunch times, you know, see all the, all the peasants getting left behind, you know. So how many airmiles do you do a year? You think, do you even know? It's a great question. I know I have a million with, uh, I've used some, I have a million. Yeah, you're a million man for sure. All right. United for sure. I think American was the same. I think Delta was actually the same back in the day. But, you know, I'm traveling still pretty much every weekend, man. It's, uh, you know, it's kind of a choice. I mean, I love promoting bodybuilding, but we have the opportunity now to travel with all these different events. You know, Feebo, we were just that, you know, Arnold, UK and, you know, these international trips are still the important ones. So I ever had a great, great time and, uh, in Germany. It was probably one of the best Feebo's I think I've done so far. And I guess the why it was, I think just because it's structured now and when you land somewhere, you kind of know what you get into. And I think they had a state set up just right. So, uh, you know, I was standing with Lundsford and Phil was there and Dennis Wolf, William Bonnet, I mean, we're kind of all on the same area. So it's good. I got to, you know, collab with Urs a little bit. We did a training thing and, you know, he's super popular in Germany. So it's great to see I got to catch up with Marcus Rul, which I hadn't seen in a minute. Uh, so it's always great to kind of throw back a little bit to that. And, you know, I was there for the first time in 99. So you can imagine how much has changed. So how much different are these expos, you know, from your perspective, now that, you know, you don't have to, you know, you have all the meals and you don't have to make yourself train that day and you don't have to make yourself go hit cardio in the morning and, you know, as it, you know, as it, you just have a way more fun. I'm, you know, it's this and I don't stop. I did six hours each day and that's by choice. I don't really have a schedule when I book these things. Feeball obviously brings me over there. So I'm there pretty much a whole time. I'm going to stop for a bathroom break. But it is nice not to have to prep the food. I mean, I watched Derek run in and out to kid his meals. And, obviously, he's got a title to defend. So, uh, for myself, it's just a lot easier now to give more time to the fans. And, like, you said, not break to go eat. But at the same time, I still trained every day. I got their Thursday, train Thursday Friday, Saturday, Sunday. We left Monday. Uh, the training is still something that I do not miss. I know Derek was sliding over to Newtak and training at their facility. Um, they'll little make shift gym over there and hal't seven or liver training at the booth. Yeah, he was at the booth training. I mean, that's, that's how big, you know, people that have never been to Feeball. It's, I mean, it's the biggest fitness event there is, right? So, I mean, they had a full. I don't know if you guys got to go all down to the other halls. But, oh, yeah. I don't, I don't, I don't, um, migrate my child side to 10 to Hall, which is pretty much supplements and meat and greets. Just because it's hard for me to move around there and get through. So, and I was there pretty much all day every day. So it was good. It was a good event. What's it? What's it like seeing like the old boys now, like, you know, fill and, and Dennis Wolf. And when you know, you know, you're not, you're not going to be jocelyn for, you know, Olympias and all that stuff is it. You guys have more laughs together. Like, what's the vibe like? Yeah, it's, you know, it's good to catch up. I mean, I've been kind of with Phil just because of the promotion of the film. I was in, you know, quite a bit of his doc. He's recent doc at this launch. He's been promoting that like, frees you flying all of the place. But, you know, I got to see Ronnie briefly at breakfast. And I've seen him quite a bit. But, like I said, to be able to mix it up with the guys and, you know, and just be able to spend time and not have like that mindset of like every year. As we roll into this time of year, you know, we get into May now. This is when we'd all go to Pittsburgh. We start posing and then I think our laugh. Our last appearance would be Steve Weinberger's show in, in June, where Ronnie and I, when we were top two, you're going to have to adjust. Oh, so for me, it's just, you know, it's nice to be able to look back and realize the impact that we've made with the great fans. And, you know, everything now is about the fans for me. That's, that's why I travel to these things. It's, it makes it worth it when I come home. I'm more motivated to work out. You know, I'm going to do this whole fifth or fifty one thing like it did the 50 last year. So I'm going to start training in May to get in great shape again for the 50 first and August. I'm excited about that. Let's talk about the lifetime achievement award. I mean, obviously you knew that was eventually going to happen. You know, I mean, it, it, it's going to happen. You guys like you. What, what was that moment like for you? Like, have you had time to reflect on it? Or does it mean much yet? Or, you know, great speech, by the way. But, yeah. I mean, listen to, to get, you can imagine Ron, it might not all of us, like we saw a body building for so long. And, you know, coming from those early years and, you know, watching the terminated two movie in July of 91, which is propelled me into the, I joined the German August like a couple months later for the first time. And that's when I really started making my journey towards body building. And, you know, the history kind of tells us stuff from me. I talked about Chris Isido who came down from Maine just to look at me back in those early days and wrote me out a little structure diet. And, like, I just, when you get that award and you're kind of, I'm up there. And I'm giving thanks to to everyone that helped me create that opportunity. I mean, obviously it's Arnold was the main thing because he offered me that award. But, I just, it's a time to reflect and I kind of put together a few notes. So when I did this speech, I was just like, I was trying to reflect on, okay, what are the trigger points of what my success was? And, and I went all the way back to Worcester Massachusetts to, you know, move into Lisa Viejo California, then to Vegas, and to impact people of Maine, you know, whether it's Ed Parners inviting me to California for the first time, you know, 93. It's been in a month out there training with the best of the best and seeing all the actors and the goals Jim Bennett stays, which was like, or it was just crazy. So, a reflection of everything. And the people that made it possible long side with the fans. And listen, there's a lot of new fans. I mean, I'm doing a ton of media now with whether it's TikTok or Snapchat or whatever YouTube. We even transition now from being magazine guys. So for me, I have to give a lot of thanks to the people that have followed me from the beginning of the journey and you are one wrong, because, you know, you used to always, we were always in touch, but as you were struggling, I mean, you are second place. I don't know how many times, maybe more than me. Yeah. You know, there's just so much reflection, man, and so much thankful moments that you don't realize are really those moments until now you look back. And it's like, it's funny because you wanted to push through and you wanted to be like, all right, let's get this over with whatever, and now you're like, yeah, I didn't really take that moment and I didn't enjoy it, like I probably should have. Right. Yeah. Well, how do you reflect on on your physique now? Like, I remember I asked you how is training going and you said, I got no back now. I've never you said that to me. No, it's so funny because I was just training Friday night. I went up to this gym in North Carolina and I was training with the gym owner. And we were doing back and he kind of was like, okay, what exercise you want to do? And I'm thinking of my head, like, it's so bad to say what I'm like, well, nothing's going to pump my back anyway. So it's like, you know, I don't know, I know, I know dusty, I still training your ass off. But it's not like it was with the food and obviously the substance that, you know, I felt like when I trained back guys, like I'd walk through the gym, like I could just take down the walls, you know, my back. Right. This picture, this video of Derek Lungsford this morning, walk through the gym, you guys see it? Yes, everybody. It threw me back to the time when I guess pose with during the eights. This was 95 in Hawaii. And I remember I was guest posing and I had to stand behind him when he was walking up to the stage and do the back was just, you couldn't even believe it. And honestly, Derek brought me back. I mean, his back is, I mean, is there anything, is there anyone with a better back in the whole business right now than that? No. Yeah. I've, I've noticed a lot in, you know, the, the retirement phase of training, you know, what, what body parts have stayed the easiest and what ones have been the hardest. I still have the size, right? I mean, the chest is still kind of there. The shoulders are gone, the backs on the legs are definitely, I always have a little legs, but it's nothing like it was. I try to show it to you. I still get a good pump, you know, and I gave Nexila and Tim a little angle in that picture that I post on. I Instagram office. Yeah, you were nice. You were very, very nice to them. I would just a point of that actually, like why did you let those guys get so in front, you know, because I stood back for them like, hey, it's their moment, you know, I'm always going to be more, the clogs come guys. So I don't want to take the shine all the time, you know. What about what about your actual function like, do you have any joints that are kind of shot? Do you have anything that you just don't do anymore? Everyone's going to hate me for this. I feel like a million dollars, man. I have no pain. There's no restrictions. I mean, you know, I was a tissue guy. I mean, I've got tons of tons. I mean, countless hours and financial support for my, for my tissue therapy, so they're active release. There are must get therapy at fly over the place. You know, or I see some of the best therapists. And I truly believe that helped a lot. But I still stay pliable. I got up this morning. I did my 30 minutes. I stretch and then I'll go do a weight session. So every day, and I do this seven days a week, guys. I train with weights for an hour, and I do cardio for at least 30 minutes. And then usually I do another cardio session after training. So ideally, I'm trying to drag my weight down a little bit to be truthful and just stay more pliable. Look athletic. I think that's really my goal. If you said, what do I want to look like? It's more of an athlete rather than holy crap. You know, even though I still get that, like you still have, you know, with the arms and everything else. People still. Yeah. Let's, you know, I try to wear a jacket now when I travel just so I don't get as much attention. What does it change? Like 230. 36 yesterday. 236. That's not bad. What did you think you were going to weigh when you're 50? 25. There you go. How close it go. There you go. There you go. Do you think that, um, I mean, we've watched a lot of your training videos. We've reacted to some of your training videos. That's why I'm on here because we're, I was asking, I was surprised. Me, though, it's never watched your podcast. I was highly disappointed at that. We got invited. I know. I know you didn't get them on, but, you know, I brought that up on that color cast. I know you hit me about it. I forgot what I was reacting to one of my old videos. I forget which one it was, but I didn't. We did a couple of years. We did one with a pseudo posing you in your kitchen or in your kitchen. That was kitchen at Old Orchabeech. I drive up there two hours. Literally do the quarter turns eat a meal quick and I drive back down. He'll tell you the stories. Yeah. Yeah. And then we reacted to a 2010 leg workout. It was like 10 days out from the old. Okay. And you're just humongous. You were training with like a whole crew of guys. Yeah. I had a big posse. We have the 99 when you had the headband and the white tights. Oh yeah. And that video because we were explaining to people to be mindful that as crazy as you looked. That was the year you took second to last. Yeah. And I was like, remember everyone stay in school because you don't look like him. And that we took so much heat for that. People were really good. That thing you like we attacked you. I'm like, we really didn't. I had guys tagging us and yelling at us. These bumps talking crap about Jay. Yeah. How many Olympians did you guys win? That was the, yeah. That was the common response. Jay's got a lot of people that have got his back. That is there's no question about it. Well, they sent me that video this morning and he said this would win today. You know, for that. Yeah. Because he's not, he's not that off man. Yeah. That's what, what about the training? I mean, I mean, your training was just, it was just, Yeah. I mean, it was just this, the basic, you know, squatting press and hackin. You know what I mean? And, and do you think it's just out of hand with how complicated people are making it now? Or do you think it's actually an advance that might, you know, produce more better physics? Well, there are some good physics out there and in surprisingly in the men's physique and classic physique. I see some potential. I mean, it's just like we saw a hotion direct limit themselves by doing 212. You know, that's, I wish more 212 guys would definitely cross over. I know Clarita has and, you know, I know Jose did back in the, I even think Flex Lewis might have done an open show. But it just shows that there is a place for everyone and especially when you get to that level, right? But I feel like the training definitely, I feel more the coaching aspect is a little, it's a little iffy because there's a systematic approach to everything. And you just mentioned like what you liked probably about what my training was. It was the basic old school, you know, squats and deadlifts and T bar rows and, you know, dumbbell bench press or bar bells, whatever. We didn't have the fancy machine. So I think it can lengthen someone's career if they stay more to machines. And we saw fill, he kind of built his physique using more machine work. And I feel like a lot of this stuff, and I have this argument, mellows, all the time because like he thinks that machines who can get the best result, also it's just basically about triggering the muscle. And maybe that's true, but I'm really glad I was in the era where I could really be able to build the base and work on those core movements and really learn my body and learn the exercise that works for me. And you know, this is what I continue to do. I mean, I'm still a volume trainer. I don't train super heavy. Like I said, it's not necessarily the goal, but maybe that's why my joints feel so good. And I do supplement really well with, you know, what's necessary. And my diet has always been super particular. And I feel like even off season, like that was the one thing about me is I always always take the same foods, whether it's off season or pre-contest. Obviously, the amount of food, whether protein carbs changed, but I was always on a low-fat diet. I was wondered if I more did a high-fat diet because it seems like that's kind of a trend now, too, is having more fats in there. What it really triggered for my physique, you know, but I'm, listen, there's no regrets on that. I mean, we're training like I said, it's continuous now today and pretty much the same. I do the same exercise and same order every single workout. I really don't change things a lot. One thing about all of your old training footage is you look ridiculously full in everything. What would you think, what were you thinking going into a workout? Like, were you thinking just, make sure I'm hydrated, was your pre-workout meal, you know, higher in carbs, were you taking in more sodium? Like, you just had like this crazy look to you every time you trained in every single video. Well, I mean, remember, I was, you know, I've worked a lot of years to maintain that fullness, right? So, I think for me, I always trained after at least one meal. I never trained as much fast it is as some people start. That's a new trend of today. But, you know, honey had me switched to eat meals. Probably after three meals, you know, when I switched over coaching to him, he preferred me to train like later in the afternoon, where I preferred to train after a meal one or two, that's when I felt the best. But I definitely got a better pump as you have some more meals in you. I feel like I'd have fast metabolism. If people want to argue that the glycogen from the day before is kind of what you're using, you know, as energy or whatever else, you know, muscle fullness, I think, you know, that could have some truth to it. But I believe that burned through food like super fast. So I was a high carb eater. I, you know, like you'd be the rumors of meat in a thousand grams of carbs a day. But I would definitely have a big breakfast and that big breakfast would be a hundred grams of protein at least 200 grams of carbohydrates. So that's still to us, day guys, I'm not gonna lie. I have about the same. I have the same breakfast every day. Is your biggest meal today? It is. And, you know, people say you can't process a hundred grams of protein in one sitting. Hey, they changed their mind on that now. Now they said, they did science and now they said, yes, you can't. So you're welcome to do it, Jay. Now that you know, you know, I'm going to be the experts figured it up because I figured it up by trial and every. Right. Right. Yeah. What, what, I mean, people ask me all the time about gyms, you know, I'm kind of no one for being like a real gym guy. And I wanted to ask you, you know, you trained in a lot of gyms. What, what was your favorite training environment when you were, you know, in the thick of of a, you know, Steve Weinbergers East Post Mac, a man. It's just, I mean, with the memorabilia, I mean, between that and gold gym Venice obviously gold gym Venice in the heyday. When you're surrounded by the memorabilia like the stuff you see like in my office, right? And then you have, you know, the clanking weights. Yeah. Kind of drowned out music because there's just so much like clanking going on in the gym and everyone's in there to train. It's, that's the environment. I like Steve's because the lower ceilings, I mean, and then of course, I like gold gym Venice because of the breeze coming in the front and going out the back like that before they moved all the equipment outside like that that was just there's nothing like it. I call it the walls of greatness because you just walk in the Venice and you like fuck I just want to train, you know, and that's how I felt this Steve's also and you know, we travel out there. I trained with Ronnie like we closed that gym down on Friday nights when we guest post on the Saturday out there. We June and Ronnie would be in the corner squat in 700 pounds, you know, I was like, yeah, you got to do this again, another round and I, you know, September, October when we had on the whole prep to fall through. So crazy. I have a question about, so I met you probably long before you even realize it. You came out to one of our stores in Arizona and I was just working there at the time. And I had seen you. It was three weeks before the US says so that would have made it like early July late June. And you said that you were, you hadn't been training and you were going to be going full bore starting when you got home the next day for the Olympia. And you were monstrous, you know, you were 280, 285 and and back in my head, obviously, as a kid, I was like, he's full of shit. Like, you know, and then I saw you with the USA's three weeks later. And I saw you from across the room and I mean, my mind was blown and I asked you like, what are you way and you said three 15. And my brain broke. So aside from the obvious things that everyone wants to jump to the conclusions on, what did it look like for you before you started your Olympia prep like was obviously that sounds like there was a downtime. And then you dove right in and your body just exploded. I wish I had photos for people to see what that three weeks was. Yeah, so I don't know what year that was. I've done steep but that was like, oh, two, I think or a two or a three because at the thing you showed me, no, what have been like, oh, yeah, let's see. Yeah, probably, oh, two or three because you showed me pictures from 2001 and you said, these are the pictures that haunt me. Because obviously you looked so good. You know, you need to think about a lot of the bodybuilders and you know, touch a little bit on the subs and side is, you know, we would completely clean out after competitions, right. So, if I wasn't competing at the Arnold, you know, and I did the back to back years at the Arnold Olympia's right. So it was like, you know, you had a little time down after the Olympia. I came off all the drugs and then, you know, I would just still train but not obviously eat as much food. I would kind of loosen the dial a little bit and then I start full prep into the Arnold, you know, with all the protocol and everything else. Then I'd finish in book a whole guest posing season between that and when I started prepping it around June, you know, so basically, you know, marks was that the Arnold they come off. You know, any kind of antibiotics or whatever else, I would completely, that's not bridging or anything like that. And then, you know, I would start prepping, you know, 16 to 20 weeks out. And that's when I kind of, you know, start off, you know, just adding some compounds in there and, you know, and slowly work my way up. But I mean, it happened really fast because your body's like a sponge, especially when you had that time down. And that's what, you know, it's a little confusing today because I know there's a lot of medical experts to that think it's almost worse to come off everything and, you know, and I have some maintenance those. But listen, TRT didn't exist. I didn't even turn, I don't think then so it was like, you know, like we did what we had to do for the contest and I mean, if I really got into that deep and he asked me, okay, what did I, I wouldn't even remember to be honest because it was really come, come by availability and, you know, we kind of had a certain protocol but mainly was the food though, the food. Like when I had to start training for a show and know I had to pack those, I wasn't traveling. And that was the biggest hindrance to me was, you know, getting on the road and missing meals because I did. I mean, all of us, and it wasn't as 100% especially when you're flying and you get stuck in places. We didn't have meal prep back then, right? So we had to get our food and somehow and, you know, that was a lot of time eating out at restaurants or ordering food and I mean shoot it in a door dash or any of that stuff. So I think really, you know, just when I put my head down and I started grinding towards the contest prep and there was no one that gave it the dedication that I did. I felt like that's one thing I can kind of hold high in standard to me as like, I was calculated. I was, I had everything kind of set in place. I compared a lot to what Nick Walker's like these days. I think he's really struck. That's nice. Yeah, that's awesome. Well, we wanted to get a reaction to a couple of videos. We wanted to show you a few things and just just hear what what you think when you see these videos. I don't know if you've watched a lot of your old videos. I don't know how often you pull up an old YouTube clip of yourself or how often somebody comes up and shows you their phone. Whatever you ever do man, people are probably wondering that but like I'll be flicking through and you know I would say I'm putting a ton of cut content right now. So sometimes I'll catch it to see how my editors did with it to walk after I approved it right. It's a post-notch and I like to see what the reaction is to it, but you know it's pretty cool to be able to see that old throwback. Yeah, Scott, Scott's going to pull something up. I don't know what order he's doing things here, but what do you got? Well, you got a leg workout from 20, was it 2003 here. Let's see. Let me just a minute. There we go. Yeah, let me go Gold's gym. Guys, you know what that place. I love that gym. How long did you have that car for Jay? I had not that long man. I traded that for a twin turbo Porsche actually. That was one of my first cars I bought though actually. Like one year first kind of like I'm in the money cars. Yeah, I like it. We're at a recharge motor and it was pretty fast actually. Yeah. How many different training partners did you go through it flamingo? That was Rick. That was my buddy. He was on the first guys I met out here. So I tried to put him a lot in the videos when they did come shoot for these for whatever this is. I don't know what if it's a DVD. This is no one improved them beyond I think. So I tried to bring certain people in although I didn't train with a training partner as much. But looking at this now, I mean, I'm looking at my size and it's like man, you know, you kind of missed me in that big. I would put on the gym guys and do like this exercise and my legs were after one set would be so full. So when you talk about the fullness and you know how like no one trains legs in a tank top right? I didn't give a shit. Yeah. The blood is all in the south and no one's wearing tank tops but you. Yeah. So this was, you know, obviously they had a ton of equipment at this gym. This was, I mean, they had a lot of photos shoots here and this was pretty far across the city for me. Probably like a 25 30 minute drive but it was worth it because, you know, it's such a big open gym and they had the fans blowing You know, you could get on so much different types of equipment and you know, they're in this rain. I mean, I was, Ronnie, I don't think at this point, this was after the Arnold 2003. We hadn't seen Ronnie come back as the massive Ronnie yet. So I was like, I was thinking in my head, okay, this is my Olympia. I just won the Arnold for the second year in a row. You know, I'm rolling in and taking the Olympian. It's going to be my time, right? Yeah. And you didn't expect to 180 9 pound Ronnie. Yeah, but I don't know what the real, I'm with Dusty on that. I know it was rumored to 90 or I still don't think he weighed that much but only he's really going to know the truth to that. Now, right. And what you've heard, yeah, what was your normal jammer? Are you training at Sahara or rainbow mostly? I'm training at Sahara. Gold's jam. It was Sahara indicator because it was the closest to my house. I rarely went to like the Lake Meed location or I don't even think I went to LVACs at this point because I just didn't think it was hard core enough later on. You know, when it came back to 2009, I started training at some LVACs because, you know, I started getting on, you know, inverted light presses and things that I didn't necessarily have at these gyms. In Gold's jam, sorry, the phase out a little bit, but, you know, it's so funny to watch this. I mean, it's still kind of the same thing to be honest. I did like yesterday and this is the exact, I did like extensions and then I did like pressed, which I only go up to about four plates aside now. This is the Marty second set in, already a prior. But remember, this is improved time. This wasn't when I was really trying to put on much size. This was kind of rebound phase. Oh, yeah. But you said, is that still pro-tanner? You just sat 10 to all the time. Oh, you know what? I would probably guess posing every weekend. Sorry. I assume that, you know, after every weekend, you know, this was one of the shoots when we filmed this DVD. I think we filmed it after after my Arnold victory. So, I just still had tan on from a guest pot on a weekend. I mean, I was just traveling every weekend to a guest posing. That's when body blows pose instead of just a beer. Yeah. Oh, yeah. It's funny. I've watched all these videos so many times, Jake, because we used to sell your videos in my stores that these are body-building memories of mine and I wasn't there. Yeah. When you just watch through, because I mean, we played them. That was a great way to celebrate. Just keep them playing all the time. And so you and that gym is like, hand in hand to me. So when I would go train there when we're out in Vegas, it was always like visiting Jay's gym. Even though I knew, because Sean always told me that you actually trained at the other gyms more often. Yeah. Sean from Goldstein, right? Yeah. Sean Paxon. Yeah. Yeah. So, with this gym, Dennis Wolf was training at this gym quite often when he was in the gym. When he ended up, you know what year he came to Vegas. But I saw him pretty often. I actually met Dwayne Johnson for the first time in this gym. Okay. He was filming a movie in 07 and he came literally, came up to me. And he goes, hey, I'm a huge fan of whatever else. And he wasn't really known as the rock as much as he is now. And it's kind of funny because I ran into him. There's a video of me running into him at Goldstein Venice. And you guys have probably seen this. I mean, as I watch it this morning. Yeah. So, and that was probably 20. I would say 13 or 14. And literally he said, the last time I saw you was at that Goldstein flamingo. Like literally, that's what he told me in his program. He always people he's met. He could have remembered when he met me in 07 when he was there filming. A movie in Vegas. That's wild. I'm a new dusty. I'm going to train at this gym so bad. The first time I went to Vegas, my goal after seeing this video so many times was to go there. And I got there and I found out he had just closed down. Oh, yeah. You see, I started going to Vegas in my first Olympia was 02. And I remember wanting to go to Flamingo Gold. Because that was where Jay had filmed the footage the day after the 2001 Olympia. Yeah. You shot that famous footage there. And I was like, oh, well, that's the gym. That's where I got a train. It was the hard core gym. Yeah. So it was like, I got so excited walking into this gym. I was like, this is where shit happens, man. This is where Jay did that photo shoot. You know? And you know, all the metal plates and all the leg presses. And they just had it a great setup there. It's unfortunate that the gym never ended up as a, I mean, that would be a great destination spot. Because it was the other boxing in there and everything. But you know, the all those goals, gym dissipated me, EOS kind of took some of the spots. But like, we don't have anything that's like this, this big a footprint. Like this hard core, you know, and I mean, everything's changed. Now metal weights, metal dumbbells aren't necessary. Your thing is, is much anymore in a lot of gyms. Oh, legs. Yeah. The cross-hated legs is never get old. Yes. So this is one of these things guys where people talk about my strength and like, Jay didn't train heavy, you know, but you know, here I am, you know, I was completely off at this time. Yeah. Yeah. Obviously, it's still got a lot of stuff in my body from competing or whatever. But like, like, this is, this is just with ease. I mean, I didn't really use knee wraps and that kind of stuff to kind of later. So I kind of took to that to where, you know, I was just trying to go heavier than I probably needed to. But think everyone over, over does, I mean, I watch some of these guys and I cringe with how much hacksaw weight they're using. I mean, you know, how many people have torn their fatella tendons, you know, doing hacksawats. It's going to be dangerous and in some sense. You know, didn't, didn't mellows tear both of his who did. You're going to eat a pack with that, with that lure of Jay didn't train heavy. Also goes along with your, your rest time. So that you, and we know you took short rest times, but I'm curious, what was your average rest time between sets? Because we don't actually get to see that in the cuts, you know. Yeah, 25, 60 seconds usually was what it was usually the partner when I went. A lot of times I actually tried to train with someone that didn't have to change the weights, although this one, I think this guy was just coming in train with me more. Just for the video, whatever, but obviously, I think it's a little slower here. I mean, it's probably more for the video and resting a little more to do a little heavier weight, where I never really cared about the weight that much to be honest. I mean, that was never a thought process when I planned my workouts. And I would always plan these workouts the day before I kind of know what I went through, but, you know, I look at this kind of weight guys. I mean, I don't know how many plates this is, but I'm like, say, seven, seven, eight plates. Yeah, that's why I laugh with people saying, that's not a lot. Yeah, you have eight plates aside there. I do that. Yes, that's heavy as shit. And is that a side-back attack? Yeah, it looks like it. Yeah. Or a carrying. Could be it. Yeah. It's an a carrying or a side-back because I can't tell. It was a pain-itension. Yeah. That's a night carrying. Okay. Yeah. I felt, I honestly, this was the best exercise for my quads. I always felt like this helped the sweep on my quads a lot, which I just don't see as many people hammering the hackswats as much anymore. They use the, um, the use one now, the pendulum. Yeah, that's where everyone loses now. Yeah, you can't replace it back. I won't mess with it. And I don't do the pendulum squat at all. I feel it's, it's almost too hard now. I don't really want to push myself to that level. I don't really want to walk out of the gym, be sore for two days. You don't know that. But I try to do as little as I have to do to maintain the athletic body. So I guess it's not that encouraging for my fan base that, you know, this is a J-Lost of Fire, but man, you know, at a certain age, we just, the weight can't be the same. Yeah. Well, as you said, it's not losing the fire though. That's, that's a, been there done that. I mean, that's why I feel like a lot of people should consider when it is time to be done. It's like, then you have a new goal. Did, did you find when you were retired that it was harder to, uh, you know, longer just had a reason to look a certain way? Like, you had to kind of pick what you wanted to look like. Was that weird? Because I know for, for me, it was really weird because I never thought about it. I needed to be better for the next show, you know, and I, I couldn't wait to be downsized and fit into extra large or two-x instead of four-x shirts and, right. And I know, like, clothing has kind of changed. I mean, they have a lot of more form-fitting, you know, skinny jeans or whatever else. So, you know, obviously, I had suits made back then and it was like, everything was like a tent, but now everything's more form-fitting. And I think that's what I was most excited about, but I didn't really have a problem with the transition. And I still don't. Because, you know, I still look at the other guys and I look at this. Like, I'm more blown away in this video of watching, actually, like you said, Ron, how full I was, right? Because that's just the food consistent day and day out, eating, eating, eating, and like years of doing that, that, you know, you get that stretch of the muscle and, you know, consistent training. And it was all about getting the gym, doing enough work, getting out of the gym and feeding it. And that's, was a daily routine. Like, I always say body glows can be so successful, no matter what they choose to do later because we put so much effort into the body, but it still surprised me, dust, you just told me, it's tax-wet at eight plates yesterday. I'm still blown away on that, like, why? I wonder that every day as well. No, it's actually, I had less than everything down. And then my wife decided to compete again. And next thing, you know, I'm training harder again. And I put on muscle again on accident. And here we are. Like, it's funny, I'm still eating, like, four real meals a day. And, but just training, I mean, you know this, if you were to eat a little bit in train hard, what would happen, like the amount of muscle you put back on. So it's like, it's kind of like I got roped into it because she's training hard. And I'm like, next thing, you know, I kind of got that it. So it's been fun, but Ronald's tell you, it's a balance too, because I, I'm like, I can't gain anymore weight. I better watch it. So we'll go out of town and, you know, we went to Germany for six days. And I came back up 12 pounds. I'm like, all right, back on the cardio, back on the no food. Let's get this weight back down. So it does see, does he blows up every time he eats burgers. Yeah. Yeah. We don't have burgers in Germany or. Oh, dude, it was terrible because we were just going back to our place. So literally we had burgers, two, probably two burgers a day for six days. Okay. I came back exactly the same weight. I didn't get any fatter. I know it's done trips. Ron gets harder and more vascular and Vanias you as the week goes on. You know, you get leaner. Yeah. Ron should eat burgers more often. It would be good for him. I mean, I mean, I mean, here I'm doing the fun squad. I mean, I always like the monosynth machine with all he's here sometimes. I mean, I did go free weights also, but it's kind of funny. When I first started squatting guys, I actually elevated my heel where the regular squat with a two by four. We had two by four. We had two by four. Yeah. And I would get in there and I would put my heel on that two by four. And that really, I think attributed also to my frontal thighs, the way that I had that crazy sweet. I mean, that's also played a part. But it really did help a lot. But I mean, squatting on a two by four people at our age, it probably like cringe with the You know, it's. Well, now it nowadays everybody needs like a 150 dollar wedge under their heel. Oh, yeah. You know, they need some fancy. This gym doesn't have prime wedges. What a shit hole. They don't have a 40%. They have the 30%. But that's not what I use. I was this is a gym you would find a two by four out, which you know, I can't say that those this many today that. Yeah. We're laying around for that reason. Come to Detroit. Come to Detroit. We've got. Yeah. We still have two by fours over here. Okay. I was going to say, you know, you were always known for your for having a shoe game before the shoe game was a thing. Oh, and. But at the same time, you got a generic gallon jug and a ripped a rip towel. So it wasn't you weren't all branded out. You know what I mean? There was still plenty of room for a jacotler dot com towel back then that you hadn't thought of. Someone just asked me this weekend at this event signing like you should have launched a bandana or something, whatever else. I never imagined it would be that famous man, you know. Yeah. It's the most immediate can blow up someone's someone's image with the the smallest things of a rip towel that wrapped on my head. I guess people considered that hardcore. If a guy, I remember during the eighths, remember he would wear his bandana. I thought that was the coolest thing ever. I mean, he was so serious when I met him and he was Mr. Limpio when I was coming up from the teenage Nationals and forward. So I always looked at him and he was just so hidden and, you know, he was called the shadow because he just went back to England and did his work and came back in one more Limpio. So it was always intriguing and, you know, I used to watch, you know, blood and guts and watch him train like that. I think, you know, kind of that, let off took a little bit spillover to what I did in the sounds. I mean, that was freaking heavy. That's a four plate front squat with no belt no wraps. Like, yeah. Jaden, you know, let's say that in the first. Third, fourth, fifth exercise. Fifth exercise. Yeah. You know, yeah. Just playing with weights. 45 seconds. I watched. Why I tried to take these 45s off and it's like, I don't have that strength in the middle. I was just too hidden. So trying to hand it on. It's like, did her plates away out of the dishwasher? Yeah. But I'm like, why am I training this hard and we're not supposed to be training. This is for us to be like the cruise time of, you know, let's in between the shows get late. Your body heal up, you know. Yeah. What this was meant, right? This is MOC. Yeah. Yeah. We were trying to, at this point, I was trying to challenge Ronnie's DVDs because we each, like, mitts would go shoot Ronnie and he'd go shoot me and he'd do like, yeah, he's launching this DVD. And I'd ask him like, what he did, you know, since stuff. And he would tell me like the crazy way it's going to seem to be bigger and bigger every DVD did, right? So it kind of was a little competition in a sense because we would come here and he'd, you know, he wouldn't tell me deep information, but he would tell me kind of the ins and outs of what's going on and I'd ask about, you know, Ronnie's gym and I had trained there once in 96. And so we were kind of not only challenging some of the stage, but who could get the best DVD released because this was a huge money maker for us at that point. You know, you got all the videos and I mean, we'd sound for $40 and, you know, our ideal with mitts, you know, he would give us the DVDs for free, but he just wanted the access to be able to sell in certain regions, one of them being Japan. So we'd, if the copies, I think maybe we had a pay for the copies, but the copies were only a couple of dollars and for us to be selling them for $40. This was, this was early social media. Look at now everywhere you were reacting to this. This is, if this footage was never shot, you know, how much footage would we have? I mean, I wish I videoed all my stuff. I didn't shut shooting YouTube to 2008, but here I am going back to doing more extensions. And this is one of my favorite, the flex, the flex extension, deep front. I always liked the leg extensions where the bar was in the middle. I don't know how you guys feel about that. You're a cam, you're a cam, they never get bent. Never get bent and when you go heavier, it's almost like, you know, you can kind of feel it evenly. Right. You like, I think can get warped a little bit. But bends when you put some heavy weights on there, not to say I was not extremely heavy, but you can see the fullness and, you know, I think with the angle of this too, you know, if anyone ever can work on that kind of like with an angle back, um, hunger, it just, the way I sat in it was a little higher of a unit. So I really liked using that as the more of the power extensions, as you saw in the beginning, I started with some lighter extensions, with a regular extension, but these were the heavy sets. This workout just keeps going. Like it just keeps. It doesn't stop, not we're going into hamstring curls. It's like, it's a bit of a ending. I know what the five exercises are going. I know I got a few more videos too, so if it's got one to jump to another video. This, um, this leg extension, this, like curl, the seated was probably my favorite. That's the ham troc, there. Yeah. When I started training in Massachusetts at a place called Notalist Puss, I was going to try 45 minutes just to get this, use this machine. I always felt this the best in my legs. It's still the first exercise that I do every single week when I train legs when I'm here in Vegas. Okay. All right. I'll jump to the next one then, Ron. We've got, we've got a short one here. We see if I can get this one short one. Yeah. But when was time you talked to Mitz? There we go. Um, we talked recently. I think last year maybe we talked, you know, We send you a pan and me, Lo's was just with him. So me, Lo's actually sent me some pictures and I said, Make sure you say hello, you know. I hope he made some good money because without Mitz, we wouldn't have any history of that entire era. I don't think he made enough if that makes sense. Yeah. There we go. Way back for this one. And Warren was in a local gym trying to beef up for high school football when national level heavyweight Mark. And he was a national. He national is 93. This is the rally North Carolina branch. I remember thinking when I saw a branch like he's pretty rip, but he, I don't feel like he didn't have a lot of size. When, you know, I walked in there the biggest dude there. And you know, I thought for sure, you know, I, that was the first time to say we were really dieted for. So, you know, Chris thought I, I do pretty well against, you know, the line up, but you know, branch had like strided lutes as a teenager. And obviously I had the size. I just wasn't as ripped, you know. And I used to be curling that the tube. Exactly. Good. So I was, I was working in a golf course at this point. And I was getting up at 330 in the morning to ride the bike before I would had to be at work, you know, at, you know, five o'clock or whatever. So, you know, this was a, a crazy prep for me. And then, you know, of course going into the nation and winning, you know, the heavy weights there. They didn't have a super heavy down. But you could see how fresh I was with, you know, the whole body going thing. Your, your legs were already completely out of control. Yeah. Were you always the guy that had like a hairstyle, you all like in high school and shit? Yeah. And I, I had that surfer look, you know, and I used to put sun in in my hair for this. Like that's how blonde my hair was. It was sun and we'd go to the beach and I just, you know, sun in. I haven't even heard that term. No, it's been like, you know, it's been, at least. Yes. Yes. Yes. And it is, and that is, I mean, the branch was a lot smaller. I never really paid attention to that. So really like rewarded the conditioning back then. The good legs and the funny thing is, is branch when I did the nationals in 96. So this was 93. So branch, I don't know what he was doing at the time. But he showed up at the nationals in 96. And it was kind of like, okay, you know, I, I had heard he was, he was going to compete. And he didn't even make the 15 from my understanding. It was, you know, I won, obviously my class in branch. He was, he was a light heavy, but he didn't make the top 15. So just shows the advancement. You know, I went to California after this show. And that's when I got to watch USA and I saw Chris Cormier when, you know, that show. And then I got to meet at Conners and I got to, you know, go to Go to Go to Go to Venice the first time. And then, you know, that led me to going in November, back out there, staying with Ed for a month. And that's when I decided fully, I'm going to pursue bodybuilding at the, at the, like, the full potential, you know. Yeah, absolutely. Especially the teenagers because I got some solidification of like, okay, I'm, I'm definitely, I have something here. You know, I mean, I was big for my area in Western Massachusetts, but to go to the teenage nationals, get notoriety when my class, even though the competition wasn't super tough, it was still like, okay, this is step towards going towards the bigger things, right? So I think that's really, you know, where I said, hey, I really have something because I've bloomed up after this teen national, like, 260. And I was pretty lean. And I knew I had something different. Yeah, that's an advantage that we have now or even when I was starting is you knew what the next level looked like. Where you were just rolling in like, I'm big in my gym. I wonder how I am in the world. Yeah. Oh, here we are, 2001, 2001, the date, the day after the big day. After your first win. Yeah, we're going to get to work. So how you feeling this morning, this, this, this must have been an absolutely crucial, more, like, morning in your life, that day after your second running. I was relieved because I kind of later all out there. I remember I took the whole year off from 2000 until 2001. I didn't compete because back then the top 10 qualified from the year prior and I was eighth. I didn't go to Europe and I competed with Ronnie in the European Tour after 2000, Olympia and I got to stand next to him for the first time. So I kind of knew I could compare. And then when I came into 01, I'm coming in this thing. I'm winning, Chris kind of put it in my head. We're not going for anything but winning. And even though the odds for someone to move from eighth to first or second, very slim, I was able to just put my head down. I mean, I had a great offseason and rolled into the contest the way I wanted to. And I looked at the result. When did it sort of sink in? Like, it must have been a real, did you have a real profound feeling of arrival with that second place? I was so close and to be honest, I was just floored to be able to be second. I mean, there was no disappointment like I didn't win. Because when you're, when you're, you know, when people say you should over, or could over, I won the crowd, right? So for me, it was like winning almost. I mean, back then it's not like, you know, I won 60 grand for second first was a hundred. So it wasn't like it was a huge swing like today where you went 400,000 and then second gets 150, right? Yeah. That's for a bit. To when he's got his top off, we'll get through this one. Because I know we got, we got a much newer video we want to show you. Okay. So there's, yeah, those legs are freaking just wild right now. When you look at this, you know, people say, oh, nine was my best, but look at this. You look at the fullness and you look at the quality of the physique. I mean, I was probably sharper in certain areas and oh, nine, but I mean, look at the aesthetics versus, you know, the condition. It's just the package was just pretty much undeniable. I mean, it almost won. So, you know, I was back and forth on what my best was. Hmm. Well, besides best, what would be your favorite would you? It sounds like you're saying this was, this was a little bit. Yeah, yeah, yeah. This or two because I had the muscle fullness. I feel like after this, they kind of came down on me a little bit like getting the back more condition because obviously that was what was holding me back against Ronnie. And it made sacrifice other areas. And it makes my legs, it's phenomenal as they were. I ended up not keeping the leg fullness like I have here, the roundness, the delts. I mean, this is a thousand grams of carb diet with no cardio for ten weeks guys. So, that literally did no cardio, ten weeks prior to like I stopped all cardio, ten weeks out from this contest. And I did a zigzag diet where I'd eat, you know, 400 grams of carbs on my off day. And I ate 100 to 1000 on the training days and that's how I maintained like conditioning. But I did train twice a day. I was doing sonas twice a day. I used a lot of protein powder from my protein. I was on a very low fat diet. So, not, not no red meat at all. There was zero red meat during this prep. But I'm not kidding, probably three of my six meals were protein powder with like a carbohydrate like rice or whatever else, you know, potatoes. I just didn't see the fish himself. Yeah, that was that was definitely the first time when I, when I, this was when I realized I had to go to that gym was this video. Yeah, this was the one I was thought of. I was thought of this video. Yeah. What did you actually weigh here? Not too sexy. Yeah. Not too sexy. I mean, I was too skinny three days out. There's a story all to itself. Most people, most people pull 20 pounds of water. They get flat. Right. You got the other video you wanted to run. Yeah. So, this is in my opinion, one of the greatest top sixes of all time. This, this top sixes just mind boggling to me. I mean, I know Ronnie's not there, but it's the, the top six, the quality of the whole top six, you know. You and Dexter and Victor and Phil and Kai and, and, and, and, and, yeah, I'm, you know, before this show, this is the first year I work with Hany and I remember. I said, listen, what do you think? And he's like, dude, I don't know. Like, I don't know what you're going to look like. I don't know. Like, you have to see when you get up there. Mm-hmm. Right. Like, like, we were pretty confident. Like, the package would be enough. We, we underestimated how spectacular it was though. Mm-hmm. And you think? Yeah. Yeah. You're, you're much, you're much, when I, I kind of knew just by the, you can usually, by the, when I came out, I mean, backstage that we're going bananas when I took my shirt off. Everybody was like, we, what the, what the, what the, what the, what the how, you know. So I knew that had, I show and, but even here, like, I feel my legs, like, I didn't have the fullness right that I once had. Although, I mean, listen if they're tremendous, but if you look back at, like, the O1 video, we just had in the gym today after it's like, I definitely had a, a little more fullness in the leg, so though this was, here's the moment right here. Yeah. I mean, the moment, here we go. Boom. Everyone. History. History. What do you think when you see that photo? I mean, listen, man, it's, I never imagined being one of the greatest poses of all time. I mean, it was just goes, goes by proudly spots. They went crazy for the striations and, you know, I looked at all the leg development. You know, look at the plaats and you look at, you know, big ramen and people that have the crazy wheels and cagrin. But like the detail in that one quad, like I don't know if it's been rivaled sense, you know, like with the striers out ahead and all that. You know, it was crazy from, from the, from the crowd, Jay was that you won before your physical, you know, the one before your physique was even shown because I was, I was at that show and you walked out about 10 15 feet on the stage and the pre judging you just stopped and the crowd lost their minds. Like we all went over. Yeah. Jay just came to let us know he's here to win. It was, it was, I got chills in the crowd. So I can't imagine what it was for you. I mean, I just, yeah. I mentioned, man, like, I was really down after losing the Dexter and no a second guest. My abilities and, you know, this whole honey thing fell into place. I mean, Chris and I had been working together since I was a teenager and, you know, I remember Chris saying to me, like, maybe just need to change it up. And I don't think you meant changing it up by go to somebody else and that never was the plan. It's kind of funny how honey and I, and I, like, we, he reached out to me because he knew that was a bad time for me and he just, hey, how are you doing? You know, we weren't super close but we were close enough where we were talking on the phone and, and I said, dude, I don't know what I'm going to do, you know, whatever else. And then, you know, we ended up just kind of communicating and like listen, would you mind me if I bounced a couple things off? I'm going to try to do this on my own probably and, like, just kind of just listen to what my body tells me and he said, yeah, no problem. And then somehow we end up just, you know, end up shooting the FST7 thing and he kind of, you know, that kind of fit into my training with the body. And I trained with the volume stuff and, and he just became a more of a friend and then I remember like getting in, I, even when I started in July, I think I started the prep and I'm like, you know what, I want to hire you. Like, I think it was like 10 weeks out or something I just said, we need to, you need to work together and just let's let you guide me into the show. Because I hadn't been in touch with Chris, you know, and, you know, I had lost in the way it's always pretty disappointed with that. So, I just end up working through with Hani and, you know, Phil was coming strong at this show too. And I was, I was very concerned about Phil Heath because, you know, O.A.D. was third. I thought he was good enough to possibly win it his first attempt. But I knew he was coming knocking the door unfortunately he got sick and, you know, ended up in fifth place, but, you know, Branch was right there next to me. So it's kind of goes back to 93, you know, now, oh nine, like, here we are again. And she, you know, I had a lot of respect for him. He was mentioning my, in my speech a little bit. Because, you know, I mean, he was always known as the guy that, okay, does not have the structure that genetics, maybe, to be the best, but his hard work and his dedication and what he did, he always was able to prevail. I mean, Arnold wins and second, if you limp you right. Yeah, yeah. How, how do you feel watching like last year's Olympia? When you saw that battle between, you know, how do you Derek and Samson? It's very good even had that because I feel bad for Hottie because, you know, he didn't win. And you know what, that's like. I'm happy for Derek because it's his first and I'm close, like, I'm not close, but I'm, like, I'm communicative with all those people. So I feel bad, but I feel like I feel like excitement for each one, right? Because I know get Mr. Limp, you're like, it's so hard to win it and lose it. You know, and we've all kind of had to go through that even Phil Heath, which I never thought he would lose. But I really wanted to see, you know, I wanted to see the best battle and, you know, Samson, I think is, like if you said, okay, who is the best body? I think Samson, I would probably say he does, but the conditions just not there yet, but Derek's back double, like, it's just so impressive. So I can, I can see either way. I'm not going to say that who I had winning, I can see the argument for both. Hottie probably did enough to retain it, but, you know, Derek was phenomenal. So I'm okay with the decision. It's going to really build for this year and I think the top two will still be those two guys. That's, but it's easy that the two 12 guys are now the top two, right? It kind of, I don't know if it's, it's not disappointing to me, but it, it is a little bit. Like it's, you know, when, when a big dude, I always was like, hey, I'm the biggest guy. I'm going to favor the bigger guy to win, but man, it's just, you know, to see the shorter, you know, more compact guys up there battling for the top two. It's like, okay, who, who is, wins key on Pearson, do the crossover, wins, you know, some of these other guys that, you know, how's Angel Calderone going to do with, if he goes into the open right? I mean, right, you're going to see these guys, I mean, it's no joke, man. Like, Keyon's going to, he's going to be dangerous when he gets to the open in my opinion. Oh, great. He's got an unbelievable physique, the shape and structure just mind blowing. Just crazy man. So who are we going to see as Nick Walker going to be the one? I mean, we're missing him in last year's Olympic. That was disappointing to me. I've always been close to him. I was close to his family forever. I was quoted saying that Nick Walker could win it. A lot of people love to argue that, say, J.D. does notice talking about, but this is, anyone's game up there, man. I never thought, how do you would be Mr. Lumpier to be on this after, you know, what he had to go through and then climb up to be, think, Romney would ever put it together in win one. I mean, Brandon Curry, I mean, he was like last my first Olympia. They keep to him to come up and win it. You know, Phil Heath even, man. I mean, I always say he could be Mr. Lumpier, but I didn't think what happened that fast and, you know, with his physique and his peak. I mean, he's going to go down as one of the greatest ever and not nice X X X. I say, I say all the time that Phil Heath in 2013, 14, he's the most underrated Mr. Lumpier of all time. You know, Lincoln, you know, he's like a skipper. They call, you know, everyone's called the goat now, right? Whether it's, you know, me, Romney would ever earn all good ever. But Phil, man, if you really, people are getting. Yeah, people forget because he wasn't a fan favorite in a sense, because of the high green underdog type thing. It kind of took away from his popularity in a sense. Man, he, if you really break his physique down, he was pretty damn well put together, you know? Yeah, I mean, a lot of people have said too, like, you know, I didn't realize it at the time. I've heard multiple people say that now, like I didn't give him the credit. And maybe it's because we had Ronnie for, you know, the long haul we had you. And then it's like, okay, another great guy, but looking back, a lot of people are saying, man, he was more impressive than I really gave him credit for, you know? I don't think you would have beat Ronnie Coleman, but, you know, it's, man, he stood his own. I mean, there was a, there was kind of, Ty Green wasn't there. You know, what competition would Phil have had. I mean, back to the bottom part that 16 year or whatever it was, but, you know, backstereven, backstereven is one of these guys that, you know, he won one of Olympians, won a lot of Arnold's, but like, look at the length of his career and how many times he performed and put it on the line? Like, you have to look at that too when you, you can figure factor someone in as, like, one of the greatest in ever is like, how many times did they lay it on the line and, and prevail in some sort of sense? I mean, that's where I gave Ray a lot of respect back in the day because, like, he was top five for quite a period of time. 13 years? He always brought, you know, when you look at Sean and, you know, it's crazy that Sean, he didn't have a diet guru or anyone kind of advising him. And he would always, he would, he would, I his food. He never weighed his food. Javan noticed, I don't know if you can guys fall on that. Yeah, I've talked to him a lot about it. Yeah. He didn't weigh his food. So it was like, he just went by the mirror in every day, they'll cut back a little bit on the protein, I'll cut back in the cards and look at the physique of the Zeke brought. I mean, he's underrated. I mean, there's so many people. I mean, Chris Cornier is underrated in the sense, but that's what I mean. Like, I have a loving admiration for a lot of these guys that that fueled me. And when we talk about the success of the feeds, like a lot of this was brought back. But when I watch this Olympia now, I don't envy what the guys go through because that whole build up and the hype and, like, who's going to win and what's the battle going to be? It's like a sigh relief when you finish and you're like, okay, I'm good for another year. You win the title, right? And like, I'm still because Mr. Olympia is not really going to go outside that contest and told now Arnold wants to bump the prize money to 500K and now you guys see. People like, yeah, might give people a little incentive to get off the protein between, right? I mean, yeah, I wish I had that opportunity when the five before way checked because 500K and one shot is that's a big check guys, you know, you can do a lot of financial even days out of inflation and everything else. You know, businesses mean free to life later, right? Yeah. Well, that's a perfect segue. I know we're going to let you go soon, but I wanted to just wrap and fire some business questions. And the fact that you just said that word business is a perfect time. So I just wanted to ask you, you can wrap it fire these. You can give me like one or two sentence answers. What's the most valuable business lesson that you would give someone if they say, you know, you've been so successful with so many ventures in and out of bodybuilding? Well, what is one of your foundational principles that you have to do? Everyone has the best deal ever for you, okay? Especially when you, they know you, you're successful and you have financial, you know, you have that financial status. But you, the best investment is in yourself, meaning, you know, whatever you choose to do, it has to be something you're passionate about. You can't look at something, go after something because like, oh, you can make a lot of money doing that. Whether it's like, hey, I'm going to get into real estate because I know there's a lot of real estate to sell whatever. I think you have to enjoy the process and I mean, I always tell people, you know, pursue the things that you, you have interest in and you understand, learn it, right? Don't just say, someone comes to you and says, hey, it's a $10,000 investment. So when so's done it, it's kind of like the whole crypto thing, like everyone jumping on board. I believe you should, you should have some research you should deal comfortable and compare every scenario whether you win lose. But my losses have been the best learning curve for me. So I've never think that I've only hit home runs with everything that I've done. I've been wildly successful, but I've also had some losing moments with bad investments, whether it be real estate or business matters. I'm even the supplement game. I mean, you know, I'm having great success now, but it always wasn't like that. So you have to have the patience, but prepare yourself for the best in the worst. I would say. Okay. What non-body building investment has been your best move? Realist aside from real estate, any other business that you think was great? I did some, some ammo manufacturing that I had a business doing that. I mean, I enjoyed doing that. I grew up, I shot my first gun when I was four years old. My man, I'm out. You just got a whole bunch of new fans. I knew that one. I don't have guns, but I don't, I don't post shooting as much. We're kind of wide open in Nevada, right? I mean, yeah. I've just started shooting stuff. I don't know where were you guys? You're on it. You said Michigan or something. You just drive on, start shooting stuff. Yeah. I'm looking for a person. You know, it's a little easier. Is there an investment that you regret? What do you think would be your dumbest move? The dumbest move. I think I did like this mortgage calculator investment for 25,000. That was probably, it was always these new things to make things easier. I believe that I also invested in the, something that they sold me on. This was a device to keep you from texting while driving. That other thing that probably was probably what I thought about and probably second guests, if I should have done it or not. I think everyone still text and drive to be honest. You know, it says, hey, I'm driving. It was something like that. I'm, hey, I'm driving and, you know, I can't get back to you right now, which, you know, that thing came out, but it was something on that line. Right. That was probably, I didn't understand it, you know, because I still text and drive will be honest, you know. What here's, here's one for you. What do you consider to be your personal weakness? Like, is there a trait that you are working on to improve? I always, I always give time when I don't give time to myself. So I often, I often sway my schedule to accommodate others. Like, three old retired assholes on a podcast. It's a hit. It's a hit. I'm too good. I'm too good. He's amazing. Yeah, you're right, you know. You know, listen, I work all the time. So I just don't know how to separate business and pleasure in a sense, right? Right. So I, you know, I always joke and I say vacations are cool for quitters, you know, especially when we're like, like, we travel like we just came from Germany and I went to the classroom. Sure you guys been there before and yeah, like, it a little outside things, but it's like, man, they can enjoy the moments a little bit, like try to shut off that side of like, I'm here for that and then work your way. And it's been that way since probably the pandemic. I think a little worse. I haven't really slowed down and I'm hoping that I have a, like, next couple weeks I travel, but then I have like a mod like break in between where I'm traveling like maybe two weekends a month instead of four. Or maybe I'll start to make that transition and I'll try to take it a little more. Okay, last question for you. What is a habit or trait in other people that you admire? Loyalty consistency. I love someone that's returns messages because I feel like no one's too busy to return messages, especially like texts and, you know, someone that I know the busiest people that still find the time to do everything. And don't forget, right? And sometimes I'm hunting a calendar. And I think it's similar to like, you know, when I text you this morning, Ron, it was seven thirty my time or whatever. And I didn't get back to you since you text me about coming on this thing since Germany, right? I think I was on my way back. So you probably, will you think that he is Jay going to show up? Be honest with me. Yeah, I actually thought that maybe you weren't in for today. So we were just going to do a Q&A, right? Oh, so do you see the follow up, right? Because I know it's important. I think about this several times and you know, you started DMing me and my pro text me because like these DMs were work. I don't, I get too many DMs and you know, as soon as you text me and I put it on my schedule and I had to remind you like, hey, we're going on for this, you know, today. And 20 minutes to how many minutes did it take for me to get back to you? Those are seconds. So you have to surprise, you were like, hey, yeah, that would be great, you know? So I think I took it as like, oh, Jay forgot or he's not coming on. But like I try to make importance because listen man, like no matter what, you know, I look at all you guys, you know, I follow what you do. I respect what you do. It's an I refuse podcast all the time. I don't really do that many more because I do my own. And it's again, I'm limited on time, but I can't tell you how many messages I came home from Feeborn. I said, guys, please, I apologize that you know, a million people have text me. So I'm slowly trying to get back to everyone and some people I will miss. So here I am saying a pet peeve of mine is like when people don't return messages, me and while I'm one of those guys because of the travel schedule. But I try to accommodate everyone, but it's also my biggest flaw. But you know, listen, I have my Monday calls at 11 to 1 and I'm missing it just for this today. And I told the crew, I'm like, listen, I have to do this podcast with these guys. It was important for me. Well, we're incredibly grateful man. I know, I know just for us talking to you, Jay is always a treat. You have a lot of wisdom for a lot of people. And you know, our favorite era of body building, I mean, you know, that whole time you were up there. Just magical for everybody being at those shows. I saw you every single year you were on stage. And so just thanks for coming on man. It's always good to see at Nando's restaurant in the UK and all that stuff and random airports and breakfast and Germany a couple times and all that stuff. So thank you very much, Jay. Yes, sir. You guys, I appreciate you keep doing what you do. Keep spreading the knowledge and keep reviewing the Jay cut their throwback videos. I'll throw them up there. Guys, before we go, I really quickly went to suffocially tell you a story, Jay. And it was the time I didn't get to meet you. 2007, I went to, I said, that was the year I went to Las Vegas and then we went to Los Angeles. We drove to Los Angeles and I thought, well, maybe Jay is going to be training at Golds. And I got there and you weren't at Golds. And I went over to Max muscle and I met Dave Orley. He was over there and he said, Oh, no, Jay is at night of champions right now. And I was bombed up like, All the time in these videos, something you go to Golds, Jay is going to, or you go to powerhouse, Jay is going to be there, right? So I go to Golds and Jay is not there. Anyways, I'm getting ready to walk out of the store. I bought a T-shirt and stuff and Dave says, Hey, buddy, come here a minute. So I come over to the desk and he says, You know, Jay, I want me to give this to you. He's like, he hands me an autograph picture. And I was like, Oh, no kidding. I was like, Well, thanks a lot, man. And we were renting bikes that weekend. My girlfriend and I. So I'm riding around. And I don't want to mess this picture up. And I have to like ride all around Venice Beach with this picture now in my basket of this bike. And I travel it all the way home. And I still have it to this day hanging on my wall. So thank you. Finally, you tell you, Thank you for the picture. I appreciate it. And this, that's pretty cool. You know, we had that max muscle there. You know, Dave or Lay was my hype guy and still to this day. Like we do the Jay walking. I see that wrong. I remember you signed that for me at San Jose, expo. You said, I said, Can I have a poster? You don't want a poster? I'm going to go. I did. So thanks, Jay. And now that's awesome, man. You know, it's always good. You guys, you guys keep doing the thing. Man, it's a it's put to see and hopefully I'll be back on for another time. I'll show you to be some more questions or time that I can come on and. Okay, hype it up a little bit. Keep doing it. Dusty. Go up to nine plates next week. I got to. No, I'm not. No, I'm not. Yeah. I have this, you know, guys, just in your man, I had this shirt. It says, Why, bro? Because I just decided to him. He would get on his videos and he would be training like a mad man. I'm like, Why are you doing this? You know, we hired you done. Yeah. He came up with this shirt because it thought it was a funny thing. Because I'd write back on all his videos. Why, bro? Why, bro? I mean, I'm going to continue to ask you this. Okay, what did you train and how much? How much weight did you do? I still see your videos, man. And I asked myself why does Dusty do this? Like, what is that? I don't get a problem. You're not doing that anywhere. Are you? No, I train hard. And I have fun in the gym, but I'm like, I'm a two plate guy now. Yeah. I'm a two-man wiser. Two plates on hammers. Two plates on rows. I'm two plates on rows. I'm two plates. People love you, man. You're hard for all the way. And it's not going to stop. I mean, you guys really have a big image and. I know Ron, you're doing all the gym tours and all that other stuff. So, you're going to do Vegas. Is there anything in Vegas? You're going to come do for gym tours. You just do in certain ways. It's like she's already. I did an episode with Flax. Yeah. Yeah. So that was pretty cool. But yeah, I'm always open to suggestions. I know there's some new gyms there now. You know, you know, you know, He has a lot of old, not all of us now that you'd actually like. They've been. Yeah. And I went and saw he day at an episode with he day. That was cool. Yeah. Yeah. So it's a lot of fun, man. But I love Vegas. Just like you, man. I love Vegas. All right. Well, keep me close to guys. I'm sure we're going to learn. Let me know if you're in Las Vegas, right? Okay. Thanks. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. All right. Fantastic. We gave him plenty of opportunity to leave. And he's just kept tell stories. So crap. The door enough. He wanted to open it. He could even show everybody my pile of unfolded laundry sitting here on the rack. You know, but then it's been a 10 to do that. You know, it was busy morning. It was a busy morning. We didn't get to fold the laundry. But I wanted Jay to see that he's on the wall here. So, you know, I would have been prepared. Scott, I could have taken it down. Yeah. Man. This is, I got this custom framed and everything, too. This is. Yeah. I got this one mounted. It's like, you know, mounted on a nice board. So, okay. Okay. Friends say you don't want that when you ask them. Can I get that? You don't want that. Yeah. I said, hey, I want one of these. He's sitting in these big posters. Hey, Jay, I want one of these because you don't want one of these. Yeah. And I was like, yeah. Yeah. And he's like, man, you want one of these. He wants me to sign one of these. And I was like, yeah. I do. Like, I'm going to tell you, I want to give me one of these. You're like, you're too bad. I will. Please. Yeah. Everyone else. One. One. One. One. You know, this. Jay was really good about that. He almost dropped one of them and he stopped himself. He's like, you're going to have to get a Jay's level on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He knows the rules of YouTube. Yeah. He's probably going to turn the money on it. So that was motivated. I thought that went really well. Considering we were a little surprised this morning. Yeah. You know, we played. I thought I messed it up. I thought, I was like, oh, things have changed. Right. Right. I'll even tell you the timestamps just to be certain. So he texts me. So I texted him Friday. Yeah. I texted him Friday at 814 and he got back to me at 9. He said, big run. And then at 907, I sent him the time and date and everything. Yeah. And I never heard from him. Yeah. And then this morning at 7. 55. We're on for 10. 30. Right. And this goes way back to the original conversation. It was like, It's a week ago, right? Yeah. Yeah. And then, oh, yeah, the date on that. Yeah. It was as long time ago. And then it was 7. 57. So two minutes later, I responded. Yeah. That would be awesome. Good man. And then he said, send me a link. So that's great. You know, okay. I like to we had no plan. We just kind of bounced all over the place. It was fantastic. Yeah. Yeah. No, that was good. Thanks for the, see, that's, that's got the producer. At his best. Just, oh, we should happen. It was good. I'm glad I had the Olympia stuff, too. You know, because it came up. And I think that when we put that video up, we may have mentioned it, but actually getting to see the guys pose. It triggers more thoughts. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I could put it in post production. But I'm glad he could see it as he was talking about it. You know, yeah. Yeah. It's awesome. So again, you know, we got to remind our Spotify listeners. This was kind of a built-in reaction episode. Yeah. I know that the, I know the audio people don't see the reaction episodes without the YouTube. So this one will maybe require them to go to the YouTube and watch a little bit at least the clips that we're watching. Well, most of Spotify is video now too. So it's cool. Yeah. Right. It's kind of tricky. But I do get the video uploaded to Spotify. So if you're watching, listening to the show on Spotify, then you can watch it too. Which are Spotify numbers are growing dramatically. Like when we first started, there was like 100 people listening on Spotify. And now, yeah. It's not quite writhling all the other. But it's Spotify versus everything else. It's not quite a lot. I know that there's other audio stuff too, right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Besides, like the podcast app from Apple, there's also podcast ad, pod being bunch of other things that people use. Yeah. Especially, I don't get it. Those weird, like Android users. They don't have the Apple podcast app. So I'm not texting if you're green. I'm not doing it. It's just not. Blue only. It just feel like there's just something weird about that. Isn't it? Isn't there something? No. I'm going to put myself out there. The other week while you were gone, Ron, we, it was brought up. I need to take more hard stances on things. Yeah. I'm going to take a hard stance right here. If you text me and your text is green, I'm definitely going to think, I don't intentionally do it. So I apologize. I had a time. But I do think a little bit differently of you. Then if you don't, I think I have an iPhone. Sorry. I think because I saw this because actually this guy Kurt was at Nikki's show and he took pictures with an Android. Yeah. Look at you have a camera. Like a real, like he's talking about. Oh, it's like, okay. So your camera is definitely better at that. Yeah. Dad's a period of time. I mean, do they really, the picture that we're in new iPhone? I don't know. I don't know. That's the case. But they were, I mean, and he was, and the worst part was I was like up in the front filming. And he's back like seven rows from his chair. I'm like kneeling at my ass kicked for it. So, but I can't do it. I can't react to your, I won't, maybe I just want to like send you a heart. I can't do that. You know what I'm saying? Let me have you hearted. I'm like seeing motion on this. Scott, I come out of my coma. My mom is staying with me for a week because I can't drive. Yeah. And she would leave and I would text her. And then she would text me back in green. And I finally said, come get me. We have to go to Verizon. Yes. Okay. And I bought her a new phone because I didn't want to deal with it. I was like, you're getting an iPhone. She was like, I don't have that money. I'm like, I'm buying it because I don't want to look for her. You didn't know for her. I have this for me. I didn't tell you. I was doing this. My reaction when I see if I send someone a text. And it, and it's, you know, the green. You see the green. Oh, yeah. I think, oh, do they have bad reception or something? Because I think, oh, yeah. Can't possibly be that they don't have an iPhone. Correct. Because you know, like, if it can't go through, I message it says, do you want to send this text and it goes through? Yeah. Yeah. I'm like, yeah. But I was feel like, oh, they must be like, between towers or something. And we're driving. Are you driving? Yeah. Are you a cave somewhere? Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Okay. Thanks, everybody. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. And of course, I am mutant.com. Go to imut.com. Dusty 20 big run 20 get your ISO circuit. You're all in and everybody should get on the gear. Remember, the think big Patreon keep a producer home to thank you guys. You drop $5 on a monthly Patreon support to show and all of Scott's channel. That would be great. They're going to of course, we'll eventually going to build this up. And I know I'm not wearing it this week, but get a t-shirt. And we got more comment. We got some more stuff coming with the shirts. I've got to find that logo. I'll find that logo around. Yeah. I'm gonna do that, but I didn't. Yeah. I thought I didn't want to. Yeah. We got lots going on. Okay. Okay. Thanks, everybody. And remember, it's just body building.

What's up guys, welcome back to the podcast. With Dave Crosslin, I'm Scott McNeill, all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you for your support. We've got a couple of Patreon questions today. Hey, if you're new here, let me encourage you to subscribe, hit the bell. All that stuff, comment, like all those things. They helped a booster programming algorithm. And you guys do it for an awesome job at that. We're brought to you by Tuneutrition.com. Use our code Think SupplementSource.ca for Canadians and Strom Sports Nutrition for those of you in the UK. Plus if you're in the UK, you can get your labs done by Dave at E-Vale. Dave, we've got a bunch of list of questions. We're going to get into those. If you guys have questions, comment below. But for starters, I wanted to dive straight into this video that I found. Have you seen this? Oh, the Jesse James West thing. No, I haven't. I don't, I don't, I don't know. I do not want anything. I don't. Well, we are today. We're going to watch us today. It's going to be fun. And then after that, we're going to tackle this. Your questions. Guys, we always have timestamps below. If you want to, you know, click through anything. Let's see. I'm just going to hit the play button. We'll watch a little intro. And then we're going to cut to the part where he's at the E-Vale booth at the Arnold, I believe. Let's see. And if caught, you can be sentenced to years in prison. Thousands of dollars of fines and even be considered a felon. If you were in the US. But we're in the UK, baby. And they're legal. Yeah. Say nothing if you're on steroids. Oh, non-addy. I have four goals this weekend. One, I want to talk to the Jim Bros. See what they have to say about the UK steroid epidemic. Two, speaks of the biggest fitness influencers in the UK. Three, speak to the experts. That's you, day. That's you, day. Four than I do. Because let's be real. I only know a little. And four, the final and most difficult one of them all, find a steroid dealer. Two, okay. Let's cut forward here. I'm going to cut to the part where he gets to the E-Vale booth. And I thought that was interesting. So I saw, I think I saw Ramana there. And if you'd remember that interview, Zach, he, if you'd just lower the interview tonight's in styles. He's in a few. He's in a few. That's Josh, interview the couple of researchers. Oh, okay, hold on a second. I'm getting an ad here. I don't have ad blockers. So we have to get through this ad first. Here we go. Good fine to answer. No matter if you ask, I'm very scared to ask. People are stuff like every ever. Hey, that's Nathan Styles in the background, isn't it? I'm going to throw off really strong. Are you not here, no? No, I'm definitely not. I'm, I'm everything. You say, I'm on it. Are you natural or not? No, no. I'm natural as the more the far food. Hey, Zach. What a ****. What a ****. What a ****. Twice as much. Is it easy to get PD's in the UK? Yes. Do you know a guy? Baby. Just take on the legalization of the antibiotics. Who is that? I don't know him. Josh Lloyd's, one of our athletes. He also works for as well. He's a very good amateur. He's got some freaking incredible arms and doubts on him. And Pat and Pat, Stu. He looks like a big dude. He is a big dude. He's, he's probably. I'm guessing he's around two, 72, 80 there. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. He looks all of it too. What's he doing? But he just takes place. Oh yeah. He's back. Come down to personal use. Personal use can come in many checks and forms of your responsible. They can't be used very well. Yeah. They should legalize steroids in the way they seem to be. It should legalize. Storos can be a good thing. And if it's going under market, there's a lot of underground labs. What are basically selling rubbish? Do you think? Pat to put closed captions under Zack when he talked. Did you notice that? Legalization of steroids in the UK is good or bad. I personally. Ramana. It's bad because if you're not informed, you can end up doing yourself a lot of damage. I think additionally what needs to be addressed is a stigma around steroids in the UK. Quite often, healthcare professionals will be quite demonizing about it and not necessarily help the people that are going to them. Really? Yeah. I'm sure you're going to decide because you're on gear. Don't worry about it. Stop taking steroids. Do you think that there's any chance that because it's legal technically, that Younger kids might get their hands on an easier? Yes. And as I said to my earlier, quite the same risk of them getting hold of anything easier. It's just what drug you hold of. So far. Hey, is this Alex that we talked to here? Yes. Frankly, no, is it for the season of all is what it says? So, very common. So this is Alex that we talked to who was doing the research on the UK. To see if it basically a steroids create epigenetic changes to your muscle. Yes. And he was with a guy who's doing a book now on antibiotics. Okay. But not a technical book. He's doing a book looking at antibiotics as a culture. Oh. Okay. Let's see what he says. Hey. That is by far the most common way. Yes. So the best academic guess is right now. One million antibiotics are reduced in the UK. Is the UK in a steroid epidemic? It could be a burgeoning health problem. And there's 10,000,000. One million. One million. So it reduces recreation now. And there was 10, 20 years ago. So because people are very prevalent using them at the UK, is that affecting the health care and the country of the UK? What? Could do in the future. That's the thing. If there is a million users right now and say even only 5% of them abuse it, then there's still a lot of thousands of people that could have health consequences. The National Health Service is potentially going to have to be the burden. And then he goes to Dave here's Dave here. If he said a million people in the UK, is that true day of a million people are using gear in the UK? So the last ASUK project looking at number of users. I think they came back with saying they estimate around a top end figure around 160, so you're around 650,000. Okay. I feel and I've said this to them. I feel that that research is a little flawed because of the revenues they use to get the numbers. Yeah, I can see for my perspective as an American, I thought that I didn't even know there was a million people in England. I thought there was like maybe a couple handful of people that lived in England because it's such a small island. You know, compared to my big country. I'm kidding. He's getting guys. There's only 74 of us. I've been there. I've been to the northern Northern England. Dave, it was all countryside in little hamlets and stuff. That was it. I would be with Dave. I would say we're looking at the, I would say we're looking at around a million. Yes. Alright, and let's see what he's getting right. Talk to the big guy guys. Let's see what he has to say about Dave. He came with horrible consequences. He's now an asshole. Oh, we got to roll it back a little bit here. Oh, cross line. There we go. We need a burden on the health care system. I was interviewing athletes at the Eval booth. They all recommended that I speak to you. He said Eval. He said Eval. David Crossland. A former bodybuilder who was a part of a steroid experiment was let him to grow up to 460 pounds. 60? He came with horrible consequences. He's not a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of a kind of bodybuilding type. He is an expert, court witness in the steroids of the... I know that guy. I know that guy. I know that guy. That's what I'm going to call you right now. Our steroids legal here. They are legal to possess but not supply. If you can use them but you can't sell them or you can't give them to anybody, however people getting it. There is no criminal activity for purchasing them. The criminal activity is on the side of the person's lying to them. The only one at risk is the dealer. Yes. Really? If I'm giving you a normal, let's say a monthly dose, it would be like a typical amount of time or the fine that it would be. Very literally if anything, it's all. The cost of prosecution is not worth the social impact of what you're doing. So you can kind of get away with it. How is it more likely to get away with it? A lot of officers just don't know the law. They're not very experienced with it. Enforcement of those compounds being supplied is actually generally quite low. Check this out. When I first arrived to the UK, I'm quite... What did you think Dave? What did you think of all this? I found him genuinely interested. He's doing it for revenue. He's doing it for his channel. It's kind of like sensational and stuff. Sure. Yeah. The question is he asked what sensible he was genuinely interested. I think he genuinely found a subject matter of interest in an intriguing. He had a certain expectation for the content he wanted to get in the sense of... Sure. The professionalism of it. Oh, okay. So you got a bit frustrated because we got quite a bit of background noise when we were outside. We moved, looking at it. Oh, and it was one because we kept getting disturbed. Really? But yeah, I mean, he was fine. A little bit full on, but I believe he's just his personality. I think he said he had a sort of, you know, some sort of attention disorder type personality trait. And he tended to be a bit all and off him. But yeah, I mean, initially approached us via... It spoke to a few pros over here that all pointed him to me. Okay. So then he spoke to me and then he's assistant spoke to me and it was just like, Will meet or we'll do this with you. Yeah, I found whatever. So like to meet you in the hotel if you want to do it away from the show. Yeah. Or whatever. You know, it was whatever they wanted to do. Anyway, they came around the booth at the show. And he went off. We would have good hour and a half recorded. Okay. And then he said, could he come back to the booth? And I was like, yeah, come, you know, meet a few people. So I'd obviously turn open. He'd if he was that poor a lot. He interviewed Raman, interviewed Josh, he interviewed Nathan. And then the research has turned up. So he interviewed them as well, which he just worked really well for him. It looked it turned out cool. Man, I watched the whole thing too. So I thought I did a good job. I honestly, it's funny because it popped up in the algorithm for me. I didn't even like seek it out. I just watched it. And I was like, oh, there's Dave. And then of course we had to bring that on. We had that commercial that we played the other, the end of the last episode as a cliffhanger. So I guess we'll have to play that one another day. You know, we could only do so many like watch so many videos. We could just do like a whole episode of like all we do is just sit here and watch videos. You can do that if you want to be. Yeah, it's looking a dick. Yeah. Yeah. But that was cool. Andy mentioned evil, which is awesome. You know what I mean? It's a, I was telling him, yeah, I found him in action of boat. Obviously, I don't know what he's like as a person right there. Sure. He was, he was pleasant enough and he seemed to do it just this. I got, I got the Guardian on the phone yesterday. They coming up to see me. Oh. That's a week, week. So they're doing a piece as well. And then what are the guys that turn up for the book with the researchers? He's doing this book. I said he's doing this book, but on on several culture rather than like the harms or the. I'm seeing a lot of that. I've seen a lot of that. I had Victoria just talked with people from GQ about like the social side of the politics and somebody pointed a guy from the, I think I told you about it with the UK sun newspaper called the sun. It's shithole. Is it? Yeah, well, I didn't interview with them. I didn't, okay. I didn't interview with them about that same topic. So it seems like all these magazines and papers are like, it's really starting to kind of, I think, and I think as mentioned in this video, you talked about it. You, they bring you back a little bit later and you mentioned something about the fake natties and there, there's some sort of legislation or something possibly in the UK. So what was the deal with that? There is. So a couple of weeks before I've done that conference up at Newcastle. And one of the speakers was a girl who was talking about legislation around social media market and influence. And there is already legislation in place that sort of controls the misrepresentation of a product through ill and realistic imagery. I found the clip of you talking about it here. Let's see what Dave says. America and other places, it's like taboo. We're having a growing exposure with decentralized people to it. The more you see it, the more you hear about it, the less sensationalistic it is. Globally the UK has pioneered more open discussion about the subject full star. I mean there's more athletes here openly discussing what they do, particularly within the bodybuilding community. So the pros being open has been a step forward to say, I think these things, but I ain't doing that much. You don't need to be doing five grams, six grams to be a pro. You need to focus on your training and your diet. These are a secondary action. These are not the primary goal. That brought me to the next task. Interview the top thing. I thought that was the part. They must have brought you back there at another point then. You were in there a few different spots. Anyway, yeah, that'd be cool if they'd be interesting if they do that. They said there is legislation around misrepresentation of the effects of a product. And part of that is what this girl was suggesting was that we may get to a point where a influencer or somebody with a physique, who's marketing a supplement will have to have a little disclaimer. And the bottom that basically says this physique is not a direct result of using this product. Yeah, that wouldn't be a bad idea. All that stuff from way back though, to like the beginning of bodybuilding, you know, Jacqueline, something, you know, elastic bands in the back of magazines telling people they're going to get jack with them, you know? Yeah, so that's the general rule. I mean, she, she had said she had posed. It was more opposing questions, but she had suggested that she didn't feel the making a influencer declare their usage was ever going to be viable. Yeah. But the basic underlying driver, it was that she, they were, they were questioning whether it should be made legal or should be made a condition of social media or influencers. That they were to declare what they did to achieve the look they had. Because metric surgery be chemical enhancement, that they could not claim they were natural. If they weren't, they could not claim they built a physique through natural products. If they didn't, and that they couldn't even intimate that through the fact that they visually showed themselves advertising the product. The reality is that's probably never going to happen because of the legality of this drug use in different countries. True. But what would be a way of moving forward would be disclaimer that this physique was not built from using this product or something of that nature. Okay. So it's being looked at whether it goes anywhere or not, we don't know, because I mean, the resolution in place that does regulate a lot of this already, but it's getting the social media platforms to. Actually in force it and then being practically able to enforce it is another problem as well. All right. Well, listen, let's jump into our listener questions because we do have a bunch of them, but I wanted to start out with that because I thought it'd be fun. And I'm especially excited because you didn't even get to see it yet. Yeah, there is more. He brings you back a couple more times to the video. So you got to, you got to go to a good chunk of screen time there. You'll have to check the rest of it out. And it's cool to see everybody else from e-valve there. I like to see it that. So first question of the week here and by the way guys, if you want to take part in the next show, then definitely comment below plus all your comments and likes, all that stuff. It helps to boost our programming and the algorithm. He says a friend of mine had a question. So this isn't apparently for him. This is for a friend Dave. He says, is there any blood work that can be done to show the methyl estrogen created by meant? There will be, but I know UK wise he's not commonly available. You probably, if you state-sad, you've probably got blood work state-sad is is much better for getting shit and it's a bit left of center. Yeah. UK, it's a very specialised feel. Not a lot of labs will offer it. You're a thin's might. I've never particularly asked them. Now, you're a thin's is the biggest private lab concern in the UK. It's a big big lab. Really? And if we want to do a sensitive estrogen chest, they actually send it to another lab. They don't do that in-house. Okay. And the biggest the reason being round that is is the commercial viability of tests. So if we've got time, I can explain it, but it's not a five minute. It's not a long conversation. It's not a five minute conversation. When? Yeah. Yeah. People just want to know what to do. I mean, you could, I guess if, okay, I guess there's going to be at least two people who are going to be like, Hey, I want to know. So they're going to be pissed if I don't let you explain it day. That's what's going to happen here. So tell us. I'll do a very sum down version. Yeah. The lab set up machines to repeat one set of tests continuously. Okay. It's viable. So what they do is a machine has to be set up. It has to be programmed to do the test you want it to do. And the reagent is required for that test, has to be fitted into the machine. To change a machine to do different tests takes time. So what they tend to do is to love one machine FBC. Oh, no. One machine doing certain panel of hormones on them. And these machines, that's all they ever do. Okay. You end up with a load of machines dedicated to individual testing. When you start getting to specialist testing, you end up having a machine that has to be recalibrated, reset, the selective reagent used for that test. And it's done manually. Commercial labs tend not to do that. Two expensive text to long. So you tend to find those tests only in specialist medical labs attached to specialist hospitals. They do commercial. They do sell that service out. But because the time constraints is not commercially viable for main lab. So there's only a few labs do it over here. It sounds expensive. Big of population in states, bigger requirements are in testing. More viability that a lab will have dedicated machines to do so in testing because there's more people wanting it. There's a lot of guys using ment over here too. So, you know, there's that. All right. Casey from Patreon and thank you for your support over at Patreon. Casey, he says, around how much will your test increase per hundred milligrams of test? Roughly. And this. So this is a few variables here. Body must being one body fat being a new. Genetic being a new. And I'll do a quick example of genetic changes in a second. But I would expect to see somewhere in the region of about 18 to 20 and more than a hundred milligrams. What is that roughly equate to in American numbers? What's your open limit? Is it a hundred? There's two different limits. One of them's about a thousand. One of them's like 900. Quick conversion. Two seconds. 600. Oh, okay. Yeah. So 600. Okay. Lovely. Yeah. Yeah. I could see that give or take depending on the individual, right? We've seen what we've talked about before. One guy takes 300 to get into range, whereas most guys are taking far less. 100, 150 to have like a good healthy TFT level. Yeah. I mean, surprisingly for a fat bastard, I actually metabolized test slower. So my levels will stay elevated for longer than normal with fat people. You metabolized test quite quickly because you converted to east region at an extremely high rate. Whereas I actually, I mean, like my TIT is one middle of prescription source every three weeks and that keeps me at good levels. Yeah. I don't go through it very quickly, which is possibly why I grew the way I grew and what I did. Oh, yeah. Whereas I know people that will need the same drug, the same prescription every 12 days, because that the metabolized name much quicker. So yeah, it can vary quite significantly from person's person. Yeah. I need about 250, such every other day to stay in a good healthy range. Personally, that keeps me in a good spot, you know, just good healthy normal. A little pre-mo. Maybe. Just to keep my pre-mo levels, you know, it's like a high natural range usually. Yeah, because obviously just suppose to get out to you because you are a sports person. Yeah. Somebody commented this week. They're like, you one way to trigger Dave mentioned sports TRT. That's true, man. Every time somebody says something like that, you have your, your tirade, which I'll have to, we'll have to find one of those guys. We'll see if we can trigger Dave was sports TRT again. How about this one? This is juice 250. This is his name. Question for the next DNS podcast. My doctor has me at 140 milligrams of test sip, which keeps me around 800 milligrams. So, you know, US levels. She says, in between blood work, sometimes a boost up to 400 milligrams of test sip. How long would I expect to take my levels to drop back down within range after switching back to 140? I usually wait around two months, and that does the trick, but maybe I'm waiting too long. What else would tip my doctor off that I'm raising the dose here and there? So, this is a common thing, man. You know, and I'm all for guys doing what they want to do, but in, and I'm all for going to your doctor. But you will find some TRT doctors don't want you to, you know, surprise, surprise, double your medication. They call that a abuse, you know, while you're not checking in with them. So, it can be tricky. It can be tricky. What are your thoughts here, though, Dave? So, the quickest way to get it down is to not do anything. Yes. And we've done this before about how I'll evaluate levels to elevate the post cycle when you go straight on to your T. So, if he, if he does his elevated period, when he finishes elevated period, he does nothing. For two, three, four weeks depending on how high he's gone to allow his levels to drop down, and then he picks his T.R. to e-backel. Where it's not necessarily going to tip his doctor off, but it might get his doctor asking a few questions. Is the negative impacts that testosterone's going to have in the sense of lowering his H.D.L. or thickening his blood? Yes. So, he's doctor may look at actually lowering his T.R.T. dose. If he's seeing H.D.L. get slammed or he's seeing blood thickness and become a problem. So, if he's going to do these higher cycles in between, which, as you've already said, is entirely his choice, he needs to also look offsetting the negatives that they create, which will be blood thickness. So, he may need to do a bloodlet before he goes to his doctor for his check-up. He's going to need some extra H.D.L. support to offset the fact that it's going to notice H.D.L. level. If he clears it down, slowly enough, because he really needs two or three weeks of being at natural levels running into his check-up, otherwise he'll see e-sugine high as well, and probably start looking at, well, we need to do something to bring the e-sugine down, which is going to be calculated, doctor, long-term. e-sugine can run anywhere between a week and two weeks behind test. So, for arguments say, you create a test level, and I'll speak American, you create a test level to 1600. and your eastrogen goes up to respond that you then drop that level quite rapidly because you just don't take anything so you're going to drop within line of your your half-life of your drug. Your eastrogen is going to stay high for a couple of weeks before each starts to come down. So you've got to have just factoring that fact that eastrogen is always going to be behind but yeah I mean the quickest and most efficient way would be to stop what you're doing do nothing. Let it come down. I then restart your T.R.T. rather than trying to bring your T.R.T in because you're looking at about two months so he's time in I actually don't think he will be elevated for long before his check if he's waiting two months I think you'll find probably week six weeks seven is where he drops back into range and he's only just getting into it before they check it. Yeah and we would we've talked about like you said we've talked about this before in regard to coming off cycle going back to T.R.T. You gave us a great explanation you know on it and I guess guys could go back and listen to that and the other thing when people talk to us about this topic that we always want to mention is look at your other factors it's not just that tested estrogen right I mean what's it doing to your hematic crit what's it doing to your cholesterol if those things are messed up and then you go back to your doctor and you've got high hematic crit crappy cholesterol he's going to say oh my god your test was you know fine but you're ruining your health with it we can't have you on T.R.T because your hematic crit's through the roof you know I'm gonna pick a bone with you yeah why it's not your hematic crit you want to be concerned about it should red blood cell count and your hemoglobin okay well I'll go with that but if I would say though hematic crit is what we usually see though is being highly elevated so hematic crit is a measurement of the number of red cells in a volume of blood okay if hematic crit is high and hemo and red blood cells are normal your dehydrated you do not have thick blood you are dehydrated you have to have a hemo or high reds to have thick blood irrespective of what hematic crit reads okay generally in the cases of somebody running high gear if they have high high you know and high red so you will have high hematic crit yes yeah but do not use hematic crit is a standalone mark of that's my point fine right guys one of the common questions we get asked by you guys is what would you do differently with your body building if you could go back in time given all the experience and education I have today there's a number of things that I would have done differently one of them is that I want to start using collagen sooner collagen is one of the few supplements that will actually rebuild connective tissue it took me tearing my super spinatus in 2021 to get with the program I use true nutrition's hydrolyzed beef collagen I get the unflavery version I pay for it myself just like you guys do I use 20 grams a day makes it into my coffee it's totally unflavery you don't even taste it plus I use 10 grams of their micronized creatin creatin has been shown to improve brain health especially for the aging brain I need that and of course you know we've always known about the muscle building effects so this is my morning routine every day and I'm encouraging you guys to do the same use our code thank for savings plus it's the only way for them to know that this advertising is being heard otherwise they just think you're some random dude that clicked on an app all right you want to figure that's my new trigger all right what else do we have here because we do have a lot of them day if like I said a lot of people oh how about this one I'm gonna drop it up on the screen here another amazing show my question is where's Christmas cabbage is he safe at Dave's or did Scott put him in a cargo ship that's not Christmas cabbage Dave it is he's he's got put in my cargo ship and he's stuck to see he's stuck to see trying to not to get seasick from rolling around prayers in the speedy recovery Dave that is not Christmas cabbage it is guys I feel like I feel like Dave is trying to create a narrative here that is different than the reality you and I would have seen did you lose Christmas cabbage Dave? No lose him what happened to Christmas cabbage did you give him away? No no no he's in the office somewhere you just aren't sure where that is at the moment eight bound stuff me door is I did I don't know where it landed okay so he is safe he is safe he's in the office he's he's on he's at the compound still that's all we needed to know all right how about this one let me open this up so I can see it he says I think you guys were another great episode this is one of my favorite uncle Dave segments I have a question as well what characteristics do you prefer when dealing with a client like top of what type of person would be the ideal candidate for a client for you guys attribute such as hard working work ethic open mindedness transparency thanks guys all those things yeah yes I would rather have a client that tries and engages that has shiit genetics rather than a client who has the best genetics in the world but doesn't try for me the most frustrating element around a client is one that's untruthful oh yeah because you will you will not be getting the results or the effects that you expect and and then your your like constantly going right where is this going wrong what is going wrong you know are you sticking to your diet yes I'm sticking to my diet right are you doing the training yes I'm doing my training and I think one of the hard ones is I don't mind someone maybe not giving it a hundred percent ten percent in the gym or not being super dedicated with things as long as they're honest with me about it yeah because then we can try and work around that the best we can but when you've got someone who's not making progress and it's like you know they're not doing what they need to do in the gym from a training point of view but that you know that you they just will never accept that that gets frustrating because you you as a coach and I know you shouldn't but it's just human nature you as a coach start to lose interest because it's like I've got nothing else I can do with this guy because the problem is him but I can't have that conversation because he's not gonna listen and you tend to then deliberately lose them in one way or another you know because you just they're not rewarding to worry I enjoy coaching people that engage even if they're not super dedicated or not super straight to whatever it is I don't that doesn't matter to me as long as you're giving what you can to the best of your ability and you're honest about that I'm good with that and I enjoy coaching them rather than people who are super dedicated but are honest yeah I agree with all that and I don't care who you're working with if you're gonna hire a coach and you're not gonna be honest with them I mean that's that's gonna ruin everything and I got to be honest I've been not honest with the coach in the past my second contest prep day if I wasn't honest with my coach about what I was doing okay I it it it did work out in the end but it was tricky it was tricky because I ended up cutting carbs harder than he had done I ended up pushing further than he would have pushed me but here's the problem with that he sees how you're looking and then so so let's say he said he won't cup a rice with every meal and I do that for a little while and then I feel like I'm not making progress and then let's say like I started going man I'm just gonna stop eating rice with those last two meals so I stop eating rice those last two meals and I'm getting leaner now right and then I check back in with him and he's like okay yeah this looks good now do this well like I'm oh shit so I've been eating three cups of rice and now I'm supposed to be in two and you know what I mean it's like you got it and then I had to like keep doing a mental equation in my head where it was like okay so actually he said cut it back to a half a cup I was already eating a half a cup so now I eat a quarter cup okay yeah that's it'll do and and it did work out and I absolutely it was one of my best looks to date that he completely honest like I was peeled that said um yeah man like this whole thing it's all about communication so I mean if I were to go back I would have just talked to my coach and been like listen man can I push harder you know I love it my client comes to me and they're like hey you know can I do extra cardio there's two types of people Dave there's people that say what less what less can I do and still get the results and what more can I do to get even better and if a guy comes to me and says like hey what can we do to push harder I would rather tell him like hey no we're 100% on track don't touch anything and know we're on that same page then you know having to go behind my back and do something like I did I would have more respect I had a client actually and he came to me and he is he said I will stick to your diet and you're training more than to Friday he says but five o'clock Friday so I got a bit something like you can fuck off he said I'm drinking I mean curry's I'm enjoying my I mean I was like you know this is gonna affect your progress yeah I realize he says but I want to compensate for that with drugs now this is where it gets interesting because I sort of don't have an issue with that if we're all open and honest what we're doing and why we're doing it yeah I have an issue with it when it's done secretly because you're trying to hide or get away with some of the you know you shouldn't be doing if someone says to me look I want to abuse drugs to compensate for fact I don't have the dedication or discipline to stick to a diet and training then it's like the first thing we look you know that's not ideal but at least we can work around minimizing the risk that I expose them to because you yeah that's true too if you're not guard if you're a guide in them they're only going to do much worse on the road yeah so but the thing is like with this guy when he started to see what we could achieve in those five short days which wasn't huge but there was he actually naturally started to cook back on the weekends and eventually he fell in line because he was like you know what I'm sick of feeling shit and Wednesday and by Friday I'm feeling great again I've got load of energy then come on do you feel like crap it so there was an actual progression where you moved that way anyway I like what happened if it had been lying about it and not being honest about it we couldn't have worked around things and obviously this this factors like what we do do we chemicals based on what you're doing recreationally as well because there can be impacts there that we need to be aware that's physically without call and each of your levels and things like that oh yeah so I eat there's a strange line and I've never really got to the bottom of where we go with it in in if someone is open about the fact that they want to compensate for poor behavior with chemicals what you do with that and do you guide them because you can at least keep minimizing the or do you walk away from it as I know I'm not getting involved with them and I've never come to an answer with that as a general thing it's been a case of I'll see how each person goes. I worked I consulted with a guy who was vegan and he wanted to prove to the world that he could get huge being vegan and he made up for it by running much higher doses of compounds like trend to try to you know basically make up for the fact that he wasn't getting animal sources of protein and I consulted with them several times eventually I said you know I just can't get behind it man you know. Yeah there are certain things that I would never never do and one of the drugs I'm very opposed to it's trend. Because I've seen the long term damage mentally that people have suffered with that. All right how about this one we've got one so last week we're talking about spot administration of Helios Klen in your himbine and you said there's another compound PGF2A the question is what was that spot injection fat loss stuff? Right so PGF2A you would normally actually make it into an aqua's cream so you'd make it with an aqua's cream and then you would smother it on the area you want to spot reduce and then see it with Klinkville. What PGF2A does is actually destroy his fat cells poor it is a very unpleasant drug to use. How so Dave? It causes you to shit yourself. How would you know this Dave? Because I've used it. It also has great if you inject it which you can you can cite it if you inject it it aspirates through the lungs so effectively what you get post injection is an ability to breathe for a few seconds and the sudden urge to crop your pants. Yeah those are things I try to avoid you know and I'm saying like spur of side effects they'll side effects don't sound very good to me. As a as a as a topical it is much milder in that essence as a topical it doesn't have that sort of impact whatsoever but it's a perfect PGF2A is a perfect can't get it in females not touch a female if you've got it on your hands cannot get the cream near a female in any way shape it will cause them to go into a false labor. That's crazy. How about this one? Great show is always question for the next one does DACA raise hematicrit more than other anabolic compounds if so with this B dose dependent. Would running it at a low dose say 250 milligrams per week along with a similar dose of test still potentially raise hematicrit significantly and finally is donating blood something that always needs to be done when running EQ thanks. Doesn't raise the back, it's all? No no steroids does. Stair eyes will raise hemoglobin or red blood cells but it won't touch your hematicrit. No, it's not a thing. It's made up. Is that what you're telling me? No, no, no, no. False narrative. Is that what it is? No, no. It's not a physical thing but hematicrit is an indication of the volume of red cells in a given volume of blood. He's an actual thing. It's a product with in blood. Red blood cells are actual things. They are cells with in blood. Plus, the fluid in blood in an item of blood. So it's the, but it's the volume of. No, it's this reflection of the levels within blood, but it's not actually an item. It's a reflection of its higher. Right, so iron is the measurement of iron. Right. Ferretin is a measurement of iron storage. Yes. Transferens saturation is how much iron storage you're currently using. It's not actually a thing. It's not iron. It's not an iron storage. It is a reflection of the state of the ingredients in iron. So it's more of a measurement of volume. It's a measurement of, it's actually a reflection of how large your red cells are and how large our larger red cells are and how many of them are in a given volume of blood. Yes. You can have very high red cells and have normal hemacrit if those red cells are small. It's based on the volume that those red cells occupy not the number of red cells. So you can have normal red cells high hemoglobin and if high hemacrit because the volume of cells is increased because they contain more hemoglobin, which means that larger, so therefore they occupy more volume in that given space of blood. Let me restate this question. I'm going to change a couple of the words. Okay. We open it back up. I'm going to start again. Great show is always question for the next one. Does EQ cause thicker blood more so than other antibiotics? If so, would that be dose dependent? Would running a low dose say 250 milligrams per week along with a similar dose of test still potentially create thicker blood significantly? Right. You said deck of first arm around. Did I? Yeah. So what you had it just chat? You said that I will. I will. So yeah, EQ will even at lower doses. That's its main job. I mean, that's one of the things EQ was developed for was to increase hemoglobin to red cell levels. So yes, it will. As a result, it will reflect in an increase in blood thickness. Oxy, Oxymef flow is the overdrobe that was specifically developed for that. I do believe that there is some parallel not parallel, but there is some relationship between each region levels and the thickness of blood, but I don't actually know what it is. It's something I would like to look at is that if you run higher levels of each region, do you get an increase in blood thickness as opposed to a low level of each region by the same level of testosterone? If you're saying what that let me know, I'd be curious myself. Yeah, something I would like to find out about, but yes, EQ, it's what it's designed for and it will do it. Yes, it is dose dependent. It is also person dependent. There are other factors that come into blood thickness as well. Things like oxygen restriction, overall body mass and other factors that complain to it as well, because if you have anything that restricts oxygen, it's going to increase your hemoglobin content, which is in turn going to thicken your blood. So things like snoring, smoking, why out of food training, oxygen restriction masks will all increase your hemoglobin levels, which in turn will thicken your blood. Yeah, I work with a guy who didn't want to use a C-PAP. He's very resistant to it. Just you know how like we put her foot down and sometimes it's just like it doesn't make sense why. He was like, no man, I want to be able to roll over and kiss my wife in the middle of the night, you know, and not have the stupid mask on my face. He just didn't want to wear it and he's finally becoming more compliant with it. And I do think one thing too about that note is we've seen some questions in a group where people have said, like, I'm not really big enough to need a C-PAP yet and it's not the size that you are. It's the amount of room you have to breathe. So me at 230 needed a C-PAP. Me at 215 now I still need a C-PAP. Whereas a guy like Ron and that could be a genetic factor there too, right? Ron Parklow 300 pounds and every need a C-PAP in his life as far as he knew at least, you know? Yeah, no, I mean I still use what I I fell out with mine. Just go fed up with a bloody thing. No real reason because actually I get about nicely when I use it and everything else. Yeah, yeah. And I had some regular bloods and docs like, yep, your emails. Oh, and yeah, I'll go back on my C-PAP and love me hold. I've got back on my C-PAP and the emails come down. Nice. I think a lot of people don't realize that. And then the additional stress that you have on your heart having to pump harder while you sleep because you're trying to get blood to your brain. And if you're not breathing enough then that blood has to move faster. So it's it's not a thing. If you need a C-PAP, you get better gains, you get better rest, but plus you you know, protect your health too. Well, yeah, I mean you're starving your body evokes the unit rest. And the other thing is it's quite self perpetuating because if you have thick blood, so you have you need a C-PAP, so you're starving your oxygen when you're sleeping. That causes your hemoglobin to increase. But at rest your body doesn't pump the blood around fast enough so you get fatigue and a lack of oxygen because your blood's thickening your heart can't pump it quick enough. So as a result, your hemoglobin increases even more. So it's self perpetuating to an extent, particularly if you're sedatory, if you're active, thick blood becomes less of an issue, which is why cyclists, the liberally increase it because they're continually taking advantage of that with the high volume of cardiovascular training that they actually do. And it's not necessarily healthy for them to do that, but cycling is probably like equally as unhealthy as bodybuilding. So there is that, you know? Yeah, I mean the offset that cyclist has if cardiovascularly they're incredibly fit far fit as an amount of bodybuilders ever get a bit. So one they have very powerful and strong and healthy hearts and to they do huge amounts of cardiovascular and endurance work, which actually uses a peemoglobin and lowers levels. So they are actually actively doing something that's going to bring their hemo down anyway. Ultra marathon runners generally struggle with anemia because they go through so much red material when they're actually performing an exercise. I think I told you, well this is a few years ago now, two, two, three years ago, my hematicrit was really high from long issues due to the long flu bug and it was like 57 point something and after going to after going to cardio 30 minutes a day because I was doing no cardio a month later it was 50.1. Definitely does happen, which is it's why this, you know, my thing standpoint on cardio being such an important factor in regulating health is because it has all these little benefits that I'd hope to help in manage what we do without actually having to rely on bloodlets and supplements and everything else that we do use. Yeah, I actually was scheduled to do for the bottomy and I went in and I was 50.1. They tested it first, you know, but before they took the blood and then I was like, nah, I'm good then I'm going to leave it here. I hate, I hate doing blood donation and, and about this one, do you think that the neuro toxicity of nanderloins is as big of a deal as people currently make it out to be? I've been running gear for 13 years and wasn't until recently the last three or four. Excuse me, that this has been an issue. Now, I, yeah, the science tells us that nanderloin can cause depression and that it can affect memory long-term and things like that and I, I, I do feel that I've personally struggled with memory due to long-term exposure to nanderloins, but I was using very high doses of Deca for extended periods of time and it's been a backbone of pretty much every cycle I've ever done as, as I've decorated it, it's a some degree or most of them have. So I, I freely accept that there was going to be some issues. I never had any issues with low mood on Deca, I never had any problems with depression like features on Deca or anything like that. And from my knowledge of people around me at the time, neither did anyone else. Now, I do see people that struggle with Deca. I've had clients that genuinely struggle with Deca. It makes them feel very low, very fed up, very dominant at once. When it's removed, we see a change in that quite substantially. So, there's no doubt in my mind that there is that, you know, the Deca is impacted. Yeah, I don't know about the long-term thing. I personally, I'm not saying, I'm like, I believe you in what you're experiencing. And I would say like, he mentioned as a dose dependent. Yeah, everything is, right? Like, so if you, if you've run a few cycles and you've added 300, 400 in here and there, that's one thing. But for the, I wonder how it is for that guy compared to, even if it wasn't a high dose. But I've seen people that they've gotten it prescribed. And they're like, oh, yeah, I'm on, you know, whatever task for TNT in 200 Deca every week, you know, for the last 10 years. I've seen that, you know. So it does seem to be something that's come to the head more recently, Lazy in the last sort of five years as I said. Yeah. We do have more people using an anv now. So is it just a case of it's the percentage of number of people that's gone up. So as a result, we're now seeing more people struggle with it. Is it, is it other factors that are adding into this? And this making people more vulnerable to it or more susceptible to problems in that area because of the general decline in mental health across the board with people? Yeah. I don't know. Is the only sense so I don't know. I've only seen people having problematic issues around Deca in the last sort of five years prior to that. I had to be honest, I've never experienced anyone having an issue with it that would be created a problem. But I can't say whether that's due to any changes in any way or just just due to the fact that there's more people taking it now. So we get more feedback them and people are more open in talking about the problems they might be experiencing with drugs as well. I think people are more open and they're more willing to admit and look at those problems whereas before I think we're just like not just deal with it, put it out of your head. It's only 12 weeks versus not people are like oh I feel sensitive to this. I want to switch compound. You know I think that people are more advanced user than they were a decade or two ago. Now I see I'm not sure if I'd call that in advance use. There they have a much deeper understanding and it could be good. It could be bad. You know what I'm saying? Oh yeah these things could cause mental issues and now they're dealing with mental issues just because they think they are but I think there's some self-awareness in there too. You know they recognize these things without having to know it was a possibility. I think it's also very easy to have a problem now where previously you would be like yes but I'm going to use self-management to overcome that problem and deal with it and move forward and and I think there's an element of that as well. It's very easy to be a victim of something now. Yeah. I think though it doesn't remove the fact that yes the people may be experiencing problems but what tends to happen now is I'm experiencing problems. I'm a victim so therefore I'm going to tell you about that. I'm not do anything about it whereas previously I've been like right. I'm experiencing problems but you know what I'm going to work towards everything I can to fix those problems that I don't invite me. Also the users have changed as well. Before it was a more hardcore demographic of just underground bodybuilder now you have a more mainstream audience that is using and they are they're kind of you know they're kind of brought up in this world of like well if you're educated with this you can avoid all the side effects. It was only the dumb people that don't understand this. You know what I'm saying and then you should be able to have these cycles, these perfect cycles with no side effects. You know they say for you, Steve. You know what I'm saying is kind of that whole attitude. There is definitely a lot you play with this shit. There's going to be problems. Yeah. You know some of those problems can be managed. Some of those problems car and you just need to man the f-op and deal with them because it's just part of some of what you do. You train hard. You get to be so. Yeah. If your if your a person who trains hard gets saw and then relies on painkillers to do with that so on us, that's you really want to learn to just enjoy the pain because it's a it's a badge of what you've done and it should be some of this war with pride. It shouldn't be something that's medicated away. All right. A couple more. We'll wrap this thing up. Question for the next podcast. Hi guys. I've recently watched very old Dave's video on probably his own YouTube channel. The video was released several years ago and it contains Dave's offseason cycle where he says full truth about his multiple grams geared dosages. Dave seemed to be very truthful and wanted to share with others the reality of the sport. The question is how much hate Dave had to face for those videos. I didn't get hate for being open about what I was doing. I got hate for how I looked predominantly. Does you weren't you weren't trying to get shredded and be the conventional body as they're. I wasn't your typical bodybuilder and I didn't particularly refer to myself as a bodybuilder. When you asked what do you do while I lift weights, that's what people would tell you you were and so it was just the easiest way to get across what I did. I definitely got hate for the visual. A lot of hate for the visual particularly around the condition of stuff. There were a lot of facts. My best in so whatever is he looks like a disease to cow. I won that on my tombstone. I just love it. When I first started being open and exposed to the sort of feedback stuff. I struggled a bit with the comments. I took them to Har. I found them upset in. Then I just learned what this is the end and this is what it's like. If you're going to stick your head above here and make a target yourself, you're going to get shot out and you just got to deal with it. I just started to ignore it and didn't respond to it. I used to respond to stuff that was untrue, though, because I wanted to rotate a truth. Then I'd just began to realise, I'm being trolled and wasting my time. They're not interested in the truth. They just want to spot vial for the sake of it. The ones directed at my family were a little greyest. They weren't commonplace but they were times. But yeah, I quickly learned that this was a very unproductive use of my time responding to this crap. At the end of the day, I could approve them running every aspect of everything they said and it wouldn't change what they were putting up on social media. Eventually, I just learned to, I got to the point why I just didn't really comment anymore, because it was just one of us. The thing is, as time went on, the negativity got less. I think a lot of it was people just getting their head around who I was and what I was about and what I was doing. Because it was different, no one had really done it in that way before. Rich had been open to an extent, but not a waltz at all. He had managed his openness to a point where it was always seen in the positive light. Absolutely. Where I was very happy to show the negatives as well. I'm particularly around my skin. I'm in my skin. I don't really have a good time for a fair time. But yeah, no, it's, there was a fabbit. Definitely. All right, I think I have one more here and then we need some Uncle Dave's advice. He says, it's going to be running 500 tests with 20 to 40 pharma anivar. It's funny because when people say var nowadays, they got a throw in the pharma. There's some really good UGLs out there, just to let people know. Really good var. Just like there's really good premono nowadays, too. About 10 weeks before I go on a beach festival in Albania. Wow. If you're in Albania, Dave, I feel like we should go to a beach festival in Albania and do the show from there. Says, it's in June. We've got time. Says, do you guys think there would be a big difference in taking the arimidex as 1 milligram, 2 times per week or should I split it up, 0.5, 4 times a week? Love the show, as always. In cheers. The half life is long enough that I wouldn't say it's necessary to split it up to 4 times a week. The only thing I'm going to say and this is some of the I've dealt with a few times. If this beach festival is a beach festival of the RAV orientation, dance music orientation and there's going to be the use of recreational drugs and potentially the high use of alcohol, just bear that in mind that you're going to be going to a festival with elevated levels of hormones which will mean very elevated levels of estrogen and that coke is you know smashed your pro-lactin levels and you're going to have a few nasty fluctuations because of that. So just bear that in mind going into it that it might be worth preempting a few things moving into that situation. Like what? Well the one thing is if you're going into a festival with high levels of testosterone, I would definitely look at putting in some anti-eachogens slightly higher than you would normally use before going. So that you've got some some buffer for the inevitable elevation of each year you're going to get from alcohol. What cocaine will do is you go to the spot. Yeah, let's yeah don't we don't want to say that word. That's a bad word around these parts. It didn't used to be when we started the podcast we can say whatever we wanted. Now we can't even say the R word anymore. Let's go back on tumble that was much fun. tumble Is it what we were using? tumble. What was that one we use for one week? It was called tumble. It was called tumble. Yeah, tumble. We still released the podcast over on tumble. By the way, each week you guys can go over to tumble and check it out. It is. It is. Friend, day friendly platform is too much. You're not excited about that. You're like yay tumble. Yeah, so certain compounds will increase pelactin while they're being used and then will crash it. Post there being used. Yeah. And you will also see massive spikes in cortisol post use. Oh, God, I can only imagine with that particular compound, the Coca-Cola compound. Yeah, that would not be fun. Um advice of the day Dave. What if I told you I texted you yesterday I said Dave, think of some good advice and write it down. Did I tell you you're not the boss of me you can't tell me what to do. He literally wrote that back to me. I was trying to be a friend to remind him because last week he was like, oh, I had a good one. I forgot to write it down. So it was trying to be a friend and be like, Dave, you've got one job. You bring the advice for the week. I haven't got one job. I have to babysit you. I have to cover you. And take care Christmas cabbage. By the way, Matt blevins us with us. He said, Dave, I can assure you the blue octopus is not Christmas cabbage. It's not blue. Was that a magic trick you just pulled there? Tell me, join him up. That blue, that blue octopus. Yeah. You mean that one? Whoa. Anyway, good job. One job. One job. You know I was pressured this is. I'm telling you, man, it could be as simple as like, remember to brush your teeth every night. It's important to take care of your teeth. Thank you. Good night. Have a nice day. See you next week. Remember to brush your teeth. It's a very important to brush your teeth. It's actually, do you realize that oral hygiene is directly linked to heart health? Yes, I did. I did. That's why it is an important one, Dave. Hmm, particularly did you also know that if you've got a wire hanging in your heart, that it actually attracts infection? I learned that last week on the D& Stuff podcast. Did I say that last week? See, I didn't know what I was saying. Well, you told me maybe it was two weeks ago or something. Maybe you told me off the air, but I didn't know that. Yeah. How was your heart doing out of the way? It's fine. Still work out? Yeah, I did. So I when they did it, they, I got some basically razor burn where they shaved above it. Yeah. And it got a bit weeping a bit weird. So I rang them and said, come here some of the lock. The point we are going to buy out is just as a pre-curse measure. But the dressing came off last Friday, which means I could finally shower again. And that will, it's so neat, in fact here. I bet you can't even see the center of the line. No, you can't. No, I actually, I see it. It looks like a big tribal line. Yeah, yeah, it's an, I've done a really, really neat job with it. It is very, very good. So I had to check up Monday. Oh, good. Can you feel it? Like if you touch your chest? Yes, yeah, there's a lump there. Yeah, it's about size of a zipper lighter. Okay. So I've got another, another seven weeks before they actually do the X-rated check-it's all sat in the right place. Yeah. Which seems it seems a bit odd to me because it seems like why would you wait eight weeks? So everything is fully healed and embedded to them. Find out is in the wrong place. Yeah, you think they want to know sooner. But could it shift? Is that what they're worried about? And that, so they do each straight after and then, but I would have thought you'd probably better check in a week two or week three because that's where it's most likely to have moved in that time period. Yeah, they probably put a cone on you, too. You know what I'm talking about those cones to keep you away from it for a few weeks? That's, that's why they're, they're not checking to see if it's in the right place or checking to see if you moved it from scratching at it and stuff. You know what I mean? Okay. Uh, that's advice. Do not be afraid to be selfish. Okay. I feel like we may have heard this one before, but Tariah, go ahead. Not one, not one, not one. Okay. A library, a library. Uh, just, you know, you're, you're entitled to, to things, too. You know, it is nothing wrong with, with, with, with saying, I want to do this. I want to have that. And obviously, it becomes one side of it. It's a fucking problem. But at the same time, you know, don't be afraid to stand up for what you want. For you. Okay. I want Dave to do a cartwheel. Yeah, that ain't never freaking out. Especially now with your arm. Rolling poli. Yeah. You might get out. I am dying. No, I'm back on the other. Are you? How are you doing, Hurtie? Not yet. Start on next week. Okay. Are you not allowed to do Kurtie at the moment with your Hurtie? No, I just want, I just want to get the wound a bit longer to heal before I start doing Kurtie. There we will. We will be checking in. Guys, comment below to remind me to ask Dave if he's doing his cardio yet next week. All right. Yeah. Don't, don't, don't be scared to say no to people. Don't be scared to say no, I'm not doing that or I'm not helping you. If it's going to be detrimental to you. Yeah. I want fishing chips from England again. Not post them over. They might not be so nice when you get them. What was that place we went to that was overlooking those fields and staff and we ate fishing chips there? Oh, compost cafe. Oh man, that place was so good. Composed fishing chips. It was okay. That's better. That would be fair. The reason. That was good. I had them there and then I had them in Manchester too and they had those that the peas, like the mushy peas. Mushy peas. Yeah. Those are good too. I don't like, I don't like mushy peas. I never had them before but it's very curvy like potatoes kind of. You know what I mean? It's like, it doesn't taste like a veggie. It tastes like a like a car. It's very starchy. But curry sauce, proper fishing chipshot curry sauce. I never had, I didn't have any curry while I was over there. Well, it's not the curry sauce from a chip shop. It's not, not levising curry in its life. It's a powdered thing that they just mix with water. But it's got a very unique flavor. Fishing chipshot curry sauce. I made a written something down here for you David question about British language. I for real may have, no, I must have lost it. Yeah, I had a question here for you, a question about British language. But I, it's gone. It's gone. Or maybe I texted you to you. There's been a while. Anyway, guys, we appreciate you tuning into the show. Comment with questions for the next episode. Go over to tumble. You can watch our program over there. It's, it's rumble, Dave. But you were close. I like tumble. I think that we should come out of the new. Not so, you know. He's rumble. I can't remember what he was about. It took a lot of Deca. You took a lot of Deca. There's that too, right? Yeah, I can't think of anything worse than going dementia. Oh, me too. And Anna Histomines, like banidro. Pralonged use of that stuff is no good for dementia as well. Creatin is supposed to be good though. You should start taking creatin. You know, just like five, ten grams a day. It's cheap. I started using it. It's supposed to be good to help with the aging brain. So, why not, right? Yeah, I don't think I've got a brain anymore. Check out some creatin at trunetrition.com. Use our code think over there. You can probably get some from Strom. A bit Strom has creatin, don't they? Well, I'm not sure. He didn't do a lot of the basics and then he brought a basics range out. Because I don't have any broad grades, you know, or not. Excuse me. Well, you guys let me know if Strom's fortune tritian has creatin. Sublimit source.ca. What? No, I want. No, not you. I'm not talking to you. I'm talking to the people who like us. listeners. People who like us. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. You sure about the. Okay. Most of them at least. We did have one guy who commented on the, he was the guy who was like, ain't nobody growing off of anything less than two grams or go doing a contest or anything less than two grams. So we did that topic right? He commented again. And he was like, think big. It's more like, think small. He was like, this, this podcast sucks. I would like to invite that guy on. I want to invite him on and have him educate me about what it takes to do a contest prep. Bring your pictures. I want to see how you turned out to be shows. You know what I'm saying? I want to see how big these guys now. Yeah. Yeah. I'd love to see that. We could go ahead to head if you want. We could put my pictures up with your pictures. My clients who've done under well, under a gram in turn, pro. I've got, I told you I got two of them. So not all of them. Not all of them. I've been able to do that. But there are people who can even turn pro under two grams. There is a gentleman called, Sean Joseph, it's a failure who would rookie of the year. You mentioned him. Yeah. You mentioned him. They would show you must love him. So guys, if you want to check out anything else Dave is doing. He's good friends with a gentleman named Jesse James West now. They'll be doing the podcast moving forward. I think I'm very jealous. Dave was on with Jesse James West. You didn't even mention, you didn't even mention me. Did you? You didn't say, oh, I do a fantastic podcast every week with my great friend Scott McNally. You guys, it home should all tune into it. Sorry. That's the question of do I know any decades in America. Never came home. Thank you. Are we ready for Patreon? You guys are awesome. Evalbloodanalysis.com. Get your lab work done by Dave except for Estrone. He's not going to do it for you. And for another episode of the podcast, guys, we'll see you soon. Dave, thank you. Bye.

When people would ask me years ago at my gym, like, oh, would you want to go pro? And I'm like, well, I would love to go pro one day, maybe by the time I'm 30. And I had no idea. Five minutes later. I'm 29 now. So it's like, by the time I'm 30, I'm going to the Olympia. It's freaking crazy, man. It's an incredible feeling. And I'm already so excited for this Olympia prep, just getting going and really pushing towards that goal. I want top 10. Hey, everybody. Welcome to It's Just Body Building. Big Ron Parlo here. Of course with Dusty Handshot and the producer Scott McNalley. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and bring the bell. Damn. Early best. Man, it hits. Yeah. Yeah, we're a couple hours ahead of schedule today because somebody likes to get up early. And it's not early where we live. Yes. I'm in the early. It's really where I live. There you go. Everything's probably good to me. That's how I see the world. Actually appreciate you. Sacrificent some sleep. No, it's all good. It's good. I should be up. Jordan Hutchinson, 2025 Dallas Pro Champion with a new ticket punch to the Olympia. How are you doing, my friend? I'm really good, man. I'm on cloud nine. It's finally actually set in because after Tampa, I was just locked back in for Texas. So now the two wins have kind of Yeah, yeah. Yeah, really. It gets back to second win for me. Yeah. I'm stuck on the latest news. A week ago, that's like, yeah, your other show means that's holding news. Yeah, I was still holding. I was forgotten. But that's the bodybuilding world. Is it that no one remembers? Your last show. Your only as good as your last show, Jordan. No, it's good to win them all like you do. So you're always good. Yeah, two weeks in the news in the row. I'm good with that. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Right. Good. What's so the most important question that is, um, who's your barber? Oh, yeah. You know, I've got a, I've got a great barber out here in Dallas. His name's his name's Sai and I have everybody out. You're asking. I'm like, maybe I shouldn't start giving this way. Because then I'm not going to have appointments. Right. I get to play this. So this is charging more. You know, yeah, he's the man, bro. He's the man. Okay. That is a tight haircut. I thank you. I think that use strategically major head look a certain shape to accentuate the physical. Like it matches. You got like a matching head body going on, which not everybody's got or gets good. But you mean I would like a slightly smaller head? I'm a really big head. So on Instagram, people take I mean they're shorter or smaller than I am. Then they see me in person. Because you see like Michael Krizzo, you know, it's massive because of his tiny head. Yeah. So if you have a better head to body ratio, you look better on Instagram. Yes. Yes. And so yeah, just tell us how you feel. And like you go into Tampa. I mean we were terrible at show coverage. So we're not the place people go for the show coverage. But we were all seeing your pictures that you were posting. And we're like, oh, this is like this guy's really dangerous. And then coming into Tampa, I mean, what were you thinking going into Tampa? Like were you thinking I could win this? So were you looking at the line up? And you know, I mean, you know, a line up by acuibus supposed to be there too. He never showed up. And like he's obviously a threat of these in shape. And what were you thinking just looking at the names? I mean, honestly, I was very confident going into the show because I knew the kind of improvements I made since last year. I think. So I did Tampa last year with Delaro said Mofuda. And I got third. And that wasn't my best look. And then I did Texas Pro after that show and came in a lot of tighter and taller men and told me, how'd you come in like this? You would have had a much you would have had a really good shot. When you'd been in Tampa last week, which Delaro was the one last year. And a lot of people had Delaro as their pick to win because of his track record. Yeah. And he just did not, you know, he just didn't have quite the look to, you know, I think he got six, maybe fifth, Tampa. But we didn't know what he looked like. He wasn't posting updates. Right. So that was a wild card, you know, to see Juliet was he was going to be in there. I didn't know how I'd match up against him. Top 11 Olympian, you know. So like seeing five Olympians in a Tampa line up, I'm like, this is going to be tough. But to be honest, I'm not one of those guys that ahead of time gets cockier air get on social media and says I'm going to win it all. But in my head, I had a gut feeling I could win that show. I really did feel strongly I was going to win based on my conditioning with aesthetics, balance, size. I think I figured I had the overall best package. But you never know unless you stand next to them, right? Well, at least I covered the arrogance for you. And what's telling people you were going to win? I appreciate that. As soon as he said it, I was like, well, I think that one's in the bag. That means a lot to me, man. Yeah, we actually held off on announcing it. Because so last year I did Chicago Pro first and it was the first time I'd ever been projected in anything where podcasts and people were talking about me before the show. Right. And not that it got in my head, but just it slowed down my prep because I like watching like y'all's podcasts. I like watching bodybuilding podcasts. And I didn't want to hear my name constantly because it's like, it slows it down to where all I can think about is, oh, wins the show going to be here. And then I, so I waited until the Monday before the show to even say I was going to do it. When we knew probably through East Out, we were going to do Tampa. Maybe four or five weeks out, honestly. Nice. I was in shape way ahead. So it just made sense to do it. Man, you're now what's glad you did it. Yeah, yeah. I'm definitely glad. Yeah. So what's what was going through your mind? You know, you're at the show. Obviously, Beastwood looked amazing in Tampa. Right. Like. And you know, very intimidating frame. And I mean, he's quite the site. People who don't know Quentin. Right. If my, oh my, not, I'm not telling the truth here. It's when you see Quentin walking around. It's kind of like, oh shit. Like there's not very many people that look like that. Right. So when they, when you realize it's top two you and Q, you know, what was, what were you guys, you know, I mean, he's obviously he's a great guy, but you know, what's going on with you guys, how how would that feel when you knew it was the top two of you? I mean, an incredible feeling I told Quentin, you know, after pre-judging and after finals, how much it was just the time of my life to be in a top two call out like that. Because I was going to top three call out with Delorosa and Mo last year. It just, it just wasn't the same having a top two knowing like you're setting that top two, yeah, battling it out and going through those rounds was amazing. It's funny because I actually went back stage after, you know, they do the cemetery rounds, right? And I noticed that the judges were hardly looking at me when I first stepped out and you'd, I got so nervous. I was like, I asked Chris, total of my coach backstage, I'm like, bro, did we even make first call out? Like, did I fade? Like, what did I look like? What was going on? Because Tyler wasn't even looking at me. And so I think they knew already that I was going to be in that first call out. They were kind of comparing other guys, right? But I'm like way on the end in bad lighting. And I went from that thinking like, dude, I have no idea they weren't looking at me too. I was in the top two call out with Quint. So I was on top of the world as of that moment. Just, that's what I love doing this for is those battles where you're in it and you know, you're one or two, you're neck and neck and getting to fight for it. So it was the most, most incredible feeling dude. No matter what, you did better than last year at this point. You know what I mean? No matter how did Chris fall. Yeah. What do you want to, we knew that you were planning to compete. We talked to Chris Andrew Barry, because we were trying to figure out like who's going to be in the show. We're getting pictures together and everything. And he was like, yeah, we're going to decide, you know, he's probably going to do it, but listen, just don't say anything. So we're all right, we're all right. We're all right. We're all right. We're all right. We're all right. We're all right. We're all right. We're all right. We're all right. We're all right. We're all right. We're all right. We're all right. Well, thank you. I appreciate about that. One of the things about that top two was when I think about it, you and Quentin were technically my two favorite types of physics, right, side by side, you know, and so that's what was so like striking about seeing you guys in the top two call out together, you know, and you know, because it's not often to get a guy over six foot that has, you know, that type of physique, right? So I and you know, so I was big fan of that, but then you have that like Dorian looking type of physique, which is obviously mind boggling. But the conditioning man, you know, you know, the the straighted glutes and the hardness through the hands and just the next level, like my friends were texting me going, this guy, that Jordan guy's hardest fucking nails, like everyone was just saying how hard you looked in the pictures and video and you know, how do you feel about the look you gave these two shows and affect it, you know, you're off to the Olympia now and you've got to go on that. Yeah, I mean, I mean, gosh, to even be compared to Dorian is a huge deal for me and I think that's like, how I got this physique was I was watching from the get training when I didn't even know much about training at all, I was watching Dorian, Branch, Johnny Jackson, you know, just super thick and dense. Yeah, I wanted that density that hard, grainy, striated muscle, you know, and I was just, I was, I've always wanted that so to be even compared that way is amazing to me. And so it is apples to oranges because Quentin is so he's so overpowering on stage and if he can put it together and get in crazy condition, I mean, and be like Samson size, nobody's beating him, absolutely nobody's beating him. So, you know, it was an honor to be on stage with him and to be able to beat him out with my strengths was an honor to, you know, a lot of people on the internet don't agree with it because they don't understand bodybuilding criteria, right, because like you have to have enough of each thing and it's not like I'm completely not aesthetic, it's just I'm not Quentin's aesthetics. There are levels to that game. Right. Yeah, you got playing. I'm the thick, thick white guy with conditioning, you know, I'll do what I can with what I got, but yeah, to be able to go to the Olympia man, that's a dream come true. I always used to say when people would ask me years ago at my gym, like, oh, would you want to go pro? And I'm like, well, I would love to go pro one day, maybe by the time I'm 30 and I had no idea. Five minutes later, I'm 29 now. So it's like, by the time I'm 30, I'm going to the Olympia, it's freaking crazy man. It's an incredible feeling and I'm already so excited for this Olympia prep just getting going and really pushing towards that goal. I want, I want top 10. I think that's a feasible goal, man, because people, the internet and social media kind of messes things up because you look so good, but everyone looks really good by themselves at that level. You know, so I feel like when you came out on stage and can stand the way you did against the group, like, had it been a watered-down show? You wouldn't have gotten the respect to where now, people who know body will go, this changed the Olympia a little bit. Yeah, they were like, what? The Olympia 26 guys. 26 guys that tell us. It was at Texas. Yeah, 26 guys crazy. And that's the other mind-blowing thing to me is it's like, I didn't win against a bunch of scrubs, like, no, yeah. I'm just, I'm just, you know, last year, I had a lot of people telling me after I lost Andrew Jack to Texas Pro. I was second at that show. I knew it wasn't beating Andrew, unless he came way off. And so, tons of people were like, bro, jump in and do the British Grand Prix or whatever the next show was that was in England. There's not that many guys showing up, just jumping. I'm like, I want to use this time to make sure I'm good enough to make a statement at the Olympia. I don't want to just barely graze a qualification Olympia. I want to be, I want to solidify myself and make a commanding presence on stage, which I believe I did when he two backed back. Cheryl is off my first pro win. Like, I made myself known. So, you know, that's what I wanted the most was my first pro win. I didn't want anybody to say, well, he went to the Olympia. Yeah, but maybe he should skip a year because he won a week line up show. You know, yeah, I want to go established. This Tampa Dallas sort of like period of the year has become like these two shows have, you know, how like back in the old days, it was the Olympia, the Arnold, the Iron Man, the Knight of Champions, right? And the things have changed now. And the Tampa Dallas back to back thing that happens every year is now these two shows are crazy. Yeah. So, last two US qualifiers. Yeah. It's going to be big no matter what. Yeah, you know, used to get a one or two good guys and kind of a week or show at these like what do I call them city, you know, the shows with the city in their name. Yeah. You know, you know, we just have a Chicago pro, there's just be San Fran pro, you know, they weren't the biggest shows. And but now it's, it's nuts. They've grown these two shows. And obviously the timing of them is is is very key for everyone going into them. And really brings a lot of all the muscle to the stage. And it was a, it would, I mean, help a show, help a pair of shows to win, man. Yeah, I actually, I didn't tell anybody this online, like I said, I don't, I'm not with those guys that like, I want to come off cockier, arrogant online on Instagram and say, oh, I'm winning this. I'm winning this show because I don't want to have to eat my words. And I'm for a fact like I don't know who's, I don't know who's showing up until the money before the show. I had no idea. Lionel Beck, he was going to show up on that list. And I told my wife, I was like, if Lionel Beck, he showed up like he did at the Olympia years ago and in the same or better shape, he's beating all of us. Right. That guy was like a genetic freak show. I was always a fan. Yeah. But he was a big question marking, obviously didn't even show. And his last showing was pretty bad. So, you know, I didn't, I don't project anything online. I don't know who's going to show up. But before the show, my close circle knew I was like, I want to repeat what Ian Valier did in 2021 when he won Tampa and Texas back to back. And I was like, can I know that's like that sounds like a really big expectation. But like that's what's in my head. That's what I'm going to the gym training for every day. And I made it happen, you know. So, well, I mean, look at Ian Valier, top 10 Olympia multiple times. Yeah. So, I mean, and I always was a huge fan of his physique. Yeah. So, like, I love the big like mask guys. And it's funny because when I went pro at USA's 2021, I was called more of the smaller shape guy. But like now I've gained 40 pounds and it's like, people are starting to say, like, he's more of a mass hard, you know, Dorian type look. I'm like, wait, I am really like I'm one of the mask guys now. You know, so it's it's kind of cool because I always loved the massive physiques, which I still want to more size, well, checking my waist like I still want to gain more. But it's like to be compared to those guys. It's so cool to me. Let me ask you. I wanted to jump in real quick with one is that so, so last year being just outside of that top two. And then this year, no being able to win, both of those shows, what was the feedback you had gotten last year that you had been working on to get where you're at now? And from here, what are the judges say? Because I'm sure that you talked to judges already and stuff. And what do they want to see coming into the Olympia? Because we can always improve, you know? Yeah, absolutely. So, I talked to Tyler Manning last year and the feedback was, I need more back, I need more arms. And thankfully, I love how Tyler, every show he judges, he gives those feedback videos. And he goes around the whole round post or post, what he liked, what he didn't like, who won what post, who lost what post and why. And he threw the whole video, he kept saying over and over that, you know, I made the improvements that they wanted to see, they wanted to see more back, they wanted to see more arms. And I did that, but I still need more. So, I'm truly, my back is where I'm missing back and arms is just, it's happening. It's just you obviously can't just slap it all right there, you know, in no matter of six months. So, it's a working progress. And I'm getting really good at it. Honestly, I'm training with Justin Abbott, if you guys are familiar with him. Oh yeah. I don't know. He's got this freakish back bro, like, striated from his hip to the top of his and he never used to have a good back. And so, I'm like, this guy learned how to build a crazy back and he's taught me a lot. And, you know, I believe in being coachable no matter what level you're at. And not, oh, well, you're placing behind me. You clearly don't know what I know. Like, I hate it when people are like that. I love getting criticism and feedback and like, oh, you can train better in this way. You can move this better this way. And learning better training I do. So, my back is going to keep coming up. But that's the main focus for the Olympias. My back, my arms, and then major core control and keeping the ways really tight. So, what have you done to improve your back and arms over the last year? I mean, I can't skip over that. There's people at home, right? Yeah, what do you do? Well, a lot more volume, I will say for especially back, a train back, twice a week now and have been for a while, but we increase volume even more. And I just, I kind of pulled back on my leg volume because my legs grow. If I just, I swear I could do one says squats per week and they grow. But like, I just had to pull back for my recovery budget from like chest and legs. I hardly touch my chest. It's like three or four movements once a week. And then, you know, I'll do some shoulder stuff that involves chest. But then what I, what I started not being afraid of was doing heavier like compound movements that may recruit my chest while trying to trade my triceps. Like we've been doing this guilty and press twice a week on the Smith machine. Oh, I had my pressing strength, bro. I've never had such good pressing strength at the end of prep. I'm like, what is going on? I always lose pressing strength. And so, it helped my arms a ton, helped my upper body fullness stay. And then really, really nailing my lats. So like, not being afraid to just stick to a cable high row for three hard sets to start and cable pullovers. And then a single arm cable lot row. And then do some heavier movements. But not just going barbell row, dumbbell rows, all those kind of things that just like, at this stage, I can't detail my back with those big heavy movements that I did when I started out, you know what I mean? Like the way I have to train now, cast to evolve from what it was when I was lower 200s, like around 200, 220, right? Where I'm like off season almost 300, like my back has to be detailed. So that's a lot of what we changed. And more arm volume as well. We're arm volume overall. Okay. So does Chris, Chris Tuddle does he help with that programming? Or is it more like you and Justin are on that? And Chris is working with you from the diet perspective or just wondering how all those pieces fit together? It's a cool hybrid. So Chris trusts me with my judgment on picking movements. Will kind of decide on something that makes sense, but he'll never, he will never pick my movements or necessarily sets it reps. Like he give me an idea of, you know, he'll ask me how much volume are you doing for this? Okay. Let's add a couple sets here. Like, try to increase your volume here. Let's talk about it. And we kind of come to an agreement, but me and Justin run our training. So we pick the movements if there's something that needs to be swapped out. We swap it out. If we feel like, and then there's sometimes where we train instinctively. It's like, bro, this is feeling so good. Like, let's run a fourth set. Like, this feels really, really good. So I think it's just a hybrid of everything. Chris has given me a lot of stuff to do for my core control. He just sent me an email yesterday about that. If you looked at my Tampa look versus my Texas look, my waist is actually way tighter and my av and thigh got way way, way better. It was just a week of like absolutely hammering, working on cinching in my waist, cinching in my core, being conscious of it. So there's a lot of stuff like that. Chris will do with me. But Chris is a little less hands on on my training itself. Right on. So yeah. What about peaking twice in a row, like that? I mean, a lot of people think that that's very, very difficult to do. I think I think that it's not that complicated. People overcomplicate the two shows in a row thing. But tell us what your strategy was. So the thing is, is you have to like Chris follows data. And yes, he follows my pictures. And it like there were only a few days there where we were away from each other. It was like Sunday travel back. And then by Thursday morning, he was at my house, because we're 30 minutes away from the venue, stay the night. And then we were out of hotel right by the venue. So he had his eyes on me the whole time. But he's also very specific about data, weight, how my body is accepting water intake and stuff like that, sodium intake. So the peaks were super different. And my body surprised us a lot. We were keeping water high and I kept getting dryer. And then we kept adding food and I kept getting dryer. And it was like, we were waiting for my weight to spike and it didn't. You know, it's like, it's always different. But for whatever reason, Chris, he is so good at peaking. He is just so good at peaking. So I have no stress at all, because I have absolutely zero thought in my mind of like, okay, what if Chris misses a mark? Because two years in a row, we've been better at Texas than we were at Tampa. And we both times had to follow my body a different direction than the prior peak. Because you know, you kind of deplete after the carbup on the first show, you got to get that back down to a flat dry spot. So you can fill back up. And then it's like the body's going to do what the body's going to do. It's not going to be the same every single time. So you know, one thing we did want to do was try to push the dryness because Tampa at finals, I was straight first on the judging, but at pre-judging, I only beat Quentin by one point. So, but we came back harder because I restricted water for finals and I was drier and they like that look better. So we're like, well, let's push the dryness and hardness even more because I'm one of those guys. I could be like 90% full and I may look bigger just because I'm that much harder. And if I'm like blasting full. So we made that call and then Texas, we we dried it out a little more and I was actually a good four four five pounds lighter, I think. That Texas. Okay. Surprise. What did you actually weigh? The morning of I was 257 and the morning of Tampa, I think I was 261. But by the time I was on stage, Texas, I was probably about 259 to maybe close to 269. Tampa by stage, time I was 264. So I was a good four five pounds tighter and drier, not quite as full, but my Texas look was way better. And you were not in day in Texas, which is a funny thing to say as good as you were in Tampa. But like you were saying earlier, I was laughing because I was watching the pictures and then going into the comments and with no due respect, the amount of guys who don't know bodybuilding that comment drive me crazy. I know. It was funny because we'll Chris actually responded to one and I thought it was so funny because the guy was like, be smoked all the way and this was in Dallas and Chris respond to he goes, he goes, I love you, but he was better last week and in work or he was better last week and in work better this weekend. Yeah, I have to admit he was better in Tampa. I don't know what, you know, I don't. It's like you said Ron sometimes for some people, it's hard to peek two weeks in a row and for some people, it's not. It's like it sometimes just depends on the physique and how much that rebound affects you. Well, also I don't know. What did you do right after the show? You don't know what I mean? Right. And I'm not, you know, guessing what he did, maybe he was right on, but I always think back to when Rodin won his first Olympia, they were competing like two weeks later and I asked Chris, I said, I saw Chris the next day and I said, what did Rodin like do to celebrate after the show? He goes, I got one text. Can I have one brand muffin? He's like, that's just one. Have one and he goes, that was the only thing he ate after the show. He's got a show with it. No, he really did. Yeah, he had a brand muffin after winning in Olympia and then there's like back on because he's like, that's awesome. I don't want to win Olympia and then lose the next show. Oh, for sure. Yeah. It's not a good luck. Chris is very like a small ground free show or lose a small ground free show to celebrate right after you and the O. I mean, you don't know how bad your body's going to rebound, especially when you have already carved up, you've already restricted water, maybe a diuretic or something. And then next day you fly and then hopefully you get all your water in that day, you're probably not getting enough movement in and it's like by Monday you're a water buffalo. So it's like you just can't do that. So the last two years at Tampa after Tampa, both times we just we did go out but we just had a steak and he portioned literally Chris let me have a few fries. So like he let me have a New York strip the night after I won Tampa which we'd hardly hardly had an approaching all day. Right. We went really low protein to carve up. And so by that evening we went to Capitol Grill I got a New York strip and then I hand him my plate and he portions out fries because he's a new Trishness. He's like okay I can see how many carbs as our seven. Seven and a half fries. Yeah the other thing that's interesting that I thought about while you were talking is a factor for you that no one else had after a show is adrenaline. Like you're through the room for certain. Yeah there's that. We've all had that where you're like through the roof for a moment in the next day you feel like you're hit by a bus because it drops. 100% yeah can't sleep. Yeah it's your body has to react to that somehow as well it's not a fun thing. What is going on here? I don't know I just thought that the improvements that you guys made in a week was mind boggling because like you said you were lighter but you looked bigger. I think you had just him just to random out of fries for the adrenaline. If you had got that eighth fry you'd have been fucked. There's no reason adrenaline fry ratio. It's got a doubt yeah I snuck I snuck an extra one I'm not gonna lie. Oh I. So you were the reason you weren't. Yeah I was like Chris went to the bathroom you'd be a fry. One more just one more. What about challenges during prep? I mean people see the victory and they see the improvements in the physique and you know it it's all good you know and sometimes the prep had a lot of stuff in it that was difficult that doesn't come out the other end and no one really hears about or cares about but we care. So did you have any any like what was the main challenge for you? Do you have any issues during the prep that you had to overcome that? So I mean I this is what's weird and I can talk about this the challenges in my off season. Yeah. Prep went so smooth bro like we're like what the hell is going on. To the point Chris is like did you get somewhat kind of like Hulk gamma radiation this breakfast. Understand you're not this is not none of this makes sense what's happening like we had my food really pretty low early on because usually my body requires that to really get rolling and then by the end of prep once I'm lean I'm almost always having more high days and like hardly doing cardio and my body's just flying through food at that point and and we just we just maintain training performance and stay lean because we usually get ready really early but it was like I was growing through this prep just like I did last year so prep was amazing I couldn't have had a better prep. There were really no challenges but I will tell you about my off season challenges which I I almost did not compete this year. My plan was to take the year off truly damn and so after after Texas pro last year I had decided to get gyna surgery. It wasn't bad a lot of people were like why are you even doing it like I can't hardly tell but I just wanted to take care of it because I don't want to have to blast a room in extra time. I don't want to have to worry about you know what if it gets worse later what if I'm on the Olympia stage one day and with TIEZ to can be regularly and then they yeah and then everybody sees it and all the just like this is a problem now. I'm going to get to get to take care because I had it since I was 12 so it already presented when I was I'm already prone to it. So I went I was going to get that Tinkiro but prior to that I had an 11 day trip with gas to Europe scheduled before the Olympia so that pushed out my off season then went to the Olympia with gas and up rising and then after that a couple weeks after that had surgery and basically the surgery went awesome everything was great and the doctor like wow this is incredible your results are so great five days later and he's like you can go back and train if you want like are you sure because if you tell me I can go train I'm going to go train there's no doubt about it. I'm not sure if you know what that is right and so he's like well just don't train chest don't do pull it. Exercise and I was like yeah yeah I don't think he get I don't think it's studded I don't think people understand that this size when I train legs I can probably get a pump in my chest right yes like the blood flow is just different so like I after training back and training legs I ended up with these massive saromas of fluid oh not hematomas but like that it's where the dead space tries to get filled with fluid because of like too much movement and I learned that through my research after the fact so after you had a doctor was great I will say the doctor was great you did an incredible job and he was literally like texting me checking on me all the time for months but dude I and he was in stat my lunch so bro I had to literally like I talked to Halingshead and a few other guys I had done and they had all drawn it out themselves and so like I went I went in I was just like drawing this stuff out on my own like every other day I love it I love it little surgery bro the 30 cc's I don't know my left side multiple times wow so all that said it's already extending my off season and hopefully that's not too gross of a story for your listeners but your hand that maybe you've drained something yourself we're gonna do good it's happened I'm with my own people here so I don't want to drive to the doctor every time no I don't get the basic assist cut out of my knee I'll just do that we'll see that was the other issue so what happened was that extended and then for five weeks I couldn't train so here we are in like almost December and I still haven't even started my off season stayed lean you know TRT and everything and this like I finally started training again and then I get the scar tissue that looks worse than it did before okay and you know it's kind of caused by the Ceroma like effect initially yeah so that's what I was told by a bunch of guys I like you got to get that out or it's gonna harden and then you're gonna have to get surgery again so I was trying to just wait it out like do all the protocols everybody's telling me to do I was trying to get a local surgeon to do like a cortisone shot on me and confined to anybody then I got pneumonia in the meantime why and that that kicked my ass for in January so bro this off season was like there's no way I'm gonna make progress on top of the fact I'm not stepping on stage with this and then all sudden everything just like turned around and I started after I had that pneumonia I started making stupid progress that I found a local guy a local surgeon that would do that willing to do the cortisone shot for me they melted in like a week it was just like gone so they just shot the scar tissue with cortisone and it just yeah it's called a canolog and everywhere I read on I'm a gyna surgery expert now because I obsessively did all my research and one hour conscious my $100 now are called your yeah yeah and they just did an interest scar canolog shot they like shot it a million times so million I mean it was like so many different places but within a week I was like what the hell this thing is just melting off wow and then now people comment on my stuff they're like bro you have nipple striations because you can see my creations through the nipple now and I'm like like you just run right through yeah yeah that's my nose that always wanted nipple striations it was nothing there but then muscle nothing there but skin and it's like it was it's a blessing because I was like I'm gonna have to redo this whole thing and scare here so all that said it was like there's no way I made progress and sure enough I was I was like 247 the morning of Texas per last year so at least 10 pounds but I was way way harder for Texas per this year when I woke up yeah we filled out a good few pounds for pre-judging but dude like I was skinned alive when I woke up like I'm gonna post the video from that morning on my on my Instagram soon but I've never seen my glutes like that my life so I mean I gained at least 10 pounds of over the course of last year to this year can't tell you why or how because I had at least six months of time completely wasted but maybe that gave me a body like a boost I don't know yeah maybe not the break you know yeah it's not the first time I've seen some like I've seen a few guys over the years where they have like no offseason because of something and then they you know kick into a prep and they're like smaller than normal and clean for seven months and all that stuff and they wind up with a better result and you're just like it's crazy I think it has something to do with like in fresh health yeah health and inflammation in your body receptor and the fact and the fact that like so tons of people would keep commenting to me after last year's shows they're like why are you still stagely and you've been like four months post show why are you still stagely but Chris is very particular about staying really really really before we push before we start growing and pushing food so like I stayed lean for I've never maintained that level of conditioning for that long so like the post show period where you're getting all your recovery and it's like yeah I mean dude all the way through the surgery all the way through to like like I don't know that I ever lost some level of glute lines all offseason so it was I believe strongly that you don't when you get to a certain level you do not have to get fat and bulk up and you know add a bunch of body weight that you have to pull back off to grow I agree with that I think that's a that's a young man's game you know young and experience not an age because like I said the same thing I when when young guys come to me for to grow I'm like well what will you eat in the amount that I need you to eat oh you right ground beef cool We're gonna do that you know what I mean and then with season guys I'm like I don't give a shit what you want Yeah, if you want to win you're gonna do this you know what I mean so yeah I love that you're echoing that because you essentially put on 10 pounds and like a two month offseason Yeah, yeah, that's what's weird. That's why Chris was he's the whole prep I don't know man you got some kind of like superhuman hope juice or something like that I don't know what's going on Christian of that I took full credit for that. He's like see I told you Yeah, this is what I think marketing is coaching very well. I would have survived Is his own idea Well, I you know it is what's cool is he doesn't He doesn't do anything dog maddically There's so many coaches that are just like this is the way it goes you use this this and this You die it like this on fish on vegetables you got to do this amount of cardio you got to do fastocardio like He's very much Followed the body is showing us and then we decide and so there's nothing he does that's a one size fits all Or from week to week everything changes. It's depending on what the body's doing so on top of that Chris through curveball at me and in the almost it going on six years I've been with him. He's never given me a dirty refeed and Like seven weeks out I get my high day plan and at the very bottom is like In and out double double one single one fry I was like Chris you're just messing with me bro This is not a joke That's a meat that's a cruel joke And we had in and out like maybe four times during the prep which is very new for me He always does clean like just more rice more carb refeeds but he's like Bro you're like 275 and really lean I think we need to try different things with you like let's just give this a shot And you know we just tried a lot of different things that that had to had to happen So nothing's really the same as prior prep so we just followed with the body told us it was doing and Even if it was weird and didn't make sense we just kept it rolling you know I think what's cool about you is I was talking about you this weekend with Nicky Nicky knows Jordan much longer than I do From when he essentially started and I told her about your years Little guy, you know the changes and she's like that doesn't surprise me and I said What do you mean because obviously his great genetics she goes now he he is lived bodybuilding since he started She's like this is what he does is what he's meant to do She's like I bet you he has been missed a meal in 10 years and I last I'm like probably not Well that means a lot to you that it really does because I've always I you know the thing I've always said Like I said told you guys you know people would ask me if I wanted to go pro one day and and I said you know Maybe by the time of 30 I've always said genetics will be the only thing that holds me back It will absolutely never be my discipline my consistency my work ethic like none of that It will have to be whether or not I have the genetics and I'll find out one day if I have enough or not But that's what I always told everybody for years We're talking back when dusty's talking about years ago when That was living in Asheville and nobody knew I was and I'd never done a national show you know I definitely I just love the process of bodybuilding bro like I love being in the trenches I love training hard that's why train with Justin Abbott he trains we were so intense He is intense. I've seen his stuff. We've had him on the show before do we have him out here guys or That would have been a lot of button gear no, but you've had him on BSG. Yeah, yeah Yeah, I love it man and I mean I can't I can't really say this myself because I feel like it's blasphemy being Coming from me, but a lot of people are saying that we Resimbled branch and Johnny Jackson with how we train That's cool, but yeah, but yeah, that a lot so that that means a lot to me because like You know branches become kind of a mentor of mine After moving here being with gas, but he even said to my wife because she works for gas now Before Tampa bro he's like Jordan's winning at least Tampa or Texas probably both because he saw my update She kept showing to my updates and so you know to have that kind of support Has been amazing but also to for me and Justin be compared to like the branch and Johnny Jackson kind of vibe That's really cool like Have you gone through any work with branch have you trained with him at all and if so I I think he's still pretty intense to this day Still trains hard make do he kicked my ass like what do you guys train Back well, so so the worry went to Europe. I did the iron world tour with gas glass here and that was that 11 day trip in Europe and then like I did two gas posing as we didn't afford them and everything but we Branch was there for the whole UK trip was like a four or five day tour through like London and we went over to James Hollings head to see him and so we trained with James and his training partner and branch We all trained chess together then we went to What was it called it's in Birmingham is it called ultra flex? There's an ultra flexor Okay, I feel terrible now if I'm blanking on if I'm not saying the right you guys go to the other No, okay Was it Birmingham so I thought because I know James goes there too, so okay, no we hadn't gone we hadn't gone there but it's Yeah, it was a back day was it Simon's Jim went to Simon Simon Simon. I was about to say Sorry Simon I feel so back because I really love Simon. He's awesome and he He took us out to like a Brazilian steakhouse, but so that day at Simon's Jim We trained back and do the speed that branch was training at it's just like thrown another plate Throw on another plate throw on another plate get your set like it's hard Over 45 minutes straight. It's cardio my heart rate probably didn't dip under You lost me past non stop dude. I ripped through food like It was crazy. That's awesome. It fitness ultimate fit. It was great right right it was great Jim But yeah that that session with branch was really awesome But he is that like get in get out you don't need to catch your breath between sets like you better Push it, you know It's a success before exactly dude. I was casting for air and he's and he's just rolling through bro Yeah, and you know he may not be perfect for him on everything But it's like he's just ripping it and then he's like are you're set? I'm like my gosh dude Like I can't even catch my breath from three sets ago I wanted to ask you while you're kind of in this area How much do you think Well two two parts one why did you decide to move to Texas and two how much do you think that move Is the reason that we see the Jordan we see now? Brother move to Texas changed my life to be honest so First off, you know, I've always wanted to move from North Carolina to a more bodybuilding centric area Red Yeah, exactly 100% 100% because so you know my peers my family there they're all very conservative Junto going on in You know Very traditional conservative Americans right so It's sad to see so much of Anyways, I won't get into all that we know I'm I'm I'm a backwards mountain mountain kid from Western North Carolina so there's a There's that background but Texas is incredible and I wanted to be I didn't want to be a big fish in a small pond I wanted to challenge myself and push myself because I started to realize I'm like okay I passed up like every Everybody here as far as like local bodybuilding goes I went pro and stayed in North Carolina And then I did my protein view in Texas in 2023 and two months later I moved here because I was like already on the fence about it Chris lived here I had visited him in January of 20 You know January of 2023 yeah before the Texas pro and then again in June and then came again for the Texas pro I was like I'm convinced and by the time my wife came with me for the Texas pro she was convinced The people here are so nice Everybody's so happy because why wouldn't you be live in Texas? And you have in and out so like What else does what you have you got you've got a gun shop on every corner like what what could you ask for more What am I doing here? This time for you to move Scott I think so yeah But on top of that so I you know after that Texas pro Hunter LeBrona kind of took me under is we need a little bit as far as like oh, you know helping me I'm working on with gas Man he's so cool we actually saw each other yesterday at the gas prevent and it was so good to catch up with them But he's helped me a lot He's already given me a tons of advice for my first Olympia, but it's just a community here like There's so many bodybuilders moving here too because the gyms are incredible All over Texas. I've been to multiple gyms within two hours range of this DFW area that just We'll blow your mind as far as you guys did one I Mutant on a mission the my carousthons gym and long view You remember that I'm sure of course Yeah, to Mike all the time shout out to Mike and he sends that's great. I teach her it's some stuff great guy But what a cool dude. He went that yeah, and he even was that he traveled up for Texas pro And he was DM and me like all excited and stuff and then He was at the gas prevent too so it's like brothers people like that everywhere here and it's such a cool community And so gas got me on it is like a more of an entry level athlete and I just wanted to immerse myself And I was like all right, I'm moving to Texas. I'm taking a chance There's a big risk. I have no safety net. I'm no longer the big fish and a small pond But I want to challenge myself and my whole life changed and that doesn't happen for everybody because you have to make it happen You can't just like say all right. I'm gonna move where there's more opportunity Yeah, then it just falls in your lap. Yeah, you have to move where there's opportunity and you've got to go and get it for yourself And so I've worked really hard on networking on my I edit all my own content. I have to play the Where a bunch of different hats from bodybuilder to coach to I would say influencer But working on my content to where I can monetize and Make good sales for the companies on with and stuff like that and you know I've really grown ever since I moved here to Texas And it was both within my brand as well as bodybuilding because gyms are just more equipped here and Then when you train at a gym like a destination now we've got me just in We've got alias McCall brand in barrow that guy Kennedy Colossus Ken. He just moved to the area We've got at any given moment. You may have five open pros in destination maybe more and tons of people visiting We got a bunch of two twelve pros at our gym every day Like it's just it's an incredible environment to train in and so how can you not grow and progress when you just submers yourself? You know How many do you use like Typically how many gyms do you kind of use well right now Um Occasionally I'll go to the Metro flex and Plano I've been I moved to Fort Worth originally and I loved it there, but we just moved over more towards Dallas to be by Destination Dallas gas headquarters right so but I've been to Metro flex Arlington You know That was really cool I got trained by A couple times Yeah, it's a place dude and and and Brian dobson put us through He would done at least two workouts. I think we grind dobson Just Crazy to be in that environment see Ronnie walking in one night when we were down there Then Metro flex and Fort Worth The castle all over gyms are around here. Yeah, it's so cool and then so when I first moved here I started going to absolutely recomp and I love the equipment I love the owners and I love what they're trying to do But it definitely attracts a lot influencers so I can only take so much Because I can only kick over so many tripods before I get tired of kicking so I just It it has incredible equipment though so they I actually talk to the owner yesterday and they're building two new Locations and I may pop in there for like if I need certain back equipment or this or that because they're gonna help us out with With memberships and stuff but but I just it's the environments here in Texas that are the best part So I love to get down to Metro flex plano if I need a quieter day where there's not as many people I know And we'll get you know like okay. I won't get stopped here Right, yeah, and that but destination is like our family at this point bro like I walk in and it's like my Texas families all there to train So that's that's mainly the two gyms. I go to just just a couple of hours of right now But what when am I clients saw you getting ready for the show this past week App delusion and he said His name is Matt. I don't know if he said hi. He said you guys were training. He's like I did what a bother him But he said after that there was like 24 of the 26 open pros We're like all there at the same time. It blew his mind really how many how many people were there at once Well, maybe not of the open pros. I don't know if I saw that or maybe he was talking about yes. It was it yesterday I'm not sure I don't know what okay, but yeah, I mean it's definitely a hot spot right so We have people coming in and out of there traveling from all over the world all the time Right to train and to experience the family that's gas like Gasp is really what what Michael Johansson has done for gasp is truly amazing With bringing so many people together all over the world. Yeah, I mean there's people from there with people all from all over the world this past week At destination for the show and everything traveled in so it's really cool, man. It's it really helped me level up being here in time They're incredibly that's so cool like every time I've been to Texas I mean I don't know how many times I've been to Michael's house for yeah Like yeah, he'll invite he had a party there last night. Yeah, we always have we already has the breakfast and barbells in the morning and a big Q&A A big event there and they invite everybody back to his house again I went and had a date night with my wife finally for the last like six months, but She's her ditch Yeah last time of his ever go to see cracked open the gun safe for me He will do that every time he loves He's very proud of that My favorite he's he's Swedish so now that he's in Texas. He's got a show office. He's not Swedish anymore He's as American as you would he's got a big flag in a back of his truck I was standing at the kitchen table with him and I said I said man Because he cracked a safe and showed me all the crazy shit in the safe right and we're like take good stuff out And I was looking at everything and then you know the clothes of safe we go over to the kitchen table or stand there talking and I go So like if someone breaks into your house You know if you got to defend yourself. I'm sure you gots and he just reaches under the kitchen table and just takes a gun and puts on top And he goes there's a magnet underneath He's got one under the kitchen table on a magnet just my man Just there all the time so like he didn't even move he just reaches under and goes to there you go There's a few around the house Oh, you're so American now Yeah, that's like my grandpa sit so on his couch Reach in the couch because oh, there's a revolver You got to have it based on which which place you're sitting on the couch Yeah, one in the laundry room right Everyone needs a shower gun Yeah You know what a road across the house naked just grab it right there. Scott's thinking fuck. I don't have a shower gun I don't have a shower gun. That's true. I don't I don't do there Victoria might draw the line at a shower gun. Scott is there already live it So I got some questions about because you know most of our listeners aren't Jordan Hutchinson level right and there's anyone else on this part right now So you're the only person involved that's Jordan Hutchinson level So I wanted to ask like can you go back to when you're like a 23-year-old bodybuilder and and and what you were doing like what was your mental look? I mean obviously dusty told us what Nikki said about you Back in those days, but what what were you like what were you doing? Were you working three jobs Were you going to school like just kind of put us tell us where you were at that point Yeah, so early 20s I was I was in Community College and I was working at a hotel Dusty's familiar with the bill more estate yeah and I was working at a So you four four star hotel on property of the ridiculous massive massive eight thousand acre property and You know driving cool cars and and working there for tips just for tips now the tips were really good They were good there cuz you got high rollers over there that travel from all the rule over the world So there's decent paying job, but I was paying cash through college because You know financial aid said my parents made too much money, but I I've paid you know I am one of five siblings so like you know it's hard to support five kids So I've I've worked since I was 14 and I've worked my parents taught me how to work for everything I have they couldn't provide Everything you know beyond me living with them like they couldn't help me with my college They couldn't help me with my car they couldn't help me like I'm self I am self made but I'm self made because my parents taught me How to be self made because I don't take any credit away from them as far as like being able to help out with certain things like But the fact of the matter is like they taught me how to do that So I'd weigh rather than have done that and Maybe had a lot of kids and not been able to provide college and stuff like that then for me to give Be spoon fed because otherwise I wouldn't be here. Yeah, so I learned how to work my ass off and I was in school Pay him cash through school because I didn't want to be in debt And working to job and bodybuilding and there was a point where I'm falling asleep in all my classes I was on the Dean's list every semester. I'd be straight a is I was very good in school But I didn't know what I wanted to do. I was either going to be an accountant or an engineer or something to do with math because I was just a math brain And but I couldn't even stay awake because I was sacrificing sleep Because I wasn't sacrificing meal prep. I wasn't sacrificing my training and I wasn't sacrificing my job or my school because I need money and I need to finish my degree And I just I was even close to getting associate's degree. I was like, you know what? I don't know that I'm ever going to really use this. I'm just spinning all my money on this I'm not going to get loans out I'm going to try to go all in on bodybuilding just making money however I can and I made that decision and a lot of people thought I was dumb for it at the time and I just kept pursuing it and so I did my first NPC show in 2017 Prior to that was the Carolina Supernatural's like S&BF Nattie showed 2015 and then one of the novice overall then 2018. I did another show And I it was my second NPC show and I won the heavyweight class that took three whole years off What did you weigh back then for like that novice show the The novice show I actually think I weighed like 205 and I looked about eight weeks out Okay, I think it's important that we hear that you know and I mean yeah, yeah I was literally sneaking in extra cardio from my coach that was out the gym He would yell at me because he's like why are you still in the stairs? I'm like I need to be leaner like I don't know what you want me to do I look like way too far out So that just wasn't a good prep look I just I needed to be way leaner clearly The next prep I got peeled and I was like 195 was the first time I've ever really been peeled And so then I took three years off to try to pursue more size and You know that's when I was I was just working in bodybuilding working in bodybuilding I got a really good sales job in the meantime That made the most money that I'd ever made and so I could really invest in bodybuilding That's why I tell a lot of guys like Don't try to be a bodybuilder like really invest in bodybuilding unless you can budget it like budget what you can But it's an expensive sport so like you have to try to find a way to get a good job or you can hustle like I was a hundred percent Commission job and I hustled my ass off to make as much money as I could and pursue bodybuilding and Went all in and then in January of 2020 I met Chris Tuddle or I I actually begged him to coach me like three separate times and he wouldn't take me Because I food my prior coach was and I won't say who that was But he he said yes and then he'll tell last week Well So he a year and a half later he We won USA overall yeah, and I will say in 2020 when I started with Chris You would have said this guy looks more like a power lifter like I don't think this guy could go pro So it's the changes we made were pretty drastic and I just grind it man like I didn't do anything special But I made sure I paid my rent. I made sure I had enough money for bodybuilding I worked my tail off to learn how to make money in the commission job and in kill it so that I could Invest more into bodybuilding and still live comfortably and it it all worked out man It definitely took a lot a lot of work So how much did this segment because The amount of guys that want to do this backwards like you said yeah, it drives me crazy I'm like yeah, they do this without money you cannot right You know, so the fact that you pointed that out I hope guys that are watching that want to be in your shoes Remember you made that decision before anyone thought you could be a pro Right, yeah, yeah, and it's like guys don't budget prior they just like They start realizing how expensive it is for underground's approaching today and You know all the stuff they have to buy Supplement wise super supplies like and then and they're like oh crap I don't have enough money for this. I'm gonna have to take some time off Sorry coach. I'm gonna leave you because I you know I don't have the money to keep doing this like you gotta get your ducks in row To be it especially to start a prep but like you know people just want to jump in and it's like just keep it to training and eating Until you can really invest in actually being a competitive bodybuilder because it's never gonna be cheap So from that that 195 in good shape what did in then you took the three years off and you came back What kind of difference was there on the scale in that time? Oh huge difference 30 pounds So I was I was top of the heavy weights. I think that morning. I weighed 223 the morning of USA's So it was almost 30 pounds 28 miles in three years It's funny how they have averaged that though I think it's weird that I've seen your pictures for so long the jump from That to USA's was obviously enormous But the jump from the USA's to now is bigger Like it's different Which doesn't even make sense yeah, that's you were already I mean you were great at the USA's you won that show Handily like these guys turn pro and then they kind of improve yeah like yeah From there to now is is two different people just like that jump was you know what I mean? Well, it's funny what I was gonna say is I've averaged just 10 pounds per year every single year so because you know I may have My conditioning was way better. I believe at Texas than it was even at USA's or Last year so it's like hard to know exactly how much muscle it is But considering I was about 223 there I was 264 at Tampa You know that's 35 40 pounds in four years So it's like pretty much general average. I'm gaining 10 pounds of muscle per year over the last Seven years Yes, you know 70 70 pounds of muscle over the last seven years So it's just like just doing the same thing over and over and over and over consistently and not backtracking and not kidding Injured that's the biggest thing that me and Chris focus on like I'm not one of those You know, I don't care if my training partner Not that they would but I don't care if they want to call me a pussy and and if I don't want to do a certain thing Something feels tweaked or something feels wrong like It's just it's like you've got to go for You've got to go for training another day like if something feels tweaked you can't use your ego just so I'm just gonna push through it Like as you're we're all one injury away from Enduring our bodybuilding career forever and it's over yeah, or you waste a whole year Because you're gonna have to recover from something so I haven't had any pet tweaks like we all do but I haven't had yet I got you But no major injury so that's helped me really to progress steadily What's your you know like Day to day situation like what do you do to take your mind Out of bodybuilding for five ten sixty minutes a day You know what's your your average schedule for a day Like what's what's Jordan Hutchinson doing that yeah, you know people don't know Well, so I'm big on my faith man. I really am and that's something I project and I'm very outward about it God has blessed me with a lot of things in my life and so that's what's grounds me spiritually I start my day Every single day with a walk with my dog and I listen to like a Bible devotional or The Bible being read or whatever or you know I start my day with prayer like something on proud of it's not something I hide it and it's something that I like to be outward about and of course I have an incredible wife that keeps me grounded I think her and I have something very rare Where she hasn't competed yet But she lives the lifestyle and we've pretty much had a coach for her at all times Ever since we had been together at least been married So it's like You know, okay, it's ten thirty it's time for meal two and we're both getting our meal together, you know So like we live the same life so we go to the gym at the same time She helps me with everything At this point I'm more than blessed enough to it wasn't like this for years her and I both had to hustle our asses off To you know make sure we had the money we needed to live comfortably. It was not like it is now but now she's able to stay home mostly she works for gas Our athlete manager a little bit but only like one to three days a week and then for the most part she's home and we have our animals and They may stress me the hell out, but they they're amazing at the same time they We love them to death and I got a dog to cats and She stays home I coach I have sponsors that are absolutely incredible that helped me out financially You know I'm on a very rigid bodybuilding schedule. I eat at the same time we go to sleep at the same time I wake up at the same time. I do my walks at the same time I get my same steps in every day. I am somewhat a robot But I also spend a lot of time on social media and editing and stuff like that and Making sure I'm not paying tons and tons of money out for editors and stuff. I like to do things on my own So that's kind of me that's like my day and then you know in the off season me and my wife love to have our date nights on Sunday Where we go pick out on something or order McDonald's and sit on the couch and be fat asses, you know So let's cool have we're we're pretty rounded and you know We're both home bodies so it works out She's never been a party or I've never been a party or we like to stay home and Act like we're 60-year-old people 10 30 every night. That's why it's funny when when we've done we've done seeing I were talking about the time for the podcast he thought I was saying like 11 30 PM or something like that Good you know Yeah, I was like bro you have no idea 60 years old or like I'm in bed by 10 Have a wire wolf beard Yeah, you didn't this so you you were asking about my haircut to like change my dude This is totally for my face shape. I have a squat in your baby face so this is just like I mean I like your 24-year-old I hate to be beard but if I shaved it I definitely look way younger and it looks it just doesn't look right So this is too long-gave my head Every time I shave because it started to go this way a little bit right I'm gonna lie every time I shave my beard I get a lot of people tell me oh you look 10 years younger which makes me feel great But then my wife gets upset because I shave my beard so my wife's never seen my face She's never seen my face before She doesn't want to she's like you better never say that they don't really see what it looks like Instantly fall out of love with you Love you again in your weeks Yeah, bodybuilding world is full of so many kind of wacky interesting people and One of the questions we we ask people is what's some like the weirdest DMs you've gotten oh Fans oh my gosh Fans that want one more than being a fan You know perposing trucks from Tampa You get those bro. I you know, I don't even want to go into some of that I've had one guy one guy that said I will pay for your flight and pay you to come out here and beat me up on video Wow beat beat the piss out of me on video and then I want you to I want to video it I'm like look I'm a professional like I don't know why you people email me I don't know how you get my email But I'm like please screw off because I don't I don't even like entertain any of that stuff but and Because it's like yeah, I'm like I'm gonna pay you yeah, I'm retired now. I'm in I'm in Because it's like you think about Like I've had the emails with the posing trunks and then it's like but if there's levels to it Oh, yeah, it's like posing trunks this much money Posing trunks plus you do this this much money plus Posing trust plus you do this in person then this video it in person that that I'm like you're you guys are discussing and there's just one guy And I noticed the little signature at the bottom It was this dude that I already had restricted on its room. They was he wasn't blocked But nobody couldn't see his comments because they were freaking weird some talking about You're a muscle bull or something like that And so I was like annoyed with this guy like hashtag breeding bull I'm like what the hell is this and so I like I noticed a username matched his email and I was like this guy just sent me this This offer list of all this And I immediately Broughts Literally he would hashtag that on every comment every comment No, he would say he would put that in hashtag myostatin bull I'm getting you a t-shirt at the Olympia Flat the sticker on his bat breeding bull Please don't let that come by Oh my gosh Dude it's just a piece here we're We're ready to ruin the show by the end here we are Yeah, it was gonna fall apart at some point. Well, he did pretty well. You got pretty far gosh I'm sure this guy will watch this too. Oh, he's so hard still find some way to reach out. Thank you for mentioning him Well, I'm gonna arm it you know What crazy bro. What's crazy is I blocked him on Instagram and within like 20 minutes a blocking him I don't know how he knew he was blocked. He emailed me right after So he emailed me I noticed the username I went and I blocked him because I don't even want to deal with that. I don't want to admit and then he emailed me again Please can you unblock me? I'm like no, I'm like why did you send me this email? I don't want to see this I need like I'm my my It was literally my coaching business email. I'm like how did you get this? Yeah, for coaching or other or other Yeah, because I mean it's like yeah, it only starts as always starts as like I'm just a fan Yeah, can I just have your socks? Yeah, but then then what's next like what are you gonna ask for next and and you just can't go down that road bro? Yeah, I don't know if you can be out or you know that says your dog smells good You're like wait, why yeah, right? The stalkers don't open that door bro. I'm good. Yeah, that's classic So back so how many weeks do we have now until the Olympia? What are we yet now? What is this? We're off track inside nine weeks yeah Still, let's just like we're we're right on track That's the conversation I wanted to have I told you that's what we were talking about The whole thing What is the gameplay and then between now and then and I'm sure it's gonna Obviously evolve but like tentatively what do you guys think in? So I mean right now we're feeding up a little obviously food's a little bit higher than it was baseline diet prior to the show However, I was having a ton of higher days Towards the end because I was like almost stage ready like five would sell But um which Chris gets me ready early anyways, but we're just gonna hold conditioning This week is gonna be training at like 75% because I'm super dry like my last um my last workout on Thursday Everything was crackling and popping Like every joint was so dry like just doing a light weighting autoless press. I'm like I'm like okay, this this is not okay. I couldn't push anything right now so Stay injury free this week like 75% training you know I will say Ron you did ask about some struggles. I've had The only issue this prep has been a back issue and I spent I don't want to talk about how much money I've spent on tissue work trying to deal with this back issue Keep things from being able to extend the rastically like in my front double or my front Ox I cannot figure it out for the life of me so Been to a bunch of professionals but Basically we're gonna keep it like chess supported row movements for now Try to heal up my back You just get pain in your in your lower back or mid back. It's mid back on the left side like above Like you know you have your vectors down here you got your traps and rambles up here It's like right between their higher up like right under the Like in the rim mid back. Yeah like to the left of the spine and it I wonder if it has something to do with But I I'm all I have tight so as tight hips muscle and balance so it's like It's a number of things so we're just working on being injury free taking care of that so I can hit my front shots right and extend and Keep my waist tight and Then we're going to this week. He's keeping my food a little lower so I could have some food off plan I've had a broke up and all the crap that was in my freezer over the course of the last several months of my wife having Deserts and stuff and saving me some and stock how many stuff. Oh You got a stock pile postio stock pile. Yeah. I just had like some cheese cake from Easter and then like some cookies She's been accumulating from cookie dealers at the gym and all kinds of stuff so Just have a couple meals yeah Now so my wife is now famous for her being the local sourdough bread dealer She's known as like sheet so bro. I get when I get sourdough I legit get sourdough fresh from the ovens been out for like 30 hits and then cut it right open So that's amazing Yeah, so I'm sure I'll have some sourdough here soon and we're just gonna like feed up a little bit promote training performance Let the stress come off of my body and then We've got a plan to keep my core super super super tight over the next nine weeks And just drill my posing my posing got substantially better literally from Tampa to Texas Especially like my av and thigh my side tricep Jose Raymond and guys this for Nino Saw me a person and actually really helped me with my side tricep There's a lot of posing stuff we're doing you know obviously we nailed the conditioning So like I don't think I need to come in much sharper than Texas We know what we need to do there so it's just try my best to pack on a little bit to my back a little bit of fullness Stay in Dury free Keep things safe this week and refresh my body and then go back into it But to to be honest the way Chris preps me by the end of prep. I do not feel that bad like I sustain it for a long time like by training performance was great. I was setting PRs on legs like three weeks out so I mean it's granted higher rep PRs. I'm not doing anything stupid, but You know things go really well with the way Chris prepsing he really He really does things differently than the dogmatic approach that a lot of coaches do what's your cardio max out at 25 minutes five days week So now Chris does steps so okay He's more concerned about so that's the thing I don't do any fasty cardio As soon as I put fasty cardio in my training starts to suffer every single time And it's because it's high fatigue first thing in the morning I feel like it drives my quarters all up Where instead I go like clockwork I go for a 30 minute walk when my dog fasted every single morning But it's low fatigue probably 4,000 steps 3,4,000 steps start my day off that then I eat And so it's I believe strongly in steps some people want to make fun of it and say I'll just do your cardio But why would I go and do something that's super high fatigue when I get burned the same amount of calories with a lower fatigue Walking and then do moderate amount of cardio Just for general heart health and more calorie burn as long as my training's hard enough That's the other thing is some people just don't train hard enough and they need more cardio to supplement the fact that They're just kind of pushing around and wait in the gym because they're tired and on low calories Right and they don't want to push it what did that what's your step goal? Is it like 12,000 or 10,000 right now? It's 8,000 slower, but it got up to 11,000 nothing crazy It was you know, it's been higher when I was lighter, but it takes a lot more to move my body now So I think somebody some you know, there's a lot of people that they'll get like almost zero steps in a day You know how I mean Yeah, so for them, I mean obviously they have to do something but yeah Being active is a huge just part of our general expenditure and you know, they're supposed to on their feet all day and moving around and you know So that's all but that's all that's all this is for creating calorie deficits Yeah, yeah, so it's like you know, I've had clients before Where they're like oh, yeah, I move all day. I get 3,000 steps a day. I'm like I have that before 7 am what are you talking about right? So I've had clients that were like nurses and Like nurses get steps like some 18,000 Yeah, yeah, every single share It's like you don't need to be on it step or for an hour like no, no, yeah, I don't know Yeah, why'd some rapid fire stuff here for you What's your favorite supplement? You can only have one supplement in your regimen One yeah, yeah Legal for something Like our health supplements included, we talking like in your performance Well, you're trying to you're trying to grow if you're uh, let's say you're 25 year-old bodybuilder You only have one supplement Oh, gosh Besides protein I can't pick that yeah, I can't pick protein. Yeah. I guess crit you man Okay, we're we're seeing we're seeing a lot of positive benefits from higher dose in creatine I've even up my amount of creatine Because they've seen so much like cognitive benefits is globally, I mean, I don't see why you wouldn't take creatine You know, there's so many I'm I'm big on the lot of health supplements too So you know, fish will vitamin D to like I can't choose between like there's a few that are essential So choosing is part of this kidneys is cholesterol yeah, yeah, yeah Which put everybody you want to stay alive with but I really like how to be a sacrifice that kidneys Yeah, yeah, but I like how creatine has become a health supplement Yep, yeah, really yes It's so much Don't train who take creatine You know, it's the research now with all the brain shit, so Yeah, it's okay the gym because the brain definitely but but I mean it's so it's so beneficial It's just weird to me like I hear these people like I don't really want to take creatine I'm like why it's so zero reason yeah, it's cheap. It's effective There's nothing but positives. Yeah, so what's your favorite lift in the gym period? Gosh, that's really tough one probably an incline press Okay, I'm not a great I'm not a great presser so like an incline Smith. That's just my go to My purchase Your chest says you can bench 700 pounds Well, I have a I have a really developed chest and I think it's because of how I press Because I've never but I do have really long arms for my height. I will say that but How I press has always been very very efficient So I think that that's why I may press as a disadvantage to other guys They're using work try steps and excuse me try steps and shoulders right where they're stronger But they may not be stronger in their chest specifically Right, so yeah, I love a good sidebecks incline press bro That's probably my favorite one and guess what day it is That would be true today Monday Smith presses calling my name in this problem in someone's on it and I probably gonna have to wait on it But yeah, I will wait an hour for that sidebecks Smith Depends if there's a tripod involved Is it still international chest a oh, yeah, I always take part. I don't want to break the tradition I broke the tradition intentionally for years and then somehow I made my bail way back around to it It all comes to a little circle. Yeah, yeah, why did I do that now everybody's doing chest on the same day two more quick ones Pump up song Big-up song right now It's It's orbit cultures this metal bank. It's a song called Hydra if you guys are in the metal or you mean you guys in the metal Sure, I'm in my house. Absolutely is okay. Listen to that song orbit culture Hydra I had so I introduced the guys at destination to this band and now it's like it's they play it They played it my whole prep No, yes, today I was at the gym for the event and that song came on and I'm like bro I want to go train so bad but so for the afternoon I should probably take it easy and I'm like I just want to go squat Is it like new super super hardcore metal or like it's not I don't like bro when it when these These metal bands get like super dark like death metal and there's sound like pigs like Thank you right Like some demonic crap. I'm good like but these guys they have a good blend. It's heavy It's heavy for many people, but it's like not over the top because I'm like an old school panterra guy It may be a little much from You know, it's like like a god you like this. Okay, okay. I got I got a cute up It's cute up on my phone. Okay last one. You're the last one you go to the Olympia And you got you got a dream vacation lined up afterwards I better do I better line that up with my wife. What's this podcast? No, no wife watch us here good no no no no Except Nikki Nikki at least not this at least is not as far in yeah, yeah, right what what's a dream vacation for you in the life I think Hawaii and we keep talking about it. We've never been Hawaii I would love to go there some all inclusive place and just be like Nobody building for two weeks like I've already talked to branch about that he after the Olympia He used to go up hunting somewhere where he didn't touch and touch away Eight whatever he want for two weeks and just like chilled That's what I want to do. I would love to just say screw it. We're going to Hawaii all inclusive resort We're going to lay around do whatever we want you whatever we want not measure a single ounce chicken Just maybe not even each chicken yeah, there you go maybe yeah, maybe I'll just I'll just eat all the fish and all the sushi and get more of mercury Boising and then I'm perfect my favorite vacation thing I've ever done was a helicopter tour of Oahu Oh wow with the world you can tell you can ask me door off So I had the door off so you're sitting I mean I'm good on that You got to have the door off man you feel like you're in a Huey flying into a hot zone that's crazy Me and my wife are both like horribly afraid of heights, but I mean maybe if you're riding in the in the helicopter Maybe it wouldn't be that bad. It just don't probably yeah. That's awesome man So thank you very much Jordan You're very generous with your time he gave us 90 minutes. That's what I was told I keep a tie he's got a train no keep a tie. Oh, that's it. I literally wolfed to meal down right before this podcast So you're not shrinking you're not shrink. Oh Good. Okay good luck at the Olympian man like I'm really happy to see your physique going there and doing what it's doing and I think you're Especially being so young like you are I think the future of body building is in very good hands With guys like you and physiques like you coming in and winning these shows and we're we're excited for it and we're You know just happy to see good people doing well. So thanks especially a little bit of the show the fact you already knew you know Crazy Awesome, I really appreciate you guys and y'all have in me on and all the kind words that means a lot to me We're grateful to have a chance to talk to you especially now man. This is like an incredible timing right after the Shows are we your first interview. Yeah, you guys are the first one. I got Dennis James tomorrow, but you guys beat him to it See we're terrible at being quick at stuff. Yeah, yeah, this is a lot We're trying though. We're trying okay. Thanks Jordan Hutchinson Two-time winner of pro shows this year Tampa and Dallas off to the Olympia good luck out of YouTube check out Yeah, of course time of being a person more follow-up on the ram Follow-up on the ram okay good luck man. We appreciate you guys so much remember everybody like share subscribe comment and Bring them now and remember I am mutant calm go to I am mutant calm get your ice of surge get your all in and Everyone should get on the gear and of course the new big greens get the big greens in you So you live to your 100 and your healthy and you don't lose any You know good functions. There we go things Green things that's the that's a tagline for that product greens do things Okay, thanks man. Remember thank you so much. It's just body building

all it's all good come all it's great to have you on the show welcome to it's just body building you know we've had we've had some champions on and it's good to add another incredible limpia champion to our list of guests and we know we're very honored to have you give us an hour of your time man so much appreciated you know thanks for having me anyway so yeah we we're just gonna maybe highlight few things yeah I'm happy to be with you guys yeah and I just got to remind everybody to like share subscribe comment and bring the bell there we go that's it we need those youtube hits and clicks you know first of all come all congratulations on another amazing year you're one of those guys it does the open you do the two twelve Olympia you're in there mixing it up you're not afraid of anybody you're an amazing competitor what what do you think of your year how do you look back on it right now I like what I said I'm really really happy I mean I was disappointing a few like you know placing or whatever so I thought in some of the shows I could have placed a bit higher but that is not just me everybody's like seeing clearly what happened but in general to be honest I was really really happy with the but every year what we bring in this year and every every year like the same Kamal is getting old I don't think he's going to be this he's going to be that and I come every year I'll prove these people wrong and I've always done so I'm really really happy with what I've been doing I mean come on last five years doing the Olympia I mean all these five years I won the Olympia come second always top three I've never been out top three I mean what else do I need so I feel good with off your grace so it is is good but to be honest two twelve I don't think it's going to be for me anymore this year I struggled a lot I struggled a lot to get back to do twelve especially at the Olympia so it's no no right what I called Chris last week asito and I told him you were going to be on the show and he said make sure you ask him about how we hooked up and how we got working together so that's here the story of how you got with Chris and you know sort of what you think Chris and you why you work so well together because you've obviously stayed with him for a while and you have a good teamwork thing going on there yeah I mean with Chris to be honest it's because when I was in Qatar everybody like I was in UK and then I moved to Qatar I was competing for Qatar and like coaching their team and I was competing for them didn't represent in Qatar actually so I was coaching myself all these years when I was an amateur coaching myself just you know and then sometimes we stuck every now and then like a little bit hold up you kind of like lose weight anymore are you skinny a little bit thicker or like you know when I was in Qatar there was a guy called Jasim which is he's in actually Qatar he was actually with us at the Qatar he team and Chris I see it was he was visited Qatar in 1994 so he'd made a friend with my friend Jasim which is my training partner when we were when I was in Qatar and then like when we stuck with something he said you always say I'm gonna ask Chris I'm gonna ask Chris what is Chris so Chris was helping him for not 100% prep but but if he stuck if he needs any question or something and ask Chris so what I remember one year like my body is stuck there it doesn't want to go down and the show was like three weeks and I did everything I'm going zero card of dumdies of dumdies nothing could happen to me so my friend Jasim he asked Chris is he's my friend friend partner I don't know Chris he told him like my situation and he told him send me picture of him so yes I did send a picture sender to him and he told me reduce your protein a little bit it's not your protein which is I did reduce my protein a little bit and take like my chicken whatever my protein beef whatever and it is it does happen within two days my weight is up down my skin is going to make a little bit tighter and as I'm like yes that's what I wanted so I've learned from that it's not just the card of like that you need to drop even the protein you need to drop so and then times go, times go, do and compete and then when I went back to England so I had Chris aceto came with my god dressing and peace Sean wrote and for like a guess but for the good as seminar and as I'm going to see Chris so I want to see in that time I just did my amture I won the 2013 World Champion and then I had the problem when they banned me for four years with no reason just full shit, doping control wherever I like I don't know what's happened till today I don't know why because nobody gave me no paperwork even when he saw Rafael I said I need the paperwork for Camel the one the paperwork that says like Camel has been banned and demanding if you ask him today he said till today I've never seen nothing from Rafael so I don't know what's going on over there or who wants me to be out or they don't want me to be a professional they want to keep me as an amateur or I don't know what's going on so I went to that what they call it to that meet that seminar and I spoke to Chris how you blah blah blah all this I said now I'm going to get my pro card very soon because they're promising me I don't want to do amture anymore I said to me you do you remember me you said of course I remember that when you said me the picture with your trunks that color man within this is like we're talking about 12 years and for 15 years maybe and he remembered the color of my trunks with one picture I sent to him and he remembered why did you think with you it he said how old are you now I said I'm 45 45 you said yeah of course we could do it and then we started working together and then as you know we did the first pro show me and him the Arnold Classic and I won the Arnold Classic the first pro show with him that was a great show too man and he came out of nowhere like we didn't know who you were here like I didn't know who you were in the US you just showed and you just walked right through it man that was that was amazing yeah it was really start a good start of my career as a professional for me I don't think it happened before first pro Arnold Classic to win straightaway yeah I don't think I don't before I can't remember who's done that before before me that's awesome another thing Chris told me was he said that he doesn't know anyone because you've been training a long time so he said with your training age and how long you've been training he said he thinks you've probably gone through more training partners than anybody alive and he said he said you trained too hard for everybody said you trained harder than everybody and you burn guys out is what do you say is that true it is in his indeed man I mean I was cool I am cool like the high volume guy I mean I trade with big guys young smaller guys there is not many that they kept it with me but I will give that to Nick Walker he is he took it Nick Walker I mean he's really really because we we trained together for the Olympia this year and then he moved the Vegas actually the last four weeks but man that guy he trained hard as well so he was like heavy but when we did heavy and high volume he took it and he just switched straightaway and his man now he is the one he's he kept the rest most of them they got sick they got throwing up and the confidence you're training but yeah yeah man where where do you think that comes from did you have that from your early days in the gym who did you learn that from where you have to give her you know what I mean what to do and so I was watching all these old guys to be honest and I watch in these the way the old school the way they trained and I've always trained that way I've never had any coach to be honest the coach has a training coach always trained myself and I've always like done the weight which is I've never been crazy you know with all the technique if even if I go heavy I will never lose my technique and my you know it's just to be there I have to feel it I've never felt like to do like four or five frets or two reps or whatever I've always that's not for me I don't know sometimes I do some exercises myself I've never seen them and I'm a few days or a few weeks I'll see somebody else in like one of the top professional guys they do in the same exercises I've just done that two weeks ago I mean you know like when you are an engineer try trying to work out in some angles and promote some like you know some accessories wherever and you think you feel it works good and then you will see somebody else is doing that's been talking about years ago yeah maybe these kind of things like it's on me that's why I do a few different angles when I train with the guys and when they like they have some weak points and the way to train and sometimes like guys ask me oh I have weak points I've been training how to say did you train less maybe did you give it more rest it doesn't mean if you train harder that you're going to make it grow maybe you're overtreating it just give you like train one week two weeks off from go back train it again it just different ways you have to try it doesn't mean like you know when you train harder to build that kind of part of a weak muscle so I've been doing a lot of things I'm trying and it's it's maybe it's it's it's because I've been that long and I know exactly how it feels now and yeah I'm and God I'm still doing the weight I'm doing I'm with no injuries and I feel great what what do you credit to your your longevity like you know Chris Chris often talks about how you your muscle still looks young and and you don't have any injuries and you're still symmetrical and everything's still nice and clean looking and you know there's no little tears and nags here and there and you know what I mean like you got real nice clean looking muscle what what do you think kept you so healthy in the gym this long it'd be honest one of the things I'll must admit when we were doing the IFBP amateur IFBP I think this is this is one of the reasons the rest like one of the reason I'll tell you what one of the reason it's because we we our our shows they used to be old rug tested yeah so the top we have to go through a drug test at the IFBP amateur we have to so that mean we're not using you know we're not using a lot of drugs really fast acting stuff we have to be clean that day of the show so it's we never abuse our physique we never don't be they don't care because with me with my contract with Qatar I mean imagine if I lose well if I do get caught I will lose 150,000 wow and you get yeah you get paid by the country though no matter what right whether you win or lose but is there like bonuses if you win or how does that work yes it's like what is it for the world champion if you won the world champion you will get 150,000 wow that's that's a bonus at bless you will get like your salary house allowance draw a card now whatever everything is paid even my supplement all kind of supplement whatever what we do we got specialist of the highest ever of the physiotherapics we have we demand that is professional when I was there with you call it professional they do you like but you have to win you have to be the top of your league which is that's how I've been doing I mean I won 11 in the row the agent championship and I won with them six times I have to be world champion but man I mean I think this is the reason it kept me to be honest which is you know when we don't we don't use as much of drugs and whatever that we actually everybody's used I've never ever used my physique even even on Chris he when we started together he's been asking me have you taken this have you taken us at no no no no no no no no a lot of lot of weapons in your bucket what we could use so this is one of the reason the second for me I don't smoke I don't drink I don't party I don't do all these kind of things I've never I mean really could count in one hand that's when I do these kind of things and the third things which is I do follow a very low all year round I think these three together that's what kept me of course with my training I train with my mind like not crazy whatever with my technique and training smart yes yeah and you'd ever really let yourself get that far out of shape either do you no no that's what mean it's every year all year round I am actually in and actually you could see my abs you could see my side the latrace it's it's hard but I mean I don't know that's me I cannot do it I can't just even I get mowed with my wife come on you've got nothing I said I can't eat what you eat guys I can't once a week I'll eat with them the rest of the week I'm in my diet okay so if you you know you competed at two twelve and I've heard you say that you feel like you're ready when you're around like that to 18 to 20 months or at least that's where you had been in the past what pounds wise what do you sit at then say in the off season when you're when you're trying to grow what to be honest when when I am off season I've never tried to grow because I know I'm going to always keep myself it's the highest maybe two twenty five that's the height so I'm going to drop but yeah I'm going to drop around ten pound that's that's me that's always you're going to drop around ten pound but like today I'm too 30 this morning so I'm going to grow you're done with two twelve now oh done completely done man I'm it's it listen now whatever I'm doing now I'm doing it for me I'm just going to be fun is the last few years of my career and it's like I've done everything I want dealing with I want the honor of one every single amateur show whatever you could name it I'm good this is I'm just going to enjoy these things now would you guys like this for a minute look check this out this is a list just from 2001 so this is this is not even your whole career of competitions but like to think we're talking 2001 2002 2002 2002 2003 three three four four all five like I mean it's incredible to see first first of our back you went first show being ninety four you'd been competing for a year I mean I mean you'd been dieting right in bodybuilding for a year at that point man you've I just want to make sure people realize just how long you've been doing it next year's going to be thirty is it thirty years but competitive bodybuilding that's incredible man yeah man that's why I really really really happy and I'm going to be honest I am improving all the time I don't know I've been blessed thank God I've been blessed I don't know I mean it's it's been great for me like what I said I don't do much this is all my life is all bodybuilding even my business wise and everything is all to do with gyms and supplements and gym equipment and all these kind of the I'm just with everything around me bodybuilding so well and I have to treat very well and I've been looking after myself very very well blood work and doing this and when I finish show I have to be of completely like I don't care two months three months and then if I need to do a show okay I will jump so I will never stay even like you know the at the the crew's hearty the after whatever the stuff whatever the cool it are completely off just do like six weeks of PCT clean my system go back to normal train normal even my strength you know my strength like a farming gear I'm off it's the same it's the same maybe a little bit stronger like doing because when you are dieting wherever at the end of you know the end of your prep okay you have to have this kind of stuff for you but it's the same I've never put in my head that I am without stuff I can't train I can look good no no no no no no no no and again and I'm not afraid of any show I'll just be ready and I'll jump whatever six foot 10 hundred five foot I gotta ask you my question then that I hear I we we all had a bunch but I talked to a good friend of mine this morning who's been following you since way back in the day like he had told me like ask him about competing against hotty in the amateurs and ask him this and ask him that all sorts of stuff but one thing that really stuck out to me we wanted to hear the story about competing at the night of champions as an amateur what was that what was that whole thing you end up there what was that like I got this thing right yeah oh man that's 2003 2002 I was you know when I was in the UK I've always a naba boy can be with a naba federation because the naba federation was a lot more stronger than the IBB so I was committed with naba and then I got there is a show in Wales 2002 2002 I think yes so the price money it was a brand new car Citron sexo which is I'm talking about yeah about 2002 I believe the Saturday I did the naba did the naba the naba pro-am I come second in that show which is against Gary Lester and the top top guys in the UK can be it's in there and it's an international so there's a lot of guys in there and I come from international so I come second in that show and I want to do you two two times I think so the only way it can be this one is an IBB whatever the car Citron case I was started my car the same day did that show a draw full low about five hours driving to Scotland to Wales sorry and I did that show I won the show and I won the car so I won the I won everything I won the best to see the best to see and the best bozer I won everything so I I I owned my pro-card so the judge was something Benette she used to choose to judge the Olympia and Arnold she said to me come I will have you being what did you come for I said I was committed with naba she said to me no no no no no you will be long to the you're going to do great you're going to do this your physique as like the old school McCalley and she started mentioning names I don't know and I said okay so what what's going to happen is you said today you're earned your pro-card and you're going to be professional I said I'm going to compete with this big guys you said you will do I said okay and then I had Wayne Galash yes he's the photographer yeah he's a photographer and he contacted he actually the one he pushed me said come on you need to deny champion is not far is only six weeks now I said how I why do I do it he said I will arrange everything so he did arrange everything and he got me invitation so we went there we went to the night champion I say the Wales with my friend he's got a gym over there we trained together and then we went to the show me and my chair then plus and my god rest him in peace he passed away I don't know if you know you did you have your right to my chair and he's a British I didn't know yeah he's a shorter dialing a little bit to the meat and then we went me and him so we went there okay everything is fine we did the check in and we did the meat and everything so the people that was seen on the magazines all of them there oh my the me like coming 80 just under 80 kilo I was looking like oh my god so and then that year was his name who Victor Martinez won yeah at his best when he's looking like everyone was there except Jacob let I think Veronica that was his old for them you know the Jesimal soul about they came out they called the big names they just them that is they go so it was about 40 something if I'm not mistaken for he can better so it was the first was Victor Martinez I think second was great titles third I can't remember maybe King Camalee King Camalee yeah yeah I mean I mean there were so many people their Bob chick was there the George fairer art atwood mellow Rodney St. Cloud like down the list I'm halfway down the list like guys like Jeff long Craig Richardson like it's just it keeps going it was crazy so I stole my charidim then I said they might I don't know what about you me this is the first show and the last show I'm going back to the atmosphere this me I don't want to start like you know doing crazy things and get bigger whatever and I ruin my stuff so that I think then it was one of the reasons why they kept me going to be honest if imagine if I went like crazy I'm trying to make match with these guys go big and do whatever crazy things made them not existing now yeah right so I got to step back and I said go and now I'm to be likely after I did that step back I had that contract with Qatar they called me blah blah blah will you come here so that's the switch of me as a finance as well to bonus when I move there that's when is the things are open bigly for me I was telling you about the prices and all these price if you do the world champion you win the world champion 150 000 you win the Asian champion 20 000 and then they used to do the Qatar Golden Cup last year 30 000 so if you want them one year so you're nearly making like 200 000 a year bless salaries and you got this and you got everything is paid everything for me the only thing I do go to the gym in the morning come back they filled you if you want to eat the restaurant you just give them an voice that's it whatever you do just give them an voice and everything is done for you so is that's that's the thing is the night of champion I mean it was I mean even milals I was in the with milals in the same room because they they put us in the rooms every five together so we do a ton of whatever so I said to milals when I did the animals he doesn't know who I am he said come on well what did he come from he asked me because to come like to in the arm was said you don't know me but I know you so that my action I mentioned the 2003 I said do you remember 2003 when we had in the room to the the night of champion he was you were asking for someone to do your like oil in your back who did your oil in your back he looked at me you say to me I was like he couldn't remember but I said they remember he was asking who and I said okay I would do it for you and I was like doing his time is oil at the back and everything so yeah I've been around for that long and thank God that's that's that's crazy to know that you know I you you went pro and then went back to amateur and you know like we've there's a couple of examples of guys that you know like who's a raven could have turned pro several years earlier but he kept not turning he kept staying an amateur and to see it pay off in such a to see that patience in that long game pay off for you is a great lesson for a lot of people watching now that that are so eager to be a pro immediately yeah it's it is it is it is it is it is it is like thank God I had that right thing that day I said no it's done me the first one on the last one I swear I remember now I said to my don't know about you but me the first show on the last so I'm going back to the amgis this what I belong because I'm I'm I'm I'm small like I mean I need to put like another ATK to to be to match one of them so that's what happened and then you know all this shit and stuff and whatever likes it no no no no no no no no no no no no no no no and it is that's the way we actually debilNis these days we need to tell people you never rush it because our body going if you do it the right way you could last for a long time I know it's it's like it's um you need to get paid you don't need to do whatever but you're healthy number one I mean thank God I mean okay I've been going round with that of got a family, of got four kids of God. Things around me, I'm happy, I'm in, it's like I'm retiring now. I mean, can't hear the US now, I leave you in the mark. This is my retirement. I don't have to work, I've did what I have to do. And I'm around here. So hopefully, looking my kids going around, we do, it's, it's, we need to get that message out. You need to slow down, guys. It's not just like waiting, lifting and shooting, those are stuff. Good training, hard of training, with the good like, you know, dies and everything, the stuff it's like, it's going to hit you. If you don't, don't rush it, don't rush it. Take it easy. I just want to clarify one thing. You said you won 11 Asian championships? Yes. And six world championships. And over together, eight world champions, if I want to count, 10, sorry, 10, if I want to count the Naba because I won the Naba as well, Naba universe, I won the Naba universe. I won the Naba at the Naba world champion, either one the world Oscar, and the universe, I won the twice. So that's four plus, the 10 world champion. And I won the European, the European champion and the world champion overall in Tassaloniki, that's 2003. I want to love Showsman. A lot of other shows. I do 10 world champions. Yeah, because the reason I point that out is because I know a lot of the people listening now, they see you as a, as a, as a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a champion, right? I mean, that's the pinnacle. You won the two, 12 Olympia. But I want people to understand how good you actually are like, like, there's guys that win a show and they're really great. But there's guys that have won, like, you've won, like, 20 shows to demonstrate that over. Yeah, to demonstrate that consistency just over and over, like, oh, come on here. Yeah. It's over. Like how, like how, I must say, got to that point. Like, oh, come on here. Like, everyone. Exactly. Oh, come on. We're looking for the second mouth. I love it. I mean, to be honest, I have had a shoe band. You ask him. Yeah. I was going to the 85 kilo. He was doing the 80. He has to suck down the avoid, compete with me. Oh, you watch because I beat him, I beat him few times and he beat me as well. Yeah. If you watch 2003, that's the last show we did together. So I won the 85, you know, 90 kilos. And he did 85. There's a comparison between me and him. I should have won the overall that year. It was like, light out, but politics, politics as usual. You watch them, them, them footage of me with him. It's unbelievable. I mean, I competed with a lot of pros, a lot of pros. I mean, I remember 2004, it was the career. Okay. Yes. At the whole champion, he comes third to me at 2004. I saw me had that. Then his wolf, we were competing, then his wolf, we were competed at the whole champion 2005. He won the overall. So we were the rolling winkler. He never come to five, man. At the whole champion. Ascroll is well. I know these guys, but they were like winning some shows in their countries and they get a pro car. Wherever, and then they go pro and they whatever. But to me, it's too much to give up that much money. You know, when I was an amateur, I was going to get, when I went the Olympia, 40,000. That when they did the 2012. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. For a thousand of 30,000, whatever. And I'm winning 150,000 easier every year. Plus, so that not, I'm not going to do it. That's why that's wild. So just, just had a question about that. So, you know, a lot of people might not like we've all heard stories about the Middle Eastern countries funding the athletes because of it's a national pride thing at the amateur level, right? They're like, oh, you're competing for our country. So even though you're an amateur, you're competing for our country. So we're going to fully support you in your endeavor to represent our country on the world stage. And they take that pride in the body building, which I think to North American listeners or, you know, people in England or whatever, they're like, what? Our governments don't care at all about what we do. There's no check coming at all. But that's just basically what it is, right? They're just their support of a body building for whatever reason. No, it's because, you know, the body building is under the Olympic committees. And then in the Olympic committees in our, in our countries, in like for example, even in North Africa or Africa or the Arab countries. So there is a budget from the ministerial support. It goes to every single Federation. And then it's not all of them the same, but I'm talking about the Middle East like Dubai and Qatar and Saudi or whatever, they are actually more than, actually North Africa, Libya, but we still get some. We still get like even though, I mean, we still, our our shows, I did I did two, three shows after the Revolution of Libya. As an amateur shows, I gave my first price to the winner $10,000 cash. So I support them three shows and we give that much money. So there is, there is like sponsorship. The country will give the, the the Ministry of the Sport. There is actually given money. So I don't know, I've seen an England because I live in England when I, when I went the Arnold, one of the companies like asked me, we're going to give you 500 pounds. We're going to sponsor. I said, what the heck are you saying? It does like, yeah, even in England, this is zero. America at least there is the big, there is a supplement company. There is like a market between them. So there is, there is a pay money. There is okay, but UK did zero. That's crazy. That's why you see the top even, UK guys, for example Samsung, he's sponsored by a flat up, like American company. He got like, all the top guys, when we used to be together, none of us was sponsored by UK company. And there is UK companies. They don't want to spend the money. The same as other countries, they don't want to spend the money. But in back home, wherever the other countries, there is money. So they invested the right way. I feel like that would make the guys really competitive. If I knew that my paycheck depended on me being the best that I could, I'm not going to miss a workout. I'm not going to miss a meal. I'm going to be, I feel like that would make bodybuild. It would push bodybuilding to be better if you had that kind of pressure on you too. I imagine is it different in that way there? Because it's hard for me to wrap my head around. We don't get a lot of coverage of things like the world. We don't get, we don't see a lot of the stuff that goes on with those shows is the attitude about bodybuilding within the bodybuilders. Is it different there than it is here in your experience? No, to be honest, it's the same. It's the same. The bodybuilders are lazy because yeah, it's really, they are lazy. They are as most of them. They think like, okay, I'm going to win my pro card. I'm going to sit down. I'm going to wait for a sponsor to give me no, no, no, no, no, no. Yeah, make it first. You need to be at the top. You work your ass off until you get to that top and then companies will come to you and then you will get sponsored and you will get that. It's the same. The only, the only different which is there is price money even in amateur shows in our countries. There is. So if you want to win, okay, go on train. Go on win that price money. You're not going to, there's a company, they're not going to spend, they're not going to sponsor you because you are messing. You have to win the post at least local. You be at the top and then the company. So they think they think is easy, but no, there is money even in amateur shows. That's awesome. So if somebody holds like an approach show, they would put good price money better than here to be honest. I mean, like they just did the Saudi pro last weekend and then they did the 2012, they did the the the, the man's physique and the classic, they winner each class $50,000. So it's, it's a lot of money for just an amateur no small small amateur show. The the two to have 45 guys. So there is a price money, there is a price money, but you need to work for it, you need to get to that level to make sure like it's, it's as they are lazy. They don't want to work hard. They don't want to suffer. They want to eat. They don't want to be, you know, and that's the problem when they come here to America or to compete with the big shows, whatever, they don't place that well. Okay, interesting. I got a few questions here off the Instagram box that I put up from the fans, come all. Here's the first one. Who do you think is the most impressive poser in the IFPB? At the moment, I think, uh, rock at the moment. The classic, I think he, yeah, he is a demand. He is the one. The old days for me, if you ask, is my Muhammad Bakht Makawi, it's symbols that. Yeah, awesome. Are those the guys that you look to? The like the old school guys or those the guys that you're inspired by? Oh, my, my Makawi to see my poses of always have all of my poses of routine, whatever. I try, I try to do like 1% of I copy it. Always want, yeah, man, I love his physique. That's why, yeah, yeah. Yeah, let a scene on. That's, that's to me. That's bodybuilding. Yeah, I'm not like, you know, the max monster and that no. You know what blows me away is that a guy can win so many shows, be so successful. Be the guy that other people are like, well, I guess, come all of here, you know, I'm going to try to take second to be able to be that guy and still have the level of humility that you have. Like, I know it, Ron, you were like, oh, yeah, just walk right up, says hi. You know, I met you right after you won at 2018 Arnold. It was like Sunday night, everybody had already cleared out and we were at Powerhouse gym. I just walked up and said, like, congrats and stuff, you know, all that. But you like, you took the time to just really, like, have a real conversation and like the, I know that you know, you have your shows, you give prize money out, all that stuff, man. How do you, how do you maintain this, like, where does that humility come from? And where does that passion come from? Because like, just talking to you right now, man, like, it makes me feel real positive about bodybuilding. I just freaking love that. No, my, I'm of never, ever, I've always gave my time. That whatever of, when in, wherever, I've always said that, always praying to God never change me. Because whatever that we do is going to be reaching down and that's it. But your personality, that's what's going to stay. Now, over, ever. So after we, because we're going to be done of that very soon, okay, I mean, I stay longer doing it. But one day, it's top who's going to stay your personality. People they're going to like you, who you are, not who what you want. So 10 always, even if you go to the gym, what I trained, the MI foot, the. So I just, I was going to say what is they will say, we've never, ever. Here, I was going to show like this photo here. You took this back stage with me at the Dallas Pro. And we sent it to a, I said, I sent it to a pseudo because he, he said, how come all look? He said, I said, I'll look. And I said, I'll take a picture with them right now. And I went over and talked to you. But, you know, this was during the, the pro show. And, you know, a lot of guys look like they didn't want to talk. You know, a lot of guys look like they were maybe grumpy or, or maybe just like trying to like, you know, but you were like, just had a big smile on your face. So I didn't hesitate to stop you. Like, you know, I didn't want to bug you. But when I looked at you, I thought, oh, he looks approachable. So I just said, hey, let's get a photo for Chris, you know, and you were all cool. But, but, but, you know, that's, it was noticeable. Come on. Yeah, I'm the end of never ever. You see, even like what I said, if you ask anyone of the gym, what I try, I'd demand him here in the 1940. And he's like, they will say, you can buy you different than anyone. We don't care if it's the lot of, I mean, there's a lot of pros they trained in that gym. But I mean, there's no need for that. There is no need. I mean, okay, there is we know we die down and we go through a hell and everything. But, I don't know. It's not, me, maybe I will show with my wife and family. It gives, no, I don't want to be people calling me miserable. I don't want to give that kind of look. We are bodybuilder. We are like supporting all show on face of one of the sports, trying to make it. Yes, that's the way should be. Not like going out, but you don't want to talk to nobody. And now I'm always like this, then God, I will never be changed. I like what I said, whatever titles I've got. It's been written there, stored somewhere there, but like my personality hopefully will never change. That's all cool. I had a question about another training question here, was what be you been training for so long? What periods of time do you think you made your biggest strides? Can you pinpoint some periods where you think you were in leveled up your physique each time? I mean, I think my physique there was always similar in days because I was limited my weights until I turned the probe. That is when it's like I started seeing different. When I started like using some other stuff I've never used in my life. For example, like Inslee, I've never, ever in my life just used it a little bit. I mean, you know Chris, he doesn't give maybe I've used it four or five times in his prep. Are you sure? I was really scared. I've never said I've looked good without it. Don't want him come out just a little bit. We used a little bit. And I've seen I've seen the change and I've seen like I'm growing. I'm getting bigger and better. So I think the most improved and transport after I've seen it after like the one I turned the probe. Right, when you because you were trying to stay under 90 kilos before, right? And then all of a sudden you could go to 12. Yes. And to be honest, it's like 96 kilos, but I have to go 100 kilos and then I drop down whatever, but it did work. It did work for me because my body I think needed. That's why at the moment when we did like last year like with the two probe, the two the open ones, I felt my physique is going and I feel like I'm growing and when we did go back to the, oh, oh, struggling with it. But hopefully that's no more. How low did the food get coming into the 12 trying to get your weight down? To be honest, we did like few weeks with like only 30 grams of carbs that they. Yeah, my that is that it killed me. It killed me like madly. It's I mean, okay, I hold my, you know, I hope my fullness, whatever everything's there because like long years draining and you've got all that muscle matured and everything. But like man, it is struggling. It is struggling like no, the memory like I'm eating like, carb, meat with every single meal, carbs with every single meal. Only the last meal like I'm not eating carbs. So I'm good at mine of carbs as well. I'm like, no, okay, some of the meals like I'm doubling my carbs two cups, double an a half. So I'm really good with food at the moment. So it sounds like what's the protein numbers you were doing when you were on those that 30 grams of carbs like per meal. Wow, it's just a bit between like 45 and 50 grams. So yeah, it's still low food. That's low cows. Yeah, it is low food. I mean, one of them is a shake. And there's one talking about 350 max. There's some of it is like white fish, you know, smells a shit. I'm like white. So you need the egg whites. Egg whites always come out. Yeah, that was come out. So you're doing the morning the way I do it. If you see like man, see, I cook it the way I do it. I love it. I love my first meal. Oh, God. I love my egg whites too. I'm all about the egg whites. Yeah, with the with the pan with the saucepan and frying pans and covering down the egg. But they open me and tell me that with a little bit like what is like a pizza? That's like, that's a man who's dieting says that. That's not like pizza. So that's interesting. So you you had to push down really hard to make to 12. And now, I mean, we're not that far out from the Arnold and you're you're feeding up at this point. It'll be interesting, man. I can't wait to see, you know, how that comes together. What what we see, I'm pumped to get all three of us are going to be going there, too. So it's going to be a good show. But we're great to see. I mean, the thing is like, you know, with me, I've always come on good condition. Even even if I lose a little bit of my condition to bring more size, as we know, I'm disrespect to the open class. You know, they always make the condition is really like 100%. So I could match with me bringing a bit more size with the condition of me. But I'm trying to bring the same condition. But even a little bit less, I will match with them. So they wouldn't look at me like, oh, come on, it's still small. Yeah. So I'm good there. So I'm not going to be like going just like, no, it's going to be whatever. This one I've heard of hits and like some whatever, you know, the social media guys, they took, they just, they never know. They talk about things like, okay, the lineup is not going to be good, blah, blah, blah is going to be weak, whatever. But I think it's going to be competitive. I think it's going to be interesting, especially like me, me and Sean, two, two, two, two of guys, they're going to compete guys. It's going to be interesting. They want to see what we're going to do against the big guys. And then you say like, they're a cleanser, then how do you want this, these two, the X to 12, first and second, the open class. So that has show to you. I'm really this respect, these are the big guys, but they missing something every year. They're not missing. I mean, we saw how bad this year as well. A lot of them is off. A lot of them. But so it can't be like this. That's why like I said, when you judge me, when they ask me to do the armor, I said, how are you going to judge it? Are you going to judge it by physical, by the mass monsters? So if the mass monster, I'm not going to do it. If you're going to judge by the physique by the lines by condition, whatever, the symmetry, yes, very enough, because we're going to be there. We're going to be there. But if you're going to say like, what happened, I'm a pro, come on guys, he's not really like, no, I'm not going to do it. No, no, no, he's going to be just that kind of way blah, blah, blah is your okay, very enough. Yeah, right. I've always loved to 12. I love just the condition. You know, that it's something that you guys have always consistently brought where you never know. I mean, sometimes you'll get some open guys that are absolutely peeled, but yeah, some guys miss it. But to 12, you don't have, you don't have that choice. You've got to, if you're 220 and you're about there, you've got to get peeled to make that way. Yeah, because you know why? Because when we're small, so you think like, if you're small, and you're not conditioned, you're going to look bubbly, and you're going to look, but at least when you, if you big and you're like, you know, to 60 to 70, at least the mass, oh, he's a mass monster. They would forget about condition. At least you got a lot of mass. But if you're like small and then you're not conditioned and you're small, what are they going to say? What are you? You're small and fat then, that's all you are, right? It is very interesting to me how four of the most devastating guys in bodybuilding right now are all you four to 12 guys essentially. You know, Derek, Hottie, Sean, and you can all enter these open shows. Now, you know, the two 12 guys are showing that there's, there's something going on with them that maybe the other guys need to take a peek at. What's happening here? Because, you know, if you look back, go back 10 years ago and just think of the body weight. How likely would you expect one of these guys to win an open show if you just looked at the body weight? You know what I mean? Yeah. And now we're looking at, this is what bodybuilding is all about. It's what you guys bring to the table with the conditioning and the complete physique. Yeah, the builders at the moment, I think it's, we are bringing the old days like the 80s, you know? Yeah. But all these small laborada like Macaui and Benaziz and all these smaller guys against the big guys. So, and this is maybe now, this is what's going to happen. Okay, with a little bit bigger frames and whatever, but this is what they're looking at. I mean, will be good if they're going to keep judging it that way? I think that's what's bodybuilding. That is what's bodybuilding. We're great. Yeah. Go ahead, Dusty. I know Dusty had a couple things. Yeah. I had a question actually in regards to the fam. What, what do you hope that your kids learn from your bodybuilding, your career? How you carried yourself? What you've had to go through to be a champion as an athlete and as a person? What do you kind of hope and try to get them to see in all that? I've always told them, and I've told them. I've told them, I've told them my story because I have a massive story. We'll talk about how did I get to that man. I struggled a lot before like UK and before like when I left home, we're going to cover it because it's going to be long. We're going to cover it. But I told that to my kids and I told them what are of being on what's happening. I've always never, ever give up. If you want to have a goal, if you want to set up something, you want to read something in your life and make sure this is good, do your impossible to reach there and you give it 110%. You will definitely get there because what I did to be honest, I had few people. They are shrugged with me. They gone back. They couldn't do it. So I only won that from the group that we left home, that did what I did and the rest they could not. Because when I left home and I said to my head, I didn't live for money because my back home family, the God they go to on business, wherever they are really successful, family, even till now they're doing very well. And I said, I want to do it myself. After I did my show, I did the Libyan show and my coach, my God, Drisson and piece, he passed away. He said, come out if you are in the right place. You're going to be a world champion. He's actually a champion himself. He's actually even Germany. Whatever. So he knows bodybuilding. And it okay. When I did that show, I never took my bag and left even like my dad, what are you going to say, I'm going to do days to move and I'm coming back. Blood, blood, blood, just want to go. And I said from that, they are said, I'm not going to ask my dad for nothing. The only thing I'm going to ask is I fall one way, take it back to go back to Libya. But I'm not going to, many, I'm going to do it 100% myself. And man, struggled. I have struggled a lot. We will talk about another time. For me, it just wanted to teach my kids, make sure you have a dream and you have a goal. And a good thing, you set it up for and you always are going to do it. But you have to work hard for it. It's not going to be given to you. I'm not going to give you anything. You can maybe you've seen what I've got now. No, no, no, no, where card like what I did. And then I'll help you. I'll be there for you. Right, love it. How old are your kids? My oldest is 17 and then I've got 15 and then I've got my daughter, she's 12 and then the little one he is for. So I've got four kids. That's sort of really, really, one is six. Ah, man. Okay, definitely hands full. Yes. Any of them show interest in lifting weights or working out with weights for any reason? The older one. Yes, the older one. The the only is the above of them. All my family, they support me, even my kids now. Actually, my kids, if you see my YouTube channel. So the last few videos, my 15 years old, he's actually the camera man and my older one, he's the editor. So they are both into it. And the older one, he's draining and he's actually, he can tell he's got great physique. He's got all those kids. He's got his family on staff. So they're all right. That's what I'm doing wrong. That's what I'm doing wrong. I need to have kids to work the channel here. Made in the state. Okay. Hey, baby, you're my accountant. Yeah. There you go. That's, hey, who who you can trust any more? I'm sure it is paid. Hey, man. You better give it to your family. I mean, you're why I said, you're why you're going to get forever. She is using your account. It's the end of the end of the family. So it is for me. That's why I'm open. My kids, whatever, when they grow, okay, I wouldn't push him. They would love to do what they do. But I'd love to have them doing things for me or to run my business or to help me because I need help. I can't do something. I can't do everything in my own. So you need to be able to work with you and they always screw you up. It's not the same. It's not the same. Yeah, I was raised in a family business and my dad always said, nobody is going to care about the business as much as you do. 100%. 100%. How about that all over the other years? I know you mentioned he's lifting. I know that bodybuilders, we know the personalities that it takes, that it's like, oh, I could see this guy really getting into it. Is he one of those guys? Do you see him getting serious with it? Yeah. Because you see it, I'm sorry, but yeah. That's awesome. That's awesome. That's what would be what would be some business advice you'd give? What would be some lessons you've learned in business? You know, I know you've been involved with the gyms and supplements and all that stuff. But what are some things that you give to people starting out in business? Because we get a lot of questions about business. To be honest, if you had a bodybuilder, you'd do a success. Make sure, do not twice your money. You have to put your money in the right in the right things. You have to put it in business. You have to talk to people, which is they know business. They could guide you. They'll tell you where to put your money. Make sure you invest your money because it's easy to lose a. You want like a 200,000, you could easily go and buy a car with that. But if you put a like for example in property, I did my stuff at the beginning in properties. I put in properties. I put land, I put lands, you know. And then I have them when I need the money I sell it. So it's more and more in property. And then I was using my stuff like gym equipment. I'm buying this. I'm digging. I'm travelling around. I'm trying to all my connection. I met through bodybuilding. So people they know who you are, but you have to gamble as well. It doesn't mean like if you want to do a business, at least at the beginning, you have something on yourself. For example, if you want to do, you do a gym. And then if you buy supplement, you sell it and you're gym. And then you sell it somewhere else. So at least you have secure place where to sell to your stuff. For example, you buy stuff and you're trying to sell it. You're going to have even a place where to sell it. No, for example, I have three gyms back home. When I started doing the supplement. So I was put it in my stores and then I will sell somewhere else. So there is business straight away where stuff like you could sell straight away. So I bring gym equipment. So if I didn't sell, I will open a gym with it. Right. Yeah. So it's because you have to have that kind of mind of business you never ever rely on sponsorship or badly. Tomorrow you get injured. You're going to be sucked. Nobody wants you anymore. So you get some capital. Make sure you use it straight away. So thank God I've had some capital when I wasn't Qatar. So I put a straight in properties on about some lands and everything. I'm still coming. And then when I need finished with them, I used that money for my own oven gyms and did what I had to do. Nice. I want more question for you. Come all. Okay. Like to ask this one whenever we have a bodybuilder of your caliber on. I like to ask this is kind of my most hardcore question as a fan. What's the craziest physique you've ever laid eyes on and give me the circumstances like backstage at a show you saw certain somebody under the lights and it to this day is the most amazing thing you've ever seen or whatever that sort of a thing. Is there anything that sticks out in your mind as a craziest physique you've ever seen? Backstage or just a general. You've been in the gym. Right. You mean as a fan? Anywhere. Yeah. The be honest. I've always for me what's encouraged me to bodybuild in Flex Wheeler. He's the one is he's actually I loved bodybuilder because of him when I saw him I said I would love to be like him. So that's why I don't like when he's just started. And then I was like looking to be honest the most when I'm in actually made me like really like wow. There are plans for this year. The transformation because I see him at the gym every every day. Right. I wasn't even thinking of that. When I when I saw the transformation that he did I said wow you're very, very impressed. It's like I'm believable. When he trains you get a little bit pumbly, but you know, they mean it's round clean. I mean he is really really because you know from 2012 he has to compete with me. He's always soft to the top. He's never nailed it. It's nothing look even even they say like he's got pretty physique but it's something is missing. But when I saw build up man and if you see Derek ask him he was coming to the gym he was looking me I said Derek you don't know how do you look man. Believe me you're going to be very, very dangerous and I know what I'm talking about. 100%. Ask him that's before the show before the Olympics. Like three weeks I will for weeks out. He said I'm serious. I'm not saying it because like I have to say it to you. Yeah for me you're going to be you're going to be very dangerous, very very dangerous. And then we did what he did that at the Olympics because I saw him with the Olympics and everything and as soon as he came I was watching. As soon as he came out I texted him straight away. I know he's not going to see his when he goes back backstage and then the night I saw him then I said what do I tell you? He's with like he's really like wow at the gym when I saw him. His Kim's clean you know is round. I think he looked in the gym before the Olympics better than at the Olympics stage. You know it's not but because you know the gym is still full of water you still under them lies you know I haven't eaten the tan or whatever it does cover a little bit but man if you see him wow he's really he's like wow yeah he's got it in the back at the moment right now. That's cool. So I guess you think Derek Lundsford has what it takes to be Mr. Limpio then. Yeah because we're going to train together all this year. You're going to make sure of it. Okay come on. We thank you so much for your time man fantastic to have you on you are you are truly one of the good guys in the industry that just make everything better you know and you know every tingle person that you come in contact with has the same story about you so you know really appreciate you coming on and it was a pleasure talking to you and hearing your story. Thank you so much thank you for having me on any time guys any time though it was happy happy I mean I was the first time on I liked it man. Thank you so much. Thank you. Thanks come on get back to your kids and be in a retired dad who lifts weights for fun. They're in the finish and they waited for me here so. Okay good luck on the Arnold we'll see you at the Arnold see you at the Arnold. Okay thank you guys thank you. Could it win for hours?

Who is physique? Would you rather have... Off the rack! Flex Wheeler or Kevin the Bron? When Flex was never the biggest guy, I was just like... He became big when she was under the lights and... Because the roundness, like you said, Scott the waste and the joints were so tiny. Three weeks out from the Limpia just cranking 405 on the flat bench. Eatin' fish and green beans. Crazy. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building. Reads! I'm big round part low. This is Dusty Hans-Shan. The producer Scott McNally. Remember to like, share, subscribe, and... Comment. Comment. And... Bring the ball. There was through him off. That's real ball. I don't know what to do. I skipped a chord on the opening riff. Don't cry. I was just gonna cry. You don't need to comment on this one. I know what I was doing. I know exactly what I was saying. Remember, I am mute.com Dusty and big round of your codes. Get your discount, which means you save money and then we keep our jobs. A job. They're taking jobs. They're taking our jobs. Okay. We are here and we're doing a react. Who is physique? Would you rather have... Off the rack? Flex Wheeler or Kevin LeVron in 2000. So here we are. We're watching the Battle for the Olympia 2000, right Scott? Yep. We've got... Well, this is a battle for Olympia 2000. We got... we got Kenneth Flex Wheeler to start here. Looks like he's at Gold's gym. Yep. Gold's Venice. Yes. Gold's Venice. The Gold's... The... Of course, get a start. Covered up. He's gonna peel down by the end. Yes. He's doing the... Oh, he's doing the... Oh, he's doing the chin... Chinnices machine. Oh, I like that belt. I'll take that waist off the rack. That waist to lat ratio. Yeah. And that's the magic mirror. Right there. So... Fashioned it. Yeah, yeah. That... You know, I see the chanelink fence. Yes, that's on the right side. Yeah, yeah. Okay. Yeah. Now, by 2000, we've seen the fashion it calmed down a little bit. You know, it's like black and gray. It's like not the 90s anymore. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? It's like when Crocodon Tubman switched to darker colors. So, my only advice. I remember that. Yeah. It's like season to three. Season four. More dark gray. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? It's like... Yeah. It's like season to three. Season four. Yeah. More dark gray than charcoal's. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Less salmon. Less baby blue. Yeah. Okay. Kids at home are like, what the fuck is he talking about? What's the only advice? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So we've got Flex Wheeler here. Look, it just hang in. I don't know how many weeks out was this. Did you see? I guess it was days out. Yeah. Yeah. We're closing in now. Okay. So he's... Five quarters. Yeah. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Get this crazy triceps that just sounded like always sort of... The whole arm. The whole arm. Ridiculous. And of course. Yeah. Off the ramp. And of course, people are going to say... Off the rack. People are going to say... It's so injections. But... Yeah. Even if it's just how it really smells. Yeah. Yeah. I'll take that. I'll take that. I love that term. The greatest, the greatest sighting. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Look, it's just decide. Yeah. Also, it's... Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. The guys that say it's all oil have never realized how many bad shots you get when you try to do that. Yeah. Yeah. We want to be seen the guys they have like... Purple spots on their arms and... You know, they're all red and swollen. Yeah. Yeah. Just looking at how it's... Just looking at how it's all... Okay. Rico's strainer with him still. Yeah. I remember when I saw Flex training at Golds in like 96, 7. You were there on the Charles. Yeah. And I remember he was... Yeah. And he was benching two plates. Like on the flat bench. And I remember thinking like two plates. You know, dumb kid, right? Yeah. A big three plates. And then he took his... And he took his sweatshirt off. Yep. And I was like, oh, I have a lot to learn. I guess I didn't matter at all, right? Three plates. Yeah. You know? What Flex was never the biggest guy. It was just like... He became big when she was under the lights. And you know, because the roundness and like you said Scott, the waist and the joints were just so tiny. The way the muscles tie in and where they are, the muscle belly is, you know, as his biceps starts to just forearm and ends of his doubt. Yeah. You know, just... I did have those... If those are NPC pants, I did have those exact same pants. Oh, they're definitely NPC pants. Yep. It won't say in the pocket. Really? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Remember everyone, this is an exercise that's been deemed useless, by the way. Yeah. They're the NPC pants, for sure. Yeah. I'm matching jacket too. Or yeah. I didn't get the jacket. I always avoided matching track suits. I couldn't... Yeah. If I had the gray bottoms, I had to wear the black hoodie. Yeah. Which makes sense. I couldn't... I know that guys walked around, I think the purple... Sweat suit. I said they look like Barney. Yeah. Did you ever have one that you put like big round across your back? No. No. No. Because people did do that. What people did do that though, even at the local shows, you know? Yeah. Yeah. They're nicknamed that they made up for themselves. Yeah. Yeah. That was gold that it's peak right there. It's exactly how I remember it being there. It's changed a ton since then. Before Arnold took his pictures down and put him back up. Yeah. That short little stint. Yeah. Also before being on the wall was like a really big deal. Like they've really lowered the standard of who can make the wall in that place. Yeah. It was like Olympia. Professional athletes. That's it. Look at how big it is. What else we got with Kent? Yeah. Look at that. I know. Let me see. And it was for a little bit. Yeah. Funny thing is, like... We all know how Flex would show up at the shows. And at the 2000 Olympia, he looked very good and he placed, placed third actually. Okay. My goodness. He beat. Yeah. So you guys want the top. You guys want the top 10 at this year's O at the 2000 O? Yeah. Yeah. We got in 10th we got Orville Burke, who's apparently still alive. I was dead. I was dead. I know that he, he went into a coma. But he, I guess he's still alive. And then we got Dexter and ninth, J in eighth. Marcus Rul in seventh, Lee Priest and sixth, Nasser and fifth. Fourth was Sean Ray. Third was Flex Wheeler. See now he's starting to get a little more of a pump. He's getting harder. Yeah. Yeah. Like now see the ripples in the bicep. Now through the skin like it's funny. Flex had that type of physique that sort of, he's probably so depleted that he doesn't come to life until he gets like a pump. Right? Because we know how he used to like. You stopped at third. By the way. Yeah. Well that's how he used things. Top team take a guess. So top two would be obviously. Love and captain Kevin and second. Kevin and then Ron. Ron, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Bonkers. So I had a story. I had a friend that competed at the USA's against Flex. And he said he went back stage and Flex had his jacket off. Yeah. He was like, oh, I don't know what the hype is about this guy. I'm going to smoke him. He said he popped up for like five minutes. And he goes, I watched him put on 20 pounds and knew I was screwed. Yeah. Yeah. I remember Flex saying that he used to like. Just eat no carbs at all. He would just eat chicken and fish. Okay. And just not eat any carbs at all because. And then every like once in a while, he'd have a subway sandwich. You know, give you a little carbs and fill out. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I remember him saying that he thought he trained super like super depleted for his preps all the time and it probably wasn't like wasn't the best way to do it. But you know. Yeah. I'm actually like, you know, the way he looks on stage and the way he looks in like right now he looks pretty pretty flat. I mean like for flex. Yeah. So. But now he's coming to life. See it. It's certainly. He's getting a little harder now. Like it's really weird. But I've seen that before. I've seen guys like radically transform like a weak out and you're like, What the fuck did I do? And you're like, oh, you must have just been. We're fucking flat. Yeah. No. Imagine if he had like the knowledge of today. You know what I mean? What he could do. Yeah. Yeah. I would say this that like if we could go back. And give him today's knowledge. Even though it was Ronnie, I feel like he could have won the Olympia with that education. At least at least one. It's it's shocking that he didn't win when I think what's funny is younger guys would watching this wouldn't understand that flex would smoke most of the top pros now. Yeah. Look at the video. It's it's not the flex that shows up on stage. So just right. It's good as he looks. It's not as wacky as watching Derrick Lundsford do a pull down like this. Yeah. That's true. That's true. All right. So by the way, did you hear what the seat was said about Lundsford? What do you say? No. Why is he said he because Lundsford was in Germany at Feebo. Yeah. And Chris went and had a look at him in the room and Chris just said like, Is everybody completely hooped? He said, yeah. Yeah. Said, you think you knew you think you saw Derrick Lunds show it's not even said don't even forget about that. So we'll see what happens. Okay. Now we got Kevin. When we got Kevin LeBron. So Kevin, how far is Kevin here? How far are we out here? Did we get a number? This is from his video actually. They stole these. So this would have been within a couple of weeks as well. Okay. And he's still got four plates on the flat bench. His face. He's looking when he's doing something. He goes to the incline and does the same thing. We're losing the arms. We're losing the arms. He's losing the arms. Yeah. Also like you know the fashion. These two guys in 2000, there is a bit. Kevin's got our old rip sweatshirt on. Snowpink. Snowpink. No teal. Yeah. This is the look I'm more familiar with in body building. Kind of just like some over time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Of course he's got a tank underneath that probably because you got to peel down at some point right? Oh, and you know. Q the people that are upset. He's got to wait belt on because his core will be weird. Yeah. Yeah. This is like what about the psychological. I just love watching him. Trying to. Watching him train all the way to the shows was it was always. His training never changed. Offseason prep. Yeah. I'm looking at that. He looks strong. Like two. Three weeks out from the Limpia just cranking 405 on the flat bench. Like eating fish and green beans. I'm fucking crazy. It's interesting to see just how different his training is than flexes you know. Like you see an instant here. 12 reps on the flat bench without a touch. Yeah. I like how he's not even wearing his own belt. He's like his buddy's on. There's even no name on it. Says like some other name on the back. Yeah. I don't care. Yeah. It'll work. And he's training with like a mortal who's benched three plates for reps. That's not three weeks out. Right. Yeah. Fully blocked up. Smash. I like those plates. Those are my favorite plates of all time. Yeah. The big fat. My first time having. Was I good? Yeah. I'd love to have a whole bunch of those. I've got a couple. I've got a couple. So I know a guy who just bought a Sybex leg press. Yeah. And he got it a polstered. He got it a polstered exactly like that bench with the heel and purple. Yeah. Yeah. The leg press at this gym that was in the full blown video. You're kidding. Then you'll Kevin Schocker. Yeah. So he sent me a picture of it. He's like, look, it's perfect. It's exactly like the one we've grown the uses. And he got the heel and purple. Hold the straps. Oh, yeah. That control on that knee. We don't. He's on. Look at that. That's a bit of that. Big F off reps. Just. Yeah. Cranking. He was absurdly strong. Yeah, man. He really was. It's a little applause from the people standing around watching him. Yeah. I love gym plays. This is kind of gym. I can't go. This is cool. Yeah. Yeah. I believe that's a world gym too. Is that not a world gym that guys ban her up? Is it? I can't remember the location. Yeah. I want someone else. Yeah. That's smaller with that camera. It's like this. I am going to get this. I'm fine. Oh yeah. You're interesting. Is this Maryland Muslima scenes? Yeah. Does that visually impact? Yeah. I'm not sure what year it was. I'm not sure what year it was. But you know that where he's got those people making all his meals. There's a no. You missing this. Yes. back to their house. It hasn't been there. Yeah, they're beef. You know, yeah, second. They're just making them like fish and veggies. Yeah, remember they have the video in the video. It's always house and they have his no food in the entire house. The pantry is completely empty. There's like one can of something in there. The fridge is empty other than the bag that they deliver. They can't shit on your diet when you got no food. You don't want to go too heavy though. You know, coming into a show. Just gonna. Jesus. And this guy already tore his back. He this guy already tore his pack like multiple years ago. Yeah, that was so funny because he kept telling you I got it. Yeah, but he really don't. I. Because I said I got it. We can't remember. Yeah, yeah. Oh man. Yeah, what's a belt say? Kennedy. What's a name is that on there? Yeah. What ever is training partners last name is? Yeah, yeah, it's his bed. I don't need a belt. He's got one back over here in the incline still, huh? Drop him back to three 15. Oh back off set with everybody else's fucking mat max. Right. Eight. Nine. She's. So remember Kevin said he didn't train to failure like purposely a lot, but we already saw him go to failure with four plates. And then that was like no R. I. R at all. Yeah. Yeah. Basically like failed into the rack. There's a movement that I love that is extinct currently. I wish I could still do those. Then they hurt my shoulders. Oh, God. 40 pound dumbbell 40 pound dumbbell doing that. I just I just just give up and drop the dumbbell. Not technically an ideal peck movement, but just one of those things are like Arnold did these. I'm doing them. Yeah. Yeah. You know, like if you're a little fun in the gym, it's fine. How you get some extra lat. You get some long head of the tricep. Oh, yeah. Like, you know, a little love for the compound. You know, you think it's an isolation movement, but it's actually like multiple muscles. No, we did those as part of John Meadows plan. Yeah, a ton of this exercise in my I would tell you man, my tricep screw is a result like they definitely got bigger. Yeah, you put a band on your legs to cross the across the bench too instead of instead of being perpendicular. You'd be like on the whole bench. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And really focused on the stretch kept in the lat, you know. Yep. I'll be right back. Perfect. Good out of here. We don't want to mirror anyway. Now he's got a delivery. Donald should probably go on ape shit. Nice. I mean, he's killing this, too. Oh, yeah. He's grinding them out. I mean, he could have stopped there. Oh, yeah. Boo. This is a hell of a workout. He feels down here shortly. All right. One video shows that he feels down in a minute. I love how dusty you know the play by play. I think I already know who you pick. I think I know who you pick. Oh, enough. Physiques. This is Kevin's got my favorite physique of all time. I would his physique at the grand pre. Oh, what year was that? I can't remember. Is it the, we're completely out of control. Was it when he was like super big? He was in North and he, I mean, he wanted as soon as he walked out. It was obscene. Head shaved, will thrown you at that time? No, I don't know. Okay. I'm trying to place it. I'm trying to place it. But he had a rage against the machine going for the music. Oh, yeah. Yeah. That's the one I was thinking of. I think he did have the shape. I've had at that time. Was it okay? Yeah. He was absolutely obscene. My favorite pack movement fly movement of all time right here. Is it really? And it also seems to be extinct. Yeah. I did him to that. Yeah. Yeah. What did I say on your, what did I say on your, on your post, SD? Yeah. Like best movement ever fight me. I said best best crossover variation ever fight me. I know everyone's doing all these fancy like just standing straight up and they have no bracing behind them at all. And on this one, the bracing is your body weight. Yeah. No. Like that's why they're the best. Like I just, I've tried crossovers with the police adjusted in all different positions. Yeah. And I just, there's nothing like just old school high pulley crossovers cranking out most musculars. I mean, I've done there though. Gonna do some peck deck as well. Is he stand? Oh, no. He's got to see. I thought he was standing in the machine, but he's got to see it. I just thought so that's an old flag. Got the whole stack and he's just slamming it together to band. Yeah. Beautiful reps. Yeah. That's the hair. He's not the whole stack. Yeah. He's making it look easy. Better. It's a better dude. 20. Verifying because that was just doesn't seem heavy enough. Right. This crank. All right. I'm going to roll it forward here. All right. Here's where we get some, uh, imposing. Oh, it's almost not fair because I feel like he looks a lot fuller than then flexed it here. Yeah. I'm not saying. I'm not going to roll here. I guys looking for lighting. It's like, dude, it doesn't matter where you stand. Right. See. Yeah. Just, I'll see that detail. Yeah. So like off the rack, he wins this one. I mean, maybe maybe flex needed like, you know, a whole pot of rice or something. He needed a subway sandwich. Yeah. He needed a subway sandwich. We need a 12 inch. But yeah. Yeah. But oh, God. Yeah. Yeah. But, you know, it was always just for me. I mean, like the shape of the tries. Yeah. Shout right here. When it gets this ball. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There we go. Yeah. It's try. It's our so crazy. Oh, yeah. He shredded. Lats are all fiberdote. We'll lower lats on him. Just hang in there. You know, when you're doing a rear lats, bread and I see your triceps, there's something going on. Yeah. You know, but I don't know. I don't know if there's enough RIR. Oh. Gross. Yeah. Well, you were away around Scott answered the question for me, because he knows what's my absolute favorite. So he wins my all take his degree. Oh, one of the planet. Yeah. Yeah. Plus also another thing about the throne is like walking trees. Look at all of the neck of the traps. Yeah. Yeah. Those traps speak of being like legit strong. You know what I mean? Yeah. I wonder who the people at home have though, because I know we have a lot of flex wheeler fans too. So I want to hear the people comment and let us know and don't just, it's hard. This is almost a ringer here, because Laveronia is so much fuller than Flex was in his video. Yeah. I think Laveronia's weeks out here and I think I think Flex was like days out when he was probably completely hooked. Yeah. But he and he had that look, you know. Yeah. And he looked dead. He looked dead. That's what I'm saying. The bench, the bench, the bench, the bench, the bench, the bench, the bench, the bench, the bench. Oh, I'm going to die. I'm going to die. Kevin's Kevin's like throwing a little plate on. Yeah. I ate five pounds of fish today. You know. Well, in fairness, the judges agreed with me the day of the show. So yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Kevin, Kevin, it beat Flex that that particular year. I'm just going to see if the score is actually up. Oh, it was close. So Ronnie had straight first. He's 555 right across the board. Yep. And then, and then Kevin had 12, 10, 10, 10. So like he was one judge, had him in third. You know what I mean? And then Flex Wheeler had like a mix of thirds and a second and a couple fourths. So Flex and Sean actually traded some two. But it was yeah. I was a battle that year. Yeah. So we won Ronnie's legs. Even though we're not supposed to be talking about him. Yeah. Yeah. Do we have a picture? Do we have a picture of Flex at year 2000? I think I just found one. Let's see what's this. No, that's not it. Hold on. Hold on. You guys keep talking. I'll find something to do. Don't pull it up wrong. We'll get roast right. Right. I got I got one right here. That should be it. When I typed in 2000 Flex, a whole bunch came right up and they have a year written on him. So Hold on a second. Here's something. This says 2000 on an at least. It's from a YouTube video. Oh yeah. That's it. Yeah. That's the same back there. All right. Yeah. Look how much bigger Flex looks here than he did in the video. Right? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Look at the how separate is all of the hip. It's iron in the picture and you can still can't ignore it. Yeah. Yeah. I'm so glad that I was starting body. Really at this time to watch these freaks. Yeah. Oh no. Still my favorite. I wasn't in it. So no one can judge me. He's another frees frame at some point from the show. That would have been like at the end of the call outs. They're probably saying I won that call out. Yeah. Right. Everyone. I won that call out. Yeah. Yeah. Thank you gentlemen back in line. You hear Wayne D'Millie. Back in line gentlemen. And everyone goes, yeah. I won that call out. Check out this early picture of Flex. We check that out. That. I mean he looked incredible. Dude like imagine back then he might have been like I'm just going to go straight into classic and win everything. You know what I mean? And I mean. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Right. Yeah. Never put on any more weight. I'll just stay like 190 and perfect. Yeah. Exactly. Okay. Okay guys. Well, thanks gentlemen. That was fun. I like the reactions. I like the memory lane stuff. I think I think people love a little mini history lesson. If they're catching up, you know, if they're younger than us, obviously, they're catching up a little. So thanks to you guys and we love that you want to see the reactions because they're fun to do no matter what we do. So remember to like share, subscribe, comment, and bring the bell. There it is. Thanks. Thanks. Thanks for coming back Ron. I am mutant.com. You know what to do. Okay. Dusty big Ron on your code save money save money save money. Okay. That's your amazing. And getting jacked at the same time, which is even more. We're going to be paying you. Yeah. We're basically paying you to buy supplements. Right. The more you save is what you tell your wife about. Not how much you spent. Yeah. Yeah. Girl. Yeah. Girl. Yeah. Girl. You should grow math. I want to save $200 on supplements of you today. Yeah. I'm a $200 today. I'm a $200. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. If I know it's going to be okay. Okay. Guys. Thanks for everything. Remember it's just about rebuilding. Reaction.

You know, when people can see some visual stuff in the early weeks, it kind of really gets motivated, gets the ball rolling a little faster. You know, the eyes get crossed, the eyes get dotted. He gets crossed a little bit faster than that kind of stuff. People are like really in prep when trend enters the chat, right? And it's not like we're going to leave it in there for longer than four weeks. It's literally four weeks and it's a very low dose. It's almost, you know, not much to write home about. We're talking 20. Yeah. 20 to 40. So great. The listeners right now, they're like more trend. Yeah. What's up, guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with coaches, skip Hill and Drew Barry myself. Scott McNaly. And of course, we are brought to you by you. The people of Patreon, thank you guys very much for your support. We do have some Patreon questions today and everybody from Patreon, of course. You guys all get priority. Skip and turn eye. We've been coaching full time for a long time. Especially skip. You've been doing this for longer than all of us. And we are here to basically freely share our education, our experience with you so that you guys can get the most out of this for a course called Body Building that we love. We're also brought to you by TrueNutrition.com. Use our code, think over there, supplement source.ca for Canadians. And yeah, I think that covers us, guys. Oh, also too, like share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. If you're enjoying our stuff, then please do hit the like button. And if you're new here, we'd love to have you along for all the shows. We have several shows that come out each week. Andrew, we got a question today. I guess he doesn't want to hear what we have to say. He just asked Andrew. He's like, now he's here for Mancharo. So I guess we're just going to skip. We don't have anything to do, man. Yeah. He says, all right, well, there's a couple of them. Let's see. So the one where I was looking for here, though, says, I'd love for Andrew to weigh in on something that I've been wondering. I've heard him mention kickstarting a prep with low dose trend. But I'm curious, could someone run test with NPP instead of test pre-mo or EQ to drive strength early on? Also, would it be viable to add a low dose of trend to test and NPP stack for the first eight weeks of prep or would that be doing too much damage to your lipid profile? Big fan of the show and all the content that you guys put out. It's a lot in there. First off, adding NPP to a cycle is going to have undoubtedly some benefits on your strength and your muscle mass curing all that kind of stuff. But let me just kind of briefly quickly say, I like to use trend for like the first four weeks of a contest cycle. And it's not like everyone gets, that's what they're doing. But I like to use it initially. I think it's trend. Yeah. Trend for you. Trend for you. Trend for everybody. Yeah. Not everybody gets trend. It's more so to get some increased insulin sensitivity, especially if you're coming off of a heavy off season, and maybe you didn't have a pre-prep cleanup, which is very popular now to prep before you prep to make sure that you're going to be in shape and time. But let's say, I see this being the most beneficial with the old school way of dieting back in the day when the guys would do shorter preps and they would just get as big as they could in the off season. And then they just raised a diet off. It would become and for guys to lose 40 pounds in 12 weeks, which today I don't think a lot of us do that anymore. Would you guys agree? Totally on the percent. I am. This question was for you. I'm just planning on getting up anyway. No. It's your own trend in the beginning of a cycle. Think of it, not that it's going to cause you to burn fat. But it's kind of like a cleanup phase in a sense for me where we're going to lose some fat, hopefully some fat quickly. Get rid of all the blow. I don't want anything that's going to romanticize heavily. And we're going to increase nitrogen retention very quickly and we're going to improve your insulin sensitivity quickly. So it's kind of like get the ball rolling. And it's also, when people can see some visual stuff in the early weeks, it kind of really gets a motivated, gets the ball rolling a little faster. The eyes get crossed. The eyes get dotted. Tees get crossed a little bit faster than that kind of stuff. People are like really in prep when trend enters the chat. And it's not like we're going to leave it in there for longer than four weeks. It's literally four weeks and it's a very low dose. It's almost not much to write home. We're talking 20 to 40 milligrams. 20 to 40 milligrams. Yeah. That's like that. That's like that. To get to the second part of the question, could you use NPP early on in a prep? Absolutely. You can use any drug you want at any phase. I do. Yeah. I mean, there's absolutely nothing wrong with that. I don't do that. I think people think when they come to coaches, that they have their one protocol and they just give it out to everybody, which is the nice thing in the world because you could just go on to one of the forums or one of the Reddit links and probably find some of the cycles that any one of us had Britain and think it applies to you. I think people sometimes maybe get annoyed with me when I ask about compounds because it's like, I really want to know what you have experience with, what is work for you, what hasn't worked for you in terms of side effects, whether it's mental, physical, whatever. And I like to take it from there. So especially if you're a guy who's been who's done, let's see you've done three or four shows at this point. Like you should have a pretty good repertoire of drugs or knowledge in terms of drugs that work for you and drugs that don't. Because how many times you guys, it's not common, but I would say one out of every five guys now, there's like, I don't want to use trend this prep. And it's like cool. I make a big note, no trend. I might write it four or five times just so I don't mess up and throw it in at some point. Right. Right. You know what I mean? I'm not going to say it's completely collaborative, but it's like, you know, as a client, you come to us with the body of your own experience and we be stupid to just say, no, it's my way of the highway. So I'll leave it at that and let you guys take over. What do you got? Yeah. I put my courage game. I would be a crimmy fan. That's how that is playing. Okay. So I really don't have much to add other than there are some trainers and people might not know this. There are some trainers that really don't put a lot of focus or attention on the gear. And their clients may be considered more advanced in the sense that those trainers accept that the people who are coming to them as competitors already have a very good understanding of the compounds that they use and how they respond to them and kind of leave the cycle a bit up to them. They want to know what they want to use, but they're not necessarily reprogramming cycles. It's not everybody. Here's what it comes down to. The reason I bring it up is this. There are a lot of different methods from coach to coach where most people probably think that we all kind of have the same methodology or do things the same way. And I'm learning that right now. Because of finally, you know, working with us, I've never worked with somebody before. So did you assume then that like, let me ask you this. So working with Justin now. Did you assume that he was going to do things differently than he is with gear? No, I think there's there's still a lot of parallels. Yeah. Of course. Part of the reason that I went with him. But there are some things that where I go, I wouldn't have done that. But then I laugh about it and I go, well, that's why I'm working with it. So there are a bunch of different avenues. And I've always said to get to the top of the hill or whatever else, there's just all these different roads. And it's the destination is the same. There's just different ways and different methodology to get there. He hasn't done for the record. He hasn't done anything where I went. Yeah, that's not done. And of course, obviously, you know, that's not so it's cool. Even my wife has said, well, gosh, he wanted you to do, he wants you to do this. You know, you're going to do that, right? What I not do it for. What are you talking about? I'm not questioning. It's really nice to not have to make those decisions. I'm telling you, this is a stress, read, ride right here. I'm riding for free. I love that. Can I do that for a second? Huh? Because it how annoying is it when you get, like I say, a new client? And they're like, well, I wanted to go with you because I knew you'd think the exact same way I do. And you do the same things I would do. And it's like, okay, thank you, I guess. But like, save your money? Yeah, like, why don't you put yourself that? You don't say hit exactly. Like, like to me, like, I would just like you said skip, I would go to a coach, knowing or expecting to hopefully learn something. And not like them sitting your ticket notes that I want to use to my own clients. But more like, hopefully the coach is going to see things that I can't see internally. Because they have an outside look, outside in viewpoint. And they're going to see some things a little differently than I would. And hopefully get me to where I want to go a little faster and a little quicker. Yeah. And I still say number one on the list when people ask me, it's easy. It's trust. Yeah. And that is just so vitally. I've always preached it. But I've never been on the other end of it and had to literally go. Now, there are times where I go, I'm usually a lot leaner and sunk in right now. I'm also the type that drives myself into the ground. Yep. And dig such a hole that the ladder isn't big enough to get out of. So it's easy for me to justify that and go, oh, there's something I was doing. Ron, he's pulling me back and he's got his pace and it's just there. I love that man. It's reassuring. And knowing you for so long, having seen you die it before, like this to me is like, this is the first time that it's different. Let me put it that way. This is the first time that it's different. And I think it's going to be at your advantage. Also, this about the, you know, adding compounds earlier on, the, if I were to say, is there anything that I'm against? Like, I would prefer not to. I generally don't like using Orals at 16 weeks out, you know? I, I feel like there's nothing in Oral is going to do that I can't also achieve with an injectable. And I thought it was like, I want to try to keep stress lower. So I probably, I mean, if you really twisted my arm and you're like, man, I respond so good to Anna draw. And you know, maybe the first four weeks of like, maybe we're 20 weeks out. Let's see, 20 weeks out. And we went and run some Anna draw for the first four weeks. Let's go for it. I don't think it's going to be a problem. But in general, I would, I would never come to somebody and say, like, this is what I want you to do. We need to get on Anna draw at 16 weeks out, you know what I'm saying? But I do something similar to that. Well, Andrew was talking about that front, that trend, which honestly I never thought about. And I mean, I, when you've said that the first time I thought Anna, and I'm never even considered that. And it's a good idea. But I do something similar with like, the Scottish ain't every now and then, I don't throw in four or five weeks of Anna draw. People will call it a jump start. Yeah. Yeah, you know, it's a ball rolling type of type of thing. What do you know? What do you guys agree that the time to do that would be, let's say you're starting to prepare up at 20 weeks out, like weeks 20 to say 16 or something like that. Versus weeks like 14 to like 10 or 18. And I think, and I think, and I thought you guys would agree. And the reason why is, you know, what we're doing is already stressful enough, especially to deliver. And we don't want to stress to deliver out and decrease our ability to recycle estrogen and burn fat and convert T4 to T3 that early in a prep when we know we still have 10 12, 14 weeks to go. So like I, like I don't think what you said, skip four weeks of Anna draw or so 20 weeks in. Yeah, that's a great. You know, that's a John Middlestick. You know, he was big on that. Always that right. Yeah, that was a big pocket. We always did that with me. I feel like for majority of props. And I feel like, you know, something I mentioned in the last couple episodes was that idea of the psychological get up and go, you know what I mean? Like if you can really get somebody plugged in, I think that there's a benefit to maybe doing a little bit more than nothing, you know, at 16 20 weeks out. Maybe we don't really need to be hitting the hammer hard yet. But man, if it gets you feeling like I'm in the zone now. Like I'm in my groove, then I think that's only going to benefit us for being able to make progress and all of that. And overall having a good experience. And I think part of what we're talking about here is weighing out the risk to benefit. Like is there a risk like using an oral at 20 weeks out or 16 weeks? Is there a risk? Sure. There's risk to taking an oral any time or taking any steroid any time, right? But we're weighing that out and in our experience, it's not something that I think we, you know, it's not going to be detrimental. So, right. How about the second part of that question about adding a tremble on to NPP? I don't. And I have no problem with it. I don't know that I, you know, I don't make it a point typically I switch them out. No. I will run the NPP early and then I, which is exactly what I'm doing. I don't give away anything with my gear usually. But yeah, I'll pull the, I'll pull the trend. And I usually, I, I'm sorry, I'll pull the NPP. I usually pull it about a week prior to starting trend because acetate kicks a lot quicker than the NPP, the NPP, the NPP, kind of, and I call it a self-tape or call it what you want. And that's the label that I use. So that I don't kind of overlap the two anymore than I have to. So I'll leave the NPP out for a week when I bring the, trying to acetate in. And I've said before, I'll say again, I'm not a fan of any other trend other than acetate. I think personally, I could do just fine with myself and my clients. If there was never any, like the supply of trend, hex and, and I am, they just all of a sudden disappeared tomorrow. Yeah. I have no problem with it. I agree. I agree. I agree. And yeah, I, I don't know what, I'm not really a fan of mixing them either. Because that's, and I'm not saying that that's a hard rule. But I've generally used one or the other. And I can say that when we talked about our best cycle, you know, that we, you know, it was like test EQ and P.P. My take on it is 16 weeks or maybe longer. The first half of it, NPP, the second half of it wouldn't be a bad idea to get some trend in there. Maybe eight weeks of tests, six weeks, eight weeks of trend after that. I'm a fan. And it's nice to have something to go to. You know what I mean? I mean, I think in everything already, then what are you going to go to later, you know, an interview? And he did have a common asking about, would it be more detrimental to his lipids? And you know, having some experience, I can say yes, it was vastly more detrimental to my lipids. When I did something like this, maybe 10 or 12 years ago, it was an NPP. It was actually Deca. So I should be clear about that. But it was Deca. And I did throw trend in and I could not remember the doses to save my life. But you know, it was off season and I was 10 or 12 years younger. So it was probably a fair amount of each. And I thought he would I did my labs six weeks in. And it was enough to make me quit the cycle completely. So I was young. And you were young. And you quit the cycle. That's the same. I was young today. Yeah. I was younger than I was. Right. No, no, no. That's probably 30. You know. But when we're younger, we tend to take those risks a little more. So if you pulled the plug, then versus now, that says something. Well, they can back about Deca and I actually did X. I wanted to see. You know, what I did in my labs running test and P.P. Trend and there might have been probably key in there too if I'm being honest. And let's say it probably topped out around. I would guess 2.5 grams a week. I would imagine with no worlds. OK. And I remember my HDL. I got these labs somewhere. Because I did a whole, I did a whole paper on it for Mount Dog Day showing this stuff. And it was like, I feel like my HDD. It sunk to like, I think it was like subteens. It was like 9 or 10 like you said. And before this like, I was like 50. OK. So yeah, it was a drastic drop. And then the cool thing is with the cholesterol program that I ran afterwards, I got my HDL backup to like 52 within another six weeks. So nice. Yeah. The main point of the art was like throwing the kitchen sink of, you know, lipid supplements at it and fixing it and it worked. So can I add something? But I think, you know, to us would be quite obvious, may not be to the viewers. Maybe I'm not giving them enough credit. There might be some. But we're not doing stupid. OK, fair enough. But there are some people who may not understand this. I am, and I'll just speak for myself. I'm far more concerned about a tank HDL than I am running high LDL. I think so many people isolate. They pull those numbers out and look at them, you know, separately. And that ratio. And also time period. Yeah. If you're only tanked for a short amount of time, OK, you know what? You were smoking for a short amount of time. You were drinking a lot for a short amount of time. That stress on the body really isn't good. And essentially, these things are cumulative. So you don't want that, if you tanked, you don't want your HDL tanked for a long period of time. Because that's just a really bad situation. But understand if you don't know as a viewer, that I think you should pay more attention to that ratio. So if you are running high, and I've had even just average people who aren't even in, you know, bodybuilding, you'll be like, oh, yeah. My doctor said, my LDL's too high. It's got to come down. I'm like, your ratio is fine. Your HDL is off the chart. Like, why are they even concerned about this? I don't even understand why. But I think a lot of doctors do that way too. And probably not the doctors we go to because we tend to look for more advanced. More of advanced knowledge or understanding. Try to get a knowledge based from a doctor that is a little bit geared toward what we're doing geared. I said geared toward what we're doing versus the average person who's going to, you know, get that. Oh, LDL's doing. Yeah. It's the ratio. All right. Let's move on. We got a bunch of stuff. And you guys left us a bunch of great questions. If you want to have questions on the next show, then definitely comment below. And for all the Patreon people, of course, comment on Patreon. So I didn't even really read this completely. It came off DM. I happened to see it like right as we're getting ready to pull the show together. So this will be the first time I'm reading it. Hey Scott, please keep my name anonymous along with my coach. I know that you know him. First time caller, long time listener. I've been working with Skip Hill for a long time. No. I'm just a little bit. Well played. Oh, played. A question for the next show. Profibly blood sweat and gear. My favorite trio from Think Big Body Building. What is the average rate for a coach for the NPC level and the IFB level is there a difference in your opinions? I seem to be going through a divorce from my former coach. It wasn't personal. I competed my show. My was satisfied with what we accomplished, winning an overall at my first competition. I came in peeled, polished, and walked away with the hardware. We were planning to do, we were planning to do nationals. But life happened, things changed, and my body wasn't responding well enough to justify a possible poor showing. We decided to pull it. Body Building being a passion of mine. It isn't something that I can put too many resources into. At the same time, I needed to focus more on other aspects of my life. After just over two years together, I decided that I wanted to do an offseason by myself to save the money. I needed to save my coach. I wasn't happy with this decision. Talking to other athletes from this former coach's roster, I found that I was being charged to rate almost double of what most athletes were paying. Some of them I have to be pros. $400 a month was what I was paying my coach, which I thought was standard practice in the industry. I know good coaches are valuable, but knowing other athletes under his name were being charged at various rates made me feel cheated. I only caught half of that because Rachel's doing this. I'm just waiting for that. I'm just waiting. I'm basically waiting. No, I'm kidding. There's a few things in there. Okay. From a coach's perspective, it could be, as I want to touch on this first. It could be that he was disappointed that, I can't wait to see it. We nailed it. You won. You took the overall. And was already kind of anticipating. Expecting okay, we're going to build from here. It was a great start. You know, I have to understand that as a coach, that first crap is vitally important because there's so much to take away. Not only for the client, but for the coach. The trainer, for the future. It's harder to get, and this is where good coaches are, you know, end up being good coaches. It's harder though to get it, get it right and nail it the first time versus all the shows that come after that because we gain so much knowledge of the peaking process, how you respond to things as those shows, as the show gets closer. So it was probably like, oh crap, like we got it all figured out. Let's move forward. It may not be just because you were going somewhere else because of money. I would like to think. But then there's other things in there that you're saying that, you know, he was saying he was, you know, the fees are kind of, I don't want to say negotiable, but they change from client to client. That. And I want to be careful with this because I don't know who it is or anything. But I'm going to say this because I feel this way. I think that's unethical. That's just my, I don't think it's very good business. And if you guys have, like if you have something that you say, okay, what about this, then I might be able to see it a different way. But I'm the surface of things is unethical because it does show and can show kind of a favor to them or something like what do you mean? Like what I make more money. So you charge me more money. You know, that type of thing. Yeah, let me read about that one. Yeah. Okay, fair enough. And I got a couple thoughts too because what if your coach rewards loyalty? Like let's say you have someone that's been with you for six or seven years. And they started out at, let's take two or a box a month. And you have grain, you've gained acumen as a coach and want to write you and your client load has gone up. And now you're charging people current rates because and you want to continue to reward loyalty of those clients that have stuck with you for five, six, seven years. And yeah, you're doing yourself at a service by not increasing those rates as much as you possibly could have. But I think it shows loyalty both ways, I guess, in a sense. That. And I'm not saying that that's going to say. I'm not saying that that's necessarily what's going on here because maybe it's not. But I just know like I do have, I'll be honest, I have some people to pay less than others because they've been with me for seven years, you know? Yeah, I generally haven't raised when I raised prices and which, you know, doing this for a decade full time, I've raised prices over the years. And probably not as much as I should, honestly. But all of us. I, the people who are already working with me at a price, I've left their pricing as it is and I figured, hey, they're a long-term person and I'm not going to raise the prices on them. The new people though, it's still, you know, the way I see it is, it's still a very fair deal. So I guess if you were to talk to somebody I worked with from, I'm working with for the last five years, you might hear a different price from them. Now, I don't know. I don't know. I know that some coaches will, and I've heard this, will be like, you know, oh, I want this guy to come work with me. So I'm not going to try. I make it like a real sweet deal. In fact, I've even heard some coaches giving gear and stuff to really good clients. You know what I mean? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. What's that I've heard too? Yeah. So I've heard of that kind of thing too. So I'm wondering if maybe it's a high level person like that, you know, where they're getting a free ride out of it or something. There's some coaches out there that pay their athletes to work with them. And we're talking top level Olympia people that, because they know the trade-off is they're going to get hundreds of inquiries because they have that person. They pay their pay. Yeah, I wouldn't do that. Hey, skip, you might spin off. He didn't hear me, I guess. Skip, we can't hear you. Just watch him. Let's just watch him. Just keep watching him. For the audio listeners who are watching skip talk, but we can't hear him. He's like, he's full on. Trying to start to get out. He's figuring it out now. Now, he looks very confused. He's got a button to hit or something. You know, there we go. That's my mic drop down on my boom. And that's odd. Of all the things that could hit him, he hit me at my mic. Awesome. Okay. Where's the point? My point was, number one, I agree with you guys, because I grandfather clients as well, if they stay with me, their rates don't change. To me, I don't think that's fair. New clients different. As you go in price, then obviously. So I agree with you there. I'm glad you guys made that point. As far as the, and I'll say this, traders can do whatever they want to. It's their business. It's their time. You can do whatever you want. But you have to be okay with other people thinking that it might be questionable. Like a client. Like this guy is doing now. And he's questioning, yeah, I don't know if that's fair. I guess I would question. When a tie in the chat is one of my clients, he says, I'd like my coach to pay me to get coached by him. We can talk about these sales later. Thanks coach. Are you a perennial Olympian? Olympian tie? He's close. He's close. OK, we're good there. I mean, there's a lot of factors. I mean, all right, let's say this. You got a client that says, hey, I'm going to pay you for a full year cash upfront. Are they paying the same monthly rate than someone who's paying monthly? True. Good point. You know what I'm saying? That's true. So if someone were to talk to some of those people that we all have, they'd be like, oh, I'm only paying X amount. Or I'm paying X amount. And they're like, wait a minute. I'm paying 20% more. It's like, this person delivers cash in hand on the first of the year. And it's covered them for the next 12 months. So yeah, I mean, it's like any business, right? I mean, I went and dropped a lot more off to this guy today. And he's like, hey, I only take cash. If you want to pay card, I can do it. But I'm going to charge 20% more. I'm like, cash is it? Right. Not good points. But I would ask this guy, were you happy with the service? Because $400 isn't ridiculous amount. That's pretty standard for the industry right now. But I would ask, do you feel like you got your money's worth? And it sounds like you want your show, you want your overall. You have some prospects on an national level. And I guess the real issue is maybe the coach kind of started to get a little upset. The fact that you're leaving them because the skip pointed out when we have a really great season with someone, we're thinking about the future. Like, okay, we're going to get you into great off season. We're going to make these improvements. And then we're going to go to the national level and we're going to go get a pro card. And then we're going to go to the pro stage. So they're thinking like long term. So maybe it just ruins a conversation with the coach like, hey, you know, money's tight. Right now, I really want to stay with you. Maybe, you know, because I do this for some people. Maybe every other week check-ins, instead of weekly, you know, because off season isn't off season. You could get away with that. You could totally get away with that. And you could maintain a great relationship and everybody would be happy, you know. So I would just have a conversation with your coach. And the thing is, is like, a lot of times people go into every single situation. Like, it's got to be confrontational and like, they got to win something out of it. And I think you got to look at the big picture is like, okay, this coach seemingly served you well. And they probably have been making good moves for you. You guys work well together, good dialogue, good communication, all that stuff. So bring all that stuff up and paint that picture to him too. And I think you guys can come up with something that's going to be mutually beneficial and agreeable for both of you. Yeah. I think you can agree that that fee is kind of, I consider that a pretty average, but I'm not surprised by that fee. I don't consider it too low. I don't consider ridiculous. I mean, I just realize I need to raise my plurices like double basically. More. That's what I got to do here today. You're going to get a lot of injuries right now. They're like, I got to hit him before you raise the thing. You like, guys. What I find in is it's a lot of the younger newer coaches that are charged in some sort of around around. I think 600 bucks a month, 650 a month. Yeah. I'm hearing some of these numbers. And I'm like, the person's got four people on their roster. And they've never brought us someone into a pro show, into a national level show. Yeah. You know what I mean? And I think a lot of the thing, a lot of the big part of that is these coaches, all the coaches now are spending a lot of money on education and they're taking courses from Kevin Coaches, which great, you know. But I think there's like, it's a double-edged sword, right? Because sometimes like people lose sight of like the actual coaching. And they're always trying to fix a protocol or they're always trying to like, like a gut protocol or a functional health this or whatever it might be. And those things are necessary. You don't get me wrong. But looking at clients is always needing to fix something or always needing some type of protocol. Yeah. And the real experience you're going to get is the in the trenches checking people and making the changes week after week, doing the actual work of coaching. Right. You're going to get a lot more out of that, I think. I completely agree. All right. I know we had a bunch of stuff from Patreon. Let me see what we had in there if I can scroll over here. Yeah, so here's some Patreon. What are you guys seeing on EGF? Rachel's cooking. She's in prep. So she's got it. We can't say anything in GF. She's in prep. One of the common questions we get asked by you guys is, what would you do differently with your body building if you could go back in time? I've been all the experience and education I have today. There's a number of things that I would have done differently. One of them is that I would have started using college and sooner. College is one of the few supplements that will actually rebuild connective tissue. It took me tearing my super spinatus in 2021 to get with the program. I use true nutrition's hydrolyzed beef collagen. I get the unflavery version. I pay for it myself. Just like you guys do, I use 20 grams a day. Makes it into my coffee. It's totally unflavery. You don't even taste it. Plus, I use 10 grams of their micro-nized creatin. Creatin has been shown to improve brain health, especially for the aging brain. I need that. Of course, we've always known about the muscle building effects. This is my morning routine every day and I'm encouraging you guys to do the same. Use our code, thank for savings. Plus, it's the only way for them to know that this advertising is being heard. Otherwise, they just think you're some random dude that clicked on an app. And I'm doing what the dude is. EGFR skip. Do you see EGFR change on a blast? We're talking about blasting gear, not blasting. Not just blasting, as far as... What are the kind of blasts is there? Training? I just don't know if you meant, if you were going to... I don't know. If it's our audience skip, you can assume it's gear. It's true. It's true. It's flooding sweat, too. If they're talking about the crews, they're not going out of boat. I think I think it's like a lot of bites. Sometimes, I will assume that it's one thing when I talk to a client. Then we have a back and forth three times before I figure out. We're talking about two different things. Anywhere. Yeah, here's what I'll say. Maybe you guys have seen this too. I'll see the basic EGFR go down. It's more formulated off the button and the creatine. But not the CIS-Net and CIS. Ultimately, if you have problems with that, I call it the very basic EGFR. It runs a little low, then you've got to get the other test. Really kind of see where it's at. Typically with the rudimentary EGFR, the basic EGFR, it'll come down sometimes. But again, blast is relative. Some people tolerate things better than it just depends. It can. It certainly can. The more you may take a hit, the more that it's all that much more important to be hydrated and nutrition is on and everything. There's a lot of factors. Hydration of blood pressure. Certainly, make sure your blood pressure is always under control when you're blasting. And there's always, are you training much harder when you're blasting the cycle? I'm sorry guys. I feel like every freaking possible sound has come in through. We've got the helicopter flying over my head. There's my cup too. I think we turned your mic up and that's probably what I get here today. It's like all sorts of extra noise. Maybe try turning it back down. I'll edit the rest though. We'll be good. We'll be good. Okay. Sorry about that. That's all right. Let me see what else we have here. I know we had a bunch of stuff. All right. So still from Patreon, George says four weeks. And this is, you actually posted this two weeks ago. So six weeks into my first cycle coming from a 200-millimeter per week test base, running 350 tests in 300 pre-mo in E2 was around 45 to 117. It's like, it's like, yeah, we can E2. Big window. Oh, I'm sorry. I maybe I should blow this up. It's like, it went from 42 to 117. That makes more sense. Is it even possible to have this type of Astra-Trin rise with real pre-mo? And once again, that's 350 tests 300 pre-mo. Sure. Absolutely. It's possible. Well, first off, I would make sure it is real pre-mo. Like, have you seen like a Janishic report? Have you? But not every single person is going to have clear cut, you know, estrogen, suppressing effects with pre-moble or, you know, it's the same reason or the same reason. Reasoning why like some people might need, say, 25 milligrams of aromasin versus some guys need six and a quarter with very similar drug levels as the base of their cycle. You know, some people will convert more. They were almost identified. I agree with that. But would we all three of us not see those numbers and go? That's a little bad. You know, it makes stand out and it gets go. I know I would. What I would do is I'd say, hey, call this guy pick up the, get this pre-mo and then let's retest it and make sure it's, it's you reacting to pre-mo or make sure that the, you, the pre-mo you were using is, is real basically. Yeah. He said the order, so there's another part to, he said, ordered and waiting on a test kit from Roy test are these test reliable. I'm personally going to say that I've seen flaws with you. Yeah, I'm a two. I would save money off the Roy kit and I would actually just pay the 120 and send it into Janishic and get it tested. I'm, I'm emailing him. See if he'll come on drugs and stuff podcast. Get him one with us. Well, I, we had a thing going already. I'm drugs and stuff. So I gave money. I paid for a paper. Well, that's true. That's true. But yeah, we had a thing going there and yeah, it's interesting. Anyway, though, there's a lot of side conversation there with some, some listeners that don't believe that there's any fake gear out there at all anymore. So by that standard, 95% of gear is real and less he got the five, that's what I heard online today. 95% of all UGL gear is 100% legit. 95% of the time it's 100%. I wouldn't say 80. I would say 85. Yeah, because everyone realizes they can just test this stuff. Like if you go on the Janishic slay, there's nows and like people are sending stuff in every day. That guy must be making a fortune right now with his test business because this was not even a thing 10 years ago. We just prayed and hoped that we were getting a real. We knew the test was real, but we just hoped that the trend was real because the color of the bottle. But we hoped that the pre-mo, we hoped that the test prop was real. EQ, we could probably usually trust. Anavar was a big one that was fake quite often. What are the other ones? Yeah, it's a different landscape today. It's funny. Excuse me. I explained, the world we live in today is so fast moving. People can DM a guy, put an order in, pay with some electronic means and have their stuff two to three days later. If it's not there, two to three days later, their text and their coach, like, you have the guy you sent me, I think he burned me and it's like, bro, this isn't Amazon Prime. You're buying legal substances off the internet. The fact that you're even getting it is amazing. I mean, skip now is when we first started, you hope that the guy you sent money to cash, by the way, the cash for the mail to was honest and had morals and would actually send you what you ordered. And I was not checking. And you waited literally sometimes two months. Two months. Two months. You were just for it. But sometimes Western Union to call you an issue, why are you sending money? That too. And one out of every five years. You lost your money. I wanted every five turn out to be a long deal. So we should all be very appreciative of the world that we have to. We've got a million providers now. And I would say I talked to, I was talking to Lats about kind of the climate today. And he said, oh, yeah, there's still plenty of fake stuff out there. And he said sometimes it's not even the fault of the source. He said a lot of these guys. You know, some of the lot of people are testing, but there's a lot of companies that aren't testing too. There's over on PM. There's sources that Lats would trust sources that he says, hey, we don't see testing on them. Guy say, yeah, I got swollen off of it. But what does that really mean? And he said that recently there was some big shutdowns that happened over in China. They basically closed up a lot of the mom pops. There was basically they went over there. And they couldn't do their checks and balances because they didn't even know where like a lot of these companies were operating from. So they just went down to town to all these little mom and pop, peptide and hormone producers and shut them down. And even some of that, like I don't want to mention the names. I could tell you guys off the air, some big companies ended up getting burned in this process. Companies that did test their stuff and they found out companies that are super respectable, like no hormone present, no hormone present. And they caught it. But there's going to be other people that get that stuff that don't catch it. Yeah. Anyway, what was the question? E2 is what, yeah, 117 skip. You were saying you're not really that concerned anyway. So I mean, it depends what the ratio is test estrogen. But I'm going to be concerned if that estrogen level goes up when someone starts premores, especially if it's roughly 50, 50. Oh, yeah, that's what they're saying. 50 tests to, oh, I think it's what he said. I'm sorry. Yeah. What was he using before? Did he mention that he was on 200 tests like as a base. It was a T or T. Okay. And then he went to 300 tests, 300 tests and 300 pre-mo. Oh, you're just taking more tests. I mean, a kind of sound. You're taking 650 micks of tests. Yeah. I totally didn't miss the part that he was running 200 and had it in test at 45. Yeah, I blew over my head. So I'm sorry. I would say you're possible. You're running tests and tests probably. Yeah, I can see that. And, and what that being said, premable on was the main compound that people are having hard time getting right now. That was the reason. Everything I've been hearing from sources was no pre-mo for a while. So if you have a good source by all their bottles and tell your client, talk to somebody about that overseas. And I guess they were having issues with pre-mo and they were issues with testing that they too. They had this stuff that was causing major issues. And so they basically shut down the production is what this company told them. So basically they've been pumping out a lot of shit, premable. It's in a point where it's pointing people in our school. Oh, like bad pre-mo. Yeah, yeah. Massive information, massive swellings. A couple of people that were suspected with sepsis. It came to like with one lab. They've pulled everything. I think a few of us are trying to trace through it. They just seem to be difficult to get in pre-mo, but it just seemed to be still available. I know one lab that's gone to an Indian supplier. Until they get that sorted out. And some places just like stopped altogether. Yeah. Here's an irony for you. You guys know I'm not a big fan of pre-mo. Got a bunch of it. Yeah, you know. You know, you use it. So yeah, there's a shortage. I got a bunch of it. Don't like it. Yeah, I'm just going to get hit out. Get it in three. It's a bottle. Exactly. Exactly. Okay. What about this one? Thoughts on donating plasma and impacting your recovery and your gains. I mean. All right. I don't like it. Yeah, I don't like it. For people who, you know, may not know. Again, I don't know what people know. So beat me up, viewers. But, you know, the plasma is where everything's carried. Are you gear? Can you give plasma? Give them all your gear. At least not all of it. You're not giving them all of it. You're not giving them all of it. You get my point. Yeah, people say, oh, it's in the blood. Yeah, it's in the plasma. So I always laughed when I did double red. Because I'm like, you give me back my same plasma. Is it somebody else's business? Because if you take the blood out, can you give me back my plasma? I don't lose any gear that way. Obviously, don't tell them that because that would just qualify me from that. Right. Yeah, you don't mention that part. Right. No, I screwed myself with bond fees back in Colorado. That was years ago. Where they blacklisted me. Oh, really? Because I could dumb ass. I got to talking too much. Yeah, dad. Imagine that while I'm sitting there squeezing the ball. I'm like, oh, yeah, you know, I just, yeah, I give blood because my doctor really wanted me to bring my numbers down. It's like, what? So she went and talked to somebody else and they went and talked to somebody else. They came back and stopped the blood donation. They put it back to the bread. They put it back to your arm. Yeah, yeah. You ain't the right answer. You need a script for that. And we can't. And then literally put me on the list. And the only blood donation in all of Colorado was bond fees at that time. So I couldn't give blood. I had to hang my arm. I remember that was a joke about hanging my arm over the deck. Oh, yeah, I remember that. Black lighting into the coffee can on the lower deck. I mean, obviously I didn't do that, but it made for a really good story that apparently stuck with people for a while. I never forgot about that. The coffee can. Yeah. He's letting it just blow. Just blow it into the wind and try to hit the cost of the can. You know what? I never once donated blood. Never once have I donated it. But I did a lot of therapeutic for a lot of me. So I mean, same difference. Although I will say that they had the vacuum bags for a long time. And then they got these vacuum bottles in the nurse knew I was kind of crazy about IV needles. I didn't do I am shots all day. IV needles. I'm not a big fan of. And so she thought maybe like I don't want to see the blood. And one time she like tried to put it behind her back. So it looked like I didn't look at it and she dropped it. And I literally, oh my god, you know, you don't know what like. Like an unaliving scene smells like until you've been in a room with a pint of blood. Just blow the iron and just hit everybody in the room, you know. Girl got me when I went to the hospital one time for something and they hooked me up. And I'm talking sprayed like everywhere. Like the floor was like somebody had had a knife wound. And it was deep. Yeah, all over the flank. They had to bring it in my pocket and like yeah. And like they were like, are you okay? Are you okay to watch this? You want to say I'm like, I don't care if like it's fine. And they're busy. It's a street 500 mills just. It looked like 500 mills. In my case, it was like already kind of like starting to coagulate in the bottle. So there's like a big clump in the it was so gross. It was my story isn't as good. I prick my finger the other day checking my blood sugar. Yeah, squeeze it and hit me in the face. Did it really? And I didn't know that's what it was. And I was like, I felt that I'm a nose. So I checked my nose. I thought I had a nose. So I go to the bathroom and I'm like, oh, I know it's like running down my finger. I'm like running down my finger. I'm like, I don't have a nose bleep. It's shot out of my finger. Oh, I can hit me. I'm a nose right below my nose. Check that B.B. I know kidding, right? We kind of covered this already because we talked about energy all the kick start a cut. But what about thoughts on anodural just during a cut period? It's the only oral I have and just want the experience. I mean, how could you do anodural if I don't know what else he's got, but let's just say it's like, I don't know what to do tonight. I don't know what to do tonight. For the audio listener, skip just. Oh, yeah. What was he doing? What did skip do? I won't say, if you're going to do it. If you're going to do it, make sure you're a head in terms of conditioning. So that you don't get freaked out when the scale jumps five pounds. Yeah, or your coach. Yeah, you know, yeah, yeah, don't make sure you tell your coach that you're doing it. And you're on the same page for one thing. But yeah, no, because you will see, you know, weight'll obviously be stagnant or increase several pounds. And you'll have a great week of training for sure. No, yeah. And that's why you would want to do it. Appetite control. Yeah, I mean, that's why you would want to do it. You know, is, is A, appetite control would be just having another great training, where you can kind of reinvigorate a little bit. But it's not something I would always do. It's not something I would. It's not the oral I'm going to when we're six weeks out. But that way. Yeah. And our name of the key was doing a show. I think it's just like non-competitors. Yeah, all day. Yeah, that's the best scenario. Then if you're, if you're, if you're, yeah, each lean and you throw an anadrol for two weeks, you're going to feel like a million bucks and you're going to look stacked. So I would absolutely do it in that scenario. I'm going to come back to this one in some way. One of her stuff on said, I love the episode guys. Can you do another contest special episode? Please. It's been a minute since the last one. I don't know a contest prep special. So we do that soon. Maybe next episode. Yeah, we do contest prep special. Do you guys see any muscle loss with a red attrute? No. I have not personally run it, but I have had plenty of clients on it. And none of them have lost muscle. I would say this. I felt like I saw a little bit of muscle loss, at least a flattening effect with thuseppotide. And I don't, I think you ran a two-scadot. You might have something to say about that. But, uh, red up. No, no one. No one's looking flat. No one's. If anything, it's really just like, you know, I don't have an appetite. I don't have this undying hunger, you know. I'm fine. I told skip about my plan, which my plan worked, man. So I, I did, I don't know if you'd call it a skip load or a crap load. But, basically, I, uh, I couldn't get enough food in Andrew. And I, I, talked about this on my ask me anything. I had this French toast for a cheat meal. I had a lot of fun. I had a lot of fun. I had a lot of fun. Friends toast dress for a cheat meal. I was involved in some of those famous. And that never happened to me. And that kind of stuff to me because she knows So she says, scha find stuff. I had my luck. So she definitely fought at lunch before an why. No one was doing something. So these free-training footsteps. sweet and there's all these carbs I felt sick and like I couldn't handle it. I thought I was going to barf so this week I ended up having a what was it Culver's double burger with a fries and then I let just let it chill for a little while. Then a little while later it was hungry again and I got this thin crust frozen pizza that a one that I like and it's like 110 carbs and over the next hour or so I ate that pizza and I had three donuts and I had a half a chocolate bar. I ate like 300 carbs basically and I was able to get it in and I was up like a half a pound the next day and I've been feeling good this week and training is going great now versus before I just felt like I didn't even really want to train because I was so depleted feeling so I would say that if how hard I was dieting if I were taking more right a true title like if I didn't have it if you didn't do it right then I could see you losing muscle. I think that you don't have to stand up. Yeah yeah yeah but the way we're talking about using it smaller doses in a cycle we're also eating a bodybuilder diet you know let me also just add another point because skip it kind of mentioned one of the main reasons why you hire Justin was to egg give the reins over to someone else and do not worry about his own prep and do not drive himself into the ground and I do think that coaches that work with other athletes again I'm into great condition we kind of like beat ourselves up even worse and I'm not trying to say like over these tough guys or anything but like I know for me whenever I prep myself it was always just keep pushing harder keep getting depleted keep getting depleted all hold off another two days for a refeed hold off and I think it's just our mindset of so where I'm going with that is you would probably begin that way even without the reddit is what I'm saying. Oh with the my way with the hot with how you're walking right now because you're locked in right now you're like traditional where everything I'm getting peeled this summer so yeah well this is our business how we look and how we respond to getting lean that's the people are paying attention it's not going to look very good if skip isn't in condition when he stands on stage you know I mean or if it's mediocre so there's that and you know I've said before I have mediocre genetics but I have to be in condition is there's a benchmark there there's an expectation even if there weren't for other people or my clients there are most certainly is for me sure I have to be able to come off the stage and go okay I might have gotten beaten but my conditioning was still crazy yeah I like that alright advice I am tapering off of clan T3 and letrasal in between some shows each show is six weeks apart how would you advise tapering down to reset recover receptors before starting up again and any other damage control tactics can I just say off the bat real quick and then you guys can take over if you want six weeks between shows rough. Like so give me give me a couple give me three once you get past four or five week mark I don't like the four to five to like seven or eight. At least if you get past eight you can kind of reset you can pull back a little bit on the diet you can pull back on the gear without really having to I don't want to say micro manage but you know six weeks is not a lot of time to come down too much before going back up depending on you know what it is clan no big deal T3 probably not a big but you know you're getting into morals you're getting into yeah the other things that you just you know you can pull back obviously we're gonna pull back on the morals but I would rather and I try to get my clients to do two to three weeks apart if I can or more than eight maybe you stick in rule maybe it's a qualifier and then national so you know which is a bit quite typical you know because you know I think three times I had an experience of twelve weeks in between a qualifier and then or a national show and then another national show and let me add that it's important if you have to peek for them versus you know if you're using natives an example if you had to qualify he's probably gonna come away with that qualification you know if I 90% without breaking you know yeah a lot of guys like that can just run through and they can kind of I would actually argue the other way the other way that with their say 10 to 12 weeks in between shows you can absolutely peek for both of them knowing that you have a good amount of time you know what I'm saying you know I was based in that my time frame out was actually peeking you know between the couple weeks you know you can peek you know like just a little bit or just kind of ride it for those few weeks but to peek at 100% or want to peek at 100% and then peek at 100% again yeah give me give me more than six weeks get the ice the water has and even changed a lot do you know what I mean yeah like yeah a lot of times you look so much better in the second show a couple weeks later you could almost kind of hold that and then just do minor changes going in but yeah like six weeks you can't you go away perfect start two weeks is perfect for qualifier yeah yeah but yeah but the answer is question I mean just pull the client out completely don't need to taper off it just stop taking sure if you're in shape you probably don't even need it anymore maybe add it back in two to three weeks out from the next show with really well in my opinion all you're really going to taper is probably your orals you're going to pull probably like halo tests and if you're using it out you might pull the wind straw out and in for talking six weeks what I would do in this situation is I would quit the orals cold turkey for two weeks and probably start adding back in it four weeks out maybe three and yeah I think like we're all agreeing that it's easier to hold a look even when you pull the orals out than it is to like get the look when you're on the come up so yeah you could probably push it to three weeks out add all your orals back in then you're going to be completely fine in terms of like um letters all which I don't I don't really use letters all but in terms of roomitates and inhibition I don't know if I would change anything because you're probably not going to change your base drug you're probably not changing your testosterone you're probably not changing your if you're using master on or cream a bone or some of the other compounds you're probably not changing those much maybe you're going to run off the trend for two weeks give yourself a little bit of break it's a nice good sleep for a couple weeks and then the last one T3 I probably wouldn't change T3 at all unless you're kind of treating it like you're reversing into into into this next show and you're finding that your metabolism just taken off you can start pulling the T3 you're feeding up calories and your body's just kind of like riding the snow momento yeah like the best scenario really you know I wonder with that letters all if he's running lethero like he's really crushing estrogen I'm guessing you know is he is that his game plan is he thinking like I need to crush my estrogen into the show and then I need to do it again in six weeks because I don't think any of the three of us would be like hey we got to add lethero in you know commonly I think going into it I don't really crush estrogen like I use too I guess it's funny I hear more female bikini coaching crushing estrogen than males and bodybuilding really I'm talking there's a very very well known coach one of the topic kini coaches, for cards you know three or four every national show yeah people only Olympia whatever runs aromas and a dex and letters all all three together yeah and I know this first hand from a girl who when we're at universe one year I wasn't coaching her obviously I don't remember name we're just she's happened to be in my room sitting on the couch and that sounded weird but anyway yes they did yeah you know you go to show as a meet people and you go into someone's room to watch and pose and he's got a girl friend or someone that he's kind of seen whatever and this girl could even get off the couch to go check in for her show she skipped that because her estrogen was so zapped she just couldn't she was like mummified she was like I can't move right now I'm like do you think you need medical attention she's like no I just I just want to rest I don't think I'm gonna do the show I don't feel bad I will say that um excuse me base on some information that I got last year from a top not directly from him from a top prep guy who crushes estrogen and is known to crush estrogen I thought you know what I'm gonna play let's just see I've never just killed an ant with a grenade before okay so I'm gonna do this higher arimidux than I've ever run and then for about two and a half weeks put letters on top of it oh yeah and I gotta tell you I didn't feel very good how did you tell you this yeah the look I was like oh this is why he does it like it was markedly really I've seen there to be benefit but to a degree so I'm surprised you hadn't done it in the past because that's how I can I did it was crushed but not to this literally killing an ant with a grenade I mean it was so overkill I want to give just just an idea I want to say it was 1.5 meg a day okay and about two or 2.5 I'd have to check the dose of the letters all of a day and understand yeah that the testosterone dose you know I'm typically in the 1200 I might have been at 1400 probably for 1400 because I'm a little bit lower this year so probably 1400 I mean clearly crushing you know and you have your mass strands and I didn't have pre-moans like that but clearly it was just crushing I mean joints didn't heal great they they honestly I thought they'd feel horrible like I would notice this oh my gosh like I'm just creaky it wasn't horrible but they just didn't feel very good sex I mean sex drive I'm in West Palm my sex drive was like in Seattle yeah yeah just not even it's good way to put it I feel like it was my net alone way away from us even the thought of my skin being touched I'm like that much AI just like me when I look up I get away from you know what I imagine I mean if I had to pull bloods I'd have probably been you know HDL of negative 30 right I don't even know you know I wouldn't have wanted to see my bloods at that time if I'm being honest now it wasn't for a very long time yeah because it was toward and I'm gonna I'm gonna put this out there it was as I was digging my biggest hole so I don't know if it contributed to it or if it you know whether it was correlative or causative but even pulling it back it didn't fix the situation so I think it was just correlative I don't I don't think it caused it but nonetheless it was during that time period but I tell you the look alone was like and it was part of the right might just keep grinding just keep grinding because this look is damn well it's hope that you can save that again about your look coming up here without killing an accurate with a grenade or if you do you know it is what it is but tell us about it then if you did I'm just gonna do what you gotta do yeah I think it goes well always mash it I think it goes yeah you know not like skin but like it goes both ways we did say you were wrong just say it no but in all seriousness I've seen like when people do crush our estrogen when it comes to filling out it just doesn't happen because you do need to have some good for collection since they's activity oh and also like when people do this like earlier on and up rep and they really crush it it's like fat loss kind of just comes to a stall like a standstill so like they're hard and like a dry skin look but like they're just not making improvements on those little areas that just need to get thinner and thinner thinner but I have seen great cases too so to like what's kept talking about so I think it's one of those things it's worth experimenting once and if you're someone that can deal with two to three weeks of feeling like absolute death then you know go for it so okay so back to this guy back to this guy then so let's say that that is what he's doing he's leveling his estrogen going into this show and he had what six weeks before the next one obviously doesn't want to ride that out for six weeks but what are we gonna do to let that come back up and then drop it again pull the let's you're on go to something like a romance and for you know maybe a 25 makes every other day for the next three to four weeks and then add the let's go back in is what I would do yeah I go with that it is one of those things too though it's like once you see yourself look a certain way take it certain things it's hard to tell someone or for someone to be like yeah I want to stop looking like this you know what I mean you have to question any type of rebound too like how batter you're gonna rebound you know come yeah it could be not great well then I mean I think it's got to be a mature client in terms of you know food and someone who isn't doing their first or second show someone who's been through the process to wear food is just fuel to you know to make it an out of it but you know what I'm saying like as you guys you know got later on your careers did you even really think about the post show meals or the food after the show it was like I just want water and maybe a little bit of food yeah I want to sleep and then I want to get back to some good training sessions again like a week or so and I want to wake up tomorrow I want to wake up tomorrow and have sex yeah I want to want to want to want to you want to want to right exactly I don't know if skip's gonna want to answer this question but we will throw it out to him because it was asked by Jason Frost on YouTube he says skip what show are you doing not sure what this when this was filmed but I'm doing St. Pete Masters National St. Pete and Masters Nationals currently 12 and 15 weeks out with love to meet you yeah I message him I told him I'd seen him put the word okay saw me to say hi okay Masters Nationals in it and if for some reason you know things are going great and it looks oh maybe you should come back in five weeks I might have a hotel reservation at the exact same venue and flights back to Pittsburgh five weeks later I also our friend might have Pittsburgh pirates seats right before the for the for the first show but not for the second I don't I don't want to make too many plans for the second yeah yeah you maybe you're not going to be there you know they may have no the plan is to not be there right that's what I'm saying don't buy tickets you know um okay what do you guys think about using EQ and contest prep 100 milligrams of test with 750 EQ okay 100 milligrams of that we're going there I've never heard of that first I have never heard of this test loss your own level so low and an an an EQ level not that it's so high but I guess the ratio of testosterone yeah um I can't really speak on it I've never had anyone do it I've never I here's what I think I think you might look a little flat not just what I'm thinking yeah I mean well okay let's go another way do you guys are you guys a do you pull testosterone typically going into shows first yourself and for others or are you a ride your testosterone maybe lower to a little bit going into the last couple weeks generally keep the test in if if everything's looking good I don't want to change that personally you know okay if anything I might not take the EQ because it's such a long yesterday it was just kind of ride for those last couple weeks and yeah last volume well like are you gonna are you gonna pull the EQ like two weeks out or three weeks out I guess I don't know yeah I would pull that before before I would pull the test loss yeah I've often pulled EQ as I'm getting into like more volume of oil it's just because I'm like yeah is this really giving me what I need or am I better off with the mast in the trend you know right the only thing is is EQ these days I mean is anybody getting it less than 300 and it's usually 400 makes it's it's not very voluminous but I get it and you know it depends on how you respond and you know I'm an old-hand skit I'm an old-hand that was back my day well and you know depends on the compound because like as an example I do prefer more probe as it gets closer because I get inflammation from it remember as born-over very narrow shoulder clavicles so the more localized inflammation I get from those shots in my shoulders they benefit me greatly so more probe more irritation going into my delts delts around out quite quite quite a bit better then you know putting things in there that don't inflame guys we appreciate you tuning in thanks for being here with us leave us questions for the next show we've got more blood sweat and gear coming your way so definitely we'd love to hear what you guys have to say and share with your it's your thoughts on estrogen have you crushed estrogen and was it a good thing for you I bet you that if you're a bodybuilder and you're like over 40 and you're like a competitor over 40 you've done it at least a handful of times so tell us whether you guys like to crush us should or not and of course reach out to skip over at team skip that calm and Andrew over at bodybari.com hit me up at McNally diets at gmail.com and of course thank you to true nutrition.com for supporting our programming the first advertiser that it ever worked with us for all the crazy titles that we put out on this show sometimes I'm grateful that there's still around use our code think over there and thank you to supplement source.ca for Canadians next episode we've got your insane set of the week guys in another episode of Blood's Wet and Gear will see you soon.

You've often got a lot of people that can train very hard. But if their execution is also very very poor, that volume is then not quite as effective because the repetitions that they're performing, yes, the hard reps, but they're not actually quality reps that are going to really stimulate much growth out of these exercises. But what it can do is drive a lot of fatigue, especially let's say you've got someone doing a hack squat, right? If someone's pointing the feet extremely high, they're trying to train the quads, but they're pointing the feet extremely high, load in the hacksquad, but extremely heavy, barely getting any reflection, and then they just drop it it up and down, but training very hard, they're not really going to get much quality stimulus out of that set. No. What will happen then? They are going to quite have that session, feeling completely wrapped. So, in essence, yes, they've had a good hard training session, but they've not really got any good quality work in place because they've just been sending it to the mood, which takes a huge hit. Hey, what's up guys? Welcome back to Think Big Bodybuilding Media. I'm Scott McNally, and today it is my great pleasure to be joined by I-FBB Pro Cuba Challenge. What's going on, brother? What's going on? I'm looking forward to this, so we're having some really looking forward to this all week, so I'm going to count down. Surprise, guys. We've got some new programming for you. What are we going to do here, Cuba? Because we talked about this a month or so ago, right after you were on BST. I was like, Cuba, you have just so much passion for training, and you connect to everybody on our shows. It would be a shame to limit you to the occasional interview. What do you think about occasionally coming on? Maybe we'll do like a once a month segment. We don't have a name for this, guys. Maybe you can help us out. Or Cuba, have you come up with a name? What are you thinking here? I haven't just yet bought what we might do. She got some suggestions from the audience. Get the audience involved. I think that's the color's going. And we might be able to sit from and get some options going. So that might be the best idea to be honest. I'm not going to be really that great, but it comes to what it comes to actually quit our names. I never am. That's all right. We could well let the audience help us figure it out. And I got to tell you, man, this is cool to have you on. When we first started advice is radio, way, way back in the day, Jordan Peters was one of our first hosts. And I know just haven't talking to you a lot that you've been highly influenced by Jordan. You know, that now it's been the evolution of how Jordan is kind of evolved into like all these other people. Because you're you know, you're influenced by Jordan, but at the same time you also do your own thing. So it's kind of cool man. You're carrying the torch for hardcore UK body building on the channel. And I freaking love that. Yeah, absolutely. I think Jordan's not only been in Photoshop, but when it comes to training, but it's been somewhat of a mental when it comes to even life in general. So it's been great having it around. To be honest, I'm still very fortunate to have it around Britain every day right now. So there's nothing that I do generally when it comes to my own process that I don't really share with Jordan. And at least asking for the opinion or at least cast an eye and see what he thinks. Because he's very of the recent years. Jordan has changed a lot. He's very objective now. And he's more of a thinking man right now. Yeah. In fact, I think he was very, he was always very locked in right? Yeah. There was literally no outside noise. It was just, you know, a man on a mission. He still don't wish that way now. But, but I do think Jordan has got a greater ability to almost think and see through things a lot more. And he's extremely valuable when it comes to asking questions on when it comes to actually getting the second opinion. That's cool, man. And you know, I was telling Dave Crossland the other day that we were going to do this. And he spoke so highly of you. He was like, you know, Cuba has come such a long way and evolved so much in a relatively short period of time. I mean, you've put a lot together. Like you've, you've done a lot, man, and you, you still are. So I'll be excited to see where you take this. You give so much back to bodybuilding. Be it the information you share the stuff you do in your social media, the gym, the motivation. You know, just, there's a lot that goes into everything you've done and are doing. So it's, it's my honor to have you here, man, and to be a part of this. So what are we going to do here? I know you've got a bunch of stuff planned. What are your thoughts? The, the, the, the, the so-so-so-so-so-so-so. Can you do it? Can you do people's assessments when it comes to the form clips? We can do all sorts. Okay. I mean, that, that, I should set you over a bit of a, a bit of a script, right? And I don't really want to work from a script, but we do have a lot of topics that we can actually cover for people to, I actually get something out of this because ultimately, this is why we do it right? We do it to spread the word of bodybuilding and try and give back to the people as much as a physically count. So there's, there's a lot that we can do. I think on some, sometimes what can actually do is default certain episodes to actually break and bounce people for an execution and be able to help them out of the training or even any programming questions, any questions when it comes to the contest prep, even, you know, I know that you do the drugs and stuff, but we could even look at people's plans for the off-season and kind of break them down and see what we can actually share with them and have an input, both me and you from what we know experience we've had and what we could potentially, I wouldn't say, prove in the process book, what we can pick out and be like, right, let's look at this objectively and let's look at it from the outside and let's see what, you know, what else we can tweet to make this battle from from our spectacles. Yeah, there's so much we can talk about and so much we can do really to try and get back and bring a little bit of fresh, fresh vibe, right? Absolutely. And that's the thing is everybody, you're, you're so fresh vibe. Everybody has their own perspectives. So we could take a question that we asked Dave on drugs and stuff and he's going to give an answer is going to be, you know, maybe some layer, but there's going to be some unique aspects compared to what you would say or what I would say or what Scott Stevenson would say or skip, you know, so it's, oh, that's kind of a big part of what I've wanted this channel for is to not just have one person to tell you, but this is the way that things have to be done, you know what I mean? But to give a lot of people's perspectives because not everything works the same for everyone, right? This actually gives me a great topic, right? Put today. Okay. And let me know if you think to this. So I'll be coming across a recent culture shift where you've got a lot of people saying that a lot of the information that we have right now or even not, but the method is all the complicating stuff. When it comes to trading, when it comes to nutrition, and when it comes to even the drugs, right? Yeah. I think that's a lot where you get thrown around at the moment that everyone's up at over complicating stuff like it's, it's almost like actually thinking about what you do is seen as over complicating and looking back at what Darynd did with log booking, looking back at what he did with Australian. And but he was an example because he's probably the greatest example that we can use for what we talk about across any topic really. Now Darynd always, always mapped out a direction in which he wanted to go in. That was his offseason in prep, right? Okay. Always land meticulously where it came to Australia, no nutrition or drugs. Now, having that same culture shift at the moment and even people speaking about certain processes, it's almost seen that certain people start to attack it and say it's all the complicating. And you know, you don't need to do that with all of this stuff that most of us talk about right now that some people might actually see or might think it's all the complicating. It's literally what Darynd did 20, plus years ago. It comes to training execution. When it comes to managing recovery management, managing fatigue, when it comes to creating which the PDD is, and even when it comes to mapping out the way he's structured his offseason and his prep, right? So, a do think a lot of people can get into almost a lot of a, I would say, four or four social media bodybuilding in a fashion, but I do think a lot of people dismiss acceptance of new research that comes through or even accepting that there is a better way to do things right now than there was all 15 years ago. And even thinking about what we do with training, right? It hasn't really changed. It hasn't really evolved. The only thing that's different now is yes, we've got, it we've got different machines available, we've got more cables available. If we had access to same machine 20 years ago and that's the question for you. If we had access to all the machines that we have right now, the cable work and everything else, you know, with the fancy attachments and what have you. Do you honestly think Darynd would not be utilizing all this stuff right now? Oh, absolutely he would. He would do whatever was available. You know what I mean? I mean, he used, he used hammer strength machines, right? He used a not allus machine. And if those things were not, I mean, like he used what he had at the time. He used the best tools he had available. But listen, I'm going to, I want to, I want to, just kind of to almost oppose a little bit of what you're saying. I almost feel like we're not in the same place. We are in a better place today. I think that when I look back when I first started training, I would see some guys that had incredible legs. Some guys that didn't have great legs, you know, and I'd always been told it was genetics, you know, oh, that guy has great quads because he has better genetics for legs than everybody else. Maybe he had like, like better ergonomics genetically, like his body was set up in a way that he could squat that went to the quads and those grew versus say all going to the glutes and the hips. But today now we recognize like, oh, well, I can put my feet up on heel, you know, I can lift my heels, I can adjust to this and I can, I can achieve a squat that benefits my quads. Man, we didn't have that stuff when I was a kid like any of that. You either squat it heavy and you grew quads or you squat it heavy and you didn't, you know what I mean? I absolutely agree. It's not necessarily tools that you have. It's how you use the tool right? Yeah, yeah. Yeah, I think that's a huge point. That's a huge point right now. And it's quite hard to get the balance right at the moment with even trying to help people, right? Let me tell you one of the posts that I made on training and actually the BASIP curve, right? Yeah, we went pretty viral, it got like, I think this product's like 800K views or whatever it is. And it's literally people are doing the comments about what I've said. And the biggest thing is a lot of people like, oh, this makes sense of try it, you know, it felt amazing. But then you've got all these people just coming and saying, yeah, but, yeah, but drugs to this, you know, I see them all the time, man. Yeah, absolutely. And it's super simple. What we do right now is not really over-complicated things as long as you're doing the effort and you're not getting paralyzed by the research. You're not getting paralyzed by overload of the information that you see right now. I think everyone can always learn something from someone, especially when it comes to training because that is one thing that will never change. Let's talk that, let's look at this perspective, right? You can have your nutrition, absolutely spot them. And we both know we can both agree when it comes to their enhancements, it doesn't really matter which, it's extremely simple, right? And even at the very top level, it's probably much simpler than people actually realize and think, oh yeah. Well, people actually do. Yeah. Yeah, I feel like there's younger guys that are doing every little nuanced movement that they can and they're training and they've got their PEDs all down to the middle of Graham. And when we look at, I mean, you know a lot of guys who are extremely high level, a lot of those guys don't even know about a lot of that stuff. You know what I mean? They just take what they need to take and go. It's extremely simple. The biggest difference in something that I taught is obviously genetic, yes. I also see the biggest difference at their top is people's ability to train and then data to the plan. That is the biggest game changer in my opinion. And especially when you work with individuals who are not the 1% or even the 5% of genetics in the world. Once you nail down the nutrition and the, you know, very simple stuff that the source, right? It doesn't really differ that much. The biggest difference then comes down to training intensity, training execution, the setup of the program. And that ability to actually shrink weeks together of consistency, with the nutrition, with the training and being able to accurately follow everything to a T. So it's extremely simple. Bodybuilding is extremely simple. It's almost like applying progressive overload into every single area of your life where you're trying to get better. I'm trying to get better at recovery. You're trying to get better at a unit food. You know, the source, you probably get smarter with it and you actually take less and get more from it because the food and the training recovery for solid days that. And so on. Yeah. But the biggest thing that we don't see really much together at the moment is people have stopped looking at the guys who can actually train with immense intensity and can actually articulate what they do. And how they do it. And simply because these guys are assisted. Right. So it's almost like that advice can actually get dismissed and almost shelved. In favor of guys that just claim research or I would say research based and most of these guys that claim that one, I don't think of a scene that the hard setting the life to. They don't know what it feels like with 500 pounds on your back and trying to force out squats with that for reps. Yeah. They gain changes dramatically once you get to that level. So I feel like at the moment we need to merge all the wonderful data that's coming out alongside of accepting that. Some of these guys that have been doing this for years, they can actually offer something of value for you to actually learn from. I think that most of the people who watch this programming get that, but on the you know what I mean, we're kind of have more like the hardcore following, but I do see that I do see that especially there's there's there's a there's a I keep wanting to mention names and I'm going to avoid doing that. I have seen that a lot and I wanted to ask you though, so on this note, let's dig into it a little further. One of the bullet points you had was understanding training volume and training to your needs. And I think this ties in because as our intensity changes are volume changes, right? How do we find that balance? Let's give somebody a take home tip that they can add to their training right now to better adjust their volume level to make sure that they're getting the most of it. So what you said man, here's the number one thing I see is I see guys that are not doing enough volume, honestly, because they're trying to do this like push pull legs, tops that back offset, but their topsets aren't intense enough yet and I don't necessarily blame them. I don't blame all of them. There are those of us that have kind of like not all the screws are tied enough in our brains and we're going to push to that extreme and nobody has to teach us what doing the hardest thing in the world is, but I'll for a lot of people I've seen a top set that I say, oh man, that guy wasn't even near failure. And there's no way that he's going to be able to grow the back that he wants by only doing one set like that per week or every five days. You know what I'm saying? So I think in that case, that guy needs more volume to make up for that until he can figure out his, his, you know, how to build his intensity. But where would you take this? How would you explain this topic to them? So first, they're thinking people need to have a clear understanding of what training volume is. To most people when you speak to them after training volume, they literally think it's just sets. Now, when we actually break down your training volume, it's your training intensity. You range of motion, you're training execution, the execution, you rep range, and to the degree. You're training volume differs between your actual exercise selection. So let's take, for example, free sets of hat squats versus free sets of extension. Yeah, not all training volume is created equal. So exercises will drive much more stimulus and so exercises can actually drive and immense of our stimulus with an immense amount of fatigue as well. So when you approach or when you speak to someone who, let's say this person's got no understanding of what training volume is and they've just started training and the style of the, you know, an X training plan that's got some of work in set, some of some exercises and reps. Yeah. So let's say that person starts with Ted work in set's per session. Initially, that amount of volume may not actually be sufficient for them to actually see that much growth, especially if they've been training for a little while. If they're not a complete newbie, if they're a complete newbie, a very small amount of volume is going to see some decent results. Even if the quality of that volume is shite, so even if that quality of the volume with the intensity and execution is out of the window, if there are newbie, thus they'll get some games. Let's say someone that's got all of that newbie stage. Okay. Yeah. And then they need to do something to then continue to progress. So then you break things down and you put things on the table, right? This is yourself now. You're not seeing results. Let's see what is missing. Training intensity, training execution, and then you look at a number of sets. Then you look at the set up as well. Yeah. I think the single biggest thing is as well is you've often got a lot of people that can train very hard. But if their execution is also very, very poor. That volume is then not quite as effective because the repetitions that they're performing. Yes, the hard reps, but they're not actually quality reps that are going to really stimulate much growth out of these exercises. But what it can do is travel off a teague, especially let's say you've got someone doing a hack squat, right? If someone's pointing to the feet, extremely high, they're trying to train the quads, but they're pointing to the feet, extremely high, load in the hack squat, extremely heavy, barely getting any reflection, and then they just drop it up and down, but training very hard, they're not really going to get much quality stimulus out of that set. No. What will happen then? They are going to quite have that session feeling completely wrapped. So in essence, yes, they've had a good hard training session, but they've not really got any good quality work in place because they've just been sending it to the mood with shiite execution. So that number one, introduction is training volume. You set intensive to range of motion, even your tempo, your tempo can actually increase your training volume too. So let's say you've got your kind, you've got this person right, you've managed to get one of the sessions with you, Scott, right? You've got him in your basement, you're doing an at squat. All of this, Scott, you've got this person, you've reduced his load by 20%. You've shifted his foot stance right down, you know, probably in max weight can get, well, his heels coming off, still may take any full contact pressure of the foot of the platform, right? Yeah. All of the sudden, the game, a huge amount of knee flexion, and then now what even cooperates it is, a slow descent trick, so free to force second down, and then potentially even a pause in the stretch. Yes, it was a great. So all of the sudden you could have that person that was doing full work in sets of hack, not getting anything from it, to now doing two sets, two work in sets of hack, and now coming away from the hack squat with the legs fully blown and getting tremendous amount of quality stimulus in place. Okay. So, not all training volume is created equal. You're training volume will always be fluid, so you're training volume will very well, well, actually go up and down, depending on the variables that we've just been speaking about, which is your training execution, your range of motion, your tempo, even your exercise setup, and actually I'm going to do some credit as well. Hi, Petrovich, help me, I was just posted an amazing picture of Michaela doing squat. Okay. Actually, the progressive overload is not just loud, it's also a change in your execution. And again, a change in such execution is going to then limit the amount of direct volume, Michaela can handle. Absolutely. So she's going to have to now potentially even lower her number of sets. So this is where I don't tend to agree with the models of people doing huge shifts in volume where they're being extremely progressive with training volume over a training block. The reason for that is if you're working with a client and you're working with execution and you know that client is training progressively harder and progressively better. That means that all the best training volume may actually remain the same. The training volume actually increases because it's training harder, this is actually better execution and it's straight to a more tempo. Just hold on me. Absolutely. And I'm asking myself, how do we so how do we help people to improve their execution in this conversation? Because I feel like you explained, you explained how you could do that on a hack squat really well actually. Like I think if everybody took those cues and they applied it through a hack squat and they weren't doing those things before making that set harder is going to definitely make it. They're going to have to reduce the weight. There's no question. They're not going to be able to handle the same amount of volume. I can think of specific instances of clients that I've looked at their sets and we've made a small tweak and that small tweak changes the whole thing. They end up getting a lot more sore. They didn't need as much weight. Is there a way we can explain this that will apply to all of their exercises. It's a big ask. You know, it's a big ask for me. Is there a way we can explain this to say, hey, when you go in the gym, I don't care what you're training. Think about these things. Every single exercise I go to, every single set that I do. If I do not come away from that exercise with the muscle that I'm actually trying to train, I'm blown up and I mean, after that set, I need to experience that big we have pain in that muscle. And inevitably, that there's going to be a pump present. Yeah. If you are doing any exercise and you don't, and you do not come away from it with a slight degree of pump or pain inside the muscle, your execution needs to just in. But this is exactly why I am so against people training that people say, train for a pump. If you're training execution and your range of motion and tempo is nailed down, a pump is going to be there as a byproduct of that. So, if you are training right now and you are lifting heavy heavy loads, you're training hard, but you come away from that exercise and you don't really know what area, let's say, let's say for example, you've done an eight, a serving client Smith. Yeah, you're training, you're trying to get a big chest, you've done a serving client Smith from four plates aside and you've done eight reps. If you come away from that exercise and your chest is not screaming for the blood and you are in pain across your chest, right? So, something has gone wrong. If you come away from that exercise and you're just in pain everywhere, you join to her and you show the feels I'm just going to fall off and you don't need to have a pump anywhere. The likelihood of those reps is probably looking like the just power reps, right? Yeah. So, I think anyone trying to work out whether they're on rack path or not, you should always gauge it by almost sensation. Like, you should feel the muscle that you're trying to train. Quite a lot. If you don't, something's off. And this doesn't mean this is not as a matter where people need to not misinterpret this. You should never go into exercise and look for sensation. Like, sensation should happen as a byproduct of good execution and set up what the exercise does that make sense. Can you say that again in another way? Because I don't know if my brain connected to it. Right. Let's say you don't have a lot of pull down. Yeah. You're trying to train your lats. Yeah. If you do that self-luck pull down and you cannot feel your lats, right? You can away from that set and you can't. You can't really feel your lats, but you can feel a little bit of something in your back, maybe, but you don't know what. And you can feel a ton of biceps. Something is off with that set up. Yeah. Now, to fix this, you should not go into that exercise and then all of a sudden try and just feel your lats. You should then look at what it is that you need to do with that exercise to make it better so that you can actually go in. Do an intense set, but then your back is actually going to get blown. Yeah. So I'll go over it again. Any exercise going to? How will you self-degesize and how will you actually perform that exercise? Should it lead to a good sensation? You shouldn't go into exercise and all of a sudden do it extremely slow or do some stupid stuff that we're doing in Instagram. Just to try and get that sensation. That sensation should be there from the way you actually do that exercise. Yeah. I wish I had figured that out sooner on my lats. I'm speaking up pull down for the longest time man. I was doing pull down, so I was like, elbows out. The way you see a lot of people bringing it down like this. And I missed a look at it. I would get lats or this, but a lot of it was up in the terries. And it wasn't until I adjusted that technique. I almost kind of come and down in front of me more. But you know what? It took a long time. Yeah. It took a long time of me, like having to dial the weight back and actually have to break it down for myself. It's tough to do that man because especially if you've been even at it for a few years. Like think about how many reps you've done the wrong way. You know what I'm saying? And to make that small technique change, it can take a lot. And it can take some humility too. I think one of the only reasons I was able to really figure that out is because I was doing it in my home gym. I'm going to be completely honest. I had the opportunity to look stupid if it didn't work the way I wanted it to. Or if I didn't look the way people are supposed to look when they do that pull down until I actually, you know, was able to make it work for me. I would love it if we could share something here today. And I don't know if we can that will allow people to walk away and figure those things out for themselves on all their body parts. Anything they're struggling with. We see the guys walking around with great shoulders and no chest. You know, we see the guys walking around with great biceps and no back. You know, we can see like things are getting in the way here. How can I correct that so that you're using that target muscle? So I'll use myself as an example, right? I majority of my training career to begin with any back exercise I did because again, the self-makes of size was completely shite and I was using far too much load that could handle. I'd basically train my biceps. Okay, for more exercises. So I think the the the the most of the conversation needs to be is how can people look to improve the weak body parts. Right. So how can people walk away from this conversation and think think outside the box and think what is I need to do now to bring up whatever body part I'm lacking. In most cases people just add extra training days. I extra training volume right. Right. More of the same that wasn't working to begin. More of the same is not going to elicit different result. Like you're doing the same stuff you was doing before. It's not going to change. Even if you had more of it, it's not going to have any benefits. So if you're stimulus that you're getting on your back for example in mine, what was pretty shit. If I did more of it, it's just going to be the same result over and over again, just more bicep and more bicep. Now in 2019 I should spend a lot of time trip 2019 you know 2020. I think it was around that time. I can't remember. But I run that time right. And that time still that is when I literally had a back like I mean I had no back. Scott and I kid you not. I had I won my pro card with no back. No nice. Yeah. It was it was Paul. What did you think at the time where you're like, I just have to do you don't tell you figure out where you're thinking like, Oh man, I just must need to do more dead lifts or something. I was just like I need to do more dead lifts. I need to more bent over rows. I need to just get stronger. And yeah, I'm not really built for a deadlift. When when you look at me trying to do a deadlift, it's like I have to do a squat because my arms are relatively short. And when you compare the length of my arms to the length of my actual quads and my fingers, right? It's it's not a great I'm like I'm never going to be a strong deadlift. I have to accept that. Okay. But it will I pick. Yeah. I had to really really look at my training and it wasn't when put up until the point when I actually had some sessions of Jordan. And he actually showed me all the differences between upper back training and later training. And this is where the light bulb clicked and I was like, oh my god, I've never actually felt sensational at that ever in my back. And all of the sudden I actually started to make progress. So I would let you say, I've only been training my back properly in the past three to four years. Because, well, I never knew how to training properly. And I trained my back in the same way I did all my other body parts, especially the back in the day. It was literally going to the gym and it would literally be like a suicide mission. I would let you do it and I could do not. It would literally be like right. Today I'm going to go in and I'm just going to bury myself. And that was every single session. Yeah. That can only take you so far. Just because you are getting good results training this way. There's not mean that it's forever, personal foremost. And it does not mean that that's going to give you the results that you need for the remind of your career. And this is where there's a lot of people that have blinded it, blinded it by the results that they're getting sometimes and they fail to see that something may need to change for them to have longevity progression. And then actually fix the weak body parts and actually bring them up. Because my back is still behind somewhat. You wouldn't look at my shots now and it's a massive weakness. Yeah. And back in those days, Scott, when I turned round, there was nothing there. It's almost like the way I saw it when I figured the back thing out was it was late for me. Like I'm talking and like I've done a lot of training before I figured that out. I trained with good guys too. Guys that had really good backs and I watched them progress. I thought to myself like, man, I'm just not making the same progress as these guys are. And I didn't know why and it was really just it was very small. You know, I was doing the same hard work they were. It just wasn't going to the right places, but once I figured it out, I'm telling you, it was almost like getting newbie like gains. I was activating the muscle in a way it had never been activated before. An expounding. So one thing that we have to make people aware of is having that self-aligned, to almost, and I think it had to start with self-aligned and almost drop it to ego because that's exactly what I like to do. Like I was the guy that I could bend over, Ralfor plates for Raps, numerous sets, but it wasn't really, I've been over Rowe. It was more of a glorified shrug because my traps grew, my traps grew, and by a set grew, my forearms grew, but I had no back. So it did mean all favors. Now you take somebody else that naturally has an amazing connection with this last single of the back. That's all they might need. They might just need a barber and a dumbbell and that will do that. However, this is not the case for everyone, and this is where we do have to look outside the box, and this is where in some people's opinions, this is where we do have to over-complicate things. It in their eyes to change the execution and implement certain movements that are not going to be the best, even like the seated single arm pull down or a single arm pull down in general, which for the last is your best option. So if you are struggling to develop your lads, that's probably something you may have to do even when you don't want to. So you have to accept that you will need to almost do something that you're not necessarily a fan of in order to bring up your body parts. Like in an example, myself, when I'm looking to bring up a chest, like I love pressing Scott, and I mean, meeting, I love this machine, like any pressing, even flat barbell press, right? Okay. It's great exercise of all time, but I have not flat barbell press in four years time because I was just getting a big tricep. I wasn't getting a chest. Are you strong on that movement, too? And the barbell press? I'm almost five places on flat bench. Okay. And your chest, even with that, you felt like it didn't, that wasn't like, you felt like your tricep were a prime mover, huh? Yeah, absolutely. The way I can, the way I can bench, it's always, it's going to be a little bit of a pack, but on that, I was to put myself in a risky position. Yeah. And actively trying to get a little bit more stretch out of the pack, which is shouldn't on a flat bench. It's always going to be a bit of a power movement where I get a little bit of chest, but it's not quite as much as a wood, for example, a good quality, a connoisseur, a machine press, or a dumbbell press. So my point here is, if you're doing exercise just for the foot of it, but you've got physique goals that you need to think about, you may actually have to do something that's not quite as exciting, such as maybe even doing a cable fly before you're pressing. If you really want to keep your flat bench in, start with a cable fly instead, make sure that your chest is fully blown. You've got a good amount of quality stimulus and you've chest, whilst it's fresh. Yeah. And you're going to have a compound work. If you're, you know, you're not willing to, part ways with your favourite exercises, you might have to find a way to do that. And that's something I actually have to list it. For majority of us career, if you pay attention, any of these guys that have been watching flex loads, for example, every single chest session, he always started with a chest fly. Now, this is why you have to think outside the box. If you are looking to bring up your body parts, first and foremost, let's talk about a lot of the breakdown, or what people should be looking at doing, right? The first thing you should always do is look at your training exercise execution. Then you should look at the exercise selection. One shot, you want your exercise execution, and the exercise selection, and then you've got, you know, then first and then you've got your control and tempo nailed down. That's your free variables. Your fourth variable then you can look at. It's potential looking at the number of sets that you do. Whereas at the moment, I always feel like people fail to look at the first free variables that were mentioned. And then skip the most important things, which is the execution set up and whatever exercise you're doing, and they shoot straight to just doing more sets. Yeah, so more is not the answer. You can only do what you can recover from, and you will get to a point in your journey where the amount that you can recover from actually gets critically less and less. So you will get to a point where you may need to do less in order to get more results. You're training frequency may need to come down. I mean, back in the day, I could train six days a week, and make progress. Right now five days per week maximum. And that's when I'm charged up and when I can recover well. Yeah, but it's between four to five days per week training. If I'm going all out, and that's literally all I can recover from. So you have to be able to see progression as you can floor. If you're not seeing progress, you're not seeing your ability to get more reps start to rock it up, or you're not actually physically getting stronger. But potentially you're leaving some progress on the table. And again, you're not going to be getting stronger forever. So don't expect that you'll just continue to get stronger. But you have to see a degree of progression across a training block as almost a measure of stick of whether you are doing the right amount of volume. Let's say. For sure. So yeah. I got a question for you. So I like this idea of we kind of used it both of ourselves as examples. And I think that people really can connect to that. Tell us about Meg. What would you say? What does she think her biggest weak link is this season or this past season? And what have you guys done differently to help to improve that? She also had a weak aback. Don't forget, Meg actually transitioned from from bikini to figure. Yeah. So Meg needed to build a sort of density general, especially the bigot because it's a very unique class where you need all the shape in the world. I mean, the type that you need needs to be literally like boom and then boom. It's just perfect figures like something. It's the division where things just have. It's the equivalent of a bodybuilder doing a front and rear relax. You can't hide anything. It's just simply the shape. Boom that's out you're done. Thank you, next. So structure wise, she's always been suited more to figure because she is quite broad. She does have a tight waist. And she does have decent pair of quads as well. Yeah, she knows definitely. But the biggest thing that we need to work on is not just her density everywhere, but she needed more V-taper. She needed more shape. When we talk about shape and look at the top 10 girls in figure in the world, the shape is just it's exceptional. So with Meg, we need it more size everywhere, but we also need it more back inevitably. So execution, exercise selection and even now training frequency. Now, another thing that we need to work on will make what's for glutes. Okay. So, good work. What was the priority? What we did to actually bring your glutes up was firstly removing, lowering the volume down. So, her volume was quite high initially for glutes when she trained McKinney. But back in those days, every movement that she did, she was pretty much using a quads. That's why her quads were very well developed. So when she did her quads, when she did her quads, it was all quads. When she did try to do it and again, like press, you can never isolate your glutes. So, we're not going to say that, but you can change the way you execute like press to bias the glutes a little bit more than the quads, right? Oh yeah. You're not going to isolate them now, but you will get some, you know, a little bit more glue out of it if you do change your stance. But anyway, everything that she did in short basically trained her quads rather than glutes. So, what we needed to do is strip back, a training volume first, and strip back their execution. First step was fixing the way she actually performed everything like the size. We've focused massively on making sure that their execution was there, but more importantly, she needed to come away from these steps and make sure that her glutes was on fire. Come away from that set. If she kept moving that set, let's say for example, we used Barber Hip First. And I mean, Barber Hip First can be a movement that can be easily watched it, and it can easily turn into pretty much a quad exercise if you, if you put your feet in wrong position and you're not really, and you're not really executing the right way, it's not going to be a great little bit glute exercise. So, at first, every single time she did hip first, it will literally like doing a leg press hit. Now, all I could see is a quads just popping. Yeah. So, we changed the execution, and every single exercise came away from, and needed to see the feedback that, yes, my glutes are trashed, my quads are working minimal. So, there we go. That's what we've got. I've got a girl that's got a well developed body part and a weak body part. And that weakness that she became from her more developed body part, taking over in all the exercises she tried to do for the weak body part. So, in that instant, instead of adding more sets that would inevitably add more stimulus to the quads, we're simply stripping back. And we actually adjust the volume, adjust the actual frequency, start from scratch, and then rebuild back up. Yeah. In this stuff, everything you're saying here, and you mentioned it before, this is where getting complicated, getting overly complicated, makes sense. And for a girl who went in and she just immediately had great glutes shape, or, you know, got who goes in and gets great back from just doing whatever, you know, his normal stuff is. He doesn't necessarily need to break these things apart, but we're all going to have one area, or two, or more areas that don't respond as well. And that's why I think it is important to recognize there is going to be a time where over complicating, I'm using the air quotes, makes sense, you know, and that's what this is. Absolutely, I'll give an example, right, like, I'm training. I was 60 years old, and I had like, like, 17 in terms. So, when it comes to I'm training for me, I literally do whatever. It doesn't matter why I do. Yeah, because I can't believe you. I get, I get a such a great connection with my supervisor to try set. So, it does not matter what I do. My arms will respond. Now, this does not mean that someone that has weak arms should do what I do for him. Because if they did, they would have no arms. So, my point is, if you are looking at anybody build a, that's your favorite bodybuilder, and they've got an amazing body part, so times it is not a great idea to follow what they do. Oh, yeah. Because that body part may just be their gift. Yeah. So, I will tell you straight, like, all the training partners that I've had, and even my own training partner, he doesn't do I do for arms. But he first helped training. He has specific work that he needs to do, and he also needs to do more for his arms to actually get the same response. I can't get away with doing two free sets at the end of my push-up pull workouts. He cannot. So, how much I said to you end up doing per week, say, for Bison tries? If that is up and down, if I want to get my arms out of it, juice, I will sprinkle a little more volume in place. But if I don't, it can be as low as, you know, if I'm training with split of two days on one day on one day off on the other, I'm just push-pull, rest legs, rest. It can be as low as two isolation exercises, free to fall back in sets for tri-set, unbi-set. Okay, I said, so even two work in sets, every five days. Yeah. Okay. How long are your workouts just out of curiosity on average? Between 90 minutes to when I thought it was. You say two and a half hours? Yeah. Okay. It's a long workout. If it's like, it can literally be two and a half hours, yeah. Yeah. Okay. I think people are showing away. People are showing away from that a lot nowadays, especially, especially with your level of intensity, man. That seems like a long workout. So, let's say I've got a session where I've got four hundred kills, four sets of hundred. Two sets of leg extension, two sets of leg press, two sets of heart. Or two sets of leg press, one set of heart, and two hit thrusts, for example, right? Okay. That would pull the table around two hours, if not, if not, just a little bit longer. Okay. With, with, so how long it does it takes to say warm up to that hard-hacks quiet? Probably about 15, 20 minutes, and then I would probably have between five to 10 minutes between the set. Okay. Let me ask you, how do you get to that peak level of weight and such little volume? Let's say, let's say I'm the like press first or high squat, jump and set you through the warm upsets. Yeah. Yeah. How does that warm up look? Because this is something I find myself explaining to people often, I figured it would be helpful. We're trying to give people things that they can take home. I know this is this podcast is probably going to be pretty dense. I'm thinking, because there's a lot of information packed in here. But if people are taking notes, they can always go back and listen to things twice. Yeah. I'd love to hear it, man. I think that would be really good insight for people. How would you warm up? We're going to have to do episodes to on this topic anyway, because I've actually got quite a few things that are going to come up on the volume discussion. We can hold off on that if you want to. We can talk about that. Okay. Well, you've said it now, so I've got to cover it. So let's say the session. I'll start with line hamstring curl. If I'm doing a very set of heavy hacks, on the side of the hack, generally for my isolation work, it would be two to three warm sets. Yeah. So on hamstring curl, I would pick a low dark blue 12 reps with, then a second set that I could do six reps with. And then if I feel like I need another one set, I would then do a third set of three to four reps. And then it would be my work in set on the fourth set. And then I go between two to three working sets on that exercise. If it's my hamstrings, I potentially may even do four sets, because then I prefer not to do more exercises. I would rather just get the same amount of volume from that exercise. So let's say I'm doing a full leg day instead of doing two hamstring curls in that session. I would just stick to one hamstring curl, plus the half and then you might want to. Okay. So leg extension, same principle to three, leg extension potentially even four if I'm cold. Yeah. So if the weather's like this, if the weather's like this, I potentially even take four warm sets. And with leg extension, I do prefer to work in slight high range. So first, first, first warm up set, probably like 15 reps, second, ten and the third pull it ten again. And again, every single rep, I do like to spend a little bit of time in the fully short and range. Just to make sure that I am getting enough blood into my quads and make sure that menese are staying pretty fresh as well. Now, build it to my hat squat. Let's say from doing a work in set of seven plates on that side, it's hack. Yeah. I would not with a plate for twelve reps. And then the following warm upsets and feeder sets are always dictated by how my actual connective tissue feels. If on that given day, my knees are feeling fantastic. I would literally work up in double star triples. So I would take two plates, double or triple, three plates, double or triple, four plates, double or triple, five, so on six plates. I would pull it on the do a single with six plates. Yeah. And I would go in seven. Okay. So I am building up to that top work in weight with as little effort as possible. All my energy and effort is getting safe for that top work in set. But you're also ensuring that your your central nervous system is ready for that amount of weight. Because you would literally get buried if you just tried to you know, if you tried to go into it cold, right? Absolutely. I call it a rehearsal, right? And I think you all upsets is what ultimately is going to dictate how affected that work in set is. Because this is where you're you're rehearsing before the big play, right? So every single rep ever single set you take before the actual work in set is always going to prime you for that work in set. So when I go into a walk sets, I literally treat them with the same aspect as I walked the work in set. So that execution is getting drilled in the same way as I would would with my work in sets. Because let's say you want up sloppy and you want up relaxed. If you want up sloppy and relaxed, you're not really preparing your body to work. Yeah. So where you actually build up to that work in set is very much going to dictate how well you can perform and how safe you can perform as well. Because if your reps are sloppy, build your towards that, you work in sets, probably going to be sloppy. Now let's say in warmly open at any given day and my knees aren't feeling too fresh on that exercise. I may even work up in slight higher rep ranges and this is where I may even adjust my top-work weight to a lower weight and try to work in higher rep range that's going to be safer. On certain days I may even implement a slight pause in the stretch. And the best thing of keeping a log book is I would always have a reference point of that weight of that set working in lower rep range or in higher rep range. So I would know where I need to be in order to progress that set. Yeah. Now having that self-awareness is going to benefit in many, many ways because again we're progressive overload. We're trying to progress the stimulus. So when we understand that again going back to the top of your training volume, your training volume is your intensity, your range of motion and your exercise execution. This is what you can understand that you can actually adjust that work in set. You can adjust the tempo, you can adjust execution to get even more from it. So if you know, let's say I'm getting to that day and I know that I don't have seven plays in me for whatever reason, it might be a creative tissue, it might be whatever else. I may adjust the form and execution of that exercise to still be able to have a progressive set but just on a different scale. Yeah. Does that make sense? Absolutely. Yep. Yeah, I think the, no, let me ask you after what I mean. You what? If I go to Fashio, how to ride me? No, you're good. You're good. I think that we're at a point where we've probably overloaded people. This is a lot to, this is a lot to take in. I wanted to ask you though, before we went, before we left, I did put out a thread on Patreon. I didn't tell anybody else that we were doing this, but I told our Patreon people. And I got a bunch of people asking questions. So I want to just randomly grab one of our questions throughout the atcha. And then I've got to thought too. I'm thinking just listening to this conversation we're having here. This is all such good information. I don't know if people will in on average be able to hang for an entire hour of learning. So you guys tell us, is it overload? Is this too much? Or are you good with this? Because my thought is, Kuba, you mentioned like looking at exercise technique and stuff. We could always do like 25, 30 minute education piece on a topic. And also do something else. Also do, you know, look at breakdown some technique. I think that might be a really good digestible show having segments and stuff. You know what I mean? I'm with it. Absolutely. All right. We're going to follow this thing as we go then. We'll probably get some examples of what we're talking about as well. Oh, you mean like, like if we're talking about a particular exercise, have video of that? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's talk some more about this and we'll figure stuff out. And like I said, too, you guys tell us the audience. Tell us what do you think. Like, are you still waiting for more right now? Are you like, hey, this is enough. I have to listen. Because like Scott Stevenson Scott goes deep, right? And then all of it. And if we did like a 30 minute hard segment of education, and then we did some other stuff. You know, like I said, maybe some because people love doing critiques too. So we could we could probably help them out with that. You guys just have to let us know. Do you want to send critiques in, you know, to get done? And I'm sure Cuba, you can probably get those from social media. I can get those here on YouTube and Patreon and everything else. So let me throw this question at you from Chris though. He says, um, see, I'll just toss it up on the screen. He says, I'd like to hear you talk with Cuba. He spells you Cuba. Uh, probably a typo on a spulcorctor, something about just getting big. For guys like me that have no interest in doing, doing shows, and just enjoy the process of getting big and stronger. If it fits the flow of the show, I seem to be the minority with 90% of the patriots and listeners seem to be more bodybuilding oriented. Um, and always looking forward to more shows. You're basically my whole source of entertainment. Thank you Chris for your appreciated it. So Chris has no interest in bodybuilding as far as the pageantry side of it. But it sounds like I would still definitely call him a bodybuilder, you know? Yeah, absolutely. So Chris just wants to get big, right? Yeah, there's nothing wrong with that. Right, Chris. If you just want to get big, unfortunately, and that's probably mistaken with homemade in the past. Please make sure you do not perm a bulk. So your goal is getting big. You are going to have to sort of have some sort of periodization in your journey or goal of getting big big. So let's say you've got enough season right? Chris right now you weigh 200 pounds and you want to get to 260, 270. That 260, 270 is not going to happen in one push-up. It's just not. So, if you want to get to 270 by the end of 2024, and you, let's say you're 220 now. Yeah. Yeah, he was a decent sized guy. But we could probably say, let's say 220 just for the sake of conversation. Yeah. So it's what's like conversation and what's the 270. So it's the 50 pounds of bodyweight, right? Yeah. Your first step now Chris would be pushing your bodyweight up 40 pounds if you are quietly. So let's assume that's assume Chris is 220 quietly. Lean enough to go into our push-up phase and his own reign of to go into push-up phase. Let's plan a 22-week push-up for Chris and in that 22 weeks, he's going to take his bodyweight to 260 pounds. Okay. By that point, Chris should be in a position where he's completely sick of food. And inevitably, he's probably going to get in a little bit softer around the edges. Right? So at that point, Chris is going to have a health phase. He's going to back off from pushing. He's going to reduce his creating right down. Yeah. I just have a lot of time off. Take a deal out, relax, hold it a little bit. Inevitably, if his appetite is maxed out, he might actually want to pull back on food in that phase. Yeah. I've do you've done that for 4-6 weeks, Chris. This is what you're going to do an 8-week diet or a 10-week diet. In that 10-week diet, you're going to come down to 240. Right? You're going to take 20 pounds off. At that point, I am expecting you to be pretty, pretty lean again. Ready to go. Home green up to push again, right? Another 20 weeks of growing up, Chris. And you've got 30 pounds to add. That should go to 7-2 ticked off. Yeah. Time for 42 weeks. Now, Chris, right now, dumbing you notes. Make it happen and then you can go back to me and score. And let us know how it went. I like the sound of that. Now, on that 8-week, like Recomp cutting phase, where he's coming back down to 240, is he assisted there or is he TRT in order to save that to, for the next push-out? What are you thinking? Depends how big it is. Okay. If he's quite advanced, I would not recommend dieting. I'm not recommended dieting on TRT. Okay. Okay. So, if he's relatively fresh and relatively vivid and you be, he can do a portion of that on TRT, initially. So, you know, when you first start off and you hold him all body fights, always a lot easier to lose body fat, right? Without the risk of losing muscle, that's. Sure. But the second is starts to get a little bit leaner. That's when I think, you know, he would need a little bit of catch-up to keep him going. Yeah. Right? So, it depends. What do you think? What do you think's gone? Yeah. I love that idea. Just overall. And I'm with you. I would almost think, I think along the same lines, but that's why I was wondering, what do you think? I would think that if he did use gear in that eight week phase, I wouldn't want to go crazy with it. I'm working with a guy who, I want to say he was 200 pounds when we started. We got him up to 250 over a long period of time. It was over a couple, a couple of bulks where we pushed him up. Composition was still good by the end of that. So we held there, came down just a little bit and then pushed him up further. Got him up to 250. And then we took a phase. I was like, listen man, we're going to have to die it down here. Like in order to continue moving forward, we have to get the body fat off and just kind of reset you a little bit. So we diited down to 220 from 240. And then the game plan is to then we used gear, but I didn't want to go crazy with it. And of course, by the end of it, he's like, hey, can we add this in? Can we add that in? Can we, you know, it's not the ultimate goal. You know what I mean to get down to that 220. So we're not getting you completely staged lean. He's all though he is pretty lean right now. The goal is just to get you down and to maintain as much muscle if not grow in the process. And also, not mess up so much that now you need two months off before we can get back on. That would be my, that's the way we run it as an example. Yeah, that's a great point because when you have to take your body fat past down at a certain level, the dust come a time that you need to actually recover from that too. So with with Chris, he doesn't want to compete. So we would take him down just lean enough for him to not actually feel the pinch too much. Don't get, it's got to be lean enough to gain, but not lean to the point where then we would need to spend time in recovery. Actually getting his body fat to normal in a state where mentally is good and physically is ready to push. So that's a great point really because that's that's something not many people are aware of is. If when you die at and you get lean lean, that comes a time where you need to kind of pay back the recovery time a little bit all the time. Well, I went, I meant the gear wise. We didn't want to take the gear up too high on that diet phase. You know what I mean? Because it's like, this isn't our goal. So let's use what we need to control it. But I totally agree. You gave me credit for something I wasn't thinking, but I appreciate that. I should have said anything just take it. It's well because he's going to need more gear to gain more muscle. Yeah, versus voice going to need to actually hold the muscle down. Right, so it doesn't make sense to go crazy with the gear in a diet phase when inevitably you're going to have a long period of time trying to gain after. So we need to all save the tools up. Yeah, so you need to add in to be able to grow because ultimately, if you can save all the sauce, all the ketchup and mayo for when you can, when you can row with the foods, you are going to get a much better response as well. Yeah, all right. Well, I'm getting this in my brain as a podcast or Cuba. I'm getting this in my brain. I feel like, I mean, listen, if we're to do an educational segment, and then we knock out some listener questions, we do one or two training critiques like, man, we've got a show in front of us. That's a great freaking hour podcast, you know? Absolutely. I'm all full up. How'd you guys? All right. Listen, until this. If any of the listeners want me to rewind on anything that sets or go deeper into anything that I've said today, just let us know and we're more than happy to go over it. But I do have a few more points that I want to cover on training volume as well. I don't understand the training volume for different phases too for off season, for prep and for even, you know, you maintain its phases or have you. So that's the thing. I think deep into that. I'm next episode. I'm working cover a lot a bit more of listening to questions and what I've announced people that want us to make clear, because we did pull the cover quite a lot that people are going to be a little bit lost with. So if you all lost with anything, let us know what you lost with and we'll be able to get to it. I like that. And I knew Cuba all it would be is just a matter of hitting the button and being like, all right, Cuba go. And then you would take off. So this is you were made for podcast and you really are appreciate it. And thank you for having me. What, uh, where are working people for you? Obviously, you know, Instagram, everybody's probably already following you there. But what else are you doing? How can people reach out? Tell us about your gym and everything else too. So generally, Instagram and YouTube, that's where most of the content goes. I've actually had a lot of break from YouTube because last week, I actually had quite a few things lined up and that was going to film. But I got struck off with the flute. I was kidding. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. It was actually Dave came out to my house and got you sick. It sounds like Dave. It gave me the IV, right? It gave me the IV. I have a IV from Dave every moment. They're fantastic. And literally within the hour of having the IV, I just felt, I felt like I was, I was going to pass out. I was like, something's not right. I'm definitely sick. But the way I felt, played which four to five days and how high I'm arrested, heart rate was, it's definitely the flu. If you know what I mean? Oh, that. Yeah. Well, it was probably a good thing you got the IV when you did that. They probably even helped, you know? Absolutely. Absolutely. So, yeah. Anyway, YouTube, Instagram, that's where I'm mostly. And the gym, ultra-fixed rofreem, and there will be announcement for another gym coming the old way soon. But I can't tell you about that just yet. I will, all in good time. But for now, it's, it's ultra-fixed rofreem. Yeah. When you say, come in your way, do you mean come in my way? Like, well, not quite. It's gone. Okay. All right. I had to check. I had to check. All right. Cool. We appreciate it. What's up? You can't just check them out. Oh, yeah, man. I've got to, how far are you from, from like, Dave's area? So now he's moved. He's a little bit further away. So it's 50 minutes drive from Dave's. That's a good moment. Beautiful drive, too. I'm sure. Oh, it's amazing. Can you take the train? I mean, I know Dave's not, well, he, Dave's old house wasn't by the train. I don't know if he's, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Does the train work? Yeah. I'm sure. Okay. Yeah. But wife and I are going to come out eventually again. When we do, we're going to take like a the entire train trip up from, we want to go from down in London and come up through the north and see everybody up there and then continue going and go to Scotland. We want to check. She wants to see that. When you do that, let me know because there's actually a fast train that takes you from London to, to, to, to, to our area. It only takes an hour and 20 minutes. Oh, no kidding. Yeah. It's, it's, it's amazing. Yeah. It's, whatever, whatever me and the wife went to London now. We always take that train because it's so nice. You literally sit down and train. Don't let their work and you that as driving or regular train. It's like, free hours, which is a nightmare. Yeah. So, man, the train that I was on, it was nice. I got a nice first class ticket. You've got, like, it's just like you get to kick back. You can eat some food. Like you said, do some work. You've got, I think, was there Wi-Fi in the train? I can't remember. Yeah. Wi-Fi. You've got all your plugs and everything. Like, it was, it was a, it was classy, man. So, that would be, that would be a fun trip for sure. But anyway, guys, like, a couple said, comment, let us know what you think. And if you're interested in doing any kind of training critiques, which I know a lot of you guys are hit me up. You can reach out to me, but can Ali diets at gmail.com. That'll be in the description along with everything to reach out to Kuba and follow everything he's doing. Reach out to us. Let's get some videos going, and let's make this into a legit show. We'll be excited to see what happens. We don't have a name, but, you know, it, it, it, like, Cuba's corner. That's a little too cheesy, I think. That, it rhymes. It's a first thing that comes to my mind, but I, I don't know. I don't know. You guys tell us, right? Well, a thing that's a bit out. We'll think of something else. All right, guys. For another episode here at Think Big Body Building Media, we'll see you soon.

I'm getting ready for the pot. Great for the pot. Good for the pot. Waiting for the show. Yep. Some iced coffee here. Nice. It almost looks like that could be a true nutrition. She's talking. That's true. It could be, yeah. Yeah. Now I got, I do have a true nutrition collagen and true nutrition creatin. I'm not hydrated there. Okay. I've been taking my creatin in the morning since I saw that research got about it, it having benefits for a healthier brain. It's funny because there is some research suggesting that caffeine antagonizes the effects of creatine. Really? Yeah, that was a big thing for years. One of the effects can be that creatine slows muscle relaxation time. And when force is being produced, there's ATP turnover, and when a muscle it's produced a twitch or a hashtory lacks, you're doing some repetitive motions to say doing like a cycling thing, some sort of high intensity about, and there's a lot of on and off of motor units. The faster you can turn off the muscle when you don't want to have it active, the better because you're using ATP during that period of relaxation. Okay. Communimize that. Then you would then have a potential organic effect because the energy demand would be better. And one of the things that was shown in one of the studies out of Peter Hezbo's lab actually in Belgium was that caffeine negated that increase or that faster relaxation. They create and vote. But then the other thing is that people like, yeah, that's maybe true, but there were so many of these initial research studies where they literally were giving people creatine exactly the way you're taking it in their coffee. Like that's what people would do. It just makes it in their coffee, right? Yeah. It would mix in it. It's all pretty well anyway, but you could put up a hefty dose in there. And you know, coffee, no problem. So anyway, that was the big thing. Because I was creating is what I studied for both my master's thesis and my PhD dissertation. So I have knew the creatine research really well on us. And everyone was like, oh, no, caffeine. Can't have any caffeine with your creatine. And it's like, oh, shit, this sucks. And people were trying to figure out a way around it, but I don't know that it makes that big of a difference. Yeah. Maybe for some people. There's something there. But I wonder if it, maybe it, maybe if it does have an effect. If it's, I would, I'd have a hard time thinking that it would completely make it null and void. You know what I mean? It seemed to get that, that potential way in which creatine was acting energetically. OK. No. I've even seen like I know that completely different compound, but I know you're supposed to use T3. I don't know if he's stomach. And I've had times where it's like, hey, I do my best, but I only had, excuse me, 15 minutes. And I needed to eat. You know, and it's like, I still got the effects I wanted. I've never, I don't know. I feel like real world to me sometimes is very different than what I read and study is. I'm like, oh, it's still worked. I don't know. Yeah. That interaction with food is highly, very well, actually, from the thing. Right. Yeah. So for some people, it would make a big difference for others, not so much. And if you also are eating like you probably were or had been at that time, where it's the same meal each time. And then you're going to, it's probably going to have the same impact, whatever it might be, larger, small for you each time. So you would then just adjust your T3 dose, whatever. Right. Right. Maybe I need a little bit. You're not seeing the effects you want. Then you're going to increase, right? Move it more. Yeah. Like what's the elk carnitine thing? Right. I think people were doing that as well. Kind of unknowingly. So I heard from someone pretty high-level guy that he removed elk carnitine when he was steep in prep. And he started losing weight really, really quickly. Oh, really? Elk carnitine blocks the effect at the nucleus. At blocks probably blocks entry of T3 to the nucleus. OK. So those exact details haven't been elucidated as far as I know. But so when he took the elk carnitine out, this is what we kind of figured out, then the T3 was basically having a stronger effect. And then as you see, like all the time, people try to like, oh, shit. I'm not going to be in shape. It's three weeks out. I'll just bombard myself with T3. And they drop fat, but they drop muscle really quickly too. Yeah. So he had sort of inadvertently like I think a lot of people do. He had adjusted his dose of both of those things. T3 to being at a higher dose to combat the inhibitory effect of the elk carnitine. And when he removed the elk carnitine, then the T3 had a stronger effect. And it did not work in its favor. Yeah. He dropped weight really, really rapidly. Because he had, you know, oh, you don't see this in the blood in the blood work either. That's interesting thing. We talked about this before. But you won't see like a difference in blood work. Because what's going on in the brain in terms of registering TSH and those sorts of things is apparently different than what happens at the target tissues. So the target tissues are affected. But the regulation of the thyroid hormonal access is not. Yeah. So it's really quizzically talked about this. I don't want to, we don't know, that's not what we're going to talk about today. But I just reminded me of that. That was really interesting. I keep hearing from people. After we talked about T3 and elk carnitine, people kind of chime me as they say, hey, I got a question for you. Someone else said message me on Instagram a couple of weeks ago. And he's going to mess around with some things to get back to me. So and these are reputable individuals who are people with high level. Yeah. I have been pros and other doing a very scientific, I'm in particular about what they do. So anyway, pretty cool. Hey, I got a quick follow up for you here. Yeah. What about this one? So, and by the way, guys, we're going to get this thing started. We had a couple of questions that Scott was prepared to answer. But if you want to comment with some additional questions, we'll try to tackle those after we get through just to handful of these. So how about this one? So why would we use elk carnitine then? It will be the benefit. Does it sound like it's taking everything away? Yeah. Well, elk carnitine, you can actually can do this morally over the course of my take months. Most people inject it. So you get obviously more bioavailability there. And elk carnitine is a component of the acetyl transferase that moves acyl or fatty acid movements into the mitochondria. So what this means is that it will shift your fuel use. This is Stevens at all. You can look at this as that Paul Greenhouse lab. So Stevens, STP, H-E-N-S. Spilled differently than the first part of my last name. And you basically will shift your fuel use towards fat. And that's a great thing. So if you want to need 2000 calories a day and you're in a diet, right? And you've got to chlorate deficit and you're oxidant. You need that 2000. You're only taking in 1500. Whatever she have a 500 calorie deficit. You want as much of that fuel to come from fat as possible. So if you can shift to 1000 calories from fat versus 700 because you've got some carbs and everything coming in there, then that's better. That means you're basically able to oxidize fat better and for fat loss. That's what most body blows you're doing it for. It also shifts fuel use during exercise, too. They demonstrated this in the Greenhouse lab experiments, too. So that could potentially, I haven't seen a whole lot of fall-up in far as Urgogenic AIDS, Urgogenic effects going, but that could mean less glycogen use as well. But for someone who's using then cardio to increase fuel use and you can oxidize more fat during your cardio, then you're basically getting more out of your cardio, so to speak. In terms of fat oxidation, you still have that deficit. But overall, if more of the fat oxidized in the deficit to get you already created through cardio and your diet is fat, that's what you want. Yeah. So yeah. I can tell you anecdotally, the one thing I can tell when I'm using Ocarna Teen is that I sweat a lot more. I sweat a lot more when training. I sweat a lot more during cardio. And I notice that I get more body odor. It's got something I just figured out. In the last couple of years, using it from amino, I'd been experimenting with their stuff that goes up to 600 milligrams per milliter. And I did, in fact, use code THANK there, by the way. But here's the deal is that I noticed I started stinking more. And I was like, man, I just took a shower this morning. This doesn't, I'm a little ripe, you know? And then I take a shower again. And it just, it was an ongoing thing. But for whatever reason, then I came off the Ocarna Teen and it went away. I was like, oh, maybe my deodorant's not working anymore. You know? But then I came off the Ocarna Teen at one away. And then going back on it at another point, exact same thing happened. And that's when I realized, oh, it was the Ocarna Teen, in fact. Or it was something in, in whatever they have in there. Oh, in the Ocarna Teen. So there could be something else. I did run the oral as well. So I had gotten the injectable started up. And then I switched to the oral at 2000 milligrams of the acetyl-l-carnet Teen. And an acetyl. So it continued on. It continued on like that too. So I really do think it was, I just all Karnet Teen for me. Yeah, it could come out in your sweat. I don't know. It's, it makes this way in the lipid membranes, you know, in the mitochondria. So it's, you know, it may very well make its way out in your sweat. And then when the bacteria get hold of it, then you get stinky, stinky city. There. Right? The thing people mentioned, oh, I'm sweating so much. I've never seen anything because I did a pretty deep dive, suggesting that it literally increases your metabolic rate. There's some shift in fuel use there. And you get when you're oxidizing purely fat, you only in relative to your oxygen consumption. You don't quite get as much energy out of that. So that makes sense that that would happen that you'd see an elevation of metabolic rate to some degree. And that you become in a sense for any given energy expenditure during cardio. Or you even obviously, if things are ultimately end up being aerobic in the long haul, you'd have inner-robacter size, but you've got an oxygen debt that needs to be repaid, et cetera. You do, you would incur an inefficiency to some degree during exercise. Yeah. Sounds like people are saying, like, yeah, I'm hardly sweating. And then I get an alkalinity, and I'm just this, the sweaty mess. Right? That's a much stronger effect than what would it be about a, like a 6% inefficiency, something like that. It's not a huge deal. Okay. So anyway, that's interest, you know, 12% inefficiency. So I don't know what's going on there with all the sweating, but it could be a multitude of things. But I've never seen that document even as a side effect in some of the studies. But obviously, I hear it all the time. Right? So one of those things everyone says, right? That's how I know it's real. It's sweating. Yeah. You know? So that's interesting. We have, I looked and I hope I can figure that out. Pretty good. Thank you Scott and Smart Scott. Oh, nice. Regular Scott. So what someone said, and one of the other things. Very good Scott. How about just Mr. Scott? You can use Mr. Yeah. All right. Guys, well, thank you for tuning in to muscle minds with Dr. Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McNally. And guys, you can get Scott's book over at bytobcoach.com. A lot of the stuff we talk about is all catalog through the book. It'll literally take you from your offseason planning through your offseason, through your prep, to the stage, and literally the day of the show covers everything and then beyond that, too. Go to trinutrition.com and use our code think over there for high quality supplements. Look, my creatin, that I just drink in my college and use our code think. Like I said, get some savings and support us. Thank you to everybody by the way from Patreon. We had a couple opening questions from Patreon. Scott, is there anything you wanted to jump into right away? I titled the show that we had one guy who was talking about getting a better mind muscle connection. Did you have anything for that one? Yeah. Okay. I feel like you said, hey, that's what you call on the show. I'm like, like, I guess I'm gonna have to get it. You can give me much choice. We don't have to go deep into it. But I would have a really good question actually. Yeah. Like it. Instead of over in Patreon, he says, I'd like to know if Scott has any out of the box suggestions for improving the mind muscle connection for troublesome body parts. In my case, that would be my triceps, especially the long head. This was further compounded by acute C6 C7 nerve pinch in 2014. The left my tricep for our pinky finger of my dominant arm very weak. I used neck traction. Let's see what else did he do? He's used lion's mane regularly and he feels that things have improved. It's a long answer. But triceps are still clearly lagging. Never get a pump and always feels weak with very low muscle endurance. Throughout some different thoughts about possibly doing Eastm, BPC, 157, TB500. With it possibly help. He says it's been 10 years. He's wondering if maybe the ship is sailed. But there are any suggestions to basically hack the nervous system are much appreciated. Yeah. He might go first thing. It might be, there's still going on just to see exactly what's what the diagnosis would be now. Like it's the CA nerve route. So the nerve route that exits under the C7 vertebra goes to the pinky. So he's got some probably got some CA involvement. I would guess just academically speaking, not diagnostically speaking. See what's going on there? It might be, I have a Saunders unit sitting over here. I have one for my neck that I haven't used in years because I haven't needed it. But if he sees a PT and might be worth the little pricey, those are prescription only devices. So he might be able to get the PT to tell more or not. That's a good idea to continue doing that. It might be helpful. You know, just if he's got, if he's because things are probably only going to get worse, if he's got generative disc disease in his neck and things are going to shorten down, he's going to get more in pinchment there. But an East him unit could be really cool. A PT would could do that if that's his or her, drug others during the PT session. And it could also be used for biofeedback. So let's say that from what I picked up from reading this, it's really the long head. On his one arm is dominant arm. That's the main issue. So you could put East him on that and that's going to do a couple things. One, he could be a file feedback mechanism. So he knows what it feels like to do that and that can help train his nervous system to then activate that muscle. Okay. It's also going to also going to train that muscle back to some degree so that muscle could be rehabbed. This could even be something with his, because you want to be careful with East him turning on while you're exercising. So he could work with all tons of East him units that are out there and some of them. You probably could get a prescription forward with some of them are really powerful. And you can only use them with your with the PT's assistance. But you could activate that during training of the triceps. And that would then could bring that muscle back, at least in terms of size. All on that would stay if he didn't continue to East him is going to be a function of, you know, how intact his nervous system is. The thing that's nice about using East him is when, so you put pads on the muscle. And you depolarize those neurons that goes to those motor units, those fibers of those motor units. And the depolarization wave course goes down to the muscle cause the contraction would also goes back up to the spinal cord. So there's an anti-dromic depolarization wave that goes back. So if there are neurons there that aren't easily activated because he's got some compression, but they're still alive, they still exist. Those then could be activated. So he wouldn't even just be rehabbing the muscle fibers, but he could be rehabbing the neurons themselves and bringing them back to life. So then they're more readily activated, which would help, of course, if he does have compression use the Saunders machine. So you get sort of basically bring back all the pieces of the neuron-mushular system associated with that tricep. So you got to get the muscle working and to get the nerves working. And then you want to fix the root of the problem, which would be potentially the issue in his neck. But that's for, you know, the PT to figure out. So the long head is a biarticulate muscle across as the shoulder, so it does extension and basically addduction. So back down, like, feel it on a couple down people, yeah, click the long head pretty hard, and then extension too. So the way, at least the way that I found that people can train that if it's a weak spot, is to ensure that there is either an adduction vector or an abduction vector that you have to fight with adduction, or there is a shoulder flexion vector that you have to fight with shoulder extension. So for instance, if you're doing like a tricep press down, typically you'd be standing the table right here, right? Pressing straight down, if you step back so that the cable is more in front of you, the police mourn in front of you, and it's pulling you in this direction, you then have to extend the shoulder in order to keep your elbows tucked in tight. Oh, yeah, yeah. So now that's going to activate that long head, you're going to have to do that movement, you're going to have to activate it. What that may mean, especially for him, especially on that one side, is that he's not able to use nearly as much weight, but it's going to ensure activation just to keep the elbows at your side of that long head. You can do the same thing, both school movement, you don't see people doing very often, doing overhead triceps, the stension, kneeling with your elbows on a bench in front of you. So you kind of pain the ass sometimes, so you don't have a long cable, but you, the cables back behind your head, and you're leaning with your head on a bench, or the bench right there in front of you, so you're living on the ground with the bench on the floor in front of you, and you hold your elbows down and you do extensions like that. And that, of course, has this vector pulling you this direction, and now you've also got some stretch on the long head, could potentially accentuate the stimulus for it. What else I put in here for that? A couple other ideas. You can use overhead triceps, triceps, triceps, down, as well, or where you've got, you typically unless the cable's right behind you, you're still going to have that pull, so you're going to have to use the tricep, the long head to extend. PGR pullovers, the lost exercise that works really, really well, is another one he could do, so that just involves some elbow extension during the concentric. And then he could also also take, and this will be, it's kind of hard to describe, and it will be back a little bit. But if you do, if you do, a nice tricep movement is to do a cable crossover where the cables across like this, right? So you've got some abduction, or some extension, and activation the long head where you're doing this, you have to do them out here like this. Right? So you're doing a horizontal abduction, and you could do it with the cables with the right angle, you can do a 45 degree like that. Right? Yep. So he's not just got triceps extension, he's also got some movement at the shoulder. Then the trick for him would be to find the right angle where he can most activate that long head. And during all of these, especially with the unilateral ones, which are nice, he's going to expect to have weakness on that one side. So some of this training is going to be limited by how much you can do with the weak side, the dominant side, what the affected side. So, but the more weakness, the more asymmetry he sees, the more of a deficit he sees, probably the more he's targeting what he's wanting to do. So he's got a decade now of accommodating, it probably does his pressing like all wonky, so that he can effectively, it's probably a neuromuscular activation strategy so he can use his triceps, they be used his anterior, dealt more on pressing, or he's changing his accuracy, probably asymmetric on a lot of things, unless you're really focused on not being. So he's going to want to find those things that where he's got this maximum kind of deficit, and then stick with those and just let the strong arm, you know, it'll have no problem doing those reps, whereas the weak arm is the one he wants to train. So, and he could do that with a PT too, a good PT, could show him, show him these things, and with the East End on top of it, right? The other thing he could do as well is pre-feteed, if he can just jack his arm back and extend his tricep, once he gets good, or even, you know, people when you do before you hit a latsbred, you put your hands on your hips, and you drive back and pull your lats in the contraction, and then also activates that long head of the triceps, you see it really clearly on people that have the big triceps, you can just do that, practice that, hold that for a while, and then go into those movements. So he's developed in that mind most of the connection and carrying it into the movement. So, it's hard, this is, you know, this is online, a podcast, this is the type of stuff that a good PT, a good personal trainer, being able to see it and feel it in the gym. You can see it and feel it, yeah. And using a mirror can be helpful too, because, you know, he's so used to this. Right. So many people have all this accommodation that happens when they're doing it, when they have shoulder injuries or hip injuries or whatever, and they're doing all sorts of things asymmetrically, and they don't even recognize it, right? Because, how they've been doing it. So, once you look at yourself in the mirror, you're like, holy shit, I got this, this shoulder is all jacked up, you know, right. I'm have to go with light weights and slowly. So this is going to the mind muscle connection literature that we have. There's studies where you've, a lot of, I asked it up about this before, is you tell people to use their chest on a bench breast, and tell them to use a tricep on a bench breast. And people can do that pretty well when the weight is light or when they're not asked to do a ballistic contraction. So when you go heavy, you get closer to your one-rette max. You're not going to be able to do a bench breast with a focus, use MG to basically figure out whether some actual one actually is activating the chest more so when they're asked to use the chest, or they're doing a better job of acting the triceps when they're asked to make this a tricep press. You keep doing that when the weight gets too heavy. And you have to activate more motor units to move the weight faster. So once it gets too strenuous in terms of weight or trying to be explosive, you lose that ability to have a mind muscle connection and make an exercise that where you have triceps and anterior delts and chest to choose from in this case. So you gotta go slow and you have to use a lighter weight. So it's okay for him to use lighter weights and do sets of 20 and 30. And then literally a good practice, just perfect practice, basically his important is do those tricep extensions, whichever one sees doing and do them until he starts to loop. As long as he's getting some good mind muscle connection, once he starts to feel like okay, I'm not hitting the long head of the triceps the way I want to. I'm starting to lose that connection then you're done. Right? He's finished because then he's practicing another activation pattern. He wants to sort of try to retrain his nervous system and this could take years to do. But first thing is go see somebody and get to the root of the problem and see what's gone with his neck. They could do a nerve conduction study, see which nerve roots are actually involved, whatever the Western medical professionals think has appropriate. And then he can see maybe he's just pissing in the wind, trying to do all this stuff. His neck is so jacked up. You're dealing with a faulty system and you got to fix the system first. Yeah. We got a bunch of stuff on the livestream. So when the jump into one of those vents says, first of all he said, Scott has been an incredible resource. He's always been incredibly helpful with thought, excuse me, thought and thorough, I guess he's trying to say, with answers and he's got a question for us too. You remember Scott when you were doing high protein for a contest prep? No, this is he says way back in the day or back in the day. I feel like this was just a couple of years ago as far as my mind remembers it. Yeah. But he says, you're not going to like me. Yeah, that's what that must be what it is. He says, could you have Scott go over what his 500 grams of protein per day pre-contest diet look like? And if there's anything about that approach that he changed. So 500 grams of protein, what does that mean? Like how does that look say per meal? What would be a standard meal to get in 500 grams of protein per day? I mean, that's 500 grams of protein meals. That's basically a really, really, really high. I mean, there are guys that go 500 grams of protein in their offseason. Yeah. Right. And if you just take everything out, you end up at 500 grams. Right. And that's 2000 calories a day. Okay. That can be a deficit. If someone, I don't know where I'm running, I was weighing at that point in time. I don't remember if there were 500 grams, I think there were days I was doing 500 grams. Okay. But that was when I was, I think I was taking a lot of casing to Vince asked me this question on Instagram. So I mentioned, you know, these could be good questions for the podcast. So here he is. That's the question. Yeah. So the thing about just kind of addressed the high protein idea in general. So when you, when you die down, the literature suggests you, there is an advantage to having higher protein, even a study suggests greater fat loss with a higher protein intake. Thermogenic effect, what have you? More protein is going to help with your appetite. So when you're taking that much protein, my appetite is minimal. As long as you can kind of stick to that, right? So that can be pretty bland and nasty. You can get to where you're producing. I think I was, I think I get done training and I was oxidizing so much protein. The re-accomming out my sweat. There are a couple times I left my clothes and my gym bag. And I get like that. That's really gross ammonia type. Aw. Awful. Like, it sometimes is bad. You know, there's just a normal thing when you're taking a high protein diet, but this was just a trotaceous. Yeah. Really bad. I think when I destroy this whole bag. Oh, good. Yeah. And I would even take like little grocery store plastic bags to throw my sweaty stuff in. And I'm like, this was like radioactive. It's seat right through the plastic and everything. You know, it was really bad. So I'm not suggesting anyone do this. What I do is just kind of mess around with things and take them to their extremes, just to get a sense of what that would look like. Within reason, of course. I'm not trying to use any crazy pharmaceuticals or what have you that I know to be dangerous, just to see what happened to my kiddies. Right. Something like that. But that is an approach. You can run into really high-yorea issues that your kidneys will have a problem with. Eventually, you don't want to do that. You'll stink. Right. So, but that was a big competitor. Heavyweight, you know, top of the heavyweight's 2015 to 2015. I was doing that. So it wasn't like I was 150 pound per person. It wasn't a bikini competitor. Right. Trying to take in that much protein. But more protein can be helpful for those reasons. And that's the one thing that has an anti-cadabolic effect. It actually has an antibody effect, too, of course. And when you're in a cadabolic condition, protein is the most anabolic nutrient you can take in because you got a cloreb deficit there. So that was basically the strategy. Just to see what happened. My appetite was like, was like, minimal. I just, yeah. I get all the amounts. It'd be a tough diet. But you did have a assumed veggies with it, too. I don't think I had much better. Really? So what did you do for fiber? I had, I would add benefit. Okay. My jakes. Yeah. So, because that mixes in nothing can't even tell it it's there. Yeah. And I'm trying to think, see, I don't have some of this written down. But I just go, I just, I mean, I used to write everything down meticulously. Like decades ago. Yeah. And now I've just, I just go, but I just go on my field for so many years. You know? Yeah. I can just, I can just, and when I was intentionally trying something outside of my normal boxes, okay, when it just go with just go with protein here. See what happens. I found, you could do proteins. Go ahead. One of the things I was going to say is I found that for people that don't tolerate a lot of carbs, don't tolerate a lot of fats. So, the protein can be protein is a lot less likely to make you fat. You know what I mean? If you, if you can, if you can go with high proteins for somebody who's really sensitive and in certain cases, I found that that can work really well for somebody who maybe struggles with a diet that has a lot of carbs or fats in them. Yeah. You don't like when, and you know, this is Jose Antonio's work. I'm mainly thinking of is when you add like a thousand calories a day compared to a control group from protein. Yeah. It doesn't do anything much for muscle mass, at least in his work. But also didn't increase body fat. Yeah. Yeah. You don't, you don't like, even in an excess, adding protein. Now this might be different if you're, you know, at 6,000 calories and you go to 8,000 calories or something like that. Right. Right. Or 7,000 calories yet, you know, 250 grams of protein. But that's extreme situation. Someone who's already doing that, they're probably on so much gear, they probably would matter. You've got to totally different different scenario. They'll be almost known would do that. So that's just hypothetically speaking. But protein is the safe thing to add in. The problem can be, if you're trying to add calories if you're going to, off season situation, you add more protein, then they can inhibit your appetite. It makes it more difficult to eat things. Yeah. And if you're already got a lot of calories in there, the protein can cause some digestive issues. Because it's almost all digested and absorbed. Right. And if you're just also, you're just pooping out protein. We have so much in there, you know, that 3%, that doesn't get absorbed. You know, that's now become 6%, and you may have doubled what you're the bacteria in your gutter getting. And then you can cause GI issues. Yeah. I just push them way outside the normal diet. Anyway. What about this one from Jim over at Patreon? He says, does the timing of an AI or a finasteride matter in relation to the timing of when you take your test? So yeah, pharmacokinetics, you know, makes a difference. Obviously, we're kind of test we're talking about. And what AI are we talking about? So if you have done a good job of, based on whatever of those compounds you're using, taking them at a regular frequency, so that you don't have big highs and lows and the blood levels of any of those things. Then you're probably in good shape. We don't have an issue, right? But if you're like someone whose friends has been prescribed to take your testosterone inintate, I forget you're in up in Michigan, man. Oh, yeah. You can just say, no, man. Yeah. Do you have something metal? Do you have something metal in your hands, by the way? Oh, I do. Sorry. Yeah. I keep hearing it. Yes. Sorry. Yeah, they're two dog tags. Oh, I do. I do. So these are just sitting. You're going to follow the way with all the dog tags I have over the years. Oh, my God. Yeah. This microphone works, man. I didn't realize that. Yeah. It picks up like all the little condenser mics. They pick up all the little sounds. You know, they get the little, those, the roundness and the richness of your voice, too. Uh-huh. So yeah, you can have a, like, a doc prescribes you like come in and do your test shot once a week. You know, so you get these high levels 24, 48 hours later and you're like, you know, you're down to your high pool going to Addle. You know, by the time you come in and then you're doing like your AI, I gave you even see even seeing a Nash as all prescribed like once a week, 1 milligrams. Okay. And that can, you can run into problems then, right? So now you've just got havoc. It shifts all over the place. Yeah. But if you're spreading things out, it's, it's not a problem. But yeah, you could, you could create a scenario, you know, where, you know, you, you, you try to maximally distort your testosterone to estrogen ratio by, by timing things, relative to their peaks, depending on what you're using so that you don't have steady states of anything and then you could skew stuff all over the place. Okay. If you're, you know, if you're being smart about it, we shouldn't be a problem. I don't think. But it can vary. Yeah. So you have to, you know, that can happen. People do all sorts of people just like, oh, they get them used to, doing something one certain way and then they just forget that something else change and next thing, you know, it's like, wow, I feel really good on Thursday and Friday and I feel like crap on Sunday and Monday. It's like, okay, let's look at what you're doing. You know, it's now these things are time. It's like, ah, this is why you ran out of this. So you started taking it once a week, you know, because you wanted to, and then you got some more and you just kept taking it once a week. When you should have been taking it twice a week or three times a week and then you switch this, that and the other next thing, you know, it's like, okay, yeah, you've, you've ended up with kind of a, a screw situation in terms of the, the pharmacokinetics. I feel like this could be more of a problem with AI than with the, for an asteroid, time at least. I feel like with an asteroid, it's just a matter of continually keeping it in your system, you know, taking it day after day after day, whether it be oral or topical. But for sure, the AI, I've always gone with the next day. And a lot of cases. If we, if we need an AI, I've waited 12 to 24 hours or something like that. That's what I've been told at least as a, is a good time on average to use an AI for going to use one. I don't know if you've heard anything similar. Yeah, I mean, there's different half-lives to it depends on which AI you're talking about. So that's okay. Now that's some part of it. Like, I, I, and this varies per person too. So like an astrosol shorter than Xemestane, which is shorter than Lectresol, right? Okay. Or Lectresol short as well. Lectresol is the shortest of them. Shortest. Oh, sorry. I mixed that up. Lectresol. An astrosol is short. Lectresol is long. Yeah. Lectresol. And Xemestane's pretty short like a day. So Xemestane makes sense. That's the one I think is smartest in terms of blood lipids. Okay. So that would be one. Yeah. If you're, if you're going to expect your test-ostroon, like an ENT data is sipping eight to peak 24 to 40 hours later, Xemestane the next day would make sense. So you're chur to matching the Xemestane levels with the testosterone levels. Yeah. But if you got another one, and let's say you're not doing your testosterone went once a week. All right. So you're not to worry about peaks and lows. Then you're not to worry about it. But that would be a one way to do it. Yeah. The thing would be then, let's say you're taking your Xemestane twice a week. You're just gastroon only once a week. Well you probably, if you're going to couple of them that way, you should probably make sure that you've got the same dosing frequency for both of those compounds. Your AI and your test. Yeah. That's good. The need to be three times a week and Xemestane three times a week. And your dose, of course, adjusted. So you have the right weekly dose you're looking for. So but with lectures all would matter so much. Right? Yeah. So it depends on which one you're using. Not the lectures all is the best to go with. But you know, yes, it's still strong. But smaller doses, you know, could also be employed. Right? Hey, can't say it over back when I mentioned your book. Can't say that vigorous Steve just plugs cuts book. Today in his video as well. That's cool. He said he was going to do that. So thank you, Steve. That's cool. How? Um, all right. What else do we have here? Guys keep commenting with questions. We'll be happy to take them. And over here on Patreon, we had some more capsaicin for metabolism, growth recovery. This is from Adrian over on Patreon. This is completely out of my wheelhouse. I, I'm not familiar with what capsaicin does besides being used as like a muscle rub. Yeah. I mean, it has some acts actions centrally in the brain that would have thermogenic effects. But he's talking about everything, right? Like, what do you say recovery? Metablas and growth and recovery. Metablas and yes, it's got some potential thermogenic actions. It's used in several supplements now. It's not extraordinary. It hasn't taken off. Sturderly well, but it does definitely have some effects there. Anything that's getting creachin metabolism then could potentially have a negative effect on growth, potentially. But I haven't seen like, I don't know if anyone is using it on a regular basis in high doses. We'd be like taking a fat burner when you're trying to gain muscle mass. Right? Yeah. You're kind of shoot yourself in the foot to some degree. Right? You want to have metabolism that's robust. And there was going to potentially vary in this way. There's this idea like you would take T3 during your off season to keep your metabolism running so to speak. Increase protein synthesis as well to bolster what you're getting from what I will use in increased protein synthesis. So to sort of jack that up. But if you're using a thermogenic, this elevator in Metabolic rate, that means you're going to have to eat more. Yeah. So you run into potential conundrums. It just me would be just spitting in the wind to try to say whether it could or could help. Okay. If you do more cardio to spend more energy, right? And then you eat more on top of that. And you've done the cardio in a way that doesn't interfere with your muscle growth. Then do you have a greater overall effect because you've got the catabolic effect of cardio, which you have to eat more and then you're eating more food and then you have more andabalism. You come out ahead. So people find that they do better that way. They feel better. They've got, in this case with the cardio, you've got the training effect too that could make it easier for you to train hard in the gym, which will work harder you've actually fed. So there's that thing with the thermogenic. Like say you have to eat to counteract the thermogenic effect of catacacase and you eat more food. Have more, or anabolic effect. That's just a conund cannibal. Part in the fun, part in the, part of my French is kind of theoretical bullshit. So I would save the, the, the, the, the fat burners, the those things that are thermogenic for one year focused on thermogenesis unless you're someone who for whatever reason, like just gains tons of fat in the off season. You have the hell the time taking off. For instance, like an example of that would be people who put on a lot of low body fat. I've talked about women sometimes who would take you him being during the off season to try to stay off the lower body fat accumulation. So you know, if you're someone who needs to gain gain really easily and you want to keep your food at a reasonable level and you do cardio to allow you to eat more food and putting on the muscle as an problem. It's the fact that you're worried about then a thermogenic might make sense. Something like a catacacase and if that is something that would work for you. So there's a rationale for some people. If you're a guy who, you know, is skinny as a being and can't gain to save his life, you don't want to, and you're buying that and never gets above 9%. Any health, you don't want to have cabsaicin in there. I wouldn't think. Yeah. You want to think speed and prepatables. That makes sense. What about Casey has won for us? And he says, oh, and by the way, comment from I just like this guy's name Chuck E. Cheese Ranch. He says, let's off guys. Love the deep dives into the size. I like that Chuck E. Cheese Ranch. Okay. So Casey had won for us. He says, Ed Cohen episode came to mind. There are correlations between neck, wrist, ankle circumference and the back to front torso thickness of elite power lifters like Ed. How does this affect how the load is dispersed? I read that question and I don't understand the first part, right? If there's, you let me look at the anthropometric measurements. They correlate and people have bigger rib cages, have bigger wrists, right? A more robust, you see a more robust, somatic type, so to speak, or a more robust skeletal structure. Yeah, is more uniform. Throughout, you don't see someone with gigantic wrists and then they have, you know, small neck. Something like that. Those things sort of all, all increase or change in parallel. The last part of the question. Can you read that again? This is what I don't, I'm not sure where he's going with what he's going with. Well he's with us here. So Casey, if you could restate that for us, we'll come back to it. See what he says to restate that. Because he's asking like, how is that load? He says, how does this affect how the load is dissipated? So I'm not sure exactly what he means by that. So we'll let him get back to us. Yeah. Guy taking, Sarah will help him fall asleep. Does all the sleep hygiene, advices? He does all, he's done all the sleep hygiene advice as well. Just got to have any opinions on any negative effect on bodybuilding. So using a medication like Sarah Quill, which is a strong, strong medication. You know, they're using it more for it's a, believe it's even used with like, schizophrenia patients. But I know it's used, cough, yeah, used off label to help with sleep. What are your thoughts there? It shifts, I just looked at this briefly. It, I mean, most things, most sleep medications will change your sleep architecture. In this case, it seems like it reduces ram a little bit. Okay. So, you know, you want to make sure getting adequate sleep. My thought is like, he says he's doing all the, all the sleep hygiene things is still something's, something's not in place. Something's, there's some reason why he's not able to sleep. So I'll go back to look at that. This is the acupuncture. So I mean, it's like, what's the root of this problem here? Why, why isn't he able to sleep? Is he, he's in stems and he comes back from, I'm not saying he does or doesn't, some people like I have a long day. So I have like, I take a pre workout before I work out right after work. Yeah. And so the night night. Yeah, I was like, okay, I wonder why you can't sleep 500 milligrams of caffeine and you're in your pre workout. Something like that. So I look at, I look at that first. It also has an anti-histamine effect. Oh. And yeah, and anti-histamine, I've just seen this has been, some of them that's been so stanchion, I think more lately, can have potentially have an impact on cognitive function in particular dementia. You're likelihood of having dementia or the, how early in your life you'll have dementia so the onset of dementia. So this is just sort of cross-sectional epidemiological work. People who use those, not just for sleep, but in general, tend to have issues with dementia. So he can look into that, that'd be something that, you know, it's not gonna affect his bodybuilding because that's gonna be, you know, decades later, probably when bodybuilding is way in the background, but that's something that considers like a long term side effect. But if he feels, I mean, strictly speaking, like, if he can't sleep, and he can't figure it out, that's gonna affect your bodybuilding. If he takes the Cerecwell and he can sleep better and he's more recovered, that's gonna help his bodybuilding. But in the long haul, it'd be nice to figure out why. For instance, you know, when he, if he does die down, to get on stage, we'll see just gonna take more Cerecwell. Maybe, you know, it makes really gets really hard to sleep when you're died and down. You know, so do you wanna do that? How much do you wanna take? I don't know much about that medication to be honest. I mean, I just knew that it's out there, but those are pretty strong, strong heads too. So, there's all sorts of like the true nutrition sleep aid is, isn't works pretty well for lots of people. I haven't used it. I haven't used it. I have to check it out. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, that would be something that, you know, he might look into. Nothing is, you know, side effect free, but that might be worth checking into. Yeah, I did a show a long time ago with Dr. Dean St. Martin. And he talked a lot about the supplements that would help you to improve your sleep quality versus leaning into supplements that would bandate it and just cause you to get tired, you know, or knock you out. So, you know, he's not a fan of using melatonin to help us sleep for instance. He's more of a fan of putting your body in a position to create more melatonin. You know, it's right to what his thought process is. You looking something up there, Scott? I was, but that's all good. I was looking at my notes here to see if I had any melatonin. Very. He doesn't use any caffeine. Let's see, this guy. Oh, okay. Yeah. Oh, wait. It's a different guy here. He's in the live stream. He says, no matter what, I use, I don't know what this is. This medication. Oh, it's Ramron. Yeah. Super low dose for sleep. He says, he also doesn't use caffeine after three p.m. Huh? Yeah. I mean, I'm big on whenever possible. So you're at what's going on. I think in the long haul, I mean, I have something that's really some life situation that's keeping you awake. Yeah. And in the long haul, let's say you solved that. You figured that out. So you know, I need to talk to my, my ex, I need to talk to my parent or I need to talk to someone whatever it is and solve that and get that out of my head or I need to go do therapy, you know, the bigger picture. And then I can sleep. And I'd rather like, I'd rather do that than use a patch, you know, your end date to help someone sleep. So body building and PE, PE these, they're, there are things that can be used. I think to help people actualize if they've got everything else in place in their life. It's like, you know, it's like adding, I've got a car that I've built. I'm kicking ass and taking names. And I want to see how fast I can go. Yeah, I think this. But if you have a flat in your tire, right? And so the things, you know, flop around and you can't drive on the road, my thought would be, hey, stop and change the tire. Get a new tire or fix the tire or what have you. As opposed to, you know, how can we patch that up? Now in the short term, you know, your six weeks out from a show, you got to figure out how to sleep. You've got this, let's say you broke up with your girlfriend two weeks beforehand, right? You want to sleep, you want to get ready to get on stage? Yeah, you patch the tire up. You're in the middle of your race, right? But in the long haul, change the tire. You know, it's changed the tire if it all possible. And then you got, then you being the car are in a better place overall for whatever else you want to tackle in life. Because those things, those things that manifest and inability to sleep are probably things that are manifesting elsewhere in your life, psychologically or otherwise, it may be not aware of. This has been my experience. And then working with people too. And let's get to the road through the problem. So Casey's back, and he said, load is dissipated better. Okay, nobody in top lifters is, he says, pan caked out, not in the gear sense. Nobody is very flat back to front, not from muscle, but from having a bigger ribcage in hips. Ed Cohen, being the goat of powerlifting, is built like a mailbox. I still don't understand what you're trying to say, man. I don't understand what's the question? Yeah, say, he's a thick guy. I think he just answered the question. OK. He just gave the answer. So the load is dissipated better. Better. I think does he mean distributed better? Disappated because dissipate means just kind of dissolve away. Right? Like it sort of vanishes. I think he means distributed better. Or I'm not sure. I don't know how to answer that. Because I don't get the question. Then I'm not sure how to look at it even from a scientific. I'm not a biomechanist. So this sounds like it could be a biomechanics question. Yeah. Let's see what else do we have here? Let's see if we can have anything in the Patreon. OK. So how about this one? Manufacturers, recommendations of a file of quick pen of humalog is that we should dispose of it within 28 days after opening, even if there is insulin left. Is that actually required? Or is it similar to 10 millil, it's excuse me, I can't speak apparently. 10 milliliter vials of tests where the manufacturers recommend disposing of it after 28 days, but we regularly go beyond that without issue. I wasn't sure if the temperature requirements of insulin make a difference. Thanks, Dr. Scott and regular Scott. That was the regular Scott, on it. I didn't know, have you seen that a 10 millivile of tests should be used up in a month? Never heard of that before, because I've gotten a 10 milliter vial of tests that's meant to be my next 10 doses or so. And weeks, right? So that's longer than 28 days. So I haven't seen that before. I did find a couple papers. He can look them up. Richter, RICH-T-E-R. It's a copies review from 2023, thermal stability and storage of insulin. This is, they just say, once open of our cartridge could be stored at ambient temperature. So room temperature is for approximately four to six weeks. The problem is the contents of the cartridge are no longer sterile. So even if using a quick pan or what have you technically, you've punctured, you're ejected it out during the injection. But there's some possibility that you could get bacteria in there. And that's the idea. So that would be one of the reasons why 28 days of opening is because you're running it. And this is, they say four to six weeks. So 28 days would be four weeks. They're putting on the safe side, right? At room, temperature, insulin does really, really well. Really? Yeah, let me, let me, I forgot I had this. Because I looked into this, let me see where I are right here. I'm going to send you a picture real quick, look we can put it up, Scott. Sure. Time to put it on. Time to put it on. It says that that's what my prescription bottles all say. Mine included mine actually says 21 days. So I wonder are these oil-based products? Are they water-based? Interesting. Doesn't make it so much sense given the nature of the prescription. Yeah, yeah. I can see that with a water-based insulin, but that said, I'm going to tell you right now, though, before we get into the paper here, you've got Scott, the study you have for your, or this chart. But real life, I don't know many body builders to get rid of that insulin after 28 days. Yeah. It must people keep it in the fridge too. And that's going to help. Yeah. So this is, as it says, or this is the paper, is decided there from 2020. You might want to make it bigger. I think so on what the people are looking on their phone. But what they did was they looked at the units per milliliters to the concentration over the course of the 86 days. And it pulled this up just like a month ago. I think when you're first in this over two weeks ago, I guess. And basically, at 37 degrees Celsius, which is body temperature, all at M in 400 degrees Celsius, which might be your fridge. If you look at all these versions of insulin, down the mean columns, the percentages are all above, above 90, and below, as I see, is like 97.7. So basically, there's zero breakdown of insulin over the course of 86 days. There's much 86 day, 15 times or 86 days. So insulin does really, really well at room temperature, 22 degrees Celsius, body temperature, even, or in the fridge, it holds up really well. And I've heard people finding a file of insulin in their desk, years later, it's like, shit, I didn't know that was in there. Why did I put that there? And it was still good. It was still fine. So I have a client who was type one, and he leaves his in his nightstand. He's just got a drawer, not just keeps it there. And he's checking, obviously, his blood sugar, and he needs the stuff to survive, and it's still working for him. Yeah. So I think I know that it's interesting that Tani said that too. So that must be like a cover your butt situation, that there's some risk of bacterial infection. It is funny how this is a whole their topic. But if that is what that is, that the legal system is basically injecting part of the pun, the logical statements into our mental system is like, here's your 10 weeks of ply of insulin. You used this up within 28 days. Yeah. It's like, oh, okay. What we all made it, why don't you give me a volume or an amount that would fit within the expiration date, the quote of what expiration date of the prescription you've given me, that makes zero sense. So that's probably just, there's probably maybe something I have to look that up. That's interesting. I'll try to check, try to remember to check into that, because that's the only reason I could think of why that would do that is that you might have. There is a risk, of course. Especially oil, you've got it, something could be growing in there. Well, oil is going to be more sterile than water, right? Oh, yeah, right, right. But still with oil, the water, that's I think the insulin is 4 to 6 weeks. And oil would be even better. Yeah. With those, it's interesting. You've got a bigger gauge needle. You've got larger, well, it comes on the person. Trying to think there's obviously the dosing is different with testosterone and oil versus a smaller amount of insulin. That's true. That's true. Yeah. So the possibility of bacteria getting in there could be different. Sometimes the rubber on those bios, because you've got benzobenzoid in there and benzlochohol, that can have an effect on how easily bacteria could get in. So that could be something that's going to vary as opposed to insulin, which doesn't have, I don't remember everything that's in there. But I think it doesn't have the quite the cost of chemicals in there. So you don't have a problem like you'd let a pile of testosterone in and they'd sit around for a couple of years. And that rubber jobber could be pretty fucking bad. Right. Yeah, yeah. And insulin, no, that won't happen. So that might be part of the reason why you could get bacteria in there more quickly. I've used gear that had set for a really long time. I had a couple bottles of liquid deep-all that now we're unopened. So they were unopened. They had never been punctured once. But we're talking like expired in 2018, meaning that and it was a huge yell. So they put like a three year, two year on it or whatever. So that means I'm probably bought it in like 2015. And I just used it within the last year. So if they was still good, nope. That's with it. You know, I'm sure. Yeah. I wouldn't imagine that would dig to great either. Yeah. But yeah. Hey, Courtney, they're spurkins with us. He said, you said train to client. So I am watching it with a one hour delay. So he says yes. So let's see what else we have here. Do you guys have anything on the stream here in the questions? What else did we get? We got the 500 gram one of protein. And maybe they let us see questions for all of that. Casey didn't follow up to Ertiddy. Let's see here. I'm looking. I'm not seeing any. No, he didn't say anything else about it. But he's still with us because he commented about something else. He said that his packaging says to store, and I show him means insulin, 39 degrees Fahrenheit before opening. And then store room temperature after. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Don't dare put that back in the fridge. Keep it out of the fridge afterwards. All right. It doesn't matter either way. But yeah, who knows what that is. Interesting. It says expired insulin can be donated to certain programs. They give it to people in need in third world countries, for example. Oh, that's cool. IFL USA accepts donations via mail. Uh-huh. That's interesting. Interesting. So send your old insulin to. Yeah. Yeah. I have to leave a thing. You see if we have anything else here from the street or from the, uh, do you see what else? Yeah. I think that was the last one we had on Patreon. In case he never told us what was going on, Michael Devaro's with us. You should see this guy's gym scout. He has like all the nicest machines like prime and arsenal. And he has a whole pull barn set up. It's literally he has a commercial gym set up in this pull barn. Out in Indiana out in the country. Uh-huh. Yeah. I thought about doing that and people can see some shots from my, from my gym, from my barn. And I just, I got everything I need there. You know, I mean, it would be nice to have all those sorts of things. But I just, it's not a problem to just do work around and, you know, you kind of get used to it. Yeah. Yeah. It's, it's nice to have that stuff when I do go to a gym. Um, but I'm completely content to be able to get everything I need in from home. Then again, though, my expectations of a good workout have changed now as my, my, my older years have hit me because there was a time that I had three different gym memberships. And I was going here to train legs there to train back. You know what I mean? You know, where is it like my gym membership thing? Right. It's right here somewhere in this pile. You got a lot of metal moving over there. Is that it? Yes. Oh, yeah. Exactly. I've kept some of these, you know, just to keep mine here. But this is like, yeah, these are, this is over the last decade or so. I mean, those are all gym passes, huh? Those are all gym passes. Yeah. That's funny. Not at all active, of course. But these rain rain longer exists. You'd have to be rich to keep all those gym memberships, especially with today's prices. We had everything's going up. I know. I know. Yeah, it's just kind of cool to look back on some of these gyms. Oh, good old days. Yeah. I'm trying to think any other questions. I think that's about it. We're good hour in now. So we could call this good. We got, okay, I have one other thought that, what's that? So someone sent me a question. I mentioned to him, I think it'd be okay. If I brought this up, I thought he was just kind of joking around. He looked, he saw a post from another podcast I had done. And he sent me the question. He says, so progressive overload is not just increasing volume. Right? And I said, I said, no, no, it's not. I thought he was just joking. But he actually had that impression just from consuming probably what the algorithm has brought him. And this idea now, of course, it is one way of progressively overloading. But this idea, and I think this comes from Renaissance Paradit Paradit Paradit Paraditization folks. Yep. And other wise, is that the way you would progressively overload is by sequentially adding sets to your workout. Right? And that's the way you would do that. That is progressive overload. And this notion of adding weight to the bar or getting more reps with the same load wasn't even in his consciousness. Right. And this isn't to cut on him at all. I had no idea. I mean, he may have just started lifting the last year. The thing that's crazy should not blame him for thinking that. Right? If that adds to the content he's consumed. That's content he's brought. And it's interesting that the content would be so presented to him that it wouldn't be contextualized in another way where he would know that progressive overload could mean various things. Right? And I've talked about the nuances of even like creating a creative, creative, overload by adjusting how you execute your movements. Right? In terms of speed or mind muscle connection to a had you. That was a big change for me, figure in that. Yeah. I know. That's why I bring it up. Because we talked about it so much. But I thought that absolutely fast. I need to, I need to, I need to at least bring this up on the podcast because 20 years ago, most people would have thought progressive overload. But all that it means is getting stronger. Or you can have your loads and your training. And now, things going to go in cycles. Now people are getting the impression that progressive overload does and involve that at all. It's just a matter of adding sets to your workout. And that's how you created. We created a volume overload. I thought that was really fascinating to get. That's how kind of how I, one way I can kind of keep my pulse on my finger on the pulse of what's going on in the body, going where I thought that was fast. I just wanted to bring that up. You get another question? Yeah, we had a couple of them here. One that I missed was, and I see Tanya, you just threw them on up. But toned with Tij, says, any thoughts on why I get so sleepy immediately after consuming weight isolate, even when adding fats, etc. Always feel immediately sleepy is way super insulinogenic. Ha, it would likely be less so. So I'm just running to read that question again. You just liked it. You less so when fats are added. But yeah, it can definitely be adding fats immediately. Yeah, I noticed that's interesting. But I haven't eaten a lot and then I've taken in a way shake, usually if weighs on its own, I'll tend to go hypos from it. Yeah, a good hour or so later. What I've been, what I've been led to believe is that even though, you know, it protein, we don't think of protein as being something that's going to have like a big insulin spike. But because the nutrients are hitting your bloodstream so rapidly in the form of way, the body does read that in the body will release more insulin than say if you were to eat, you know, a solid food protein instead like chicken or something. It's all going to happen at once and then that way leaves the body really quick, you know, and my blood sugar's not any higher. It's, yeah, I've noticed I'll start getting cold clam, you can get like a minor hypofact from a way shake. That that's the, the meat asses some of them are more insogenic than the others. But yeah, absolutely that that phenomenon can totally happen without it out. It's interesting that when he's doing this tone with TJ could be a woman I guess, too, but like immediately sleepy. It could it could be too psychological thing if it's like, okay, now I finally got some food in me. And I'm not hungry. Now I can just kind of relax and take an app that can sometimes happen to. If it's that so yeah, I could, but the hypod I see me thinking wouldn't happen as rapidly as what it seems like this happens. Yeah, this person just after taking in. Is your family member poisoning you? Is that going on? You know, you're getting, you're getting, you get in dose with something each time. Oh, you know, that's happened though. There's been, there was a case where a woman was like slowly poisoning her husband or something. Like that, she was putting, putting arsenic in his oatmeal or something. I don't remember what it was. Yeah, so that probably wouldn't make you sleepy. But it just feel like my stomach is really bad. No, yeah, yeah, yeah. It was just, it was just getting sicker and sicker. Yeah, you know. Yeah, and he didn't know why and like they, the doctors couldn't figure it out because who would thought he's getting arsenic in the system? It's a little bit of a time building a slowly day every day. Yeah, don't forget to eat your oatmeal. Oh, man. Tanya, she says, what's your experience with paradoxing? I don't have much. She was in one of John's, John Meadows fat burners. It might still be. So it has another stimulatory effect. He doesn't act like a stem, but it has an thermogenic effect. So I think it's pretty expensive. Okay. Yeah, yeah, grains of paradise, parties, corn, extract. But I haven't tried it out like individually, but as anyone of John's and there's some research suggesting it can be effective. Okay. But my experience is pretty much nothing except for having tried out those just just to try it. But I never used John's, whatever, it's since they're all the formulations of since change. I don't know if it's your in there still in there would be honest. They may have taken that out. They stream line a lot of stuff. But she's, I don't know, that's probably one that's legal in Germany. So that's probably part of why she's asking because, like for instance, you can't get, you him being is not legal there. For instance, okay. Yeah. So, and importing stuff is kind of a big no-no. So like if I've had people want me to send them supplements from the US, and that's kind of, now you can't do that. Yeah. And get yourself banned from Germany, Scott. You can't have it. Yeah. I know. I know, right. So, but yeah, I haven't got much experience, but it does seem to work on paper. There's a couple. I could send her Tanya, Schickmeer, and inachlique and done Schickique, dear. I need to expel the mentor. I need to put pure that to. So I'll send her some papers. Nice. Nice. Some studies. All right. Well, listen, I appreciate everybody hanging out with us. This has been a fun way to spend our Sunday morning. And I'm excited for the next episode, Scott. You've got some great insights for us, and I'm going to look forward to that one. You're a good geezer, man. Nice. Well, I didn't really tell anybody anything, you know, but you guys are going to want to tune into the next one. Because there's just, you know, we have ideas that get brought into body building. And sometimes there's just people just take it for granted that this is, oh, apparently we never knew that you've always been doing it wrong. We hear that, you know what I mean? You've always been doing it wrong. You didn't know, you know, what you, what you always have done wrong with body building. And then all of a sudden we just adopted this new idea and we're like, oh, okay. And I guess this is what we do. This is the truth. Now we know the truth. Well, sometimes the truth isn't the truth. I look forward to digging into this next one with you. And here in what you have that. There's uh, to that point, there's an article I wrote for a lead FGS some years ago. And I think this is some of this is in my book too, but about knowing who to trust. Right? And if you say something, and this isn't, sometimes people are intentionally trying to see even sometimes they may be to some degree. Yeah. But the way in which something is said has a tremendous effect on its believability. And I started off that article. I could find this. I don't know if you want to spend the time to do it. I could find this quote that I completely fabricated about the mechanism muscle contraction. Yes. Yeah, and I'm, yeah. Donka, I know that one. You know that one, right? Let me see what can. I could find this quote with book. It's here. It's not here then we can just let it go. But I, I created, I wrote this um, completely facetious. Here it is. I said, what a fire to write. And this is, uh, here's the quote. Mineral such as iron, zinc, and trace amounts of boron begin accumulating during embryonic development and the tissues that later differentiate in the skeletal muscle. These metals form the basis, the contractile, machining that and abuse muscle cells with his force producing ability. And adult mammals, dietary deficiencies in these elements have been associated with the variety of myopathologies and muscle weakness, whereas iron, zinc, and chromium supplementation produce muscle fiber growth, including hypertrophy and hyperplastic adaptations, even in the absence of external load. And I have three references in there. Smith, J, and Doj, genetic and dietary control of a million embryonic development, muscle tissue, journal of significant results. D's and balls, muscle plasticity, structural and mechanical bases, archives of histocamistry, and the last reference is, Tate D, Meadows, J, Starns S, Doug Dell M, Superior A, Hill, KS, Super Physiological Mineral Supplementation, Dooses, Murray, and Muscle Largement, and Microgravity. Come fully nonsense. I made all of that up. Obviously, the references are complete, complete BS. Sounded real to me. I'm really impressive, right? Yes. Because I just, you can just, if you, if you want to, you can contact, you can really believe a bullsh**. So anyway, that's a funny article. Don't just trust me as the name of the article. It's good. I go into pretty good stuff. So that's good. And I look forward to hearing what we talk about next time. So guys, we'll tune back in. Of course, this show comes out every other Sunday at 11 o'clock. AM Eastern Standard Time. So we will see you in two weeks. Scott is always thanks for everything. You're certain, man. Likewise.

What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Skip Hill. Andrew Berry, I'm Scott McNally. All of our programming is brought to you by TruNutrition.com. You can use our code think for some additional savings on high quality third-party tested supplements. You can also go to supplementsource.ca. If you want to support us from Canada, they've got blowout deals on label changes, overstock, data products, plus all the regular stuff too. Skip is just blocking a hammer in that. Is that a shake? Skip protein. Is it relevant? That's good. Hammer in there. So we have like a gazillion questions. Literally, that we're going to try to answer here today for you guys. And by the way, you guys have been killing it. Like everybody on YouTube, everybody at the Facebook group for think big Patreon. I've got like a ton of questions from everywhere. So we're going to try to get through them today. But but really quick though, I wanted to tell you, I got a chance to go to Chicago and I got to work out in with Chase Irons. You didn't get a chance to meet him, Skip. You weren't here for that. But Andrew did. I'm aware of who he is because he listens and he asks questions and he knows seems and no, shit from a YouTube channel and everything else seems like a good dude. Dude, that quad gym. I mean, I've been there a couple of times before. That's got to be in my top three gyms that I've gone to. That place is really cool. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I've been everywhere in the world, you know, but I like it a lot. How would you rank it? Because you've been, I've been to both two, but I think you said you've been a Montenaries before, right? No, no, no, I haven't been to Montenaries. And I know that that's really good. Oh, yeah. Okay. I've been to Bebs. No, I haven't been anywhere East Coast, man. I mean, all right. Did you have been to gyms yet if you haven't been to East Coast? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. They have a lot of good stuff. Do what? I only say that about the East Coast gyms because like you could be in contest shape, like, literally, the show is like the next day or next week. And you're going to one of these gyms. And you might not even be the best athlete in the gym that day. You know what I mean? Like you're already a good establish bodybuilding. You look around your like, oh man, that was just got never even seen them before on Instagram. And you're like, he'd probably trash me on stage if he actually guided down just a few or weeks. And don't you just see that everywhere on East Coast gyms? I believe it, man. I feel like there is some bleed over to here in the Midwest. You know, like I think Detroit, we've got that. There's like that what I would say watching bodybuilding stuff is like that East Coast hardcore work ethic versus we think about like the California gyms or the guys have got it easy and they're in the sun, you know. And I've been a lot more out west than I have out East. Like the furthest East I've ever traveled I think is Pennsylvania because Florida doesn't count. Florida is East, but it's not really considered. You know, isn't that weird? We don't consider Florida. Florida. Florida is its own. Yeah, I don't think. Right. No. Well, it's not only Florida, it's South Florida. Because I was excited. It's just like, when should get north of Tampa, it's my as well be Georgia. So yeah, we had a good time though. I did change to meet an IP pro that was trained in there, Pete D.A. Go. He listens to the programming as well. I mentioned that before we got a live here and Andrew, you said you saw him actually turned pro a couple years back, huh? Yeah, I think if I remember correctly, it was the 2020 nationals. If he's a welterweight, right? Yeah, it was 2020. He said and he, yeah, welterweight. He's getting bigger. So he's gained a lot of science. Well, the welters for both of us. Both the USA is in Nationals that year were like lights out. And it's like rare that you say, dude, did you see that welterweight class at, I don't know. But like they were like the talk of the show. Like the welters were, and obviously they're always going to be peeled because, you know, they're the cutoff between the middles and the, you know, lightweight and whatnot. But just the conditioning that all of these guys brought in the development, especially in the lower body and from the back, was just incredible. Like three or four of the guys when they came out for their individuals, they turned right around their first shot and they started hitting back shots just because it was that impressive. No kidding. He definitely, yeah, he won this card in a good class. That's cool. Yeah, that's really cool. Yeah, so he said he's going to do his goal. He's working with Andrew Vu, and he's going to do Chicago Pro of next year. So he's taking that time to grow man from 2020 to 2023. That's a, that's a pretty big, you know, that's a pretty good offseason. You have a lot of time to grow. And he was a big guy. We took a picture together. I'll put it up. It doesn't do him justice because his legs are, they're definitely pro quality legs. There's no questions. So they were training legs too. So we got a chance to hang out with him and his training partner Drew, who was like just a couple weeks out from his first show. And I guarantee you, this kid, he's going to have, I don't care who else shows up. He'll have the biggest legs on stage. I think he'll be, I think he was late heavy, but he'll have like, he's got good, this kid's got good legs. And you know, pretty awesome for his first show. It was cool, man. That, that gym is amazing. You know, overall, like, it's a, it's a, it's a curation. And I'm sure that like, Bavs is like that too. It's a curation of equipment. It's not like they're living like, hey, let's just bring, you know, whatever, hammer strength in and just put all hammer. Yeah. So anyway, like I said, we got a bunch of questions. Skip, you're in, is it Milwak? Where are you? Milwakie. Milwakie. What's that, is that a Milwakie hat? Yeah, some of Brewers had it was at the game last night. We got blown up by Philadelphia. And I say we, I'm a fair weather baseball fan. Yeah. Okay. That's why I say, I, yeah, I'm referring to Milwakie. I'm a fair weather baseball fan. I'm just a baseball fan. If I'm in Colorado, I'm a Colorado, Rocky's fan. If I'm in Miami, I'm a Marlin's fan. I just want to see good baseball. So what I'm here, I'd done my Brewers gear. And I sit behind the Philadelphia bench because I want to be closer to the dugout. And it's hard to get to say it's right by Brewer dugout. So it is what it is. That's cool. And I know your daughter is in labor right now. So, you know, fingers crossed. Yes, she was. Last, yeah, she was last night. And they sent her home because she wants to do it natural. She didn't even want to break in her water. Which is cool. It's totally cool. But after she has a couple, she'll be like, I'll take the potatoes and let's get this shit done. Give me the drugs. Right? Yeah. So she said a doctor's appointment right now. They're going to strip her membranes. She's already having contractions five minutes apart. But it's her first one. So it could be still another 42 days. I might be here for a while. I don't know. All right. I think today, I didn't think. Glad you could make it here to knock these shows out. And guys, as I always say, you know, we're all full-time coaches. This is what we do. Skips being coaching for over 20 years. Andrew's been coaching for 14 or more. Now, I'm just behind him at 13. So we're here today to basically share our education with you. Try to help you with these questions to help you do better at this sport. And you don't stay safe in the process. I had to start with this though, because this was a topic that came up over in our group. Joel had asked. He says question for Scott, skip, and all the other prep coaches here. Dusty mentioned the use of one of those instapot pressure cooker things to prep chicken outside of shorter cooking time and possibly a more moist product. Do you see any advantages to using this method over baking chicken? And skipping I got into a heated debate about this. We're not really heated, but we figure we could talk about it. I'm all for it, man. But skip, you're not a fan. I'm just not a fan because I just care more about the prep time. I prep my chicken one week at a time. And I said this when you and I were talking about, I've always approached food during the week as kind of like, and this is outside of skip loading, obviously. But I just approached it as I just, it's going to suck and I'm just going to choke it down. And I liquify whatever made I'm eating and I eat it. Every now and then I'll switch to scallops or something that's tastier if I get, or I eat tuna steaks raw, I eat tuna steaks things like that. But as we all know, that gets a little expensive if you're doing plus, you know, the other thing is to a thing in a carton, dominant carton, where if you eat too much fish, you know, he's a classic case. He got mercury poisoning bad and didn't know what it was till he found out. And we found out it took a while to clean it up and now he's health again. But you have to be careful with your eating things like that too often. So with chicken, I mean chicken zeal would sand by. And so it's easy to prep. You aren't likely to get any toxic effects from it. And I prep that shit once a week. I just don't give a shit what it tastes like. If I was going to eat it meal to meal, then I would do something like, because it would, it would taste better, it'd be moist, it'd be great. And then other people like, like, cooking, you can make it good. I'm not going to spend that much fucking time. That's just me. I'm not not going to do it. You're just not going to do it. You can prep a bunch of shredded chicken for the week the same way you would. Like when I was using it, I was putting like nine or 12 chicken breasts in the thing. And I would use it for the week and just pull out. Was it as moist and fresh as the, you know, when it was first cooked? No, absolutely not. But I think the shredded, well, my whole thing is like, hey, if you like the food, you're going to eat your eating, you're going to stick your plan and you're going to digest it better. Because there is studies that show that when you, when you enjoy or you're looking forward to eating what you're going to eat, you start producing talent, which starts a digestion process. So right off the bat, like if you can get a little bit of digestion from enjoying what you're eating by the manner and you're cooking it, the seasonings you're using, the extra veggies you're adding for flavor and consistency and all that kind of stuff, I'm all for it. The other thing I do, I liked about the shredded chicken was, it was already broken up in the tiny pieces. I'm real big on cut my food up into the tiniest piece as possible. And then just for like the digestion process. So like with the shredded chicken that's already shredded, but then I cut it with my scissors, even more so it's these tiny little morsels. And I do the same thing if I'm doing baked chicken as well. But yeah, I guess my point is that you could absolutely cook a week's worth of shredded chicken the same way you would baked chicken. Skip is old school. That's what this is. Yep. You're, this is one of those moments where people are like, oh, that guy's away. That guy's old school. But really, man, I remember like Dave Pulse and Ella saying like, I don't want flavor. You know, flavors just one more thing that I'd have to think about. I could leave that out in the next thing I know if I had it, then I'm going to need it. And then I'm going to run out and I'm going to want it. And he was like, so it's one last thing I have to deal with. I get that. I get that. I don't have an Instapot. Andrew, do you, you said you do have one, but I don't even know it's a pressure cooker or what is it thing? Yeah, it's a pressure cooker. You can put like nine chicken breasts in there, some water. And you know, it'll cook it in 40, 45 minutes or something like that. And then you just, you know, you take it out, you dump the water out and you take something to mash it up into little pieces and shred it. You know, like, poor, poor, poor. Yeah. Yeah. It comes out to a consistency like that, just without the fat, obviously. I think I should only like. I just do it with my teeth. I don't do this because I'm saying, you know, I'm talking to it. Which makes a good point. It's my first digestion because I, and I don't want to get off on a tangent, but this is important. What you said earlier about making it small and digestion. You do need to be very careful with chewing, you want to basically liquefy your food if you can because there's a predi-justed aspect of the, you know, saliva and everything else that digestion starts in your mouth and it's not just in your stomach. So you do want to liquefy and really to especially meet things that are tougher like that so that it's just assimilated quicker and more efficiently than just choking down. So when I say I'm choking down, chicken is fast as I can. I'm not chewing it in chunks. I have that situation. I think Dusty did too. I'm assuming he did because the problem he had with, when he was in the hospital for song, but I have to liquefy my food anyway because the muscle, the sphincter muscle just before my stomach is very tight. So I will get a backup of food into my esophagus if I don't chew it real well. So which is kind of a benefit people say, well, you could get it fixed. You could get it stretched out any ham and did, usually once a year. Now back when he was, you know, I couldn't do a lot of it because God, that's where to say. But anyway, it forces me to not be quick with eating my food because I have to liquefy which is better for me anyway. Yeah, I have an air fryer and the biggest drawback I see with those things is the amount of food you can cook at once. I got the Ninja XL which you know, used code think where you're at target buying your Ninja. We obviously were unafiliated with them and it has like a bigger pot to it. So that it works better. I can do like at least four chicken breasts but for like big time body builder, you know, diet prep it's not going to get you through your week. That's for sure. But I'm really the answer. And that was my thing, you know, online skip was that I want to be able to make it taste good so that I'm going to be more focused on wanting my food. Because I think like I guess one of the directions I'm going to go with it is I feel like you know, newer people to body building. They can get burnt out really quick, you know, with the foods even with the best intentions. But they don't put any love into, if you don't put any love into your food, you don't make it taste palatable, you don't put like be creative with it. And if you just do the same thing day after day after day, give it two years and there's a chance you're going to quit. Not to mention I feel like I've had foods that I got so burnt out on, they would start making me nauseous just to put them in my mouth. You guys ever have that? Tuna, I can't eat tuna from a can. Like that. I would go, I'd take a bad minute and if I ever had to eat tuna out of a can again. Yeah. Well, when you guys also agree that this is more important in terms of making your food taste good in the off season. Like not when you're just out of the gate from a prep, but we're talking like you're 18 months into an off season. Your show is not for another six or eight months or whatever. And you're at 6,000 calories a day. Like shoveling in, chicken and rice gets really, really old, especially when you're waking up pretty full, your next meal, you're already like man, how am I going to get through this? You're literally sweating. Yeah. How am I going to eat this third meal? And it just goes downhill from there for the day. So I find that you gotta find little tricks and things that are going to make it palatable to you. So you want to eat it. And I was joking around with someone about this the other day. I think it was like, there was nater, something like that. Well, we were on a different podcast for Mountain Dog. And we were joking around about how like, you know, like he was like dude, he's like, I got hungry at two and a half hours and set a three hours. And I'm like, take it. Like, yeah. And you know, because he knows, because he shoveling, you know, his calories are close to six K right now. And okay. Anytime you're in the off season and you're like, you're starting to get hungry in between meals and it's a little earlier than normal. Holy crap. That's like hitting like, you know, double ACEs on on a, you know, poker or something like that. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. And for people that do have digested issues, especially like like IBS, I had learned, you know, in the past few years that the easier it is to digest, going back to like the chewed up thing, the easier it is to digest the less acids and stuff, the less your body has to actually work to get that food broken down. So, you know, there's that element too. Not only that does, does digestion start sooner, but digestion is overall easier if food is very well broken down. So I just went through that in there too. We got a bunch of questions though, guys. Like, like a lot, a lot. So we don't have to go long on all of these. You know, if there's something that it's like, yeah, it's a yes or no thing. We can always do a yes or no. For instance, on this one, we'll start here, this one's from YouTube. And by the way, guys, if you want to take part in the next show, we're going to need questions for it. So comment below. We're not going to like two podcasts at a time. So you'll see this one. You'll see the next one. And then we'll be recording again. So comment with your questions. I'll be collecting them all up for record next. Robby says thoughts on using long aster's into a comp. So I'm not switching to a probe and whatever else. I mean, I absolutely think it can be done. Do I do it? No, I prefer shorter-esters. I'd rather inject daily or every other day at the least. But I don't think there's much of a rule of why you couldn't do it as long as you're controlling your estrogen towards those last two three weeks of the show. Yeah. Do you remember there were out two? Yeah. I was just asking. I asked what you did. Yeah. Yeah. I feel the same way. It's funny. It's a situation right now where I have switched to shorter wrestlers. And for this happens every now and then, I just don't tolerate them well. A lot of pain at the injection site. And here's the thing. People say, well, we tend to jump to, well, it's the, you know, Benzloch, Hall and, you know, Hall, it's put together. But it's this situation isn't because I always split my shots because of volume. I like to go every day. Like if I am injecting Monday, Wednesday Friday, just as an example, I will go left right Monday, left right Tuesday, or Wednesday and left right Friday. All my shots are split in half. So if I hit doubts, I hit left and right. If I hit quads, I hit left and right. And I will put one in, you know, same erectus femurs. And the right will be absurdly sore in the left won't. Or I put it into my, you know, my doubts or my rear doubts. And it's just sometimes I just don't tolerate them very well for whatever reason. And I actually had to cut that and go back, switch back to a little bit longer esters. Sometimes to it's also the, what I want to say, the ratio. So, you know, if I get predominantly short ester than it sometimes can be more painful to and not just myself, but other people. So there, there sometimes has to be a balance in there of what you can tolerate. I can play into, I mean, to the point where, you know, I'll be sore for, you know, sometimes five days or something. So it doesn't happen very often, but I prefer the short esters too. I just think that, I don't know, they're easier to control. The more you're able to control and keep your blood levels stable, then obviously you're going to be able to keep any type of estrogen kickback a little bit more stable as well. And you don't want to ride that roller coaster anymore and you want to. I'm surprised that both you guys do. I'm not, I'm the opposite. And, you know, from my personal experience, the long grade competed, the more gear I would use, that I found the easier it was to get higher volumes of milligrams in with less milliliters of oil. But then I, I've kind of gone to that extreme other end of using low doses. And a lot of the clients that I work with are guys that aren't, you know, they're using, you know, what we would call a very moderate stuff for contest perhaps. But we still stay with the long esters. I don't have a problem with them. You know, I just, I, my look, my thought is like, if we're doing good with it, well, let's continue to ride that out, no reason to change it. And we, we may still do, like, okay, for instance, the only real fast acting injectable that I like to use regularly is trend and that, you know, trend ace. I don't like using trainee in a prep. Like, you know, we'll start a contest prep out with tests adding a fat burner, like, clen, later in the prep maybe eight weeks, start adding in, like a long acting master on and then ride all the way in with that. And then I'll add that last like six weeks, four weeks. That's where we could add in that fast acting trend. So if, if you had a guy who was using, like, you know, 500 mast in the 750 test, you can get that in, you know, three, you can get that in, like, five milliliters. It's, it's less oil, I guess, you know, and then it's a good question. And one more thing, and then we'll split up to every other day, protocols, when we add that trend in. So it ends up being like, you know, much less, because you only need, like, say, a half milliliter a test and a half a milliliter a mast around and then a half of, you know, so it's like a one, it's like a 1.5 milliliter shot every other days. You know, a lot of times when it comes out to you. So he keeps that volume down. Guys, you have to ask you a question. No, so let's say you make the determination at, like, I don't know, two weeks or 10 days out that you, that you don't, you want to pull the test off to run. Uh, I guess my reasoning with the faster, faster acting testosterone with, with the shorter Esther, I should say, is that when you pull it, you know, it's gone the next day for the most part, right? Yeah. Whereas the longer Esther, look, now you got to, like, wait five, six, seven days until it's really cleared to an appreciable level that's considered pulling your test if you get what I'm saying. Yeah, I, I feel like I don't really pull the test a lot, honestly. Okay. So I don't really pull the test a lot and I feel like if you do, and you were to pull it two weeks out or even say, like, even say, like, the last 10 days, I think you can just by not giving the person more, you know what I mean? That you can let those levels at least not continue to build up and they're coming down into the show. But I, I generally don't, I guess you know what the other thing is, I'm not really pushing test super hard anyway so that that's probably part of it too. But yeah, I don't do that. And I know that as of, it was like probably five, six years ago, other, other coaches that were, you know, really highly regarded in body building were of that same mindset. So that's why I find it interesting. I do that and you guys don't, you guys, you guys prefer the fast directing stuff. Well, there's more and more highly regarded though. I mean, let's be fair here. No, but you may be good point about total dosage too, because obviously, you know, the volume of the shots can plays a big part too. So there has to be some balance there because, you know, it comes back to the risk of getting off an attention. I'll be careful with this. But, you know, I've argued before that the amount of oil that is injected has to be metabolized by the body. So there has to be some, you know, if you inject fat, which essentially you're injecting oil, it has to be metabolized by the body at some point. So I, you know, I assume, and I have nothing to back this up or prove it other than, I guess, just simple logic. But if you're eating fat or you're injecting fat, the body has to metabolize and break it down. So so if you're taking in a lot of high volume oil to some degree, the body has to metabolize that. So, I don't want to say it has to play into the diet directly because that's a very simple or an over-simplified explanation, but it's got to play into it, some degree. So if you're talking 20 mill of short-assers versus amuse an arbitrary numbers, you know, or six mill for long-assers, there's a very, very huge difference or a huge contrast between the amount of oil that you're injecting. The other thing is, is the more oil that you inject. I think that sometimes there can be that, that look where it's your injection site. So you're putting them all into your shoulders. You're probably not going to have that thin paper, that paper thin skin in that area that you would have. So then it comes back to a lot of different injection sites with shorter, if you're going shorter-assers or more voluminous injections, you got to get creative. My wife hates putting shots in my rear delts, but I absolutely fucking love it because it's like butter or laughs or anything. And they hold really well versus, you know, places that you use all the time, sometimes can what I call seepers, they end up seeping and then they end up halfway down your arm. If you put it in your delts, it's, it's, it's just sitting in there. We're just hitting nerve and end up, you know, more slimmed, you know. Yeah, but if you hit the same spot over and over, you've basically killed all the nerves in that area. So there comes a guy that we're hitting out of the nerve. Oh, yeah. Oh, God. Oh, yeah. Yeah, and I think I had to client just do it. You have to. You have to. Yeah. I'll tell you what's worse. Yeah. Hit, take a shot. This is only happened twice in my life. And I've done gear for a long time. Put a, uh, it happened both times in my shoulder. Start to put that bitch in and literally, it feels like batter-ass had going to your lungs. It's been up your shoulder in your, like, what the fuck rip that bitch out and it hurts so bad. I'll be fucking punching that bitch. I tried to distract myself from the pain. It's horrible. And if you lay it in there, you don't know me. It's in there. Yeah. It's funny because your brain goes, like you're registering that it's not right? You're like, what the fuck? By the time you realize you're like, oh, shit, you're just getting it out because you know it's going to get, and then you're like panic because you're like, this is just not going to be good when it gets to where it's going. This is not good. So you decided to quit steroids that day, didn't you? Yeah. I did, within the next day, I came back to him. I'm in a flater. You did the other side. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. We had to, I was just doing that other side too. I'm like, god damn, I don't want that down again. We had a listener who, because we had talked about that before, like what happens to the oil, do you metabolize here? He had said, he explained that it doesn't, it is not used the same way. I can't remember the explanation. I don't really know whether it was true or not. But he had said that no, we don't process it like we would have digested fat. So I'm not sure. Well, I would like to, I'd like to, you know, hear what that explanation is. It has to be metabolized and so it just has to. It gets to the other side. So, right, it has to. So then I just look at it and I just think how can it not, now I'm not saying that it is wrong. And all I'm saying is I want to hear what that explanation is so that, you know, I can think to myself, okay, that's logical. I guess that makes sense. I'm not saying I'm right. I'm saying is I have not heard anyone explain it in a way that I go, okay, then that wouldn't, that wouldn't, you know. You know who is, no, you know who would know. Scouts Stevenson. No question. Yeah, I should ask him. Yeah, but think about it. Glissarol and fatty acids attached to the anabolic. Like it has, it's got to be digested and absorb somehow. The other thing though, I would kind of bring up was that the SEO oils. There's a lot of speculation that, you know, people that have been having some issues with their lungs or, you know, embalisms and whatnot. It's because the oil eventually does, even to the bloodstream and then it collects and fills in the lung tissue and causes some major issues. I could see that. Thank you for tuning into another podcast here at Think Big Body Building Media. If we've provided value to you today, then please consider contributing to our show. You can help support the show through Patreon. Every $5 helps to pay for the software and the hardware and everything else that goes into making a podcast. You can also contribute by using our code at True Nutrition. True Nutrition has been our title sponsor for several years now. I'm super grateful for them and I've believed in true nutrition supplements long before they sponsored our programming. You could use our code. Thank you for health supplements and performance supplements. Feel free to hit me up if you have any questions. And if you're in Canada, check out SupplementsSource.ca. They have free shipping over $99. Huge discounts on overstock, short dated and label change products plus they have all your normal supplements too. Thank you guys for listening to the commercial. I hope you're having a great day and that your body building is going well. Let's get back to the show. Alright. Get a move on here. Vic has won for us. He says, oh, this is just a comment. We were talking about our favorite brands. Like if you could, like, I'll finish it with one brand of coming. He said, I don't want to sound like the side backs sales guy here. But again, but, yeah, but again, makes me sad not hearing any mention on this legendary brand. Which is a point, man. Side X has been around for a long time. They're like in every gym, you know. You have to be kind of bigger for a brand. Yeah. Which is the main great equipment overall. I will say the Hacksquat is a pain. It's a hard Hacksquat. You guys don't talk about it. It's a joke. I hate it. The drag is horrible on it. Even when they're brand new. It's sticky. Some side backs equipment is, yeah, exactly. I don't know if it's the bearing, the bearings are. But even when they were newer, even when, like back in the 80s and early 90s, they just weren't much better. I don't think it's bad equipment. I just think there's better equipment. I would say, you know, you could say they're like the brand that we all take for granted, you know. They kind of, they have, you know what I really like is the side backs 1990s, early 90s Smith machine. Those are nice machines. The older stuff I do prefer. I don't like any of the newer side backs stuff. It just seems to commercial gym health club. It does. Like a lot of life shows. Yeah. Yeah, exactly. Do you think like some of their cable stations, you know, like a little functional trainer, cable station they have, it's like kind of set up like a half octagon. Oh, God. Yeah. Yeah. Those are kind of weird. It's a little too close together. Like if you spread it out, just like another two feet, a guy like my size can get in there and do a lot of stuff with it, you know. We had a bunch of those machines, like, where it was like an enclosed octagon. And then on the outside of it would be like a bench to do like an overhead tricep, you know, extension. And the other side would be another machine. And you know what I'm talking about? It was kind of weird. Those were kind of weird. Yeah. I feel like they've kind of gone the direction of trying to make like fitness machines for like health clubs, hotels. Yeah. You know what I mean? Like not the kind of stuff that we would absolutely like fall in love with. Like it gets a job done. But just kind of like made for maybe a different audience, I guess. Overall. How about this? How about this? Is VHS and Sybex's beta? Oh, did I probably date it myself? You guys are like, what's that? But, you know, back during the, yeah, okay. We know. We can sure just make a sure. All right. You don't want to rewrite their body. See that's very nasty. What's this one here? Okay, comment for the algorithm. Seriously though, thanks for the great content. Plus question for the next show. Thank you for the comment. You guys, all your comments helped to boost the show up. So please comment. Anything you got? We'd love to hear it. Submitted. Let's see. Submitted. The decade one question. I'm gonna say. One question. Deca 200 and test 400. Some context, hope this doesn't become like homework. Been training for 15 years now. Been competing in men's physique as a nattice in 2014. Obviously hit my nattice limit. Fast forward started 200, test 200 milligrams or TRT. Last August, 2021 saw my results. But after digging deeper, I jumped on blast and cycle 400 milligrams on November. Run that for 15 weeks, stopped in March. And then back to 200 tests. Currently cutting down in 200 milligrams of test and 25 milligrams of anovar for eight weeks. I'd like to run this second cycle, put some tissue, and would hope to compete next year in local men's physique show. So what was the question in this? Did you remember when we were playing with the same? What's the cycle? What's the cycle? He was asking if, because he had done 400 tests before, I think he was asking, is adding 200 milligrams of Deca the next appropriate step for him and his PD. Oh, I guess. And we had all said 200 milligrams of Deca is not really going to do all that much. Might as well just either bump your test up or bump your Deca to a concomment, like a 400 milligrams of that as well. I think we were all in agreement about that. Yeah. Would you guys still feel that way with having had more information about him? I would. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Or I would say if he results with 400 tests, why not go 500, 600 milligrams of tests and maybe 50 migs of anovar, and see how he does with that? OK. That'd be, I'm not a huge fan of Deca personally. So I would rather do 50 migs of, I'd rather bump the test and do a little bit more anovar in shorter bursts than at Deca. And that's just me. We'll take this one really quick. This is from Matt Blavins. How do I find local shows and please don't say Google? I'm going to say Google, go to your local state. Well, find your state NPC website. They'll have all the info there. We'll just type in New York NPC or, yeah, Wisconsin NPC and the page will show up. But we guys got to understand, there's like maybe 10 or 15 promoters slash chairman that control most of the continental U.S. Like for instance, D. Wineberger has Vermont, New Hampshire, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey. So down south, I think Tim Gardner has like Florida and like, maybe Georgia too. And then, tray Bennett has the Carolinas. Gary has Pennsylvania. I think Ohio and a few other states. My point being is once you find like who the promoter slash chairperson is in your area, it's pretty easy because they're going to have all the shows in their region on the website. Right. Yeah. Here in Michigan, you just go to the, I think it's like Michigan, NPC.com. And we have all the promoters, you know, all the list. It's just like the whole state and it shows you all the shows. So good question. A lot of people probably wonder that who are newer. Um, question for the next show. Any, uh, have any of you had clients that have had to stop prepping because of a lack of support from family. I'm barely into my 16 week prep for my show. It's kind of a bucket list thing already. My wife is giving me a very hard time about the diet and training, even though my schedule hasn't changed much. I'm worried that it's bad now. If it's bad now, it can imagine what it's going to be like at three weeks out. If I were your client, should I push through and do the show, knowing it won't be my very best or call it a lost dream. Who the fuck in brutal class? You're very best. Well, I can tell you, I mean, this comes up quite a bit and I have clients asking this all the time. I'm sure you guys do to the more I think about it. So, um, it is incredibly difficult to prep, especially when you're newer to prepping and competing. If you don't have the support, um, oddly enough, uh, or maybe it's not odd, but when you're new to it, you typically won't have the support because they don't understand the process and it, I'm going to be honest here. It becomes a little, uh, obviously the, the act of prepping can be very selfish in the sense that there are things you're not going to be able to do or not want to do. You're not going to want to, you know, go out to dinner and have drinks with your wife or your girlfriend and you're probably not going to want to go out and take your kids to, you know, a food related shit and a lot of what we do as far as going out is focused around food and drinking. What you, what you should do is a competitor, especially if you have a family, is you need to take one for the team in the sense that you don't want to inconvenience or change the people around you's lifestyle any more than you have to. So put that discipline to work and still do the things that you would normally do, but don't consume the food, don't consume the alcohol. That means you might sit there during a meal that you have your family out and and you don't eat or you eat prior to going and then you, you can still, you know, it, I almost get frustrated, not if this person is asking the question, but I get frustrated sometimes that people who want to do this and they want to compete, but they're not able to, like they feel like that is just asking too much. Well, I don't want to be around alcohol because I'm going to want to drink it. Well, you're in a sport that demands discipline 24, 24, 7. So if you don't have it, then do something else. But if you don't have that support for your family, and they're just totally against it and think what you're doing is stupid, I would never tell somebody to go find a different partner. That's for you to figure out. But I can't even imagine not having someone in my corner that is supportive of me and I, I'm just saying, if it were me, I'm not telling anybody, if it were me, I'd be questioned who I'm with and why they don't, why they're not supportive of what I'm doing unless you're again, not trying to be as accommodating as you possibly can to keep things normal and still do things. If you're just lounging around the couch because you're just so smoked from Prap and oh my god, I'm starving in this sucks. Then yeah, that's not very fair to the people. You still have, you still owe them something. They don't owe you anything. It's what you want to do. But if you're, if this is what you want to do and this you're drinking, I say you fucking do it. I mean, you do it and you, to say that it's not going to work. You're not going to be at your best. Be at your best. Do everything the way you're supposed to do. And at least that way you're going to show the commitment to the people around you and maybe they'll take you seriously or more seriously about your devotion and your passion and your commitment to what you're doing. And then they'll be on board and respect it more. But if you're going to, if you're going to cave to your friends or to your family and all, well, I'm going to go out and eat. I couldn't help it because you know, I was out, then that's on you because they're going to expect you to cave all the fucking time. Yeah, go out with them. Yeah. I just have two quick things. I had first, just skip kind of started talking about it. But you just got up pulled your end of the bargain in terms of things around the house. You know, just because your imprep doesn't mean household chores or driving the kids to baseball or whatever else. It is that it was your normal responsibility. Those don't go away. So you got to make bodybuilding work around that. And secondarily, this was a John Meadows thing. He, you know, he talked about it a lot. Was, sit your family down, your wife especially if that's the case in this situation. And same, like this is what I need to do for the next 16 weeks to, you know, reach my, you know, to fulfill a goal that I've had. And yes, there's going to be times where I'm just a little more quiet. I'm not as sociable. I'm not as talkative. I'm not mad at you at all. But um, and I'm going to make it up to you after the show. And then absolutely make it up to them. So whether it's taking a monovocation or, you know, whatever we're going to go out to dinner, we're going to do this. Like do all those things that you promise that you're going to do. So that you're getting that feet that that give and take on the other end for that 16 weeks through your prep. Yeah. I think that's important. And I think if your partner goes out and sleeps with someone else, it's not on them. It's on you. So you might want to get your wife a boyfriend or something to keep rock, you'll probably like your friend. I think you guys both touch on something that's really important. And that is that like you need to still be the best you can be, you know, and still give. Because I think that it can be easy to be like, oh, my, I'm proud. But I don't want to do that, you know, you know, you know, and you still can't. Because I've had people tell me like, oh, well, I don't want to go to a restaurant if I can't eat the food I want to eat. You know, the real idea is if you're 16 weeks out, and I've had people that are in this position, and you know, we've come up with plans where like you can still order a chicken breast. You know, there might even be a little bit of oil on that chicken breast that we didn't want in the plan. But right now, in our, in our, my relationship with this client, I tell them like, I know that you can handle that. Like, it's not going to make or break you if we do this this once. This one time on a Saturday night because your wife enjoys your company. You got to, you got to remember too, because like in our society, we are so conditioned. Like you said, skip like, all we do is want to like, we go out and we eat, we go out and we drink. Like, what do we do when we go out on a date? Data's food. What do we do when we celebrate our birthday? We go out to eat. What do we do when our families get together for Christmas? We eat. We have such like a connection, you know, to food. It's that emotional connection. And it's really important to be able to, to remember that it's not about the actual food. It's not about eating a cheeseburger. It's about spending that quality time with that, that the person, you know, actually, but other people are weird. And if you're not taking part in what they're doing, a lot of times they're bothered by it, especially when it comes to alcohol. It's almost like why are you not drinking? It's like misery loves company to a certain degree. It's like, well, if you're not going to, I've had people tell me that they, your friends won't go out with them if they're not going to drink. Do you need different friends? Like, what, either that or you suck when you're not drinking. Yeah. If you're so fun hanging out with what you're drinking and you suck when you're not drinking, you should probably drink. I just, I just, I'm just going to say that through reflection more on them, though. There's no question. Maybe a jealousy or, wow, this person has this different, like, I say it this way because like, and you probably see it locally, like, when you're coming up as a coach or a competitor, everyone's cheering you're on when you're, you know, this guy. But when you really start to hit a big, the story starts to hurt. Start to come out where like, people make stuff up like, oh, he does this with his clients, like something bad. Yeah. Yeah. He does that. You know what I'm saying? Like, as you gain that notoriety and use you get further up the ladder in the success chain, people start to like, try to pull you down a little bit. And I don't, I think some of these cases spouses are no different. I, I, I, I worked with a guy. And yeah, I'm going to say this because I am sure he's not listening, and it's his wife's not listening. But this is like, this is, I, I told this story on body bling nerds radio, like literally in the first month of ever recording a podcast, and he heard it and she heard it. And she tore me up because I didn't name her. I didn't name her. What is a guy who's a good friend of mine? Oh, the wife's here. She was bringing me a drink. Oh, it's like, it's the life. The life. Thank you very much. I appreciate it, Tor. So this guy, though, he, um, he decides he's going to do a prep. Like I said, long time friend of mine is actually in doing through high school, reconnected with him at the gym. And I'm helping him for it. And his, his girlfriend at the time was just not, they're still together. They, she was not into the idea. And she's tried to start sabotaging him. So she'd be like, he's on the way home from when you come in home from the, he had to work like 12 hours. Like a long shift, hard work. And then he'd go to the gym and still do everything he needed to do. And she'd be like, well, when you're coming home from the gym, pick me up, armies, and pick me up this. Pick me up that. And before you notice, like, uh, you know, when you're coming home from the gym, go stop at dairy queen, pick me up a banana split. And so he was like, he started looking at this as like a test and being like, yeah, I can get that big arbeise and sitting in the car. And I'm starving at low calories and I'll just do it. You know, he ended up passing every one of these tests and not cracking. And finally, and we didn't know if he was going to make it or not. Because he had had some other issues and stuff. And we didn't know how it was going to work out. And it was a little bit on the fence, whether he was going to compete. And then finally, like three weeks out, I saw him at the gym. And he was absolutely like peeled. Like we nailed it. Like we fucking nailed it. We went in the locker room. I look at it. And he's like just all fucking just like striations through his face kind of guy. You know, I know what I was like, do your fucking ready. Like we're going to do this thing. So like plan on it. And then that night, she said, no, she said it's either the show or it's me. She didn't want him going back stage. She didn't want other women putting the tan on him. Oh, she was afraid that him getting in this kind of shape and him doing the bodybuilding show was going to change him. And that he would, you know, obviously there were some fucking issues there. So well, of course he's going to look at somebody else because the other people aren't eating our bees and looking nasty and amazing, too. But you didn't need to be very clean and our bees the entire time. Now he's in shape, you're sitting over here looking dumpy. I get it. Instead, I totally get it. Well, you know, I hope he dumped her. Yeah, she is listening. Just a little caveat. Just to be fair to her because I had a client just like that. We started out as just a general client, you know, needed to lose 50 pounds to look halfway decent. And we did that and then we kept going and going until he did this for a show. And then the ego started. This was a guy who was married to kids. And okay, so like he divorced his wife. I think it didn't like a few months for competing. Started cheating, like, cerealally started, um, I think he's been engaged in like, the mortgage, engaged married in divorce like three times since then. It's only been like a year. Oh, God. Like, though. So, but my point, he started like cereal dating women, cereal cheating, cereal, and it really went to his head. And even like said to Rachel one time, like at the gym, like, how do you deal with it? And she's like, what? And he's like, all the, all the DMs and you must get, you know, when he's in shape and, you know, all the girls he must be getting with. And she's like, what the fuck are you talking about, you know? So just yeah, she was onto something. Yeah, she was onto something. Maybe something in this guy before that he was, he was very humble. Like I said, he was a friend of mine. He was a, he was a humble guy. You know, who knows? I've seen that happen before, though, like somebody competes and then you know, men and women both that they get into, you know, stage condition. Yeah. Yeah. How many, um, how many people have you guys worked with who were like first time or bikini competitor? And then after, you know, a few years, then they're like, they need a new coach because they, like, they, you know, they need to like up their game and they got to be part of it. Like team, you know, accident, sorry, whatever. I don't know. Yeah, that's a big thing. Right. How many people have you guys prepped and then halfway through or three quarters away through the prep, they're talking about divorce or their spouse is talking about divorce. And then within two weeks after the show, when they go back to being normal, then all of a sudden, everything is fine again. I've had that happen so many times. I've told my wife this before over the years and that you guys pricing is too. A lot of times when someone is going to make whether men, uh, men or women, they're going to make a dramatic lifestyle change. A lot of times they're on their way out. They're making that change because they're going back out on the market and you can't get late as easily when you're dumping, you're not in good shape. So they, they play it out while they're getting into great shape and then they're out. I have, I don't know how many times I'm went. This this woman is losing. She's lost 45 friends. Friends of mine. They're pounds of like, she's on the way out. My wife's like, no, then she's on the way out. Yeah, I've seen that. I've seen that more than that. That's for sure. So maybe we could tell this question, you know, the the answer, you know, answer this question by saying, make sure you refer to your wife that that's not the situation. That's not kind of better yourself to go and, you know, find someone else. You're doing this strictly for yourself. I can't be tough though. You know, if you're in a relationship and one person decides to better themselves, it can cause, you know, it can cause the other person to feel, you know, to feel that way. I, I was in a relationship with a girl, after I had, cause I was married before after I had gotten divorced. She was in the industry. She had, she had like, she was like, why are you getting into shape? You know, you don't need to, you don't need to get into shape. You know, she was like trying to hold me back. It was, it was weird, man. But it was weird. What else do we got here? All right. It says, uh, outstanding show guys, always love, uh, always great info and love the additions of Chase Iron, uh, Andrew and Nate. Quick question for the board. Does anyone have experience with using UGL injectables that have been stored properly, but have gone close to a year or more past expiration? Would it, uh, theoretically be safe to use an oil-based UGL brand trend ace that is expired or should it be tossed? First. You can toss it out. Let's be honest. No one is throwing gear away. We're going to try it. And this is more of a question. We're going to see what happens. I mean, you know, and correct me if I'm wrong, but I always look at the expiration dates, especially on tabs, it's just more of a, like, in a obligatory date that they have to put on it. I've used tabs and powders that have been five or six years old and I've noticed no fucking difference. They could probably go longer than that. I think when it comes down to an injectable, it's more about the quality and who put it to, you know, who, what those quality control parameters were, I'm going to trust it a couple. And it comes down to storage, too, if you're storing them in a cool place and it's not in sunlight and that sort of thing. Obviously, you're going to check to see if, you know, it's crystallization or eight crystals or anything going on there, but I'm going to be honest and I'm going to say, you know, call me a dumbass, but I'm going to try some and I'm going to see, but I'm not going to hesitate if it's, if it's a year or two, shit, please, I've done that too many, too many times. What disrupts hormones? He, he tends cold sunlight electricity, as long as it's not exposed to those things and it's been kept in a, you know, very temperature controlled sunlight ridden, you know, covered, you find, you know, you might want to just, you might want to heat it up, you know, just in case there was like any bacteria in there before you stored it, allowed it not to propagate what I probably ought. I just use it. I know, you know, B.A. tends to take care of things like that and there should be enough in there, but, you know, you still want to be, here's the thing, I don't want to tell somebody from a liability standpoint, hey, yeah, go ahead, just hit it because of something where to happen and you end it up with anocratic, you know, blisters and shit coming out of your glutes or your delts, I'm going to feel pretty bad about that. I'm just telling you what I would do and I'd fucking use it. Yeah. What about he, he, he, he says also expired premo, that has been crystallized, not sure if they're safe or should just be tossed at this point. I don't think crystallization is anything to do with it being bad. It just may have crashed. I mean, I had DHB crash all the time. He did up, shake it up, boom, hit it. Yeah. I agree. Here's another one actually, you guys might find interesting because, you know, we're like, we've been taught that peptides, you know, whether it's insulin, G.A., or whatever, you mix it, you need to use it within a certain timeframe, right? So I tested that. I purposely mixed it and I had to test it with something that I knew I would feel and I, and I used in a land of tans because, you know, you get a stomach ache when you take that. So I mixed them up and I purposely left it in the fridge saying, okay, I'm going to test this out three months and see if it's still good. Well, I actually forgot it was in there and it was more like nine months later when I got around to pulling it back out when I noticed it. And I took the shot and within five minutes, I had the nausea feeling. So just for people out there, if you think like, all you mix the bottle of melanotan, I don't know if this would apply to growth hormone. I don't know if it would apply to insulin that you've been using. But I'm just saying that maybe as long as you're keeping it in the temperature controlled situation, you're not shaking it, you're not rattling it. Some of these peptides that we mix up might last longer than we think they do. I think they're one. Oh, you go ahead. You're going to want to send my nut. And one thing to that because it's funny because I did the melanotan the same way. My thing is, I never storm a melanotan in the fridge. I literally keep it my drawer and because I have never once in all the time I've been using melanotan and I'm pretty much a professional melanotan user. I have never seen a difference. I'll say this after it goes like a couple months, like a month or so, it might be a little weaker. But it never dies. So I'm thinking damn, and then I tried to equate it like you were to growth hormone. Thing is with GH, you're not really gonna know for sure. So at least with melanotan, you feel something. Yeah, but so I do keep my growth in the fridge. I'm very, very careful with that. And it's a little more expensive than melanotan. I guess depending on where you get it from. Because some places are ridiculous. But nonetheless, it's not as bad as growth. But that's funny that you say that because if one peptide is not necessarily degrading, it's what you have to wonder about the other ones too. I can tell you that melanotan is not nearly as complex of a peptide switch. So there's that. Yeah, great. But I've done the same thing as both of you guys. I had a vial of melanotan that was mixed in the refrigerator for two years. Oh, that's so cool. Yeah, yeah, that's so cool. Yeah, I used to use to use to. You still felt nausea. Yeah, yeah, it still worked. Like it was legit. Because like I picked melanotan, because I wanted to test this peptide theory out about like how long you can store them or how how quickly they need to be used. And I was like, okay, melanotan is something you feel instantly when you take it. Right. So this would be the best one to use. So you're saying you use melanotan. You felt the nausea two years later. Two years. That's two years. Oh, yeah, that's a. It was around that period of time. And the reason that I actually even thought to do it was I remembered here in Aaron Singerman on his podcast back when he used to just be a bro. He had, you know, iron empire radio with PJ Brown. And he had said that he had a vial of melanotan that was mixed. And it was in his suitcase. And it was like, rattle and around in there for God about it. It had like he didn't even know what trip it was from. And he found it some period later. And it was like, oh, there's a mixed vial in melanotan. Let me see if it works. And he was like, and it still worked. You know, just sitting in the suitcase all that time. I'd be more worried about that. I have a plan. Faking. Yeah, I'm in a relationship. Yeah. I have a plan to three up here though. I'm going to microwave a vial. Let's see if it works. That's about both of you. I'm not going to be outdone. Well, we're talking about peptides real quick. Yeah. He was telling me that he sent a client of his to a, uh, like an online, uh, you know, HRT type pharmacy clinic. Yeah. And they were describing them all this stuff. Guess how much the I permorelin was that they wanted to wanted to charge him for. How much? $1,800 of bottle. Oh my god. I'm like, it's times like that. I hope karma truly is a thing. Because that's just luckily. Luckily he had Nate being like dude. That's a fucking waste of money. I can get jack for more than 40 bucks. Like that's crazy. Yeah. You can get real, uh, you can get anchor likes for way, you know, cheaper than you get. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You get the Sarah stand. You can get, you know, all this other, let's raise it up. That's terrible. Yeah. Uh, by the way, I mean, on a silent check him out, code, think they're back. There's there. The other site was down the other day. I had orders from stuff. And I had to wait a day or two. Was it was that when we talked about it, like a few weeks ago? Where was that again? I think it was down like, you know what? No, I sorry. I ordered and then I checked the next day because I was going to send a product to a client. Yeah. And I kept on typing the website in and it wasn't loading. And I was like, oh, I explained to him because a lot of times I think the web posters don't like to what they realized what the products are that these companies are selling. They canceled their contract or whole them for a while until they acquired another another hosting server. I would imagine that's what it was. It's a constant cat and mouse game. So I think that was when you message to me and I was explaining that yeah, that they'd probably gotten pulled, but then that they went back up now and it's dot. Get a knock up today. So yeah. All right. Cool. Uh, what do we got time for here? Do we have time for one more? One more? What about uh, what about some Sissy squads? David posted this up. This got heated. Did it? I didn't even look. I thought he had a bunch of comments on it. Well, this one did. Dave, well, is it the same one? I don't know. Anyway, never did the Sissy squads. These never did those Sissy squads before started last month and crazy thing. I believe it helped with my knee pain. Anyone doing those? How would you fit them in? I believe John used to superset them with legs. I think Skip Hill mentioned them as well. I do. Let me get this this quick point out of the way first. I tire of the people who want to argue that that's not a Sissy squat. It's not in the sense that it's not in old school. Sissy squat. I get that. But God damn it. It's a Sissy squat piece of equipment. That's how people know it. That's how it's labeled. So as far as I'm concerned, there's two Sissy squads. There's the old school one that really is more of a stretch to the rectus femurus. We know that you go up on the balls of your feet, you lean back. It's old school. But this is still a Sissy squat piece. What's important here? And one of the guys pointed this out. It's the angle at the hip as to whether the rectus femurus is being stretched or how much. And I agree with them. I just think it's funny. The internet is funny because when there's a ton of condescension, you don't help. Like he had good in from it. He had a good point and it was he was correct. But when you just even put subtle condescension in there, it just doesn't help to get the point across because you're kind of belittling. It's almost like you're trying to want it's like me coming in and pointing out hetero graphs or solosisms when people post something that they use the wrong word. It's just me trying to want up you going, come on, get on your fucking grammar game. It's the same shit so one's no more right than the other. But it just doesn't help. So yes, that piece is fucking awesome. I can't use it. I personally think and I wonder what you guys think. I honestly think that Sissy squat piece of equipment is every bit is good if not better. I'll say it's better than leg extensions for rectus femurus. Tell me it wrong. I can't I can't disagree with that. I do. I think it's fucking I think it's great. I think it's equally as difficult on the knees again. It's the angle at the hip because the more you're going to stretch, I guess what I'm saying so that you so that the listeners understand what I'm saying when I say angle at the hip. If you're upright or even slightly back you're going to get more of a stretch of the rectus femurus based on the hip position. If you're leaning forward, you're not going to get as much of a stretch because it does turn into more of a squat. Is it still working it is? But not to the degree. I mean, all you have to do is lean back a little bit and tell me the next day after doing them for the first time that you're just not so fucking crippled soar down the middle of your quad, the top middle part of your quad that you don't even want to flex that damn muscle. You're going to feel it is going to be pretty obvious. And when you first start out if you're not that strong, you're not going to be able to have as advantageous of an open angle at the hip because you just don't typically have the strength to be able to. It's funny, not even just a strength, but when you first do this exercise, you don't trust the piece, the piece of equipment because you feel like you're just going to fall over backwards. It just doesn't feel right. And there's one more thing. If you can't adjust the foot pad position, there are some shitty, shitty Sissy squat machines where the foot pads are too far forward and they are dangerous on the knee. It's a horrible, horrible position for the knee to be put in and it makes it when they're forward too far forward like when you can't adjust them. It it makes it almost impossible to have the correct angle with the hip anyway. So if you can't adjust those foot pads, I'm going to say don't even fucking use it because I've never seen one that's not adjustable that is in the correct or more advantageous position to be able to open up the hip and really stretch on the rectus femurs. There was a lot there. Sorry. I like to do them with a band. So I think that's a great idea. As upright as possible, I'm not cheating cheating. I'm not changing the exercise target from from my for more or less to the other card muscles. So I can say upright and take it a little bit just a little bit of my body weight off so I can do the exercise straight up and down. And I think if you do that. Okay, so let me ask you to do that. Go with that resistance band, with that resistance band, where do you anchor? Do you want more pull going straight up or do you want the pull coming this way so that when the hips come forward? Yeah, because I try to avoid it. I'm not sure which one I like better. I actually think I like it better behind me so that when my hips come forward, it's almost like a glue because when you're doing the exercises, not a lot of glue. It's primary. I mean, it's like damn your 99%. In the reason I know that is when I had a torn glue, it was one of the few exercises I could do where I was actually bending at the hip and it didn't bother my glutes and all the while I was having that torn glue. I put the band in front of me, but I see what you're saying about the band. In front of you, okay, I got you. Just just so it's more so to take some of my body weight off so that I don't cheat the exercise. So I don't just very good. I lean forward to make it easier if you get what I'm saying. Like 100% yeah, 100% target the intended tissue and not cheat the movement at all. So I turned it into like a squat. I assume it was for added resistance. It's falling in right now. It's falling forward. Is what you're saying? Is it around your waist then? Yeah. Okay. So yeah, too. It's almost like I can lean back against it. Yes, yes. You could hang out to it. Or I was just going to say the other thing we've done is we've held on because like when they put bars on their back and they're trying to do like 135 doing that. Yeah, but they're bent over like this. I'm like, why aren't you just squatting then, dude? Because now you're now you've added a whole danger component to it where you can't drop the bar off of. You know what I mean? Like you're moving in the squat position anyway. So why are you making this more complicated? To me, the Sissy squat should be done with like body weight or even less body weight, less than your body weight. To really just target that tissue that normally doesn't get hit from leg extension squats, like press the other exercises. Yeah. I like that. I like that. I'll have to try that next time I do some Sissy squats. All right. Well, it's a controversy, by the way, before we close out. What was the controversy? Was it just a condensation kind of in explaining anatomically what to do or yeah, it wasn't, I guess it wasn't huge drama. I don't want to make it out to be more than what it was, but it was you're asking about the hit. Basically, people just tend to want to say they just can't stand that that piece is considered a Sissy squat. And I understand why in the sense that it doesn't encourage you to keep that angle to hip open more. It is misused a lot and that I agree with. But I think it's a lot of older school guys because the old school Sissy squat coming up on the balls of your feet and staying back, you know, more. I don't do it one hand. I don't hang on one side. Hold a plate with one hand. Hold on. That to me is one crooked. It's not symmetrical. So I'm going to hang on to like okay, check us out. I would tell people to do it this way. If you have a, there could be a million exercises or pieces that you could use, but if seated hammer, leg curl, put like two or three plates on the side, get in front of it, put your feet right against the brace of the frame and hang on to the pads and as you go down, it'll allow you to go underneath it. And then as you come up your hanging on and it's not a, it's not a fixed like your move a little bit like a paddle move a little bit. So it gives you a little bit more. I don't know, fluidity, I guess, because it's not rigid. It's not like you're hanging on to a bar. It's, it, it, it'll move a little bit. I have found that to be very effective and there are other things that you can hang on to, but at least that way you're straight. And I don't think you need. Most people are going to need added resistance if you're really doing them correctly. Then again, that's the old school, you know, underrated exercise though. I really do think it's underrated. And I do, the original question was where to put them. And I mean, you're not going to do them at the beginning because it's such a, it's a vulnerable stretch that if you're not warm, it's not a good idea. Plus the stress on the knee is, is, is relatively high, it'd be much like doing a heavier leg extension to open, which, you know, isn't always a great idea. You finish with them. You're already fatigued. It just takes it, takes those quads and specifically, more specifically, erected swimmers even further at the end. I think it's a finisher. All right, let's wrap this thing up. Guys, thanks for watching. We appreciate having you here. Check out our sponsors, Trinutrition.com. Use our code, think. I've got some marshmallow treat, by the way, on the way, skip. I've got, uh, ordered some team skip. And then I ordered some people to teach isolate for victorious, where both going to get to try it, plus a couple other things. So I'm excited for that. Like I said, user code, think, go to supplements.store.ca. You can support us there if you're in Canada. Everybody at Patreon, appreciate you guys. In fact, next episode, I've got a couple of Patreon questions. So we'll make sure we tackle those early in the program. And, uh, yeah, go over to bodybarry.com. If you want to get some coaching from Andrew, head over to team skip.com. If you want to reach out to skip for some coaching, you can hit me up, make me a diet at gmail.com. But yes, I'm holding a 15 round magazine right now. That's what was in my hand that I'm pointing with. All right, guys, what's your sin? Looks a little empty. It is. It is. For YouTube.

What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Coach's Skip Hill, Andrew Barry, myself, Scott McNeilly, and we are joined by our special co-host back again, Nate Spear. What's going on, man? What's up guys? How you doing today? Good to have you. All of our programming is brought to you by you guys, the people at Patreon. Thank you for all your support. We've got a few Patreon questions here today. By the way, anybody who wants to take part in the show comment below because we can use questions for all the shows you guys help to make us do this thing. So, they put it all together. We're also brought to you by TrueNutrition.com. Use our code, think for additional savings over there, and supplement source.ca for our Canadians diving right in. What was our topic, Andrew? Was something along the lines of when to add in oral space at least to your plan? Being a cod or an off-season? I mean, I think, obviously there's lots of applications, there's different types of the world. We could all maybe pick our favorite times that orals in, or what I had started talking about before we turned on the microphones, who was maybe educating people on how to layer in orals towards the end of a cut or towards the end of a prep. It doesn't have to be a prep, but more so to listen, a cosmetic look out of it versus just an organic benefit in the gym. I'm like an I prefer windstrawl personally, and I know Skips can account for me with his favorite being Annabar. But I like windstrawl personally because of the dryness that you get out of it. In terms of like wind to add it in, I think four to five weeks before you're ready to either hit the stage or before, let's say, you got a vacation plan of some sort. I like to do about five weeks out, starting with something like 50 milligrams a day. I'm not afraid to bump it up to 100 milligrams a day, but I think most people would be fine somewhere in that 25 50, maybe even 40 milligrams a day in terms of application. Before we got it. I don't know if I'm an encountering. I had to find a catch up here. This Andrew's acting extra wide today. Did you see that skim? He's got the, you know, it's funny because when someone mentioned about Nate, I first noticed that I'm right underneath him in the contrast sucks. Then, I look over to my right and I'm like, I think Andrew looks slightly broader here than Nate, I'm sorry, no shot at Nate there. But I'm like, I don't know if I'm going to go put on a flannel and put some balloons in my delt. I even see that I don't know. Nate might be matching you on tan actually, just at least in this lighting. Yeah. He's kind of, he's kind of the bust an into your space there. You know what I mean? He's blown up your spot. I'm not going to show. And I'm not going to show. Sorry to interrupt you though, I apologize. If I have a bad connection and I can't stay on the show today. I'm going to, I'm going to say, look, everybody knows because I'm very, you know, vocal about it. I have a big, big fan of Annabelle. I typically put it in first. And a lot of times I'll start it sooner. But I always get wind straw in there. I'm a fan of wind straw too. Just not as much of a fan as the end of it. And I have this one minor side effect when I take wind straw that my hands get real tight. I don't know if you guys have had that. And when I say tight, it's not, it's not horrible. It's not, but it's enough for me to notice. And you know, you sit there and you just, you just do like this sometimes five times a day or like, oh, yeah, my hands are a little tight with the usual. But outside of that, I put in the Annabelle maybe ten weeks out. And then I'll wait until six or sometimes eight weeks with the wind straw. I think I run orals. I might run orals typically longer than you do, Andrew. Like when you say five weeks, I'm like, no, I've got orals in my five weeks. But that's just, that's just me. And it's probably more because I'm a big, big fan of the Annabelle. I mean, I'll put the wind straw in there. Yeah, I'm about a six eight week with the wind straw. Some of, if I had to say nine percent time, I'm probably ten weeks out Annabelle. And it can be out whether it's a show or a cut, but six eight weeks of wind straw. Can I also offer the reason why five weeks out seems like a good time frame for me is because typically I will always have clients who multiple shows. So like, there's your move. Yeah, if they're doing a qualifier in October and Nationals or whatever is in November first, it's going to end up being a longer run. But I'm saying from the first show, I think, and honestly, if you can't qualify for nationals without a longer use of some of those orals, you probably shouldn't be doing nationalals or show of that caliber. I'm saying, so it's not to say that I run it shorter duration. You, I would just give an a time frame of wind to add it in as well as for people that, you know, let's say they're not competitors. They're like, hey, I'm going on a cruise for a week and I want to be the most jack diesel guy out of my group. I would probably say, you know, five weeks for hand is probably a good time frame. That's another tip, just in that situation, too, is if you're going on a cruise, you want to look like the most jack guy going a carnival cruise because of all obese. They have no chance and you could go in like mediocre shape and you're going to be the best in shape dude there on the road. I might take it even shorter for for windstroll personally. I might do even like four weeks for number one, that reason you mentioned Andrew, I think that's smart because you get people that are planning for, you know, eight, ten weeks out from that first show and newer guys might not be thinking of like, I know you wouldn't do that either, skip. You're not going to have somebody do that for the first show, eight weeks, ten weeks for that first show and then go another, you know, six weeks, you know, racking up to like, you know, sixteen weeks on an or a, of course. But I've even found though like for me, I think that one of the limiting factors with windstroll is I have seen people get joint issues after an extended period of time with a higher dose. And I'm one of those people. I found that for me, like anything after six to eight weeks is going to be, it's going to be potentially an issue. So I found I've relied more on the other DHT, something like master on and obviously we're getting somebody absolutely peeled. So if you've got them, absolutely peeled, you've got the master on in there. I probably already have the trend in there. Then I feel like for me that or was going to be like an icing on the cake and like 50 windstroll for, you know, a light heavyweight is probably going to be where I would go for just that last four weeks and you know, something along those lines is probably what I do. But hey, I might add some halo in for the last two and top of that who knows. Per sure. Yeah, when you guys, well, because I for me personally, I just noticed the effects much greater and more like the hardness and like sort of like dry like white guy look, you know, you know, the great to earn look. But yeah, I will say I would agree with you guys, because for me, honestly, I would say seven days in like I see the effects pretty much fully rocking and rolling, you know, and I mean, I can tell visually like, okay, we're everything's good to go. So like why would I need much longer time than that? But I will say too, like I mean, sometimes like I don't mind doing a little bit of anover early like later in the prep and then switching over to windstroll, you know, I mean, depending on the person, but to help with like fullness and dieting hard, those like there's like 12 weeks to like eight, seven weeks and then switch over to windstroll. I might do that too with some people, you know, how about you, the both? Yeah, I've seen that too. I mean, I haven't done it. I did a few people. I'll go ahead. I was going to say I the first time I did it was with a client who had a prescription for 25 var and 25 windstroll. And I think it was even like in the same capsule, you know, of course it was a, you know, compounding pharmacy that put this together for him. But we ended up doing just that and I figured, okay, well, 25 and 25 that gives us a 50 total. Let's just run that. I can't remember how long we ran it for, but it probably wouldn't have been longer than like six weeks. He was a men's physique guy at that. Really good shape, but it's like we already, you know, we didn't need to run a lot more on top of it. It worked great for him. It was the first time I had ever done it. I've done it a couple times since and it's not something I would say I would go out of my way to be like, hey, let's do this combo. But sometimes it just comes up and it makes sense. Maybe it's just that's what the guy has. He's got, you know, 50 of these and 50 of these and we're like, okay, well, let's do this, you know. Yeah. What do you guys think of this? And I want to ask Nate this first, but I want to hear you know what you guys think. No, we haven't mentioned an adro. And here's the thing, I'm wondering what your guys' thoughts are on an adro, at any point, not just in a couple, let's just say like a prep, prep, yeah. Yeah. I'm just going to say I didn't use to like it and I do like it a lot more. But I wondered if you guys didn't, if you did, where do you see that in the prep phase? Honestly, I actually, I've used it with a couple people in the beginning because you saw that strength and your appetite's going down. So it's actually, I think, almost a better time to run, especially if they're coming off like a cruise phase, like into the prep. You know what I mean? And like, only like short bursts, maybe like three or four weeks and then pull it out. But to help, to help grow some new muscle during that beginning phase of prep, in my opinion, I think it's really beneficial. Okay. I just, the reason I asked is because I have put it in for myself the last three to four weeks when I'm really lean, I didn't end up getting on stage and it was twice. But I really liked it. It was, I knew it at that point it was more of an experiment. So I could see it if I didn't like it, then I didn't have to worry about getting on stage. But, for basically screwing it up and getting on stage. But I've done it more days. Not weeks. Oh, yeah. And that was a thing, you know, last day or two, you know, prior. I never really saw much out of that with the handful of clients that I tried out. I didn't really think. I found like maybe five days, depending on the person. But we've added it in as a test, you know, when they're super lean and you've got like, you know, four weeks ago or whatever, we've added it in as a test and, and I can't remember who said it to me, but they felt like they felt like at a certain point it almost got to be too much and to kind of know where that point was. And I've kind of looked at that as being my roadmap. And so I've run it maybe, you know, we see how they look on day four, day five, day six. And they say, okay, it doesn't look like it's getting any better than this from there. And then I figure like, okay, let's run it, say the show is Saturday. Maybe we end up figuring that like, okay, we started on Monday, you know, something like that. And then I did that for a few years and then this last year, maybe it was a year before, I started experimenting with super draw in place of it. So I'll, I'll kind of take the question further. I know Andrew, I want to get, we want to get your opinion on this, but I also want to ask you guys about super draw for the same thing. Let's talk about super draw first. I agree with you guys generally on the, on the A-bombs. I, I, I, I, I, I'm more of a, you know, 10 to 15 days per on the, on the, on the, on the end of draw honestly because I just, even if, okay, so if you're like 15 weeks out from your show, you're still in the middle of the year. You're still eating a fair amount of food. I find that most people like, by the get, they get to the like the 10th, 12th day of anadrol and their appetite starts to like really favor you. And they start saying, man, hey, I missed my last meal the last three days, but the scale keeps going up. So yeah, I want to point out that that's the wonderful thing about anadrol is that like, it's somehow you just magically continue to grow and get heavier out of thin air with while consuming less. But it does have that effect on your appetite where it just like mentally like I can't even eat another meal like it's just not happening. Yeah, with the super draw, though, you know, I go back and forth because I've seen, I can think of two cases of people that worked with where it worked really well. And I can think of a big case where someone where like we've tried it twice and it's the two worst looks he ever had. And like we're like trying to run through all these scenarios of like, you know, why, why, why didn't you look the way we wanted you to look or why? And yeah, obviously there's prep fatigue and there's all that stuff. But like, then we're like, wait a minute, we used super draw for both of those contests. And it's like, you know what, we're just putting that one on the shelf for you. At least in terms of pre-concredits application. I mean, Nate, what do you want to say about it? Yeah, that's actually me. So. But also like going off of like obviously person experience who double that, I think for me, it was the more like digestion, not being able to keep my stomach in control. And I find sometimes that can happen with antro as well. When you're like those final phases, like, because honestly, where I was at was like, man, I could pull my stomach in like so much better than all of a sudden. It was like not, it was like such a task. And it was like seemed very much harder than normal, you know what I mean? So in that, in both cases, you know what I mean? We did it twice and it's happened both times. And they were like three years apart, four years apart. So yeah, definitely for me, I think that's another thing a lot of guys tend to maybe miss four or not necessarily be aware of, but a lot of people run to digestion issues, deep into prep. And sometimes it can be the drugs and a lot of people looking at the food. But I got guys like, I had to pull it a wind straw because they were just having like constant like digestion issues and really couldn't even like get meals down and then like pulling it and then like things coming together. But I've also it sucks because I could see the visual difference. Yeah, I did that. You know what I mean? I was like, oh, damn, I really want to. You know, I said, I know what. So yeah, definitely I've run into some issues there myself. Yeah. And I could be that individual component too, where everybody does respond a little bit different, or differently to these, you know, these different compounds. So when we talk about these things, you know, as a listener, we're kind of answering them for the majority of people versus making these very black and white blanket statements. Yeah. Yeah. I've read that I believe it's Mike Arnold prefers super draw for women over the last, like as they're mean, oral in the last couple of weeks before contest. Really. And we're talking, you know, your upper muscular classes like your women's physique, bodybuilding and even some figure. Yeah. You know, we're talking like 10 milligrams a day. I think two, two, five milligrams, two, five milligrams doses per day, that kind of thing. Just, you know, something of note. Yeah. I haven't heard about that. Nothing I ever experimented with. I think you is interesting Nate, you mentioned, and a draw earlier on. I haven't really done many orals earlier on. I, I, I had stayed away from things earlier. It's funny the way our coaching works in it. And I'm sure you guys can all attest to this, but over the years, your perspectives change, like early on, I would definitely want to get like a good strong antibiotic in at the beginning of the prep to make sure we can get a good chance. And Nate is much muscle as possible. And then for a long time, I was just like, well, we really only need tests. We're, you know, we're just trying to get you lean at this point. And now I'm starting to shift back to that. Like, let's get some NPP in there out the gate, you know, for that first six weeks, something like that. Well, say my justification on that is because most guys that I haven't off season, I don't really use orals anymore. So I'm like, yeah, I don't use that. I haven't used any orals in the off season. So sort of gives me a wiggle room to use that in the beginning of prep. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So where do you guys, like, I would say honestly nine times out of ten, it seems like that everyone runs into those appetite issues. You know what I mean? So there is like, I was saying, like, maybe even not like, we'll say 14, 13 weeks out because they're appetite, they're getting hungry again. So it's like, you don't see that affect, you know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. Where do you guys put the toxicity? Like, if you were to compare Superdrawal to Anadrawal, I kind of, as bad as Anadrawal is, I still think Superdrawal is like, it's like, Pac-Man eating dots like liver cells. That's the way my brain processes it. You know the feeling of the heartburn slash, just, I don't know, a better word other than just pressure kind of up through the whole digestive system. I feel like Superdrawal exhibits that more than any other compound personally. I could last long on it for that reason. I never really got a good run on it. I tried multiple times and that happened every time. I ended up giving it away to somebody else. One and only time I bought it. Yeah. But in the off season, if I've used it in the off season, I end up tapping out like you were saying, Scott, like, I'll make it like two weeks and I'll be like, and up this, like, and also I get very, very large. Yeah, me too. Yeah, both like do nothing. So yeah, this is mental. Is that's the worst feeling too because you're like, I know why should be doing something. I know I should be like, at least go for a walk because I'll feel better if I go to a walk. But you don't even have the mental energy to go for a walk or to, you know, you're like, what if you had to build something else like, you know, I'll do that when I'm done all this stuff after this prep or after this off season. It does make you both physically and mentally with our chicken that sense. It was Jordan Peters when he was on muscle mines years back now, like 2016, 17 era. It's when he got me start to start thinking differently because you know, he'll use orals like a power lift or mic, you know, more relationship to strength. And that's where I started seeing, hey, maybe, maybe anodural could be a benefit for me or people I work with and same with super draw in those instances where we're at your all-time strongest and let's take just a little, or let's just run it on your like push polo legs. Let's use it on just your your leg day or just your whole day, something like that. And I do think there is a pre-workout benefit to it, even if you're only using it, you know, once a week or twice a week and we can avoid some of those, the issues that we're talking about to that way, you know. Hey, what's off, guys? I have a lot of people who reach out to Maddorek, other basis who are trying to more effectively reach their goals. One of the biggest mistakes I see people make is that they're not getting enough protein. And there's only so much chicken breast we can eat through the day, but we can easily add a high quality protein supplement to boost those numbers. The nutrition has just about every protein powder you can think of from high quality weight isolate. If you don't tolerate lactose, then you can use their beef isolate or you can use their pea protein isolate if you don't eat animal products. They literally have everything to think of. I believe in them for like a decade before they advertised with us. And they never went out of their way to say like, hey, we want to promote our stuff through you. I literally asked them because it's a company that I believe in and at the end of the day, I want to see you guys reach your goals as effectively as possible. So if you use our code, thank you to Trinutrition, you'll get some savings, you'll help to support our programming and you'll get some high quality products to more effectively reach your goals faster. My past experience, yes, which was awesome was some test go after 100mg of anodrol and 20mg of halo about 2.5 and 2.5 hours before with the TNE and then two hours before with the Orals and you'll put up some pretty awesome numbers for yourself. I loved TNE personally, but I don't think everybody's had the same experience. I remember there was this source that was on ProMosal and the vials came in these 60 milliliter vials and you had to basically take it out of the bottle it was in and put it into other vials. So I'd always filter it and everything and I went in on an order with a good friend of mine and we got a 60 milliliter vial of TNE. He took half of it, I took the other half. So that and I say that because it's not like it was two different vials from two different batches possibly. We had what came from the same bottle. I absolutely loved it. Had the greatest workouts. He said he didn't notice anything from it. I've heard that was from some recent with TNE. Some people. Can't fool people that have been like it, nothing. I feel like that was sort of like a pop of their thing like maybe five or ten years ago was the what test suspension and like the test no ester and I don't really see that anymore. People using that, what do you guys agree? Yeah, I don't. I don't even know that. I think you like the injectables. We're talking about like injectable worlds in general, like in that category and I apologize. It is like absolutely pouring right now. Oh, that was. Yeah, yeah. Is it better if I turn the mic off in between? It's not. It stopped. I don't hear it. Yeah, I don't hear it either. Oh, I gently hear it in the background, but that's all right. People can use it as ambience. It's all like in here honestly, but it's supposed to be raining your house too, right? Yeah. Yeah. Bailey, my thunderboat is running over me. My wife is right now. What I was going to say though was like the, I think what you're saying is like that whole group of like TNA test suspension injectable devol. What else? Injectable and withdrawal. Like all these different compounds. They were kind of like a big hit maybe five, six years ago and now guys are kind of falling off and maybe just doing more standard injectables. I love them. Some tells me Scott was about this one. What do you love? What do you want all about pigs blood Scott? Pigs blood. What are you talking about? You know what's that one of the ones that was like a mix of like no suspension a bunch of like different stuff and like one thing like that powerletters were using. No. Like, like, trend, no reverse. Then and then like test suspension mixed together. So I'm making. Yeah, I never used a trend no Esther, but a test no Esther. I had a test no Esther debol combo and I liked that. And I may have had a bottle that lasted up until very recently. So I'd been off everything, you know, like literally I have no reason to really cycle. But then but I love debol. Debol to me was like, it made me feel good in the gym makes me, you know, a good mood too. In fact, the wife even commented on that. She was like, you know, like you can see the positive benefits of this stuff, you know. And anyway, and I did feel good and got more consistent and everything was running smoothly there. And I found that just a low dose, just a low dose, TNT nothing else. And I'm talking like 15 to 20, maybe 25 milligrams of debol specifically is my jam. But yeah, any of that stuff, it's different too. It's different than the oral version because you don't get those same stomach issues. I don't get the same bloat from it. And like, I didn't get the same digestive bloat, you know. But the the antidrawling ever tried the injectable and drill version. So I can't comment on that one. I do got a question for you, stop. I'm the injectable debol. Do you have to inject every day? Yeah. Yeah. And back when I used to use it during like actual, you know, real body building, I would layer that in on training days and then on non-training. Actually, there was a point that I would time it up so I would take oral in the morning and then injectable pre-workout in the afternoon. And then on non-training days, I just took oral in the oral. So yeah. I tried it. I am, excuse me, sub Q. Because I when I did, there's just so many shots, plus your, you know, on a gramat, test plus and, you know, close to that much EQ and then a little bit of NPP in there. And then the, the injectable debol on top of that, I tried to do it sub Q, but it was just left too many, you know, warm lumps. Yeah. Offseason stuff. What do you guys think of orals for offseason? Where would you place them? I definitely agree more with Nathan, the sense that like, they should be used a little more sparingly because, you know, you're already eating so much. And like the last thing you want to do in the offseason is like bring digestion and eating to a halt, right? Because like, once you do that, it's hard to get it going again. Like the best thing to be is 20 weeks in your offseason and still like fairly hungry. So you almost want to try to avoid doing anything that would. But I do, I think you brought this up. It's got like doing more of like a body part, specific split in terms of, okay, you know, my, my chest and shoulders are super weak. It's my push day. Maybe, you know, adding in just one day of 100 milligrams a week in that sense. I think, I think that's probably the best way to do it in the offseason. Unless like you're just kickstarting in an offseason and your food is very low to start off with and you know, you want to run like a 10 15 day run of it before pulling it out. That's my day. Yeah. How about you guys? I'm not big. I'm just not big at all. Not at all. I don't want to say it all because I don't want to be that black and white, but it's incredibly uncommon. Now, I'm speaking for myself when it comes to clients, they're can and I am open to, because you just have some clients who just do want to run them. And you know, depending on your philosophy with, you know, as a trainer, I, this is just me. I'm not saying right or wrong. I tend to concede to the client, because ultimately I want the client happy in the end as an example. If, you know, I'm not on board with something that they want to do and I don't feel like it's egregious and it's putting their, you know, health and in jeopardy and I'm putting myself on the line. I'm going to have a back and forth with them. A discussion. I'm going to give my opinions, but ultimately in the end, I always tell them that if you want to run this, you know, if you want to do this or if you want to run these compounds, I'll support that. If it goes to Oros in the off season, I am pretty black and white with a four week on four week off. And I've talked about this before because I've seen the blood work over a lot of time and a lot of people. And to me, it's the best combination of getting the benefit from the Oros, but not nailing your, you know, liver values or your HDL. So much so that if I, you know, push to, you know, I'd seen six weeks, six weeks on, six weeks off or six weeks on, four weeks off, things like that. And even at that six week mark, those numbers would start to hit, but at the four week mark, there just has never been, there's the odd exception. You know, there's always an, you know, an outlier tube. But the vast majority of people don't get hit very hard with a four week run and then four weeks off. So that's just kind of what I had settled settled into after seeing that. So frequently for so long. Yeah. Well, actually, Scott, I actually is funny because actually this, I'm not a big oral guy, like I said in the off season, but there was a couple of people I actually used to be involved with this off season because I think it doesn't quite hit the appetite quite as hard and like you were saying, I do, I do feel like there's not much, not as much with the energy, whether it's, so I do find it's a little bit more of an easier to balance per se, like maybe not as much bang for your buck, but you can sort of get away with it, a little bit, you're with some people. So I did use a couple of, a couple of people this off season and usually those are the people that can like eat without any issues, you know what I mean? So my big leaders that are like, you know, they're unfazed, like, you know what I mean? You could get a couple of those guys in your roster, they're like, okay, I know this guy can sort of handle it. So try it out. I think deep-wise, we're like way out of popularity now. I think it's probably like one of the, I do know, popular compounds 100%. I would say back in like the early 2000s, skip, it would have been like the, the thing am I right? Like that. Yeah, you go back even further back into the 90s and the late age. I mean, everybody were choosing those little blue battles and of deep-wise. It's almost like if you weren't using deep-wise, you just like, what do you do? Yeah. I feel like even more. There's more of an accessibility issue. Like I could ask, I mean, I could get a bunch of pink tie, deep-alls, but then like, you know, I don't even think in 2003 or whatever 2002 when I got trouble, I even knew what anodrol was or, I mean, I knew what windstraw was, but I just couldn't get my hands on it from anywhere. I knew what anodrol was, but I'd never seen it on any, any priceless of anything, you know, in terms of being able to procure it for myself. It was really like, deep-all, more deep-all and a lot more deep-all. What about that guy? What's that? What about DACA? In the deck of the bulls, yeah, in the deck of the bulls, yeah. I mean, like, do you remember the two, two, what were they, two mill? Yep. I was where you had to get like a case of them. I can't remember who, what organan? Organan. Yeah. Well, that's organan, I'll be damned. You guys remember the, I think they called them satchets. They were, to get past, like, imports. They were putting them in these, like, these sheets that were like, trying to think of a way to put it. There's a catch of packages basically. Like, you know what I was? Yeah. Exactly. They were just like catch up packets and they would overfill them one and a half a mills to make sure that you were getting right amount or you spilled some when you're drawn it out. Kind of on sanitary to organan. Yeah. But like, you're thinking about that. I'm trying to get there closet and it looked like panscom. It's okay. Exactly. Well, I consider in the, you know, you couldn't get, uh, tremble on anywhere. So you, we all had to make it, right? It was all, we were all doing chemistry and, and we were doing the conversion kits. Remember the, and he was like, bascular kits and the, um, uh, what are some, there's a couple of guys that I remember. I still have their website. He was the big, they're not in the wrong spot. Bascular was like the big one. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry, past. Yeah. Yeah. Saw the couple people mentioned that. It was like two weeks ago, right? Yeah. And I thought, well, a couple of weeks, two, three weeks. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. All right. All right. Anyway, I guess that probably covers things. Anything else we should cover with this topic? We definitely hit contest prep. I think we covered some good thoughts on off season and how we've done it in the past, how we do it now. I think everybody used to front load, you know what I mean? That was the thing back in the early 2000s you started with the test and the debaul, and then you know, whatever, cut it off after six weeks and then ran it in another six weeks and needed your PCT, like a good bodybuilder did. Two things. Um, someone here asked about table. I'm going to go on and say that the team all was probably the most overrated, um, oral that ever hit the market in my opinion. What do you guys say? I would say I have never used it once. Here's why back in the day, when everybody was talking about it, they said, oh, it's a drier version of debaul. You won't gain as much muscle from it, but it works good. And when I heard you don't gain as much muscle for, I just stopped listening. Yeah. I didn't care anymore. What happened to skip? I don't know. It's probably storming on his side too, so maybe lost power or something. Which I heard he was playing with something. He's always fed a one with that thing. I just wanted to add for the listeners that the take on message for orals and offseason is like, your appetite should be the number one thing. So just make sure that's not disrupted. If you get a disruptor, and it's sort of like pointless, you know what I mean? So yeah. Well, that brings up the other topic I wanted to see if you guys had any thoughts on, are there any, is there anything you should be doing different supplement wise when running oral compounds? Well, I know, guys have used Oxpile in the past to help with stomach acidity. You know what I mean? Because I think that's, I can't remember the science. You'll obviously, you know, but as far as like what happens in the stomach for morals? There's more, the Oxpile War for the gallbladder, but yeah, that's definitely a supplement that guys could be adding in. I mean, other liver supplements in general, you know? I'm a big fan of live 52DS, and you know, it's one of the only supplements that actually has clinical research behind it in studies for lower in like your ASCALT and your, um, which I'm not call it, uh, Bill of Ruben. But, um, other things, do you guys do anything in terms of like any special drinks or, um, yeah, anything in terms of supplementation changes? Drinks? Like I'm just saying like you do do anything different supplement wise in terms of like like health supplements to address the oncoming potential digestive issues when putting all right digestive. Okay, I miss that. Yeah, I had a little audio problem. I thought we all did. I very clearly figured out it was only me. I think one thing I'll say is that it's not a bad idea. That's one place where I would definitely consider getting labs before we are going to enter into any type of morals. I'm definitely going to consider doing labs before that. Even in that's one place when we've talked about Andrew, you said like you'd like to see where you're at and the thick of it. I don't really care to see like right as I'm coming into the show, you know, but, but before I say added in some halo, I definitely want to know like, okay, is this a, and the, as funny, I was just talking to somebody about this the other day. I was lucky enough that my doctor at the time when I was competing was a former competitor herself. So she talked to me off the record and she'd asked me what my game plan was and she'd say, oh yeah, okay, we'll come in, you know, three weeks out then before you plan to start that halo and let's do some more lab work and see where you're at. I just think that's a smart move and then here's one thought and I'm not, I'm not going to discredit supplements, but going in with a plan, remembering that dose in duration are going to be the two real big factors with orals, making sure that your as healthy as possible going into it. That, that my only fear was supplements is sometimes I think and I, it's not that I don't use them or suggest them. I think sometimes like back in the day, we used to think like, well, if you're taking milk this, all your liver's going to be totally fine, you know what I mean? And we, I think we have a lot better health supplementation today like glutathione even NAC, we didn't talk about NAC in 2005, at least not many people were, but it's still, it's not like an insurance policy that's going to make sure that nothing happens wrong. You know what I mean? Yep, it's a good point. Let me ask you something though, if you're getting your labs done through weeks out before you're going to add like the final stages of compounds, are you going to change anything when you get those results back? Well, because like, you know what it says HDL is like, too. Yeah. I mean, then anything. Well, if my liver was like already real taxed, and my doctor, and she never did, if she were to say like, hey, you're already under a lot of stress right now, because I did see increased stress just from like the fast acting injectables that that was more stressful on my liver to self. But it, there was never a point that I didn't, there's that. But yeah, I honestly would have, if she told me like, hey, this is a big risk that I wouldn't do it, you know. And I hate to bathe me the guy that'll say it, and I always get backlash from this, but so I'm just going to preface this with, I just don't give a shit with anybody's status. And when I say that, I'm not talking about as much you guys are talking about anybody listening. We all have those lines. We have those things. I won't take super draw. I will not take halo. And I take a lot of shit. I am not. I have no aversion to performance enhancing compounds. No, those two, I don't want to take. But I'm not doing my blood work. Not during an oral or before an oral run, especially if it's a few weeks for a show. You know what? I don't want to know. I'm not saying I want to die. I've said this a many times. My health is important to me. But it's going to take a hit. I'm not going to be in a good spot. And I don't want to know if my age deal, because I anticipate that it's going to be pretty freaking low. And it's going to be low until after the show. And then it's going to recover. So I would do that blood work prior to the prep. I might do it slightly into the prep. But I'm not going to do it as it gets into those last six or eight weeks. And then I'm going to do it. I might do it the day after the show. A couple days after the show. Yeah. But do you have a better way to fix it? Not fix it. But I know the worst case scenario. And I know what I need to come out of. And the truth is sometimes. I mean, I went to the hospital that time for a torn, blooted five weeks out and told them matter. And then I said, I don't want to know if it was numbers on. He told me at the end because I know you didn't want to know because I was shocked that you're blood. That your blood markers weren't horrible. And I'm like, oh, no kid, okay. And then he told me they knew me from your channel and stuff like that. So we had this ad. I didn't recognize him. But the point is, I did not want to know. He only told me because he knew that I thought that it was going to be egregious. Yeah. You're like, I can take more now. Okay. Yeah. It's actually a moment. And I talk about this all the time, guys. There's so many different layers to genetics. And one of the genetic layers is your ability to process the drugs and the loss of negative side effects. Some people just have that extra level of detoxification, I guess if you want to call it. I've got three hundred pounds and he's muscular. He's getting ready for a show in 26 weeks. And he is on more drugs than I'd taken in my life at one time right now. And he got his labs done recently. And I was shocked to see that there wasn't red all over the place. You know what I mean? So it just goes to show you that, you know. And this isn't like a advice to okay up your dose or to throw caution to the wind. It's just saying that there is a genetic component to all this stuff. Heck, there's things we can't talk about publicly, but we all know we've talked to people who have seen the lab work of good pros. And we know some of the pros that, I mean, some of the guys who are even talking about like being really health conscious and stuff that their lab work takes some serious serious hits when they're in that in that place. You know, even people that have a lot of muscle, I'm saying, even people that look really good, they can still be a lot of stress on them. That's a good question. Yeah. There may be a Mr. Olympian there who won several Olympias and didn't take much and have seen that blood work. And then you just go, wow, you have been at that level. Yeah. Walk away from the sport, not going. Well, by just shaved, did I shave 10 years off of my life? Did I shave 15 years off? Get to walk away, probably in better health than 90% of us when we put down the smange on the weights. It's like holy shit. I didn't mean to derail us though about health supplements, Andrew. Yeah. I kind of did. I didn't mean to, but I was just saying, you know, well, I said, I think I was going to add the good of the iron. I was going to add supplements of that nature. But honestly, I like to use that kind of stuff around. So yeah. And I do advice, coins, so you stuff like that you're around. I think people are really turned on to things like Lutathione now. I think that they're even like, like I said, any see these are like, all that stuff, these are things that people didn't talk about in the past, you know, 15 years ago. I'd love to get into NAD+. If I could, like the actual IV injectable NAD+. I'd love to get into that. But it's really, really expensive. What do you guys see is, I mean, I kind of put the glutathione injections at, if not at the top of the list, pretty damn close to the top of the list, as far as if you have a situation and you want to just see, it's almost like if that isn't going to do something, I don't know. You're, I don't know what else to tell you. You need to get out of the sport or you need to just accept your fate one in the other. Where do you guys stay with Tudka? Yeah, definitely up there. I've actually been for when we're talking about running the orals. I mean, I've noticed that it helps a little bit of the appetite, running the Tudka with it. That's where I was kind of getting out. Like, are there things we can use solvent wise not only do you protect our health, but to keep that appetite, keep that digestion going better because I find that it's very rare unless you're using mountains of trend in the offseason and eating a lot of food that you're having digestive issues from testosterone or digestive issues from testosterone and EQ or, you know, even decay usually. So I do think you had a question about that Scott about. Is someone posted about decacosing? Something to throw up? Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. Like you did suck. Wait. That sounds good to me. It was actually a guy who mastered me and I wanted to get your opinions. At the end of the day, listen, you know, I've had at this point a lot of experience seeing not only myself change with bodybuilding, but then others, you know, as a coach, you get to see a lot of people and then coming to this forum here with you guys, let's, you know, quadruple that plus we've got skip. So even more, you know, um, so I want to ask you guys if you've heard anything about this because it was something that kind of puzzled me. He said he was using a five test, five decka and 200, uh, a mast per week and he has five weeks in and he said I'm getting some weird side effects. Oh, what kind of side effects are you getting? And I'm expecting like, you know, ED stuff like that. He says no, he says after I administer these compounds for the next two days, I feel really sick and I've even thrown up at the gym. I think it could be a, uh, Brent the oil. It the, that's why I wanted to go, Nate. Thank you very much. Yeah, I was on the same, I was thinking the same thing. I was hoping that's what you'd say. I could see that before the compound, right? I mean, especially if it's so instantaneous. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, 40, or whatever. Sure. Yeah. The other thing is too possibly, is he not injected before and it's, I don't know, anxiety or something like that. But I'd go with the carrier before I would go. That's what I would go to first. That's what I told him to. All right, that's what I said is the either carrier solvents. We don't know what kind of solvents he's using. Yeah. Um, and uh, I, and I told him to, I was like, hey, if you think it, he said, I've never taken Ducca. Is it that he's using that much more oil now? Even if it's the same brand he's always used. Now he's using instead of one point, you know, five milliliters or whatever. Now he's using three or two and a half. So I, my suggestion or thought was I'd try just pulling the Ducca first and see if it all clears up. And if it, if it does, then, you know, maybe you're good, but maybe get another brand too. We would, why, why would you say that using more oil in general? If, if there was some sort of cost-ex solvent in this oil, okay, okay, so somebody can tolerate like one and a half CCs with that amount of solvent. But three, yeah, I got you. Okay. But I said if it is the Ducca for some reason, because I don't know, you know, there, I've never heard of it before, but if it was the Ducca, pull the Ducca out, take it for your Duc shot and see if you still get it. And if you did, then, you know, there's that. But I also kind of thought too that, you know, I mentioned this to him is that if, like, don't, if you pull the Ducca out and it goes away, don't try to take less. You know what I mean? Because I've had this, you guys ever have people that are like, well, if I eat too much lactose, I end up getting diarrhea. So I try to, I still like to keep, you know, they still keep it in, but they're trying to use less of it. My thought is, is that if it's causing an issue and you get enough of it, it causes a real big issue. Like, it could still be causing issues that we're not seeing, just because you're not having diarrhea, doesn't mean it's not still an eartit. You know what I mean? Yeah, yeah, definitely. Definitely. I don't know. I guess that was an easy one. We had some other stuff here, though. Let me see what we had here. Jason, Jason from Patreon, said thoughts on alternative cardio, such as farmers, walks or weighted vest as opposed to using a stationary bike or treadmill. Thanks. I'm not doing that. I like that. I'm actually thinking, why do people not use sex for cardio? Number one. Number one, you can use it as an excuse with your spouse or your partner. Be like, you know, my trailer told me. Yeah. And I told people that I'm close to because I don't want to be creepy. You don't have a good par with, but listen, I don't give it what you do for cardio. Just keep your heart rate elevated for a sustained period of time. I don't have a hard time with that word. So same period of time, and that's your cardio. I don't care what you do. If you would have a 30 minute cardio session, you better be working. Because you got to work the entire time pretty consistently for 30 minutes. The point is, if you guys want to have a lot of people want alternative. Okay, cool. Farmers want to shit like that. I don't know about you guys. Do you guys classify that more as like a? Yes, I know what you're going to say. Okay, I do too. I can classify it as hit. And it's weight training. I, you're burning more calories. Okay, because you're sustaining it. But it's like circuit training and stuff like that. You're, I try to separate the training and the stimulus for growth and recovery. Over here on the left, I try to keep them separate from the cardio. I don't want the two overlapping. I don't want one getting in the way of the other. I'm not a huge fan of, and I did this. I'm stepping at a high intensity either. I don't know how that doesn't get in the way of like training. I've done real steps. 26 floors here. I did this last year. Round the real real quick. This is a great point. 26 stories. Start the bottom. And what I did, they're very, very short steps, which helps because they get more steps. And it's not like these double stepping type. But in this short later, my knee problem. I would plant my foot, hold foot, drive from my heel, and just slowly, just methodically, just do steps for 26 floors. Get any elevator. And by the time I got to the top of the thigh, I was going to freaking die. Yeah, the cacacardia and my heart was going to blow up. Get on the elevator, go down, and then do it again, and I would do it five or six times. It probably, I could go to that, obviously. But I would do that only one day of the week for cardio. I justified that because I'm like, you know, this would be like kind of, you know, it's hit, but yeah, I get a little bit of work. I get to help my knee a little bit because I, you know, how you fade after an injury, your favorite one side. So it was given me that focus of making sure that my mechanics and my gate was the same, you know, the entire time, repetitiously great, right? Until I get, and you guys are going to laugh at this. But I get about seven or eight weeks in and I notice that my, my, my leg training poundage is a really falling off about two years later, two or three years later, I'm squatting 185 in the Smith machine. I get to seven, and I can't come out of the, my glutes felt like they were going to rip. So what I had done is it wasn't even overtraining my legs or a specifically it was in my glutes up. So then I had to pull back and I had to rest. I had pretty much just buried myself now. I understand that that can be individual. I understand I can be different and I don't have great recovery compared to the last majority of people. Anyway, but how do these, how do you recover from that, especially when you're in deficit, when your cardio is that intense and how do you keep it from getting in the way? So that comes back to the farmers' walks and things like that. Those, those are, that's pretty strangeness even hit with pushing a sled or something like that. I'm not saying it's bad. You're going to burn more calories. But I don't like the, the high intensity component of it, and I like to separate the two weight training and the cardio. I, I want to keep them separate. And I got worked up. I got excited to sit back and everything. I can't get this degree of gym. Yeah. What do you think, Nate overall? Do you ever do anything like that for your cardio? Well, I think, you know, steady state is tried and true for reason is because we're trying to preserve as much muscle as possible. We're trying to use as much glycogen as possible for our training. So stuff like that is going to interfere with, you know, our training like Skip does said. And obviously our nutrition in my opinion, um, it's for me, I want to get away with the type of cardio where I expend the least amount of energy because I want to save that energy for training and recovery. So let's sort of my whole like take on it. Um, and also a lot of guys what happens is two, these are the type of people that they push themselves in the cardio and has the weakest get closer. They want to do more or they want to do higher intensity. And like Skip just said that creates a whole recovery whole that you then can't get out of or you need to like rest and recover and lose time in a preparation. Um, so I mean, obviously for a lifestyle client, obviously, you know, that can go to it obviously wiggle room, but I'm just going off of competing and sort of trying to get the best results as a coach. Um, so I think that's going to interfere with getting your best results as far as getting on a body bone stage. Yeah. Can I get, can I give Matt props, posturimously? Matt Porter. Um, he started to get into, I don't know that he was the first one, but he was one of the ones that was more vocal about me and and and just like working at your desk standing up even though and at the time I admit, I'm like, bro, you're standing up. It's just not that big of a deal. We're talking about like a percent of a percent of a percent. But over time, I find it funny and a little ironic. That that's where we have started to go and I know I have two because I've replaced a lot of my cardio with what I consider to be neat. Yes, I'm doing all the neat in one specific time frame. But my point is this, I think that doing lower intensity, moving, more moving throughout the day is better than cramming that cardio in and I understand it's a practicality issue too. I understand that too. I also understand that some people recover very, very well and they can do, you know, an hour work up to an hour, two hours of cardio consistently and it doesn't hit them all that hard. That's great. I think the vast majority of people that's not the case. So I'm happy to see that the trend is not replacing cardio with neat, but that it's getting a lot more attention because I've seen it myself and I don't have a gifted metabolism. So if I've seen it and I have mediocre recovery and mediocre genetics, I would consider or I would assume that the vast majority of people would benefit from that too and I've seen it with my clients. So I would rather my clients if time allows and it's practical for them to do longer walks, brisk walks than I would to cram in a 30 minute cardio session at 130. Yeah, as a 130 heart rate or something like that. And you guys know the leaner you get and the more efficient your system becomes, that 130 when you start versus when you're getting leaner and your oxygen uptake is so much better. You're killing 130 to try to maintain that. So I had to pull back on that and bring that heart rate, tired of the target heart rate down and of course it's different for you know, it can be different for different people. But the point is, I like the trend how long has it been? Four or five years. I'm thinking it's about the last four or five years where we're attending to go with a little bit longer duration, spending more time moving and you say, well, for walk after a meal, things like that, I think are very beneficial. They're underrated. Listen, I'm with you that it is fantastic. And five years ago, I was doing videos saying, like, hey, look at I'm walking my dog. You don't have to do your cardio in the gym. Like you can take your dog for a walk in a super beneficial for your dog, too. I'm beyond that now. Now I'm over it because I think it's gone too far. I think that people are thinking that their knee cardio is going to completely replace any need for an actual cardio. I can tell you out of my own personal experience. I did it for everyone in my contest, perhaps I would start by walking outside, walking my dog. But there would come a point where I actually needed to get my heart rate up. I needed to get that real alcoholic real cardio in. And I could tell you, I could see a world of difference between the two when I actually made that shift. I like the knee, I like the knee cardio. Don't get me wrong. I think it has its place. I don't know how to measure it. I don't know how to measure it to say what's equivalent to what you're going to get from that 30 minute cardio session. You know what I mean? How do I equate that? Well, you just still have a heart rate. Most people still have a heart rate tracker. So as an example, I started off when I started my knee a few years ago and I'm like, oh, just do it for a specific time period. But then I noticed, okay, I do want to keep my heart rate right around say 100, 105, something like that because it's not, then maybe I'm not doing it too hard. There is a little bit of a black and white measure, but you just said yourself, even though and I agree with you, there are everyone's going to be different. It is individually. But you were still able to not start regular cardio right away. And that kept you arguably recovering better while you didn't need it. And you put it in when you needed it. So I'm not saying that, you know, everybody can just do need. They're going to get shredded. That's not what I don't want to do. And I know you're not, but I'm afraid that's what chiral have changed. And I'm glad to. Yeah, I'm glad to be there. I'm glad to be there. That's not at all what I mean. But I am saying, milk it and do those longer sessions and less intensity until or, well, basically, until or if you need to switch those gears, I got a certainly lean in 2020 before my injury. And I was roughly five. It was like five to six weeks out. I don't know that I would ahead to end. And now I was doing walks of like an hour. Well, it was an hour in the morning and an hour at night. So I mean, it is two hours. So from a time perspective, it was the same amount of time. But it was nowhere near the intensity. Again, we're talking like 105 heart rate. And yeah, glad and glad, you're, you might just sit in the casting. How many, you know, 75 or 70. So there's that. Yeah. I was going to say something else about that. I've got Stevenson. I'll tell you, he would work on his last prep. He was like working on an RV in his garage. That was his neat cardio. He'd put in a few hours into that. I did have one other thought on that. But then it's, it's slipped to my mind. So I'll let you guys say something. Here's the other thought. And maybe you were going with, I think, I think this was on the all right. It's just sitting around that way. It's waiting to be expressed. Let's all think back to our lives 15 years ago. Oh, all of us. Maybe not. But maybe maybe skip going back 25 years or 30 years. Well, no, no, no, I only say this because I know you've been coaching along us, meaning you've been sitting at a desk. There's where to go. And yes, that's where I was going with. You read my advice at some point in our lives had much more active jobs. We didn't think of it as neat. We didn't think of it as movement. It was just their jobs. You, you, you were working on the pop route, right? Scott, I had so much neat from that. I could eat that on a food and still couldn't get fat. I was personal training 10 to 15 hours a day on my feet the whole time. Nate, you were running restaurants, you know, skip. I forget what you said you did before. I was working with kids in residential and juvenile detention. So I had a lot of physical restraining and chasing kids. So even just being there's no way you're sitting on your asshole day. You were on your feet because you're like, well, one of these kids might pop off at any minute and I had to be ready to go. So you were alert and you were physically like ready, right? Whereas now we sit at a desk. What we sit on the couch and like just click away all day. So we actually have to think about putting our neat together. We make these step goals for ourselves or whatever you want to call it. These amount of times, you know, that we're going for five walks for five minutes a day. That kind of stuff. So I think it's just more of a conscious effort to get the neat that we used to get that was built into our lives in a different different point time. That ties into what I was thinking Andrew was that it depends on the individual. If a guy wants to work with me and he needs to lose fat so he's going to do a contest and he's say a postal worker. You know, he's like, I'm delivering mail walking the neighborhoods for him adding more neat doesn't make sense. Then we're probably going to go to some sort of more intense cardio out the gate. But yeah, for me, if I hired myself, I'd be like, dude, you're lazy. You literally sit at a desk all day long. You know, be ashamed to see if you saw my steps on me. Think about it. Do you ever look at your steps when like you've had a completely sedentary day that you didn't do cardio or you didn't do any program walking. It's like 2100 steps 11. Yeah, right? I went nowhere. 11. I like that. That's right. Hey, then that's the point of why I know I do you guys tried to say the thing, but it's important when you onboard with a client that you find out what they're doing. What is your active? What is your job? I'm working there. Work 12 hours a day. You're a chance to come in your feet and your stress. No, are you doing what's skip and donate and start do and we're just sitting, you know, and the worst thing we have is I think. I think my wrist hurt like maybe I'm going to write, you know, I mean, we're not going to pull anything. You know, we're not going to have, we might have lower back issues. Right. Let's put your, and if you send it a desk, all day, I'll give you a little piece of advice. Get it? Get what is essentially an Ottoman to put your feet up high and so that at least your hamstrings are stretched to vast majority of types. If you think you're not going to battle with some at least lower back tightness, I can't it. Like stability issues, you are dead wrong. Give a time. Eventually it's going to be, it's going to get up there. So do you have an Ottoman under there right now? Some sort of foot rest? I have a white trash Ottoman. It's actually an up-scribed-down laundry basket. And that white hates it. But the Ottoman is too low. This is a top of my school. So I turned it over and I put a pillow on top of it. And I 90% of time I have my feet out in front of me and so that they're up and my hamstrings are in a more stretched position because when they're under you for a long period of time daily, yes, and years asking for trouble. Reminder by Ottoman later. By white trash. All right. Let's see. Do we have time for one more? We've got a topic here. It's actually written on a piece of paper. I thought that we all thought this would be a fun one. We'll make this kind of our big closing topic. Can anyone be a pro? And further, can you tell if somebody is cut out to be pro just by looking at them? No one just. That covers it. I'm not trying to sound like Mr. Noodah. But look, I've been doing what I've been doing for a long time. And I approach bodybuilding so methodically to the point of almost OCD for a very long time. If it was, if it was all about what I knew and time, I would have been a pro in the, it'll be 40 years in April that I've been training. It, I just, I think I would have, I would at least threaten. Let's put it that way. It's just not that easy. I know people want to keep their dreams alive. I always did too. When I was 15, it was a formality. I was going to get to the Olympia stage. It just, it was just a matter of how long it was going to take me. And I touched on that. We talked to, you know, to Nick. He, Nick Walker, you know, he said, he knew it was going to happen. I mean, Nick, I knew it was going to happen too, but it didn't happen. It didn't come close. Like, I just didn't get there. So that's a, that's a big now. And what was the other one? Can you tell if somebody's going to be pro just by looking at him? Like, say, that's a how I'm going to wait on that for you guys, because that one's a big, that's a rabbit hole. And I'm just going to, I'll say, that you can't tell. You can see structural and genetic gifts, but a lot of being a pro is under the surface too. Not just psychologically, but digest. Yeah, I was going to say this. Or among things like that. So I'll, I'll leave that because I don't want to talk for like, you know, 10 minutes. Is the question, do you know if they could be a pro? Or do you know that they're going to be a pro? If, if somebody could, it will be like if somebody's cut out for it. Say, I, I think what we're getting at here is new guy comes to you. He's only been trained for a short period of time. He watches the blood sweat and gear podcast. He's like, I'm going to hire Andrew, because I want to fast-track this. Andrew could I be pro. He's 19 years old. He's been lifted for six months. Yeah, I mean, like, well, Skips started to touch on it. Like, you can obviously see the structure. You can see very early on with working together. Like, how does their body respond, right? Like, you make a change. Oh, shoot. He's putting on two muscles this week and he doesn't look like he's a crew in any fat. And then, you know, 20 weeks into a pret or an off season together. He's up 15, 16 quality pounds of muscle without having put on any fat. You're like, okay, this guy's got the structure. He's got the ability to put on muscle. We're staying healthy. So, check all those boxes. But I think Scott, you started to lude to the mental aspect of it. How does he react when things get hard? Like, what during the prep or during when we hit our first, you know, snag in the fat loss phase. Or when you ask him, hey, man, like, we need to push these last four weeks. I need you to do, you know, 45 minutes cardio in the morning, 45 minutes in night. Is his response will, oh, man, I don't have time or it's kind of making me tired or it's making my legs kind of sore. Like, does he come up with a lot of excuses? Because those excuses are going to hold him back. Because as a good coach, you wouldn't ask someone to do stuff like that unless you knew it was going to make them look better, right? In terms of getting them to where they need to be on the on the day of the show. So, yeah, I think, you know, structure, other body response to programming, how their body response, the drugs obviously is a big thing. But then, like, that last facet is the mental aspect. Like, do they have it? Because we've seen a lot of guys, you know, I can think of two or three over the years where like, oh, man, that guy's going to be nasty when he gets to a pro stage. But he barely makes it to nationals because he keeps pulling out of preps. You know, there's a guy who three times he was doing national shows. And I remember me, and Nate would talk like, all this guy's going to win you overall. Like, it's already a foregone conclusion. If he comes in and he's in 90% shape compared to the other guys, his structure and his muscle belly, he's going to win the show. But he did the thing is this guy three times never made it to the actual show. That's such a show. If we look at Nate and Nate, Nate's darkest days, I'm sure nobody would be like, oh, yeah, this guy's going to turn pro and bodybuilding one day. You know, I mean, it was not where you were at. I don't think you can really tell just by looking at somebody. What do you think? Nate, when you were younger, you know, let's let's even say, let's go back to teenager years. Were you one of those guys that had that look like, did you have like the cap delts, like the 16 year old kid in the locker room that's got the abs and the cap delts and doesn't even do anything? I mean, I hate to say it, but I always had good delts and abs and like a small waste. So I definitely had like something going on for me. So I mean, if I told people like from high school that I am a pro bodybuilder, they might not be surprised. But yeah, I will say though at the same time, I've seen some people where they have like honestly a good example of SESHAU. So I don't know if you remember how he looked when he started out in Andrew. Yeah, he looked strong. He's tall, long like he like he did not look like he could put on muscle and he'd be under to becoming a really nasty amateur and then turn pro. I mean, he stopped, but I guess some guys come up to you and they're like, they have any really good like you said, been training that long or not at all. I thought guys that had one really been in the gym that long and they're like, hey, do you think I can turn pro and I'm like, well, my response to you is like, you got to give it at least a year or two to really start to see your genetic potential come to fruition. Whereas a lot of guys, you know, it takes that like, okay, like we got to see what sort of like, you know, under the lights, like playing the game here for a couple of years to really see what you're working with and what your potential is. But I will add on what Andrew said as a lot of guys, it's that response, right? So, you know, most of the guys that are going to good or turn pro, you don't really have to change their program a lot or they respond very well, right? So, then you have wise words like a fighting battle like back and forth like checking to check in, like I got to play with stuff constantly. I sort of, you got to do constant manipulations and it's like, man, I don't even know, you know what I mean? You start questioning. But I didn't want to say another thing as far as like, where mine's for, I wanted to touch on this actually, it was a good, good topic, where part of the topic was, I like using Brett Wilken, even though he has obviously the genetics to make it because I don't think everyone can turn pro. But he's the type of guy he sort of forced it by eating, he eats like 6,7,000 calories a day, not a meal. He's trained his like, dude, he's one of the hardest trainers I've seen and like when did do what he's done in that time frame? Is amazing. I guess I use that for an example because I don't think everyone has that mental aspect that he has, you know what I mean? So, without him having that, he wouldn't be as far as he's at today, you know what I mean in my opinion. Yeah, yeah, how to grab it that? There's the mental component as you, I think there's a lot of really good, arguably, professional bodybuilders in gyms all over the country, maybe the world, who just mentally they don't have it, they don't want it. They are already a big fish and a small pond, it comes relative, what easy to them. So, you know, I always say there's a lot of dairy geaters out there, that for whatever reason they mean out of, they mean a lot, but they didn't get seen, they weren't in the right place at the right time. I think that that psychological component those huge, Phil Heath is a good example. I saw him in 2002 when he competed and he was a talker, a Colorado by 2003, it was very clear, crystal clear, that he was going to turn pro very quickly, but no, no one could obviously predict that he would go on to, you know, have as many, you know, wins it do as well as he did, but it was crystal clear that he was, he was in a league that was just, he was on a different planet. The life issue, Andrew, what you were saying with being able to deal with the direction from trainers and questions, life is a big deal too. Not only how do you handle and respond to adversity when you're training and nutrition and things like that, but how do you handle life? I was watching crime show the other night and I'm like, that looks like Victor Martinez. It was about his sister being, so, and I was just blown up like that. It is. They came back to him, they interviewed him and just he got. Oh, and I just stopped to myself. He did not do, he did not make much progress for quite a while at that time without, at some point being able to compartmentalize and adapt to this horrendously horrible situation as light. So it doesn't even necessarily be bad. What about financial situation? What about relationships status? What about you've got a bunch of kids and your careers on the, there's a lot of life stuff that can get in the way. That right, right in my last point. We've talked about this a lot behind the scenes. Being, I'm going to say this now. I'm pretty sure you guys are back now. The guys who do the best, the training people online for exclusively for over 20 years, you guys have been doing this a long time too. I think you'll great. The guys who go the furthest and especially the ones who are gifted, but the guys who go the furthest and I'm not dogging anybody. I'm just saying they don't ask 2,000 questions about the Manusha. They do what you tell them to do and they continue to get better. Doesn't mean they don't want to learn and they don't ask the occasional question. But those check-ins are about that long. Yep. They do. They basically say, and I'm paraphrasing, okay, it'll get done and there might be another question in there. It's not this deep dive into the Manusha of the house and why it's there's nothing wrong with that. Wanting to learn, there's nothing wrong with that. I'm just saying that my observation over so many clients over so many years, 2 decades. I've seen it, it's matter of fact and it's just so crystal clear that the people and the Mexi, or the people who just do the plan, I think Andrew you call them soldiers. Those clients who are sold out of ones that go, they progress so much better than the ones who are digging into the details in the Manusha. They arguably sometimes doesn't matter. 100% let me take a one step further, because there's a lot to be learned as a good soldier without asking the questions. Without coming up all that Manusha that you're talking about, skip, like if you're like, okay, so this is where I'm at. And this is the move coach made. There's a lot you can glean from that without even having that discussion, right? Without even having all these, you watch it in full. You watch it in full. If you're receptive person and you also reinforce the fact like by not asking all these Manusha questions, all these things that really are 1% difference makers out there. This is what the bread and butter, this is what the meat and potatoes is of the plan. This is what I got to focus on. If you're not going to respond to the bread and butter, are you going to respond to the Manusha? Well, I'll tell you. On the soldiers part, because when we talk about it, it's almost like there's every level of genetics. So like, I'll use my good at buddy, our good buddy James Kelly for example. He's a soldier, but he's a guy that's in the turn of pro because he was a soldier. You know what I mean? He can't get by on just his genetics. Yes, to check every box. And there's guys that will turn pro, but they have to do everything in order to the team years after years up years. So I think sometimes you'll be in years when we talk about like, guys are just going to turn pro because they have such amazing genetics, but there's layers of genetics. So you might be in the middle of the road and you can turn pro, but you got to be that soldier. Yeah, yeah. Exactly. Man, you guys all said it very well. This is very well stated. We get questions like that all the time, the questions that relate to like, how can I be a good client? You know, I think that that answers it that really does right there. All right. Let's wrap this thing up. Nate, are you liking not before I get my word? You said to remind you, I'm not. That's right. I did. I was like, skip if I forget. Tell me. We're going to the day. So we've got it for anybody who didn't know, though, we're skip. It's got a word of the day. This is to educate us beyond just bodybuilding or trying to get what's what we're trying to become wordsmiths like, like, skip is. Yeah. But anyway, I toned it down a little bit because I have to be careful that I want to provide words that can be used. Not words because if you can use it, then you'll remember it. If you're not going to use it and it doesn't pertain to it, then it doesn't really matter a lot. So I'm going to go with apoplectic. We're going to use that. Yeah, I think it's a good one. And like I said, it's not that it's like, oh my goodness, that's I knew that where some people may know that word. That's fine. But it's a word that will come up in conversation that can be used. Appoplectic is just basically you just be on mad. You're like, if you really get somebody upset on Facebook and you're going back and they're going back and forth with you and they're just getting nasty, then they're being out of a plucked it. So they're just so mad. That's necessarily the product control, but it's it's just, they're blood is boiling. They can't shut up. They're being apple-plcked. They use that message. Wow. Yeah, quick, quick, quick. Come down. I don't like dealing with apoplectic people. On Facebook. How about what about something like, what was that topic? You got really excited about today's skip? Was it the, you said you had to, you're like, oh, I got to sit back because you got all excited on one of our topics. Skip got quite apoplectic about that topic. I mean, I was emotional about it. I was, but I wasn't angry. You're mad. Right, right. Exactly. Yeah, my blood wasn't boiling or anything like that. So, would I say, like, you became apoplectic? Something like that? I would have had to go to another level. I would have had to be, it would have had to be. But that's what I mean. No, that's the way it's phrase it. Not like, yeah. It's almost like, you know, the stain and you're just, you're so worked up that you just can't, you can't let it go. You're just, you're seeping, you're losing your shit. You know, that sort of thing. Yeah. I like that word. I could see using that in a way that would really irritate people. Like, hey, don't get all that apoplectic on me. Just relax. Hey, whoa, whoa, that's it. It's not, so apoplectic. Yeah. Oh, that's a good one. This, I don't know what to come on, fucker, just say. I don't even know. Yeah. You know, I have to Google words all the time with like some of the new, like someone responded to me bet like BET. Oh, yeah. Yeah. That. Oh, no kid. When I gave you directions and they're like, bet, and I'm like, bet what? Like, what are we betting? But I guess it's like a slang word. I guess for like, you bet or something like I got it or word or, you know, yes, yes, yeah, I agree. You know, that's because we're all right now. Yeah, I got you. It's man. I got you. Sometimes else things, I'm two of them like, you know, word I had to look up or or the the initials was NPC. Oh, really? Yeah. I mean, I mean, I know what the national physique committee is. I have to check out you. NPC and like there's NPCs, you know, you guys know what that is? Yeah. Skip, you know what an NPC is? Well, no, not if it's national physique or maybe I'm like, how could you possibly not know that? Non-putable character. Like the guys in the video game that like they're the characters on the side of the road. Yeah, I didn't know that either. It's like a bit. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Like you're the main character and everybody else is just NPCs. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. You're like saying like you're a beta or you're like, um, um, something that's no fake. Something of that nature. Yeah. Guys, we appreciate your tune in for another episode of Blood Sweat and Gear. Nate, are you taking new clients right now? How do they reach out to you? What's the best way? Uh, so I Instagram just one word Nate Adnate Spear or are you gonna email me at Nathan Spear25 at live.com? How is the YouTube going? Uh, do it as hard to be this and honestly, but um, is that? Now, nasty Nate Spear on YouTube. I do have like, look at him on a videos, but I am trying to fire it up now that we're so we're coming up on 10 weeks out from Toronto this weekend. Okay. So trying to fire that back up. Uh, probably I'll probably have a video and like a couple of weeks. I would guess so nice. Hey, can we get you back on the show when you start closing in and talk about the prep with Andrew and stuff? Of course, you know that. All right. All right. It's a fanjero's up for it. I don't know. All those secrets here. That's right. Guys, you can also go to bodybarry.com to reach out to Andrew for coaching and you can go to team skip.com to reach out to skip to learn all about uh, melanin 2 and coaching from skip. Magnetic diets at gmail.com for myself. Thank you true nutrition for uh, advertising with her programming. Guys, you can use code think to get additional savings over there. Supplement source.ca for Canadians. They've got really good deals on label changes and short data products and thank you to everybody from Patreon. Think I got a couple more Patreon questions. We'll get to on the next show and uh, yeah. Like I already said, the blood's wanting to hear stuff. Guys, we'll see you soon. Thank you.

kind of depends on your goal, but like I've got some of that's have in breast augmentation surgery and my advice to her was let's do five milligrams. I said let's base everything off BPC just so it's really easy and I don't confuse you. Let's do five milligrams of BPC for per day for the first 12 days and then we'll probably cut it back to one milligrams of BPC. So in that intense phase they're going to get five milligrams of BPC per day, five milligrams of TB and 20 milligrams of geodic copper. One, two, I think there was eight incisions. There was like one up high in the package side, one down here and then one on the inside and then you can still see like just the bear you all little tiny scar, but they were just little incision there and little incision there and then they just sucked all the fat out and I still remember seeing the tube thing get filled up at like five a first thing in the morning is in there and suck it on that fed up. But yeah my packs would get just striated. 12 weeks out man packs are like whoa. What's up guys welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Coaches Skip Hill and your berry myself Scott McNaley all of her programming is brought to you by you the people of Patreon and we do have a bunch of Patreon questions. They including a physique critique. We are also brought to you by Trunutrition.com user code think over there for additional savings on high quality third party test and supplements all your basic protein powder, creatinine, get the team's split skip protein blend. We're brought to you by supplement source.ca4 Canadians they do have great deals that change week to week and guys we're just going to dive straight into listener questions. Basically this is the stuff that all three of us do non-stop. Right like answer 4.7. It really made it all day long. So that's for Sunday's for skip Sunday is skip stay off Sunday. Yeah unless I get an email all my clients know if you need something you don't I don't want you waiting and you're not imposing on family time. I will respond but I will not set up notifications to my form because my phone will literally blow up. Not gonna happen. Yeah I would you say Friday Friday. Yeah. And I got a you know except for of course if you are working with competitors and shows are always on Saturdays there are definitely situations where like I'm still working with people and of course I put the podcast up on Friday so that's like a 630 to 1030 in the morning thing so it's part of the day off but anyway we're just going to fire straight ahead into listener questions from you guys today and I'm going to start with Patreon because we did have a bunch of stuff there that we had collected. It's not okay so this isn't a real common one but this is Adam and Adam and actually been to my house I remember when he first started to wanting to learn how to train. He came out and we did a push day we did a pull day and we did a legs day like not back to back but like he came back out a couple weeks later a couple weeks later put together a home gym he was extremely obese and he ended up getting the uh can't remember exactly what it was but he had a stomach if it was a if I pass like a band something like that. Liper's gothic band. Yeah and anyway though he he used that to catapult himself forward made like I've seen him since and I'm a well he doesn't even look like the same human being. He's been consistently training for years now you know he's he's very meticulous he's followed all the podcasts since then and he's been his own bodybuilding coach you know he's done a great job. So here's the situation he says former fat guy that has lost a hundred pounds and kept it off for years now. I'm looking to get a tummy tuck due to the loose skin. Have you guys had clients do this and if so any tips on the process before surgery prep etc. Thanks and I know we do have some guys listening that are dealing with loose skin they probably want to hear about I guess just a loose skin topic in general you know. Let me ask is he he's going to get the surgery to remove the loose skin is that right that's what he's looking to do yeah he called it a tummy tuck so I assume that tummy tuck reverse tummy tuck with a loper they pull down okay yeah I just I just wonder because he may be referencing it in either way the the setup I guess or the plan going in you know I always tell my clients sure same thing with gyna surgery it's it's a lot of the same thing be lean. Yeah matter how experienced that surgeon is give them less skin to play with and to get it cosmeticly nice you know looking nice the leaner you are the better off you're going to be in the situation like that so um can't man there's a lot of procedures out there they can do it on your back now too. Yeah because a lot of times the lower back you know I don't want to have looked into it but I paid attention when other clients have because I'm like you've had clients that have done it. Yeah yeah or have looked into the procedure in depth and one of those things from the back is a lot of times it's categorized as loose skin versus we all tend to think as we age oh we're carrying more body fat it can also be the triggering more body fat don't get me wrong but the skin is following I mean I'm old enough where I can go hmm when I'm in the off season or if I'm flat and I'm lean underneath my pecs doesn't look very horrible so then I I'm going to be honest with you it's to the point where these are the things that masters levels guys do okay here's a here's a gem doing a front lat spread if you're not full you better make sure exaggerated smile doing exaggerated smile right now and tell me that you're oh you can kind of like let's get your lips it will take away to the face underneath wow your pack so if you're not going to smile for any of your poses but that was the smile for a front lat spread it's a game changer from a from a old guy skin standpoint typically if you have loose skin in the stomacher you're probably going to have a little bit of loose skin under your pecs so there's a there's a there's a freebie wow but I was how to get a lean how are you gonna prep for I mean you know you always want to make sure that your skin is elastic as elastic as elastic as possible and hard time getting that when I hope for some reason and something as simple as a minor zinc deficiency can play into the elasticity of the skin as well so there are minor things in there but outside of getting lean I really can't think of anything that's that's big I mean am I missing something I'm thinking more post surgery in terms of peptides like GHK copper BPC there's another one I learned about just the other day I was just not the same way we got with you I got that yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah I have it started it yeah but I'm looking to experiment with it I use the injectable and I also use the topical okay to try to fix some of the wrinkles in my face okay but how long have you been using it for now maybe wow so here's the thing you know I've been traveling so much and I always forget to bring it so there's like four days during the week right don't use it so it's kind of like the guy that goes into PT and like I just PT working and the guy had given him like a ton of exercises to do on his own and hasn't been doing them so I can't give it a fair shape PT doesn't work man yeah you do it exactly no I did two minutes of it last week and it's like what your sheet says to do it four times a week 10 reps you know three times a day or something you know yeah oh and it's with us he said it was a gastric sleeve that he had that's gastric sleeve nice yeah okay that's not bad no but I I would definitely try the GHK copper I would definitely try BPC 157 collagen intake post surgery I think that's probably I don't know if I'd do it before because I think you want to let the doctor get as much loose stuff as possible and get you as tight you know we'll call it a tight fit as possible and then afterwards really try to strengthen yeah you know I I rarely ever have talked about this not because I'm like ashamed but it hasn't come up very much I had Lapo done it was like oh is that right really yeah I Lapo done it was really really early on into bodybuilding like a couple years in and it's because I had pseudo gyna comastia okay just being a teenager yeah being a kid and I remember to this day because like nobody tells you what gyna is at 12 years old you know what I'm saying and I didn't get gland thankfully you know so that wasn't an issue but I remember like I had this it was like a polo polo versus sweatshirt and it had the little logo embroidered on it you know and that was right on my nipple and halfway through the day I'm like oh I was there yeah and it was freaking hurt man to the point where I'm like I guess that you're supposed to wear I didn't I'm like I didn't think about like well this didn't happen before but for some reason it's happening now I didn't like make that connection I just went like I guess I'm supposed to wear a t-shirt under this basically you're trying to protect yourself you know so yeah I didn't know what that was and honestly then so looking back at my my dad's side of the family too a lot of the men are like very heavy chested it was very genetic yeah so it wasn't until I got into bodybuilding and I heard about what gyna comastia was and I started putting these pieces together and I'm like oh and so I'm feeling like for gland thankfully there was no gland right so then I discovered there's something called pseudo gyna comastia that you can get as a teenager and it never went away in fact I might be flat honest like that was the that was the reason I started lifting weights because there was a lot the pecs more and yeah I was like well confidence and I was like well because my shape of my peck isn't round now there's like a divot here and then it drops down and it probably wasn't nearly as bad as it was in my head you know what I mean but I was like I need to I need to make that round or I need to stretch that out so I started lifting and that's literally what got me focused on bodybuilding it like 13 years old and but I still like I said it no so when I was getting into bodybuilding seriously and I learned about gear I started looking into surgery and I think it was back then it wasn't that expensive it was maybe like a thousand bucks to get lipo done and this was by a well-known doctor in my area and it ended up going really like it went really well got rid of the fat and you know it never had it again and then from there you guys went here something crazy whenever I would get in shape my chest would get lean first super lean yeah super lean because you get rid of those fat cells you don't have fat cells there anymore and there was there was like I can't remember one two I think there was eight incisions there was like one up high in the package side one down here and then one on the inside and then you can still see like just the bear you all little tiny scar but they were just little incision there and the little incision there and then they just sucked all the fat out and I still remember seeing the the tube thing get filled up like five a first thing in the morning isn't there and he's just sucking on that fed up but yeah my packs would get just striated 12 weeks out man packs are like it was cool I never looked back you know that was something too like I didn't have a lot of money I think I made eight fifty an hour at the time and I saved that money up in order to do that procedure because it was that important to me man that stuff it if it's as your head do body image stuff you know or in high school I'd same exact things got my neckdios moose it was moose to it oh god because I had one of them that was so nice oh it didn't even bug me I'm just like yeah I'm still bigger than you I'm still stronger than you you like you know I'm the kind of person that you can and I wish it happened more because I think people think oh the big guy like I can take I can be the brun of a joke I can be I can take it you know what I'm saying and I think a lot of times bummer and family situations or friends and stuff people be Josh and making fun of each other and I'm trying to throw some stuff in the tube but rarely does it come back at me and I think maybe it's because people realize it doesn't bug me or doesn't even it doesn't dig at all but you know I never had it I do remember in my teenage years though as you know this is back in like fifty two that could name I can self deprecated well but the jerseys that we were for basketball was also baller shot caller anyway um we would have to wear band aids on our nipples because it was that thick uniform material that when you ran it would jump up and down or you know you the shirt would jump up and down and it would just rub your nipples raw so we have to wear band aids and that was back during the real short shorts like Larry short some of the head the buckle on the front you know yeah it was okay you asked me what I watched so when I'm eating I watched YouTube short skip and lately I've been just going to town on Larry bird stories because he was the biggest shit talker at the whole time and he like there's one story that got me the other day was it's tell us later tell us later tell us later we had a bunch of stuff we we're doing our best on this one you're like oh wait wait wait yeah we're just trying to have a conversation with my friend here but Scott playing principle we're going to have a thing I was sorry guys I'm sorry Dallas later we want to hear the Larry bird story I'm making a note right here actually pretending to make a note right now all right is there anything else that we should cover on this I mean I do think though that yeah this kind of stuff is super common I will add that from what I understand any type of skin removal is considered to be a pretty invasive procedure the skin is the larger store getting your body and so it's considered to be like a pretty major decision for some of you it's considered to be a pretty major idea of a big amount of time oh shit okay get us the next question so to be careful with that all right so I'm going to put you so let me also just say don't ask us ask your doctor yeah there's that ask the one that's done about a thousand of these procedures not three guys that have never really had the surgery of the exception of Scott yeah all right we had another one here okay duck dane aka Justin who's with us in the stream as well he said he hit enter too many times so instead of like one cohesive paragraph there's like a line a line a line a line a post a post a post a post a post this is Justin one of them says though that Andrew is an effing wizard so he says thank you let me read these all backwards here starting at the bottom what do you guys think about this combo for rebuild I'm sure others would like to know if you agree or disagree what would be recommended doses after my life I hit enter before I posted the peptide he's nad plus GHK copper BPC 157 and TB 500 just want to know the mix and if it's plausible for increased recovery and then next post Andrew is an effing wizard and then next post my name is Justin by the way so to our to my favorite listener just I'm gonna say I think you know and I'm going off of conversations I've had with peptide people and I think a one to one ratio of TB and BPC and then I 40 to one ratio of GHK copper to BPC so for an example a bottle would be something like 10 milligrams of BPC 10 milligrams of TB and 40 milligrams of GHK copper okay it makes sense and then how much to take is probably what is next question is kind of depends on your goal but like I've got some of this have in breast augmentation surgery and my advice to her was let's do five milligrams I said let's base everything off BPC just so it's really easy and I don't confuse you let's do five milligrams of BPC for per day for the first 12 days and then we'll probably cut it back to one milligrams of BPC so in that intense phase they're gonna get five milligrams of BPC per day five milligrams of TB and 20 milligrams of GHK copper. Now I don't know what his thing he says is this possible any decrease recovery. Well if you were yeah I mean it sucks to get out of bed the morning and have you joints creaking and to have inflammation throughout the body so absolutely you also mentioned any D plus I think right you did yeah okay I'm not a huge fan of any D plus because the amount of comments and you know responses I get from clients of the injectable form of like I don't want to do this anymore it really burns it hurts or I feel this crazy hard rush as soon as I inject it and I feel like my heart's gonna flutter for a minute and it's true it does you know so I actually like the oral form I don't know if you guys have used the oral form and I'm normally injectable guy I have been using you I've been using and and I'll tell you what if I do a hundred milligrams of NAD plus fasted I feel like heart palpitations for like the next 10 15 minutes so I actually cut my dough down to 50 and I'll tell you what I feel great like throughout the rest of the day so I couldn't tell you how I felt it's when I was sick with that bug and you know running it then but yeah so would you say it's worth it? Absolutely yeah absolutely I mental community better energy yeah I definitely those are the main things I would say all right um we got another one here in Patreon our the majority now I asked Keith from Parabolic if he'd chime in he didn't have time on this but we have talked about it so I've got some thoughts he says on the majority if not all peptides made in China even for the US suppliers from friends I got access to a reputable lab but still a little hesitant definitely going to send it off to test so my understanding is that there are US labs there are obviously Chinese labs I know that the company I just mentioned does have US stuff they also have Chinese stuff which is not as doesn't cost as many bananas you can get it for less banana we'll put it that way you get it for less bananas for the Chinese stuff but what Keith had told me is that the main thing is dosing inconsistency that he's seen through the testing that they've done and that doesn't always necessarily mean that like oh it's Chinese it's under dos sometimes it's overdosed you know which could be a problem right if you're getting a product that's like like semi-glutide you don't want to take twice as much semi-glutide as you meant to take you know I'm saying you know it all sounds finding good like yeah give me the overdose file you know get more you know but yeah some of the stuff we don't want to take more I think we're probably all that age where we don't want anything overdosed we don't we we want to know that we're paying for what we're getting it's accurately dose so we don't we're just not making mistakes yeah same goes with clients too you know yep yeah not even goes to with like taking risks in general you know it's like if we if I have a client that we we had some compounds he's newer to gear we had some compounds that worked that have worked really well and he wanted to try new stuff you know and my thought is why don't we take the compounds that work really well and let's now lean into them right because like I know we can do a lot more with them and he's like well I want to try this new thing so we add the new thing in and he can't tolerate it he's having a terrible reaction to it so that means that now a month into the cycle we're now retooling you know and I mean it's like we could have been taking the things that worked didn't just smoothly pushed along and been you know five weeks into a really good phase right now you know yeah all right Ray had been waiting patiently for us live stream he said as coaches how do you market yourselves to clients if you weren't as successful in your bodybuilding careers for example how do you ran bod wasn't a successful bodybuilder like his client filled heath well that's kind of I mean no one has no one's better than fill heath you get fill heath as a client and then you yeah that's how that's how you get good yeah we'll care to explain how that happens how he got started or do we want to leave that one alone go I'll say this at least in reference to honey we're not going to be able to start out the way honey did it's a different game yeah it's a different game and there are things that were done and situations that he was in that he kind of I don't want to say got lucky but it's a matter of networking and things like that so how do you I'd rather shift to how do you get to the point of training high-level athletes or high-level bodybuilders if you are not a high-level bodybuilder I don't know I think everybody's story is probably going to be a little different but the parallels are just going to be that you have done work that has gotten noticed your clients move up into the higher ranks and they talk and they say oh I'm working with so and so it's a it's a game of referrals you're not going to and tell me if you guys disagree but you're not going to get high-level clients by posting on social media and showing before and after pictures at least not directly it's it's a game that you or situation where you move through and you climb the ladder and the referrals and the word of mouth if you will get you to that level you guys disagree with that answer before you say anything I would like to introduce you on this topic you know I remember that message I sent you the other day I have to say that I've watched you coach now for a good number of years right and I've watched your skills as a coach progress and I've watched you grow as a coach and really put yourself out there and push it I've been watching like the season you're doing a lot of traveling like you are doing that work to like do all that stuff and really push yourself to be that guy and I've seen your client hell grow as is a result so I'm saying this more as an introduction to say how are you doing it now? Well yeah thank you for that. I think well let me just first also say that a lot of times when people associate big name coaches they're only continuously getting already made Olympians they're just kind of passing around whether it's aceto, amy, or honey and all these other coaches that people are considering big name coaches they kind of got as gifts basically what skip was trying to say is they had a leg up because they were some of the first in the coaching game so the body builders that were anybody at that time went to those people and then they developed a reputation so and I like to say they get the opportunity to just tweak for our ease they don't never have to work on Ford Mustangs and and and and even dodged darts and and you know Toyota four runners and stuff like that if you get one if you get my reference right but I think you know for me obviously meeting someone like John Meadows was crucial to my development not just from a watching and learning and mentoring standpoint but also some exposure by being invited to feature the clients I was working on on his website and then I will also say being a part of this podcast you know you're getting some visibility right so thank you to you Scott. Okay my pleasure man. Yeah and then but honestly I think you just have to do the work and you have to continuously accept that you don't know everything and you have to continuously accept that you're willing to learn and not be dogmatic in anything because I mean you're gonna get clients that might look similar on paper but they're gonna vastly different physiques vastly different metabolism's vastly different phenotypes etc but in terms of like the marketing thing yeah I mean I was I started posting everybody transformations contest peck pictures and it does kind of grow like for me I started local as a coach it was you know once you bring two or three guys into shape your name kind of spreads into that circle and the state that you're in and the people that come to your state and the next thing you know you're kind of a regional coach where you're I'm coaching a lot of the New England body builders and athletes and then you start to bring athletes to the national level and from there something like skip was pointing out someone had a great experience with you and someone to say from California reaches out to that person be like hey I'm kind of looking for a new coach it seems like your coach is pretty on the ball and you had a good relationship with them tell me more about them and then that person takes takes a chance on you and then from there just kind of continues to develop as you keep bringing athletes into the national level turning people pro is obviously key and then continuing to bring people into the pro stage I mean 12 or 15 years ago when I really started this if I thought that on this weekend I would have five pro athletes on a pro stage which is what's happening this Saturday I'd have been like get out of here man if I have it in one pro like I've made it you know I'm I'm the coach of the year if I even have one good pro this week and I got five pros and it's it's a casual thing now and I don't say that lightly like I don't like I don't really feel the gravity of it but it is it's it's it's it's my day to day now and it's because of all the work leading up to that so for all the younger coaches continue investing in your education continue finding good coaches to mentor under and just honestly you got to work with physics you got to work with bodies and you got to keep putting people out there and learning from your mistakes and getting better and honing your skills yeah I mean I think that's what it is very well yeah that's covered it very well and I just want to point out too if it sounds contradictory I did say indirectly getting any of the viewers yeah exposure of any type the more exposure you get the better that's why I have always told people if you can get a chance to write especially this going then right and people will say well that doesn't get anywhere near the attention that a podcast doesn't it that's not the point you will still reach people who still want to read or would prefer reading especially if it's detailed information because they can go back and reference it some people are just different so I want to hear it somewhat to the visual of it some people want to read it so cover all your bases and the more exposure you can get the better definitely but the indirect part was just that yeah I don't ever want to say that no posting before and after sign up on social media is not a good idea so I don't want anybody to think that that's what I was saying I'm saying no one's going to be scrolling like a top level guys I'm going to be scrolling through Instagram bro oh yeah okay I'm going to go with this guy that's that's more what I would say yeah you're you're loading more to the relationships side of things in the word amounts like let's say there's a good upcoming amateur who's a friend of say a top pro or a you know a top 20 professional bodybuilder out there because honestly I've got a couple that are in that the ballpark and just because of the relationship and what you did for that person bring in them from point A to point B that person the third person I was like I'm looking for new coach this guy's on the ball he's paying attention he's getting back to him because honestly you guys would be amazed some of the stories of top level coaches that aren't getting back to people for three or four days and these guys are these guys are two or three weeks out from pro throws I mean I hear him every day I'm in many group chats and I was here's my mind if my coach didn't get back to me yet like two three weeks out from the show I mean well so yeah I was going to throw a blow someone up and I'm not going to do that's not like I don't like to be negative you know what I'm saying because I don't know all this the situation but but it's yeah I'll just leave it at that but that's part of that word amount you know yeah it's easy to see oh man this is the condition but we're in a different time now where those relationships and whether you're being taken care of as a client whether the communication is responsive those types of things matter huge equally as important as getting they assume you're going to get them into great shape work with somebody because oh yeah he's really community and responsive oh but he's here to miss and getting him now that's not that's not actually skip it this 2025 and I do think there are some people that like to just be heard versus necessarily. But yeah and to your point though from the last episode where we talked about how twenty years ago a coach could just bark the orders at somebody and ignore all the other fluff stuff right and today as a coach you need to be up on digestive health, you need to be up on hormone health, especially for females. You need to be up on adrenal health. You got to be up on some level of mindset coaching on top of all that. You're kind of the guy that has to keep dangling the carrot in front of your client's face to keep them motivated for whatever phase they're in because we're in some instant gratification time period where I just did a show, I want to compete again in six months. And it's like, yeah, but you're not going to make the progress, then you're going to get upset with me when we get the same result. So you really got to, you really got to bridge out and explain to them and show them the whole process of what progress really looks like. And I'll be on. I think I've been sick of that. With that side of things, I'm happy to help people to agree, but if they're not going to see it, I'm okay with being like, well, you're getting, go to Andrew. You got to Andrew. And that's just where I stand as a coach. You know what I mean? I'm like, yeah, yeah, we're not a good fit. You know, if somebody needs a lot of that, but I think you're absolutely right, I was just going to add to that I think I started in a lot of the same way you did Andrew, locally. And I, part of, I wouldn't say it was luck, but I, yeah, one, it wasn't luck. I just remember, I remember initially helping people because I was in a position where I was doing well and people asked me questions. That's where it really started. People said, like, oh, how do you do that? You know, and how did you get like that? And that's how it developed. And I remember listening to Dave Palombo say in like 2003 or so, he said that if you, if you, love what you're doing, keep doing it and eventually it'll make you money. And I literally didn't know how it would make me money, but I kept answering questions. And then I started answering questions on the message boards. And then people in the gym started asking me for their help. And then they wanted help with shows. And then I started helping a couple of people compete. And I, like, literally my first coaching was competitors. And then from there, like those people would do well. And, you know, it's that, do good work. I think that's the other part of it, right? You know what I mean? Like, do good work. I had clients that freaking look inside out peeled. And this is like the beginning of men's physique when people still didn't quite know what was going on yet. And I died in them like body builders. And we got like inside out peeled. Like a bodybuilder would, and guess what? They won every show. So then more people wanted to start working with me. And I became like the men's physique coach. Because I didn't intend that. But like, before I know it, literally my leg day, I had like a troupe of guys that would come and train with me. And there'd be like three of us in this group, and three of us in the group on the machine next to us. And we would just rotate. One guy's off the machine next guy's on, next guy's on. And we were just push like that for a couple hours, two, three hours straight. We did long workouts back then. But they were like all men's physique guys. They trained like bodybuilders. They ate like bodybuilders. And that's how it developed. And that's even before it went online. But I would say it all came back to like doing really good work. You know? Can I add one more thing? Because the answer to the question, you know, as directly, how do you mark yourself to clients if you weren't as successful in your bodybuilding career as like the bodybuilders or the athletes you're taking on? I can't think of anybody builder with maybe the exception of Milos, who coaches high level people that had, will call an a-list career and bodybuilding. You know? But it's great. Can you guys think of anybody that, um, boosts a, let's say a top 20 bodybuilder at any time period or top 20 physique athlete in any division that, there were guys that look really good like a cito looked incredible. But it's not like he was Mr. Olympia, you know? Yeah, no. That's what I'm getting at. And my point is, and it, I mean, Bill Bellachek wasn't that good at football. Yet he's got, they should ton of superpulse. Any coaches, some of the best athletes in the sport, you know? And then the last thing I just want to end on is that, and this is something I tell me, I wake up every day and it's the first thing I think of. And it, I legitimately do. When I'm opening my emails for the first, you know, it's kind of like my, whatever called routine. For people that, you know, want to go try level people and, and then have a stable of general population, people too. It's almost all do not take anybody for granted, you know? I'm not the most expensive coach out there, but I do know it's hard to go to Mount and it's your pain for a service. And I just tell myself, do you not take anyone's time for granted? You know, there's some people that aren't going to take it as seriously as you want them to, but they're still pain. So I still, I'm going to get back to them the same way. I'm going to get back to somebody that's checking in every day on the ball five weeks or three days out from a show. Yeah. I like that too. Hey, before we forget, let's give that shout out. Got this line right up here, Andrew. Oh, yeah. That's my man's said. So, you look, this was the night for the show. This was, we brought him down to the gym around, this is almost like midnight. And we just wanted to do like a 25 minute pump workout because I want to push a little bit more food at him. Okay. And he just got a mind blowing pump and looked amazing. And honestly, he still got great aesthetics. I'm blown away by his obliques and his serratus. Like that's like hotty type stuff, you know? But yeah, no, Sid placed third at North Americans in the heavyweight class. I was honestly, you know, obviously I'm a Homer, but I was surprised he didn't win. When he woke up that morning, I go, dude, we're going to win the whole show. And shame on me for assuming. But yeah. I mean, he was just on and every, he was the most bodybuilder, the rest bodybuilder there. Meaning, he was the guy that looked like he was ready to go to the next level and would fit in on the next level at a pro stage in my opinion. Yeah. But yeah, no solo plan for him is we are going to grow a little bit more. He's going to be a true super because we had the choice when it came down to Wayne in. We were, you know, do we drink a little less water? Do we drink a little more water? When we get on the scale, we're going to be a super. You're going to be a heavyweight. And we opted to go with our original plan of staying heavyweight. But he's probably going to be a super at USA's next year. Okay. Wow. So not push on, not hold on, dude. I mean, because the third place you're right up there, right? I tried to push him, but he, so he's very close with his family and they have evocation in Mexico. You know, I think it's literally the five days before nationals. And yeah, while he, well, he could, this guy is like, to the point, if you say 200 ml's a water, he will put it on the scale and he will measure out 200 ml's a water. We're not 211, not 199 and he will make it. Yeah. I mean, attention to detail is on another level was said. I mean, I stayed with him for three days leading into the show. And literally, I will say the easiest peak I've ever had because of his attention to detail. And our communication, you know. But no, so the plan is to do USA's next year. Well, we should get sit on the show because not only does he have a great physique, but he is also a huge fan of the sport. He'd be great to have on for a preview show, but because he knows everybody, you know, he knows the details of all the bodybuilders. He'd be really good at that. Absolutely. Yeah. I definitely invite him on. All right. We should do that. All right. We had a bunch more questions still. I'll stick with the stream and then I know I had one from YouTube, or excuse me, Patreon as well. We haven't even gotten to YouTube questions, but definitely guys comment on YouTube with questions and your comments, your feedback, all that stuff would love to hear from you. Tell us what do you want to see on the next show? You know, that's really what that's about. Plus, then of course, that stuff helps to boost our programming up. And if you are new here, if you haven't hit the subscribe button, what are you doing with your life? I love to have you long for all of our stuff. So hit that hit the bell. All that Ryan says for skip, since he flavors, since he favors master on along with TRT to boost effectiveness. What dose of master on do you typically prefer? He says typically he's running 175 to 225 of tests. And he says, Scott and Andrew, your input would be appreciated. You got to turn your mic on, skip. I know it's your first podcast, but it's like I'm like I'm learning. I'm like I'm a newbie here or something. Thank you. That's twice in the same day. You know, 200, 100. I think so. And so maybe I don't know, 2 to 1 ratio of, you know, tests to master on. You got to play with it. You might have to play with it a little bit just to see how you respond to it. But it's a, I don't you guys in the same neighborhood, 200, 100. Yeah. Maybe 250, 100 in there. Yeah. I'm not telling what I do is I'm a fan of daily injections. And you know, most of the time I'm on 20 milligrams of test and 10 milligrams of master on predict. Yeah. So right, write the line with the same 2 to 1. And that is much daily. I'm being honest just because typically when I'm running TRT, one of the nice things I like about TRT is I don't have to do as many shots. But I also prefer my TRT in insulin pins and they're just take forever to load. It's just little drip, little drip. Oh, he's a little surge, little drip, little drip. So what I do is when I'm dicking around watching YouTube video for a couple of minutes, I just load up 7, I'm for the week. And then, okay. You know, so it's like, I'm listening and I'm, you know, this is probably the most consistent I've ever been with shots. Okay. I mean, with the exception of like contest prep, right? But you know, because we all talked about offseason, you're like, oh, shoot. I forgot to take my shot today. Yeah. You know, you know, you think you're going to go into the gym after you've missed it for a couple of days. Yeah. Yeah. That's the difference. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. You know, I used to do the test mask thing years ago. And any more, I find that it might as HBG just get so crushed. I start feeling really just crappy. So I, I have to just run just straight up test. It's a, you notice a difference when your S.H.B.G is too low and you feel, yeah. And I didn't think it was a thing, man. I didn't think it was a thing. But I start feeling like it's almost like the zero test feeling or zero estrogen feeling how like it just, I feel really letharchic. Just, just off. Yeah. Yeah. It just gets, and for me, it's, it's a, it's a, the long term. If I were to run, if I have like, you know, baseline everything's normal and then I were to run some mast, I'd be good. But if I'm like, just a little bit of mast long term, that's when it starts catching up to me. So yeah. All right. We got a physique critique too for the show. And you know, back to back. This is another guy that I work with. And I am really excited to see what you guys have to say. So if you guys are part of Patreon, feel free to comment over there. Let me know that you want a physique critique. I know we had somebody Chris will get you on the next show, man. Yeah. Let's definitely stay in contact. We'll definitely get you going there for the next episode. But this is John. And we were about eight weeks out from his first show down. He's a head. Yeah. Yeah. And I want to try to keep him that way too. You know, Scott, you do a great job of getting your people head. I've noticed like, oh, this guy six weeks out. It's like, well, it looks like he's three. Or someone so was, you know, 10 weeks out and he looks like you could be four or five weeks out. Like, consent you. That's excellent. That's what I, you know what, man. I learned that for myself, the season I competed like all year long in 2017. And what I discovered was that I was in shape in September. And then I competed again in October and in November. And you know what, I just got better and better and better. There comes that point. What I, here's my game plan with him is I want to burn him down now, right? So that we can get to that point that he needs more food. Eventually he's going to get to a point where we're no longer five more minutes of cardio. Oh, let's remove a cup of rice. You know, we're going to get to the point where we're going to have to put more food in. Let's do another high day. And then we, you know, he loses a pound. Okay, let's do another high day, you know. And before you know it, he's eating so much food going into the show. He's like comfortably, right? Like he's even high level of food where he's not hungry. You basically pulled the cardio out except for maybe to like keep the food digesting. You know what I mean, keep movement. And then stress is so low versus the opposite of that being when I first started coaching, like or when I first started learning about how to prep for a show in 2008, 2009, the idea was that like you had to, you could only, you got to make sure that you peek at the right time. Yeah. You don't want to peek too soon because you can't, no, do you hold that peek for a month, you know. But you do have to have that iron will. You know what I mean? You just got to have someone that wants results more than they want food. Right. Yeah. You know, start adding those carbs in. That starter starts. He's already got check. Come back to that side, Jess. Just second here. Yeah, he's already got like, petstrations, his glutes are invisible, his serratus and a bleak serviceable. Like, what's his weight and what's his height? You know what? I could pull it up. Let me just ballpark. Just ballpark it. He's taller and he's got to be about 230 right now. I can't remember what is height is though, but he's in a situation where like, we're not even worried about weight class nothing. So, yeah, is he bodybuilder classic? He wants to be his ultimate goal is, we'll see where he lands, but his, for this, but his ultimate goal is to be as big as a house. Okay. Come on. So, yeah, good condition, good structure. Yeah. Condition, yeah, I'm just a condition, but we've been working. So we've been working a lot on back. What do you think, skip about? What would he need to bring up for the off season? Well, being a bigger guy and being taller, I mean, the back is never going to be too big. So there's that. It'll take up more space. Got a long, a little bit of a long torso. So that's going to help with more back size, too, but. Need to arm. Yeah, yeah. Need to arm. Back. Yep, more arms and back. Yep. Yep. But pretty good. Balance, good balance. Yeah. Yeah. But I would definitely from the front more, more biceps for sure, from the back, just just more density. Yeah, just overall more density to match the frame, because the skip set is a taller guy. And I know this all too well. You know, your back might look good when you're sitting there, you know, but when you stand up in your next another athlete who's four to five inches shorter, you just look sometimes a little long gated and a little bit stringy compared to some of some of the other athletes. But I mean, how old is he? I can't remember. I'm going to say late 20s. Oh, well, I'll come up late 20s early 30s. I bet the next two years are going to be pretty amazing for him, honestly. He just runs out. Dude, we started. So we started working together. I think it was around the beginning of this year. And I immediately was able to just start getting food in him and getting him to grow. And we kept the good, like pretty good conditioning while adding size. And we worked really closely on his training. So his training is like real dialed in super focused, beautiful control. And he's invested in his own home gym. Like he has everything man. You want to go to Hammer's strength machine. He's got it. You know, he's got like literally all the machines in his house. I want to say this. And it would have pissed me off, or did piss me off when people told me this when classic first came out. This gentleman should definitely think about classic. I, you know, I don't know if the pro car is something he's interested in. But I could see him. Like with this current physique, maybe a little bit more back density going to get a pro car next year in a classic division. Just throwing that out there. Yeah, lines are real good. Shave everything. Yeah, certainly. You know, one of the things to I don't think is quadraterably big. But he's got lines for days. Yeah, beautiful lines. So and I'm not saying they're small. I don't want anybody. Sure. He comes in section. Joe, I said you're a small. Yeah. Well, that's the thing when you're tall, right? Is like when you actually measure the quads, like I remember I'd mentioned my quads next to my buddy. He was like five or three. And his look bigger on his frame, but you do the math on him. And it's like, nah, I got like five inches on your bro. Yeah, you know, it's just when they're elongated like that, it doesn't appear as, you know, out there as around his big. But definitely by steps from the front is, if I were to pick him apart, you know, which I know he's kind of asking for. Yeah, it's a little more by steps, you know, more by steps and more laughs and more, uh, Ron Boyd's and Terry's and just, yeah, I actually like his legs a lot. Yeah, I'm a fan of his physique. So it's going to be fun to see, you know, how's it going to come together? Our super hyper critical real quick. Yeah, there is probably something a little bit of it's not an impingor with some type of scapular limitation on his left side, which is our right side, minor, but there may be something there with soft tissue work. Show it from the back again. See it as much from the, yeah, a little bit. Little bit. Yeah, yep. Yep. So that is something and that's I say pretty easy to fix. Pretty easy to fix from a soft tissue sample. He may find that he's more even in more symmetrical left and right if there's something that is bound up in there, Ron's gap. I'm going to be interested to see the way those glutes look when he's in shape, because I feel like, because I was asking him, I was like, is that down at the bottom? Is that soft there or is that tissue? I think that his glutes attached to the low. That's tissue. Yeah. That's tissue. Yeah. Yeah. It's a crazy low glute attachment. You know what I want to see on him is his last spread. His front last spread. I wonder if he has. I bet it looks nice because just as being a taller person myself, when you have that longer torso, it just makes you look wider and your waist looking even more narrow. And your shoulders are good. Yeah. So I'm going to get into that front last spread probably does look pretty good and very class. Yeah. Yep. I wonder, I'm going to see if he has any of these other ones. Hold on, give me just a second here. Yeah. Because he had some in the gym to go through these really quick. So those are always, you know, morning fasted pictures. I'm not sure if he has anything that's. So yeah, he looks a little more pumped up here. It does. But I don't think he has a lat spread though here. Okay. Yeah. Back looks a lot better with that fullness in it. Yeah. John, it'll last spread man. It's good. I guarantee he's going to be one of your best poses. Yeah, he's he's over on the West Coast too, like the Pacific Northwest area. I forget the show that that he's doing off hand. I forget the name of it. Oh, I think I got an athlete. How many weeks out is it? It's a around eight. I'd have to look. But I think I got a female doing it. Might be like the Northwest Championships or sounds that sounds like it. Yep. Is it like Washington or yeah? Yeah. Yep. That's it. Yeah. Okay. All right. Awesome. See if I can whip you a couple questions here, guys, for a whip it. Wicked good. All right. Just dive and straight in. Andrew, how do you take your 20 milligrams of test daily? Do you use an insulin syringe? I do. I am so cute. I am put it right in the delt. Usually you're dealt. Sometimes if I'm sitting down, I just throw it right in my quad. Those are the reasons I ask is because I'm telling you, sub-cue and oil don't work well for me. Yeah, I don't like it either. Oh, like it. It feels it's not like an abrasive mat. It's just kind of like a rubbing something's in there and it's in it's irritating. Yeah. Skin a little thicker. Yeah. Yep. I know some people love it and they say, I don't feel it, which is, you know, that's like anything in body building. What works for someone doesn't necessarily work for the other person. It was Dr. Chrysler here in Michigan that started suggesting that years ago. Remember Dr. Chrysler? It's good. Yep. Yeah. Like the all men clinic or men's clinic or is it something like that? Yeah, I don't remember it from like back when I was there. But I do remember that. Yeah, I was like in the, there was like an online presence, right? Sure. Absolutely. Now I did not know that he was from Michigan until you just mentioned it though. Yeah. Yeah. So, but in I had a, or I had a friend who was one of his patients. But yeah, he started the subcube thing and back then he was having people do it with just a straight up, you know, three C C syringe just in the morning. Yeah. And they would do like the full C C of tests just pop that in or whatever your weekly dose was. And his reasoning was is that it was like the slow release. It was even slow and even. All right. Um. So it's the information. Yeah, right. It stayed for a while, too. Okay. Ages. So the question. This says ages definitely a legit variable when it comes to everything, training four times a week, working sets for everyone. Recovery and injury, quad tier nutrition, gear, etc. Scott, please consider talking about this. How does age impact training and bodybuilding lifestyle? Well, well, though, we tried to do that on the last episode. We just, we got into it and we didn't feel like it. Yeah. Oh, I think we're all disgruntled because we're at that age where things aren't as fun as it used to be. Yeah, exactly. Oh, we got a little bit more hate here. So back to the meadows topic of gear. Mm-hmm. Uh, and he's got a legit point. But what about the meadows, HGH dose? What about it? It was, I mean, he's talked about it. So, you know, I'm not spilling any beans here. Right. But yeah, I mean, he did, he used a fair amount of GAs, but it wasn't like, you know, 52 weeks a year. He was running a bottle of Sarah's Dem, you know? Yeah. It was more like, um, if I'm if memory serves, you know, I think leading up to a show. I think he used, you know, you're around something like four units, most most days when he remembered. I mean, should I remember being with him four weeks out from the auto classic and we were watching TV or going, get ready to go to bed and he's like, oh crap, I didn't take my GH today. You know, he still looked for an amazing, you know, I mean, it's, um, but then, yeah, you know, I think I said told you guys the, the, you know, he had a suck down. He looked amazing at 232. So he had to do two, 12. So he had to lose about 20 pounds, right, to make way. Because he knew with his heightened size overall, he wasn't going to do much damage as an, an open body builder. So such a good move for him too. Oh, I mean, now he's already the dry sky in the planet. So him having a sauna and having to sweat suit it and get down to that way. I mean, it was something to see, but yeah, no, he would, um, he would, as soon as he made away, he'd do a nice little pump workout or he'd get his water back in him, he'd do a nice little pump workout. Usually go have something like a burger and fries and a dessert. And then, um, you know, he maybe another clean meal before bed and then he would do 18 to 36 units of CH and sometimes another 18 to 36 first thing in the morning in that fullness, which didn't really look like it disappeared, came back even stronger, I should say. So yeah, he put, you know, two or three hundred dollars right in the abdomen, uh, like, worship. Yeah, we, or he has never made any claims that he was low GH. So no, you know, we're, we're just pointing out the fact that, you know, you specifically Andrew, that's why you're trashed in the comments. You know, just stating that the AAS use was lower than the vast majority of people, what anticipated it was. I would say it's probably lower than 98 to 99% of IPB pros that stepped on a first age. All right. Yeah, I would say that I would put a million to art. I put a thousand dollars on it because I have a thousand. I don't know, but a million. Yeah, that's it. It's a billion. But yeah, you plan on losing it? Are you not telling you? Yeah. Yeah. Why do you put a million dollars down? You mean you're going to win? Yeah, no, I mean. You know, if it isn't worth nothing, it's something else. Yeah, and then someone was like, well, he didn't build his physique like that. And it's like, well, you know, yeah, he did what all of us did in his 20s and early 30s. But everyone's got to remember, he had major health complications. We put them out of the sport for multiple years at a time. He was not blasting gear for those time periods when he was rebuilding his gut and his digestive system. So, and I want to say that was what mid 2000s, 2004, five, six, something like that. Because they know it was shortly after intense muscle came up in 2004, because he talked about it at length for a year or a long time. And he was a national level body builder before that. And he was a national level body builder when he came back. So, yeah, it's funny to me that the takeaway isn't, you know, from from these viewers, well, why they don't just, you know, the age, the wisdom, the experience, tells him to come back and not do those bigger doses. You know, there was no denying, I don't think he would deny or had denied that he used heavier, you know, or bigger cycles earlier early on. I'd be curious because I don't know, even what those cycles would look like. But, you know, I got to talk about it. Let me see, he talked about him to talk about it. Let me talk about some of that before I heard some of it. I can't remember, like I, it's not like a commitment or a memory, but I mean, I got it on a spreadsheet. And I'm like a computer. Like the legit old school body building cycles? Yes. And it is nothing that would anyone raise their eyebrow at the day. And so, oh my gosh, that's why you go. So, yeah, correct. Yeah. It's none of that. No, it was very comparable to national level high level athletes that are gunning to put on good size and to compete at a high level. But, I mean, all of it's the same doses we talk about, guys. It's, it's nothing different, you know. I mean, I think that's probably where I got a lot of my PED modeling from is, is, paying attention to those types of things. A head documented in kept track on spreadsheets and whatnot, which he gave me all access to. And learning from that, you know. All right, got one more here just because he says, love the podcast by far my favorite on your channel, Scott. Question for the next episode. Currently hitting chest three times per week eight sets per, for a total of 24 sets per week as my chest is lagging. Do you think it's a good idea or stick to two times a week, currently in a deficit to add context? I don't like it. Well, but I would say you're already doing it. So assess, are you progressing? Is it getting or are you starting to feel beat down to where you're in a train, your rotator grabs their body, the need of your shoulders are bothering you. The progression isn't there, then definitely back on. I'll be surprised to say it three times a week at that volume. If you're training hard, I'd have a hard time unless you're gifted, genetically, that you're going to be growing a whole lot. But maybe you are. I would also want to ask are those eight sets all the failure or are three of those sets to failure? And eight of them are, you know, feeder or, you know, not fluff, but just they're they're working sets, but they're not all out grinded into are they eight rest-poss sets that you're doing or are they? But I agree with Skip, I would say if, you know, you don't know until you try something. And just because no one else is doing it doesn't mean it's wrong because if something works, then it works, right? So I would say, and also to talk about what Skip was saying about, you know, your rotators are, how does that manifest, right? To me, you're doing too much if you're going to try to train your back and you're doing pull downs and stuff and your shoulders just ache or you're trying to do other body parts and your shoulders are hurting constantly. To me that tells me you're probably using that joint system a little too much. Yeah, if you're training by the sense, and you're like, my shoulders are on fire. Yeah, there's your sign. Yeah. Yeah. I remember, um, so that year that I mentioned 2017, I learned a lot of stuff that season, but my, um, my bicep tendon was just bothering the hell out of me and what I discovered was that and I was doing like the five day bro split and I discovered that, so if I'm doing four exercises for chest three exercises or excuse me three sets of pro exercise, I could do two good exercises, but then anything after that, my shoulder would start aching. So I really just like did like flies and pumped it in, you know, phoned it in for those last two exercises. So I said, well, what if I just did two exercises on Monday on chicken on national chest day and then later in the week when I do my shoulder day, I did the other two. Huh, okay. So I did that right and I ended up doing that through the whole season. And here's what I discovered. So I didn't increase the volume right, adjusting increased frequency and keep in mind to at the time this is a year into podcasting with Scott Stevens and now Jordan Peters and they're all about high frequency low volume. And it's like, and here I am training with Shelby, right? We're doing three hour workouts and squeezing things and you've got the the metals bands out and all you know, so very different But I'm trying to figure out like how that high frequency stuff might work. So I thought, okay, here's a place I can try that. So I did that the whole season. First thing I discovered was this that I could do two exercises. I could push hard crazy, you know, my good intensity and then cut it, no shoulder issues. And then come back and do that again a few days later. And so then I'm saying to myself, so I think that all of my volume that I'm getting in now is way more productive probably 50% more productive, right? Because now I'm able to do this hard two times, you know, all my sets are like the first set of the day, you know. So that was one thing. And then the second thing is after the season was over, I remember talking to somebody who commented and so this was like, and this is a long season. I started dieting in February. I was in a deficit all the way through November and competed multiple times throughout. After that season was over, it was like January, February. I had some current pictures and was talking to somebody who commented, well, your chest is they're commenting on like what I could we're talking about what I could bring up. And they commented that my chest was a strong point. Like what my chest has always been average at best it used to be a weak point. And I looked at my pictures again. And I was like, oh, you should. My packs are the best they've ever been in my life. Tells you something. In a deficit for like, you know, have most of the year, right? So there was no additional volume, but I changed the frequency and the, I mean, you could argue I changed the intensity too, right? So I'll leave it to that. Oh, again, it goes back to because I believe this person's asking is it right? Is it wrong? And you were probably questioning is it right? Or is it stupid to do? Yeah. You tried it. You committed to it for a period of time. You assessed and you said, hey, this did work. So I invite the listener to continue doing that. And if you run into the issues that means give her a run, talking about, then, you know, it's probably not at least for a long term, something you should be doing, but at least you find out. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I'm with that. And I'll I remember too, is that my chest day was real short. Yep. You know, you know, not think about it. I did a abbreviated version of DC training like that. Like, it was like two exercises. And I did it like every third or fourth day for upper body and every third or fourth day for lower body. And then took a day or two off in between. And that was those. You know, I thought, but this little volume and I wasn't even doing rest pause. Then I was just doing. I think two working sets, trying to match reps. And I was blown away at, you know, a how good my body felt. Like the joints probably felt better than they ever have in my life. And I made a lot of progress. So yeah. Try things out. All right. I got a note from a listener on text actually before we go, I have to find to this email from John John sent me a 30 email. Oh, there it is. There's the last spread for skip. My man. All right. Let's see here screen share. I think you can do a better job at this last spread. But I think that's a great start. Yeah. It is a good start. It looks what I like what I thought it would look like. Me too. So it's good. Yeah. It looks like it looks like it looks like a little more. Yeah. There's a little bit for your greed. But he adds to he says, please say thanks to the guys for the kind words. And skip was actually right about the congestion and the right side of my back. If Andrew has the name of his client, I'd love to say hi to her at the show. He didn't expect me to read this, you know, on the podcast. Yeah. If you went all given that information later, if he's okay with that. Sure. All right. All right. Look at that. We wrapped that up. We did an actual show today, guys. We're actually we still have we've still got it. Skip, do we still have it? Oh, we still got it. Thanks for tuning in, guys. We appreciate you being here. And thank you guys for taking the time out of your day. I know what it's like to be freaking busy with all this shit. And I'm grateful that you guys take the time to share your education and hang out with us. So thank you to both of you. Thank you. And for another episode of Blood Sweat and Gear Guys, we will see you soon. Check out Trinutrition.com. Code, thanks supplement source.ca for Canadians. Of course, thank you to everybody from Patreon. We guys, we did you a whole like a whole Patreon thing today. So I hope you appreciate that. And leave us questions for the next show, comment on YouTube, all that stuff for another episode of Blood Sweat and Gear Guys. We'll see you soon.

How about uh, windstorm? I just I think you could possibly get away with slightly lower. I go with 10 again probably. Yeah, I would say 10, but I think you might be able to squeeze it a little bit lower, but I don't suppose windstorm comes in 2.5 so. Yeah. Now let me ask you this. Let's see you ran, go back up to the end of our ore of the windstorm, 10 milligrams of this. How long do you think you could do that before lab work would start to get screwy, either liver values, which you might not really see much from it. I don't think I actually think you'd probably get away with it all. Quite an extended time. Yeah. I think it could be token several months to be honest. Yeah. I mean, I want to check labs during that, you know what I mean? Yeah, I mean, like anything, money, so you know, I mean, don't just take it for red. What's up, guys? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I've Scott McNaley and Oliver programming is brought to you by you. The people of Patreon, we are brought to you by Strom Sports Nutrition for those in the UK. And now in the US, there's that famous young you guys were waiting for right there. We are brought to you by supplement source.ca for Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week. And of course, true nutrition dot com, use our code. Think to get 10% off all your basic body building supplements like protein powder, creatin, intro workout and more. Dave, the last show did pretty good. People enjoyed hearing about TRT plus. I know what's your favorite topic. And I thought to myself, Dave loves TRT plus so much. Why don't we do it again? Why don't we do more TRT plus? You get one. You want to, you can fuck around. We actually had a, Do you want to catch a French Pino? What is that? It's a French Pino. Is it something different? It's not salted, which I've never had. Oh, unsalted peanuts. Do not sound pleasant to me. Okay. Anyway, here's a comment that we got on the show last week. Because we're saying like, guys, you know, orals, they just don't make sense for TRT plus, you know, and we just moved on. That's always said we just moved on. And so husky king, great name, by the way. He says, you can't add an oral in as it turns it into a cycle. But you can add growth hormone, insulin, a little bit of red in the background, plus on top of that, add your test and all of that is fine. Such nonsense. Yeah, he has a valid point. Yeah, he has a point there. Does that? What was he called again? Something king, husky king. Husky king. Yeah. It's all nonsense, mate. I was told that to behave. Ha ha ha ha ha. Yeah, you know what it is, Dave, is, I think here's what I thought immediately, because I was like, Oh, you can get a lot out of an oral. But I mean, realistically, you can get a performance benefit out of a low dose oral, right? You're not going to get massive gains out of it. You're not going to grow a bunch of muscle, but you can't get a performance benefit out of that, right? Yeah, is it going to cycle? No. My standpoint is always being TOT's, TOT. And if you're in both TOTs, he's not TOTs as simple as that. I appreciate that it's not a belief that's held by a large number of people, which is why we did the thing last week, because at the end of the day, you know, people do different shifts. I, if you're talking oral, that effective muscle building doses, then you've got a very limited exposure to them. You can't have them for long, so they wouldn't run along at side at here, TOT. He does have a valid point though, that all the other stuff doesn't make it cycle. It might happen in yes it does, but I was told I had to behave, so I did. But yeah, you could potentially do something like a low dose or all. I just don't really see there being a great deal of benefit. It sort of ends up being a bit for the sake of it, but you could peer on it, but you could probably bring an oral in, that's definitely something on that point. You know, if you had special occasion, so to speak. Yeah, yeah, you know, I mean, it really comes down to like, what are you going to get? I think that one thing that people have disconnected from lately has been, they're not good. No, yeah. Let's go with regular old fashioned salted peanuts. I think one of the things people have disconnected from is the fact that yes, there is definitely a dose to affect ratio. You know what I'm saying? So yeah, you may get, and we've said this before, can you take five to 10 milligrams of anovar and get an increased pump in the gym, increase performance, you know, you get, yeah, you get something out of it. I've used that kind of dosing with athletes for the last 15 years. People that are performing in athletic sport, and you will get an enhanced athletic performance, but are you going to gain bodybuilder like mass from that? No, absolutely not, man. Scott, are you in coaching interviews enough for these that compete in tested sports? That's terrible. I would never have said such a thing. First of all, and actually, no, I don't think I really work with many people that were in tested sports. More so, like, guys that are not on the professional level of mixed martial arts and stuff like that. Guys that need heavy endurance, you know, and they are still interested in using PEDs. What? Guys, I haven't had a hard time holding this show together. First day of sick. Now we got this. Who has that ringtone? You left a buckle, make it too close to the gate, so we're open. I'm sorry, when my near-death state. I forgot to turn my phone off, and then someone stood up with the gate. Alright, well listen, let's real quick, four performance enhancement, meaning like improving athleticism, increasing your pump. Let's run through a general list of the common orals. What would be the lowest dose to get a performance boost from number one, Annavar? Male, oh, female. Let's go with male. 10, 15. Okay. You probably got more experience on this than made it for that. I thought something really messed with it. I'd say 10 is a great dose for enhanced performance. How about windstrong? I'd say I think it could possibly get away with slightly lower. I'd go with 10 again, probably. I would say 10, but I think you might be able to squeeze it a little bit lower. But I don't suppose windstrong comes in 2.5, so. Yeah. Now let me ask you this. Let's say you ran, go back up to the end of our or the windstrong. 10 milligrams of this. How long do you think you could do that before lab work would start to get screwy, either liver values, which you might not really see much from it. I actually think you probably can play the role. Quite an extended time. Yeah. I think it could be talking several months to be honest. Yeah. I mean, I'd want to check labs during that, you know, in any way. Yeah. I mean, like anything, money, so you don't know. Just to get the red. But yeah. I think it probably got away with quite extended period of time. All right. Next. How about an adrole aka oxa aka green giants aka draw. I actually going to know why would it said possibly a little bit higher. Yeah. But yeah. We're going to be 10 to 20. I feel like okay. I would say 10 just for performance benefits. Like I'm getting a little bit better pump. Maybe my recovery is a little bit improved. I can quote unquote feel it in the gym. You know, I feel like I'm going to. You gotta take 100. Yeah. Yeah. Get anything out of it. Okay. 10 to 20 and you're and of course guys, we're having fun with this. This is just our opinions, right? It's not like we're trying to write something in stone here. And then debol. Where would you go with debol? 10. I wouldn't go any higher actually. The debol was actually the one I've been tended to go lower without. I wouldn't go any higher would debol. I could even see five with debol. Yeah. I could as well. Yeah. I could say I'd definitely be leaning on the lowest out of a debol. Okay. This one's going to get a little tricky for you. Halo testin. I mean, I mean, dude, because like I've worked with guys that take literally just 10 milligrams a day leading into a show for the last two weeks. That so so is 2.5. I always want to say I'd go as low as 2.5. Halo, yeah. Yes. I wonder, guys, do we have any listeners that have taken 2.5 milligrams of halo pre-workout? And did you get an effect from it? I'd be curious. Superdraw is kind of dosed similar to Halo. Slightly higher. I'd go five. Okay. 5 superdraw. Yeah. Huh. And what else are we missing? Oh, t-ball. Oral Terinnable. 10. 10. So okay. So we're kind of across the board with a round and average of 10 milligrams with any of these orals for Husky King who called us out. Yeah. We got your number bro. Actually he had our number. No, he was wrong. He really was. He really was. I did an oral cause it's like a bad G. That's what it does. Yeah, no. It was a really good point, man. All right. That was one of the ladies. Oh, well, for the ladies, I mean, gosh, man, it's a tough one because I think with females. Uh, all these things are really going to be dependent on how they respond. I've worked with some girls that can't touch anivard. Like, that just the way they're set up. They do terribly with it. In fact, that work with some girls that just orals don't work for them very well at all, that they need to get to an injectable in order to be able to break things down and process it. They just don't have, you know, I've seen issues with like liver, gallbladder, like long-term stuff, maybe from using birth controls since they were, you know, basically a kid. You know, so I've seen a lot of variability. But let's say, I mean, gosh, could we say two milligrams of anivard? As just a performance enhancer? Mm-hmm. No, okay. There was two, two, two, five. Yeah. Okay. Would you say the same with anidro? You see, this is going to sound weird. Now, there's no secret, I like, oxies. Well, I actually do think they're not super good at really super low doses. So I would probably be 2.5 to 5. And you did go higher for men, too. And listen, let's look at this. So traditionally, of course, like everything's been turned on, it's had in the last few years, as far as what a dose means, you know. But we can flash back from five years ago on common thought on debol would be 50 milligrams. Common thought on anivard would be 50 milligrams. But anidro on the other hand, common thought would be 100. You know? I do think it does need to be that. I don't think it's one of those drugs that performs particularly well at super low doses. Yeah, meaning like overall, it is generally ghost higher, you know what I mean? More milligrams. Well, I mean, you know, we always looked at debol's. They always came in five or 10s, you know? Right. The team team always came in 10s. And then you start again, a shoe loves doing 20s for obvious reasons. Whereas oxa, it's always been 50s. Yeah. It's always been 50s. Yeah, you're right. All right. All right. Yeah. Excuse me. Oh, yeah, guys. I forgot to tell you two, Dave Sick. He's being a baby today. I've got two days left. Don't say that. You got to stay be positive. You got to get your cardio in. Yeah, take, did you take your vitamin C today? Yeah, did I start? Good man. Good man. I died. No, we don't say that I need to be either. You two doesn't like that. Okay, I'm, I want to live in very slowly. We didn't get a bunch of stuff. And you guys are definitely welcome to comment. Leave us questions for the next show. And thank you to everybody who's joining us today. We're happy to have you. If you're new to our show, welcome. And we'd love to have you along for all of them. We have several shows at Cmonnie Tweak. Study show creatin doesn't just fuel your muscles. It fuels your brain. Research links create into improved memory, focused and mental clarity, especially while under stress. It helps reduce mental fatigue, supports learning and may even protect long-term brain health. I order my creatinine from true nutrition. Use code think it. Check out to get 10% off and support this podcast. Call out to your body and your mind with true nutrition creatinine. By the way, this is my actual morning routine mixing 15 grams of creatinine into my oats. No flavor, no texture. And hey, since I got married, we stored in this fancy jar so it doesn't look like my wife lives with a bro. But hey, if you're single, just leave it in the bag on the counter. It's totally fine. Hey, listen, what do you think of this comment? I wanted to kind of ponder this. I think the guy has a point. He commented this on a couple episodes ago, but I saved it to bring it to you. He says, it had something to do. We were talking about aqua poise. He says, I want to remember, okay, here it is. I think it's really worth mentioning that boulder non-conversed converts to E1 astrome, as well, which is far weaker than astridile. And I think that probably plays into binding up the aromatise enzyme and lowering E2 conversion rates, because of the competition on the enzyme. Yeah, that's been theory. That and very converts to a very strong antisugeum metabolic, but the only converts at very, very small doses. So yeah, the E1 theory's been around for a while. It has some solid weight to it. There's definitely definitely not something that I would poobar. It has some solid weight to it. I don't think anyone's actually looked at it clinically to confirm what's actually going on. And I still say, I don't see it in every person either, so there's definitely some individuality to it too. Yeah, okay. Yeah, I don't see it with everybody either, but when it does have an effect, sometimes it can have a really strong effect. We can absolutely slam the yeastage and probably more than anything else to be honest when it does work. It works like a sledgehammer. Yeah, I ran a fair amount of aqua poise for my body building, and I did really well with it. We've talked about that. Like EQ was my thing, but I also ran much higher tests too. It's like a high high end cycles being like 800 EQ with a thousand tests, something like that, or at my absolute highest, I tried 1.25 grams of tests. It didn't equal out to quite that, because it was taken every other day, so it was like 1.25 over eight days kind of thing. Yeah, yeah. But I did really well with it. When I was light heavy weight kind of in the two 30s, still in good shape, you know, competed at around a little bit under 200. So yeah, but I mean, I wonder now looking back at that, because I wasn't checking like, well, where's my S-stroke, you know, back in 2013? To be honest, I've written a UK useful Google guy tested. Still to this day, huh? I'd be curious, anybody who is watching the show, if you're on EQ right now, I'd be curious to know what are your estrogen levels, what is your E2? And hey, if you get some astrointestate, I'd love to see what that was as well. How about this, Dave? Got a bunch of stuff. Like I said, oh, yeah, just a comment here. J. Gambler said, Dave's looking great, and they put one of those fist bumps in there. One of those emojis. I'm, well, I don't feel it, but one step. Yeah, but that was last week. All right, so I look like shit this week, he's what you say. Hey, Jacob asks us, is it true that test probe aromatizes less than test sip? Once he's cleared the Astro, he's test. That was tested. Yeah, that is. So, I think, what, where do you think his confusion is coming from? I think I get worries, worries that with this, because there's going to be a lot of times like we say, oh, yeah, I've less Astrojana and test probe. Yeah, I thought there's a fast clearance for one. So that's one thing. P, P, plus the levels are going to potentially be lower. Yeah. Because of, you don't get to compound in effect with the show, Esther. So, there are going to be the main factors involved in it for me. Yeah, yeah, that's, that's where I go with it too. You're not getting the same level of buildup. And a lot of times too, I don't think that people tend to run probe as high as they're going to run a long acting compound because it's just, it's literally twice the milligrams per mill liter if not more, you know? Yeah, you get an either huge amount of probe to equivalently. When you start factoring the overlap on the injection probe, so you get that kind of pounding effect. You know, to match peak end levels at six weeks, which is where most people will peak. That's going to be a shitload of probe. Yeah. Hmm. Hey, for someone that's a lower-romatizer, how would you manage this? I'm on one gram of test. 350 EQ, my E2, was at 24. So I'm guessing that's a US range. 24 is going to be good. It's like, you know, what it's 15 to 40 is a completely different. It's a bit about the, it says a little bit on the low side, didn't it? Yeah, yeah, for one gram of test. Would I be best just running test only and trying to push this up to 1.5 grams, or would swapping the EQ out for DACA be a better option? I feel like with test only, I wouldn't have to worry about the, I wouldn't have to worry about Prolactin and the mood sides, et cetera. Right. Are you first thing is are you basing that you think you're a lower-romatizer on these results? Right. Because you're not factor in the anti-eachin effect of EQ, which is very apparent in those results. So there's a strong chance you pull that EQ and your research is going to go through that F in the roof. I don't have a problem with estrogen at 24. I don't think that's an emergency. I would like it to be higher. But I'd like it a bit, I have a, I think the issue, it's where you get in this decision that you're a lower-romatizer from, is it just from these results? Yeah. If you're not factor in the effect of EQ, if you want to know how much of an aromatize your Runtest only and then measure the response to that. And I think you'll find your issue is going to be substantially higher. Yeah, I wonder if you want to little bit higher, because like you don't need estrogen through the roof, you know? Oh, and if you want to be a little bit higher, you can tweak the testos you could. Right. You can drop the EQ slightly, throw a bit of debol in there, even if you want it to, but there's a few approaches. I like the way you're thinking. Yeah, I just could you love debol. Yeah, any excuse to bring debol into the plan, I think. Okay, Mr. Yates. Yeah, did, did, did, did, Dorian like, deep up? Was he a big fan? Yeah, it was. Good man, that's one thing I actually like about him then. Oh, man, man, man, man, man. Great physique. Yeah, I was a person, I think. Shall we say he didn't match the caliber of his physique. Yeah, so how are you guys? This is just personal opinion. I thought Dave, as somebody from England, you were supposed to, like, absolutely idolize him. I have the greatest respect for Dorian for the physique he built. I had the greatest respect for Dorian for the intensity that man could generate in a gym. Jesus Christ, there's not many people could train like he could. And I don't care, you know, and I'm on about everybody. Plats, men's at a lot. There's not many could do what Dorian could do. The intensity that man could generate day in day out was incredible. My experiences with him and they're not speaking from personal. And also from people I know who I've had to work with him on various projects. I have found him somewhat difficult. Really? Just, yeah. I mean, I know he's agreed to do talks and things that expose and then just on the day, decided he can't be asked. Okay. Things like that. He's never done me any wrong. But yeah, but then I have from a few people who's opinion I write told me that Mr. Swordsnager could be a little bit of a asshole as well. Oh, I could totally see that. Yeah, he's reputation as a person is not the greatest from what I've been told, but I've not experienced anything personally, sir. Yeah. I've met him. I've met him. I've never talked to him. I saw him at leaving golds one time. It was pretty early in the morning. And then after that, we went and dropped my friend off and then I was leaving. And then like, so she lived in Sanamanaca. And he had already left golds. We left. We dropped her off. Circleed around the block and then I came to a stop sign. And there goes Arnold right past this on his bike. And he had like his he had his crew. This was like 2017. He had his crew with him. He had like a bunch of other guys on bikes. I think they're like some of them were there to like protect him and stuff. I think Arnold has got very, very good at playing the game in the sense of the public persona and all the things. But I mean, well, he's a very driven individual. And that's why he's been so successful. And I suppose in order to be a very successful and very driven individual that has to an element to a degree be an element of comfortness. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, look at Dorian too then. Like he harnessed some incredible intensity. The likes of which really hadn't been seen. The way he did it. He had his own brand of it. But where does that come from? You know what I mean? I remember Kai Greene's kind of green saying that like, hey, if you take somebody. Who can squat 800 pounds for reps, they might be a nice guy. They might have a smile in their face, but there's something inside of them that's a monster that allowed them to do that. You know what I mean? You got very, very point. Actually, slightly slight direction, but I'd like to take a if you indulge me. Okay. Who do you regard in the history of bodybuilding to be the most intense ball to the wall? Trains. Trainers. Trainers. So like more than one. Yeah. Well, this could have been, I mean, you know, we've already got Dorian. Yeah. I would say before him would be Menser. You know, Menser, Menser kind of like coined that high intensity thing. Just guys at train, ropa balls to the wall. It might still be volume, but they, you know, they still trained out. Yeah. I would say he'd be right up there. Now, I've got somebody more, now he's not quite a bodybuilder, but he did do what like one or two bodybuilding shows. Power lifter, Dave Tate. Okay. Because some absolute screws loose, man. Like that's like in a way, I can totally relate to, you know. And he's had this thing where he said he'd do like dead lifts on his birthday. And he had to do like as many reps as he was old. And he had this story of being at the gym by himself at the compound by himself. Which do the compound is crazy, man. If you ever get a chance to come to the US Dave and go to Ohio, it's a private facility. So you can't just like walk in with a day pass, but it's, it's had like the strongest human beings on earth have lifted it weights have moved weights there. And he did these dead lifts though into the point that he like passed out and maybe almost crapped himself. Or maybe he did. I can't remember that part of the story, but like they came and found him on the ground. And he came too and he was like, oh my god, they had a spiritual experience. You know, and this is as an older older man now, you know what I mean? Like he's still, he still has that in. But I've seen him do some sets on his page. Like he had done some sets with John Meadows. We're like, it just, there's another level man of like wrap after wrap after wrap to like five minutes in. Oh my god, I can't believe he's still going. It looked more like a torture scene than it did weightlifting anymore. You know, there's chains rattling and it's black and white and screaming and it's like, it was dark man. So I'd put him up there. You throw one at me. Who's one you want to throw lots of. Plats. Yeah. He's like different though. You play a different thing, you know. And a different thing, but there was still an intensity and plots had almost a religious thing. Yeah, it was like a spiritual thing. Very emotional thing, but yeah, I mean, the man would just wrap after wrap after wrap with heavy weights. So the plots is one burlt fox. I didn't know he was a real intense trainer, huh? Mm-hmm. The heavy as well. What happened to him? He murdered his wife, I believe. Yeah. On a live, Dave. Sorry. He on a live this wife in Jamaica, I believe, or one of the islands. I think he's, he's out. Yeah, I think he's out now and everything. I think he's out now and everything. I think he's just an innocent, all the rest of it. In fact, he might have been his wife and his mother-in-law. He's a fantasy of a lot of married jokes. But yeah, so he was one. I once trained with a guy, a little guy, not particularly strong in any way, but under Jesus, he would not stop. He wouldn't not know. He'd go until he passed out or died, there was that little wager. He trained hard. Very hard. Who's this that Ryan's mentioning on the screen there? Rackenhausename, don't know him though. How do you say that name? Chuck. Chuck Vogor. I can't say it, right? Vogor Paul. Vogor Paul. I would say. Vogor Paul? That sounds right. I'm trying to think you else. How is small train pretty hard to be fair? He was a volume train. He was a volume train with weight. And though it was a very different style to me, the shift all you just killed me off. I got to tell you, man, I feel like in today's age, we have to mention Jordan Peters. Oh, yes, yes. Love of intensity. Yes. You know, like modern. It's interesting because I feel like, you know, Yates spawned a lot of people to do what he did. And we've witnessed Jordan do the same thing. Well, Jordan was a very DC influenced as well. Oh, yeah. You know, you don't have Scott Stevenson and Scott helped. They worked together on DC. And that's when he really, I think, blew up. And it's evolved since like he those were his roots in the high intensity, you know. Jordan. Jordan. He's almost machine-like in. In, in, in that his precision. Both in how he lives his lifestyle. You know, Jordan has to get up at five minutes past three o'clock in the morning to do a G.A. You shot Jordan's getting up at five minutes past three o'clock in the morning to do a G.A. You shot, there's just that set of questions. Yeah. And he's training, I've never trained with Jordan. I've never actually even seen him train to be fair. I know, and I've known Jordan a lot, he knows. He's only so big. I know he's just one of those things, but yeah, he trains hard. Very hard. Um, two point where I don't think people actually realize how much intensity he puts into sets. Josh said, uh, Chuck was a power lifter with Dave T. at Westside Barrel. Dave, they did some crazy stuff at Westside. Like they were exploring the outer limits of strength. Not bodybuilding stuff, right? But like learning how to become literally the strongest human beings in the world. But yeah, there's, there's, um, I just wanted to do what your thoughts were on there. I mean, it's a fun topic. I'd be interested in what our view is, thing. It's interesting because now things are shifting, you know, it's not how do you destroy yourself to the, like, Tom Plats was the definition of like, just squeeze every ounce of water out of that stone, right? But now we've got guys that are like, you know, Nick Walker is like, hey, I leave a couple reps in the tank. And yeah, sure I could have gotten them, but I can just do another set, you know, leaving a couple reps in the tank. And oh my god dude, he is like, looking so freaky right now, you know? Yeah, it's, I think, I think the best source, I need someone is the train is a, they enjoy, um, to a degree, because there's so many different ways to approach this. Yeah. And you've got to do some of that you want to do. You know, I used to look forward to going to train because of the challenge of training, whereas, and other people much prefer volume with, you get me a volume worker, I'd be like, you're bored. Yeah, yeah, I want to go on halfway through, but you know, so I think you've got to do what you enjoy, and if you do it well with good control and a decent amount of effort, then you're going to be just fine. I don't think you can just lift weights and grow. I think there needs to be more to it than that, but you know, any starlight training apply correctly with decent efforts going to yield good results. Yeah. I would have seen that. I would have seen that. Would it surge, was it surge new bra that you still set the 25 reps? I don't know. Oh, show what it was. I think it was surge. I mean, I could see that working. Why not, right? I think you'll see you for guy. Go on, go on. I think he was in a really super high rep guy as well. Yeah. All right, listen, let's move on. We've got a bunch more listener questions, and I'll encourage our listeners. You know, we obviously didn't mention everybody who trains intent. So you guys comment below and tell us who's the, the intense trainer that inspired you, because there are those guys, man, that like, I think back to some of those sets that I'm like, I go in the gym with that picture in my head, or I used to, you know, anyway, how about this one? So, question for the next episode, any tips on how to be more productive outside of the gym during a bulk? I began to feel super lazy and unproductive when my food gets above 6000 calories. Steaks, keeps on conditioning working. Keep some cardio in, but some, some, some headwork, some proper conditioning work. That's going to keep your fitness up. Allow you to carry the weight better. And then you shouldn't feel the sluggish. You're always going to have an element of it, because especially if you're pushing into new poundages, you've not been before. Growing's hard work. It takes a lot out of money. You're going to be tired if you're growing each. It comes with a territory, but if you can keep your cardio in activity at decent level, you shouldn't navigate it a little bit better. But yeah, it's, well, we get scared of doing cardio when we're walking, because we think it's going to take away from what we're doing, but actually, it's only going to act with it. There's a balanced situation, obviously. You don't want to be doing that. It's literally hours of it, but some conditioning work, some proper conditioning work, is really going to help both in your training and in your everyday life. Did it now? So for any of our listeners who are newer, because we are getting new subscribers all the time, which is freaking awesome. Thank you guys for being here. They may not know your whole story, Dave, that Dave, you are the star of the documentaries, under construction in the film, and under construction too. You pushed up to some pretty massive body waves. Did you follow this advice then? Or just to the point. Two of my way probably about 300 and 70 bound. Okay. And you're like, I just went a hold still to put all this into the muscles. I did. Yeah. And then the decline at that point when, I didn't do a huge amount of conditioning work, but I was a very not fast trainer in reps, but fast trainer in rep time, in rest time. Yeah. So I would literally stand behind, but say if we were squatting, I would walk into the rack behind my training partner. He would step forward out of the rack, and I would step onto the bar and go. You guys would just, there's an in and out of the window. That's the sort of turnover speed we used. Okay. So as a result of that, I kept relatively well conditioned because it was very on off on off. Yeah. As I went over three, 70 and as it happened, I did stop training with Don Fruir as well. No, no reason. Just our life happens. But then I got slower. And the knock on effect of that was quite dramatic. But yeah, I mean, I'm sorry, you six foot one and four and a pound. You're not moving anyway, quick. Yeah. All right. How about this one? It's gotten day of love the show, especially while at work driving about. Question. What is a proper pre-workout and a draw protocol? I've seen four times a week for six weeks, but when I, but when do I take it? Pre-workout? Is it 30 minutes before you train or after your pre-workout meal? And by the way, I love Uncle Dave's wisdom. I always timed it around 40 minutes. That seemed to work for me. I think there's going to be a little of individuality in that. You know, and also it depends on where you want it to really hit in the workout as well. Do you want it to really be sort of kicking in towards the back end? Or do you want it in at the early end depending on what you're doing? So there's an aspect to that as well. Is it that surgical though? No, no real in it. No, really. It's nothing like I'm not getting it now, but at the end of the workout it's going to kick in. What if you, if you took it sort of literally ten minutes before you train and you're training for an hour and a half, which is, hopefully, what my sessions were an hour and a half to two hours long. Then I'm going to really see that pick up with that sort of 80 minute mark. I mean, I'm going to see it at the back end of the workout where if I wanted it more mid, I'd take it for you 45 minutes before. But I wasn't that clinical with it. I mean, some days it was half an hour, some days it was 20 minutes. I just rode with it. You know, I'm actually going to remember some kick kick in when it kicked in. I used to take it every training day and then I'd take it PM on rest days. So I never specifically used Oxie as a pre workout. Yeah. I used it as part of the plan cycle. But if I was taken on a training day, I would take it as a pre workout. I was taken to rest day at a ticket PM. And that was it with it. I've never really had anything particularly stringent protocol wise, but you're going to get a peak release. And you're just going to have to play around to see what that is. But also, stomach contents, food pre, all these things are going to affect it. So, you know, I found as much as I could, which was difficult when you'd push in high volumes of food, that I always prefer to be training on as close to an empty stomach as possible. Yeah. So I would ideally, you know, for a couple hours prior to training, but it wasn't always possible unfortunately. And sometimes you were training with food, starting the system. Yeah. I think you know, two days of like, try it out. And this is one of those things where you're going to be able to actually see the, feel the results, right? Like, I don't really notice a difference taking it 30 minutes before I train. Try an hour before you train. Try an hour and a half. And so, you know what, I didn't really notice. I personally, I feel like once it kicks in, it's in. So I want to try to cover as much of that workout as possible. I would say in hour on average, but maybe it ends up being an hour and a half. Maybe it ends up being 45 minutes. But I'd say anything shorter than 30, 45 minutes is not really going to get in your system as effectively as it could with a little bit more time. In my experience. I can't really do that. It's completely the fact that I can. I never really wanted it to be kicking in at the beginning of a session. Yeah. No, because I used to be. I'd get pumped so early on so quick with oxies. It would then start up and they get it the right. Okay. And I think that maybe is more of a thing too when you're using it every day. You know what I mean? Versus if you don't have, if you're taking it three times a week, I think you're going to get more of the strength, but not as much of the water that you know, you can get it with a high. With a high volume diet or whatever. All right. Let me see what else we have here because we didn't have a bunch of them here. All right. Great show is always, unfortunately, I can't watch live, which I can't watch live from Australia given the time differences just wondering if there are any updates on the raw situation out of China. I'm getting mixed reports. My understanding of things are recovering and it's getting better. There was a period of time when, in fact, I believe it was affecting all raws. I was actually speaking to a perveyor of such items two days ago. All right. Okay. And he was just saying that each found supply chains to be a little bit more of a still not great, but better than they were. And they too seem to be steadily improving. I'd be curious, anybody who is getting these compounds specifically pre-mo and mass, are you sending them out to get them tested? And if so, what have the results looked like have we been seeing more fakes than we did before or, or, you know, underdosen? Well, that was funny. You mentioned that because the main testing facility, this side of the water is genocide. Right. Somewhere in Europe. I can't remember where. And this gentleman actually said to me, he must have made a fortune because everybody he knows that's importing the ingredients is sending them to get them checked before they use it. Oh yeah. Because they were not concerned about pumping it out. I mean, obviously there's always going to be laps of donkeys. But that's where a lot of our testing is going to. But yeah, I think that guy must be close to retirement there. Yeah. Also he's in Australia. So that's like a 14 hour difference. It's only like 10, 11, 12. Lock it that occasion. It's only two weeks. Two weeks. Two weeks. Lock it that occasion. It's terrible. You just people just aren't dedicated anymore. I know. He needs to be a little more dedicated to this show. Dave, I'm booked in with Eval soon, six weeks into my cycle. And would you like to talk about my bloods on the podcast that we'd be very interesting for all the amateurs to see Bloods for an average 41 year old dude during his cycle of one gram up and two grams over 30 weeks. I'm planning three blood works during the cycle. Starting dose is 300 grams of testosterone, deck in bold and on 300 each. And then they go up every two weeks by a hundred. Mid cycle switching deck at the NPP bold to mass. So you basically say, and though, in his name is Daniel. So Daniel, Paul, Paul, and Plansky. Daniel, you try to get you so that you get your cycle supervised. Ha ha ha. Hey, I think it's a great idea, you know. What about Narynjan? Do you know how effective Narynjan is at lowering hematocrit? It's one of the compounds found in grapefruit. I don't know, but I didn't know. Okay, if anybody does have any insight on hematocrit from Narynjan, I haven't seen that. I know it isn't anti-inflammant. So there's something promising there. Right. I know that it's a lower scavenger. If it's going to lower a HCT, then it needs to lower hematocrit. Okay. Because, but the only other way you're going to lower HCT is increasing. So, touched on this a few times, HCT is a reflection of hematocrit in relation to plasma and of lot. It's not itself a thing. So you don't lower HCT. You could, HCT markers could improve, but you do that by lowering hematocrit or increasing fluid levels within the blood. If it's the dehydration drive. So HCT will elevate with the hydration, you see. So it won't just elevate with thick blood. So, what you, but I'm not aware of it having an effect on hematocrit, but it's not something I've looked at. Yeah, I'm just looking it up real quick. In the gestion of grapefruit, lower hematocrit and human subjects. I don't know. I would say let us know. No, try it. Yeah, yeah, I would be curious. I think it's a different pathway that grapefruit will affect drugs from getting broken down. I think that's a different thing. I don't think there's anything to do with their engine. But maybe research that too to make sure there's no, you know what I'm saying, negative side effects. It could be beneficial. I generally, what we go to IP6 and Nato kinase, Serapeptase. I take my thrombomax from Strom Sports Nutrition to help control my thick blood. Oh, you could just not take drugs. Ah, that's foolish. Dave, it's crazy talk. That's crazy talk. All right, how about the next one here? Just a comment here from X American, like this guy says. So we're talking about TRT plus. How did you become an X American? I'm just staying in true TRT doses. 300 test, 300 decka, two I use a growth, so almost nothing. Ha ha ha ha. Good man. Oh, also two, another comment. Another TRT plus guy. He says as someone who deals with extreme joint pain, decka has been a life changer. And I said, hey, tell us more, what's the lowest dose that you found good benefits from decka. And he said, he's 50 with severe spinal injuries and joint issues. Currently using 200 with 200 tests for 10 weeks on 10 weeks off. The effects of my joints have increased my mobility significantly and reduced the pain very substantially. So the quality of life improvements have been profound. I'm now able to be more active with family and friends at that dosage interration. I have zero negative sides and I get my blood worked on every few weeks. So hey, good for him. I wonder if you can do less though, and you know what I'm saying? Get your cardiovascular system check, get a get a necko. Yeah. Just a lot of saying is going to be a problem. I'm touched with the won't be, but get a necko. Yeah. Because that ain't showing on blots. And if you're going to have this as a long term treatment, which obviously you are and I understand why I'm great. The area you need to check is your heart. Okay. So Ryan, who's with us in Chado Tari and you've been on the live stream in the past couple shows. He says, so it's very, so Norwegian, very sub par like five to 10% reduction of hematocrit on paper in rat studies. Norwegian slash grapefruit is more known for its interaction with the drugs due to side of cromes that was you have here. CYP, the sip, three, a three, four, whatever. And that's where you reduce the breakdown of medication. So hey, if you, but listen, if you could get a reduction of 5% 10% plus run some other stuff like, yeah, I mean, sometimes it's, like you say it's a combined thing of a little bit of everything rather than too much of one thing. Isn't it? Yeah. Yeah. Somebody just said, I love this duo. Now, I found this channel last month. There's a more important question that Ryan has just put up in the feed. What's that? What's the update on day's pro charger? I haven't got one because you lot of tight cheap kids. I had a little bit of the problem this evening. So I've just done the final log for the final map. We hit the rev limiter, which scared the gearbox transmission. So it went into Lim mode. So we've reset all that now and I just need to put the final map on. Which I won't say. I won't say it. I don't think you're laughing. You don't think that well, you should get some rest. No, but the pro charger is quite a way off at the moment. I've got a lot of other things I need to fix on it first. Okay. TNE or a test suspension as a pre workout is something that I'd love to try. I'm just worried about these specifically that you're going down a slippery slope of taking things more for a recreational type effect, rather than optimizing just bodybuilding muscle. Very, very, very point. And I do think there's an element of that without doubt. I only use things like test suspension really with strength athletes. As a performance tool, I don't tend to use it with people who bodybuild. I don't think it's necessary, but you know, each to the drone, I get a plateau busting thing side of it. I've but I think it's just down to a personal thing. Yeah. All right. How about this one running 14 and we got some other off-topic stuff. We'll try to get to it at the end there from Ryan. And running 14 IU, HGH pre workout on a heavy hyperplasia cycle or phase. I started getting Carpal Tunnel really bad around week eight. Should I just back off the dose a little? It's hard to grip a dumbbell on heavy days like this. Yes, very much. Back off. Yeah. Growth isn't doing what you think it's doing for you. You're not going to get a load of new muscle tissue muscles, muscle cell development from GH. I have to play as year is not sustained with GH use. See, I would back off. Yeah. I'm with you. I'm with you. Which is what the thing. Which is why I've been in Scotland always said we grow. If it's not really a muscle building compound, it's a recovery compound lifestyle benefits. That's all the stuff. You know, though, then you see these guys that do really well in do make, like, I mean, I'm working with a guy who we found that he did really, like I think there are people that respond better than others. I'm working with a guy who, you know, lower like 200 pounds and he started pushing really high doses. What we found first that like for you really volumeized him and he looked crazy with it. So we pushed it up to 10 units, 15 units. And he was able to get the over 300 pounds with it. And now dieting down, he's pretty lean, it like 250 to 60. So it's like, I think there's a growth is a growth out now. Yeah, we pulled it back down. Okay. So I just want to see how much he holds. But I still view it. Well, look from my experience, I view it more as a cosmetic drug when it comes to fullness from a point of view of muscle advancement and recovery drug personally. Yeah. All right. Well, try to get through a couple more. But guys, Dave doesn't feel well today. He's really doing a good job. In fact, I would like everybody at home right now. Let's all give Dave a nice little round of applause for doing such a good job even though he doesn't feel good today. That's sarcastic shit back in the mouth. It's the British humor that I, that sarcasm that you enjoy. That's how we connect, Dave. No, it's my mutual hatred for you. Your mutual hatred for me. Well, you hate yourself, obviously. Oh, you look, well, you do. Oh, oh. All right. We'll just try to get through a couple more. We won't be able to get through them all guys. I'm sorry about that. But we try. All right, 26 years old, I'm on cycle for more than a year. I've done two crore cruises and in November, I plan to make a bodybuilding show. Make a bodybuilding show after my coach tells me to do a PCT for like three months. Now, my question is, it better to do a PCT or to TRT because I'm afraid if the PCT and after three months hoping on again means hopping on again. Let's see, the cycle is going to crush my natural test. Anyway. If he's committed long term cycle in which it sounds like he is, then yeah, and the amount of time is already spent on then the PCT might not be viable and all depends on what he's planning to do post PCT. If he's going to spend some time off, yeah, fine. If you're just going to jump straight back on, then it seems to be a little bit of a pointless exercise. As long as he's willing to accept the downstream potential problems with possible facility and stuff like that, as long as you got your head around that stuff then crack on. We're getting some rounds of applause in the stream for Dave by the way. Thank you. There we go. All right, question for the next episode, running T-ball at 40 milligrams, YK 11 at 10 milligrams, starting to feel some blow digestive strain and lower back pumps in training, but feels like I'm definitely growing. Do I keep pushing through if so? What do I do to ease the lower back pumps? Thanks. I wouldn't have thought you'd be getting lower back pumps from T-Poll and YK. So I would look at stretching, make sure you haven't started tying up in your lower posterior chain. Because with that increase in strength and size, you might find things there are tiny, nope. So I'd definitely introduce some stretch in, make sure your hydration is on point. You could add some touring, but a bit surprised that that being an issue with what you're doing. Yeah. What's this square thing after the clubs? So it's just the way it's showing up that's sort of defined what color the hands are supposed to be. So watch on the stream. See, it looks like that. It's just like a little bit of a flaw. Yeah. That's the way it. Best way to come off T-RT plus. Stop it. Just stop. Yeah. You're not able to say, but I'll just type probably some office own natural half-life, so just stop it. We don't really get into this kind of thing. We've never done a show like this. For the next episode, what do you guys think are the fake natties cycles that are trending? Didn't know anybody was trending. Is there people trending? Yeah, I don't know about fake natties cycles. Man, that's like a topic that we've never been like, guys, today we're going to expose some fake natties. On the next episode of drugs and stuff, we're going to expose fake natties. He's the biggest fake nattie in the industry. He's been lying. You thought that he was natural. He's been on all this gear. Dave, when I look at him, I can tell that he is definitely using a hundred trend every other day. Five units of growth. There's no question judging off his vast clarity. Here's a picture of him six months ago. Here's a picture of him not. Did I do a good job? Does that what it kind of sounds like? How long have you been wanting to do that? That was really natural, wasn't it? We should be. I found my calling, Dave. I see to be a pent up release, that young man. And the worst thing is he's been lying to all of us the whole time. What you telling me that something on social media is not true. And you know what man, that the scam of body building to the public has been in existence since forever. Go back to like, do it. It's hold on. I've got some old Iron Man magazines here. We could scroll back in these. Let's turn to the back pages. Oh, you see like what kind of ab trainers we can find. You don't go last massive arms in six weeks and I bought my book. Oh, actually there's muscle videos here of like Arnold and Franco 30 minutes long, $59 full color. If I were to send a check to Wayne Goulash, Wayne Goulash, okay. If I were to send a check to him right now, do you think he would send me back that, I don't even know what's a VHS. Oh, no, these are just photos. No, that's a video. Yeah, but you know what I'm saying, you're like, you go back in time, man, and it's always been there. There've been, you know, even like Jack Lillane had like, you know, like, if you want to, here's an ab cruncher, or you know, here's a, here's a, you know, a cruncher that's going to build your packs and like, I didn't use that stuff. I'm going to say a word. What's that? Sybeginetics. Sybeginetics. Sybeginetics, sorry. Do you remember them? Oh, yeah. Do you remember the apps? Yeah, we did a whole show on it once. Me and I run into us. They went as so much money for that program too, didn't they? Our program was mental. Train it three, a clock in a morning, having not eaten for 74 days. Ha ha ha. And take all these different vitamins. Oh, yeah, it was mad. This is what the pros are really doing guys. And then you have these pictures of a guy that was like, fat, middle-aged, and next one was a guy that was 27 years old and light. Right. Two hundred eighty pounds shredded. Yeah. Yeah. I'd always been there, you know, it's always been there. All right. I think that's got to be as good a place as ever to end this thing. Um, do you have any Uncle Dave's wisdom for us? Dave? I'd co-act. You didn't you mention him earlier today? Yeah. I don't even have a coherent sentence to the. So, by the way, shout out to Matt Marshall. He sent me these for my birthday one year. I was very sweet of him. Did you know by the way, Dave, my birthdays coming up. I told you last week, you told me you were going to send me an autograph picture of you going like this. I've been checking my mail every day. It's my birthday Saturday. So, I'll be back with the official. Thank you. I'll be waiting for my picture. Do you have pensions like state pensions in America? Pensions? Yeah. You mean like when you get older and you retire kind of thing? Yeah, so we have a state pension age, which means after certain age you can claim a pension from the state. Yeah. You must be too for that now. I got a couple years left. We got a couple years before I can start collecting a pension. Yeah. I'll be 48. No, 49. I'll be 49. I'm getting up there, Dave. Did you know that? Did you know how old I was? Yeah, 58. 57. No, 58. And you're going to be 59 on Saturday. Oh, everybody has said 57. Now you want to know something really terrible that my wife did to me. She, I had my numbers wrong, Dave. You know you're at a certain point. You start forgetting. How old you are? The long time ago, mate. So when I turned 46, she was like, no, when I turned 46 and I turned 47, she was like, no, you're 48. And I was like, no, I'm 47. She was like, no, you know, 76. You know, the math. She was like, you're 48. And I was like, oh God, I'm 48. And I didn't bother actually figuring it out. And so for the whole year, I was like, God, man, I feel like I don't even remember being like the last year, just blew by. How did I get, you know what I mean? It's like, I'm going to be 49 next year. This is crazy. Like, I just, I was losing time. And then my birthday rolled around and I counted it back. And I was like, wait a minute. I've been 47 this whole time. But now I really am 48. And I am going to be 49, man. It feels old Dave. Not long, man. Yeah, I know man. No, no. Yeah. Anyway, you got a big five of it. Goes down, Ale. Oh, it already went downhill, man. When I got the bug, like, that was my, you know, and I had a midlife crisis when I was like 23. So I'm already, you know, Hey, listen, what would be your Uncle Dave's wisdom for me? As a guy who, I'm no longer a strapping young man. I'm getting to be an old man, Dave. Okay. But I'm not, I'm not out of the game yet. Give up. Okay. That's your advice. Give up. Give up. And do what? What would you do? Just give up. And he's not with me. You're just, just give up. Well, I appreciate you. Stop trying. It really isn't with it anymore. I'm glad that you could make it to the show, even though you're here today. Oh, today. Age is butto number and I did have dreams of retirement and all sorts of things. And I've come to realize that actually if I do that, it will mean an early, unaliving. Yeah. And being productive is probably more valuable. And I don't think you have to work, but being productive is I think a core value is a human being that we need. Yeah. And I think when we're not productive, our mental health and our physical health declines very very rapidly. And when you look at some of the oldies, sort of, living people and, and there's certain towns of Italy to try out the world, there's a couple in Japan and there's so many other countries as well. They have a community spirit where even though they don't work in a sense of go to a paid job, they're productive. They're productive with community projects, they're productive would be an active and doing things. And yeah, I think as a human as one of the basic needs, as our species has, is that you need to be productive if you need to create. Yeah. You need to have to be a purpose. Yeah, you do, but I think it also needs to have a sense of purpose that is visually measurable. Yeah. Oh yeah. You know, I'm not saying you have to make an item, but I do think it needs to be something that needs to be visually measurable that you can see progress. With, I think when you don't see progress, the things he gets so destroyed. Yeah, I got to make an item. I have a neighbor. We walk the dog every day. Someone's, you try to do twice a day. We got away from him a little bit when it was really hot out, but we're back to getting to normal with it. There's a guy who lives to block over and he just, like, does his yard picks the weeds all day long. Like, he just got the most perfect yard. Like, I think that that's his purpose. Now, he's very old. You know, he's quite old, right? But his yard, he's got not a single weed in it. I doubt he uses, like, any kind of chemicals on it or an, you know what I mean? He's just like, just, no, I think, as you get older, your ability, your limitations become greater. Yeah. But if you stay productive in some way, no matter what it is, that you will have a much more fulfilling, unhappy life. I do think productivity is a key to happiness. Well, I'm happy with my life. I'm happy with what I get to do. Honestly, man, like, this is fun to me. Getting to hang out with you and do this show. I enjoy doing this plus we get to help other people and hopefully, like, give them a lift. We have laughs and we try to make it entertaining, but hopefully, we do help people stay safer, you know, at the end of the day. And reach their goals more effectively. There's a lot of BS out there, you know? Oh, loads. But BS is popular. True, it's not always there. It never has been never will be. The truth is always much less fun, even you want it to be. Much less basic than you want to be. And we always have that core value of hard work. Yeah. And that's the bit that people almost sometimes spend the lifestyle trying to avoid. And it's like, don't just give into it, get your adult, get it done. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. If you're new here, we'd love to have you along for all of our stuff. Hit the subscribe button, hit the bell. And if you've made it this far, what should they tell us, Dave? Tell them to tell us, tell us a word, commoner word in the comments. Cooper, super car, a fraudulently stink ex-be-allidosis. You can see if you can get that right. And of course, we talked to Dave for coaching. You can hit me up at Big Naly, Dyes at gmail.com. I've got Dave's Instagram link below. You can hit him up over there. Of course, Strom Sports Nutrition. I've got links to both the US and the UK and the description. We've got True Nutrition.com. Use our code, think over there, get 10% off on all your basic body building house supplements or body building supplements and Supplements or stats EA. We'll make sure that we tackle Patreon questions on the next show. And Dave, for another episode of the podcast, I'll see you soon. Thank you for joining us. I might have survived until next week. I'm not long left now.

So if you don't understand, like pulling like this is wrong, and understanding that I can't get my head, every time I pull my head, rocks, it's like, no pull through yourself. And rock away from yourself, pull through yourself. So I'm always emanating forward. I'm not rocking back and pulling to me. This episode is brought to you by Mutant. Go to immutant.com and use my code Bigron20 or... You can use my code Dusty20. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building