amps of problem, 210 mx, 100 mx of anodrol, and 100 mx of anodrol. Per day. What's up guys? Welcome back to Think Big Body Building Media. I'm Scott McNeely and we are back again by popular demand. Everybody's been asking when's going to be the next episode with Cuba challenge. What's going on brother? We're back. We're back with a bang. Let's get it. We've got a great topic to cover and we actually have some amazing questions. So I'm actually really excited today's episode because it's going to be a lot of value and a lot of fun because in, in between of the topic of the days conversation, we do have to cover the big cycles, right? So we are going to cover the craziest cycles that you've come across. And I'm going to share one of the craziest cycles that I have had given by one of top Olympian coaches. So I'm definitely going to share it to that. But if you want to hear that, you're going to have to stay along for the ride. You're going to have to comment below and support the channel. So let's get it. Good call. That was a great great salesmanship there Cuba. I really like that. So what are we going to start with here? I know you made a post not too long ago. Basically the topic was trading for fun or training to grow muscle. And I got to tell you man, I always think back to an episode I did with Scott Stevenson. And you know Scott, he doesn't, he doesn't sugarcoat things, but he's also not trying to be like a hard ass or anything like that. Somebody said, I really enjoyed going to the gym every day. And it was a live comment. So Scott looked at it and he said, you know, I see by your profile picture, you know, and I don't mean this as an insult. You don't look like you lift weights. Like if if we just went on the street and you told me that you didn't lift weights or you told me lift weights, you know, I believe you didn't, you know. So you maybe you just enjoy lifting weights for fun. And if that's what your goal is is to go to the gym and just lift weights for fun, because you enjoy that, then I say more part to you train every day. But if you want to grow muscle, you might want to think about doing it a little bit differently and he completely leveled the guy without an intentionally meaning to, you know. I mean, that would have been murder. Imagine that. So you don't have to train like, I know Scott, I don't know. He did not mean no, no malice with what he said. Yeah. Now look, everyone's perception of 40s very different. Look, we're going to agree on that, right? Absolutely. Now, if I was to go in the gym and just train for fun, my training would look completely different to what it does right now. Yeah. Now, I will get into some new one stuff and I will get into how I kind of overcome the training for fun versus building muscle and how I kind of get a middle ground. But you have to understand that building muscle is going to take you doing something that you particularly do not like. Whether it means taking rest when you don't want to rest, or whether it means simply having self-control within the amount of work that you do in that given session. Now bodybuilding is very much a discipline that's all about self-control. You need to have self-control in the gym. You need to have self-control with your schedule, with your meals. With everything you do, it requires a degree of self-control discipline, right? Now when it comes to training for me personally, training for fun would be going the gym, maxing out on every single machine, trying to lift all the weight that can lift, with dropsets, with super sets, trying to basically murder myself. Now, I did that for a couple of years of my training and I made very, very little progress. It was fun, I loved it. But we killed ourselves every single time we trained. It led to very little results when it came to building muscle or even developing an in strength because we was constantly battered. Now, if I was just to do it for fun and just for the love of it, I would be in the gym every single day. And I would be lifting very differently. It would probably cause me some injuries and I would probably end up wrecked like I was back then. But, fact of the matter is, you need to scale things back if you want to actually grow muscle, unfortunately. It's the boring repetitiveness that leads to the greatest results. Sadly, it really does. And unfortunately, for me, as an example, it means doing much less within the sessions. My current volume, for example, 13 sets on push days, 15 sets on pull days, and 11 sets on leg days. That's my current volume. And I'm making great progress on that. In comparison to what I've done before, and in comparison to what I would like to do, it's completely worlds apart. So, if you are not seeing the progress that you necessarily work for, there has to be something that you need to fix. It's either your training or nutrition, or potentially, you might just be a hard gainer. It might just take you more time. But, fact of the matter is, Scott, do you welcome a time in someone's training career where training a certain way will only take them so far? Yeah. Then, then, unfortunately, you will need to step up. You will need to dial things in. So, as you progress, the more you progress, the more advanced you get, the more dialed in you have to get to keep progressing. Sure. This is why you see a lot of guys that are so talented, and that are so gifted, they get to a certain point, and then you just see stands still. Because at that point, there are a few stats you'll learn more, and there are a few stats you'll do, what they need to do, rather than what they want to do. So, I do have a lot of a rule. When it comes to coaching, when it comes to trying to have that middle ground and even on myself, where it used to be a 90-ten rule, where 90% of the work is the work that I have to do. 10% of the work is the fun stuff that won't necessarily benefit me or have the greatest return investment. Right now, right now, it probably looks more like 99-1, because I have learned to lean into getting enjoyment out of doing this stuff that's required of me. Because for me, that drive is more so revolving on progression, right? And what I can do to make more progress, I want to do, and I'm willing to do. Right? And I'm willing to put my bias to the side to be able to do that. But generally, I think to me, a middle ground, especially if I have clients there, and not professional, but it was not trying to really reach the true potential completely, they're not at that level. You've got to have that rule of 90-ten or even 80-20, just to make them happy. And depending on what happiness is and what concept of happiness is for some people, right? Some people, the match is want to say like, right, I just want the results, tell me exactly what I want to do. Yeah. That's fine. Then you completely disregard that rule, and you give them exactly what they need to do. So what is the difference? The difference is simply making sure that you are doing the training that you can recover from and progress with over time. No matter what your training style is, whether it's high volume, low volume, high intensity, low intensity, I don't care. Right, but as a result of whatever it is, there has to be a degree of progression. Yeah. If there is not a degree of progression, you are probably not making a progress. You're far. Yeah. A degree of 100 percent, man. In fact, Scott, once again, Scott Stevenson said the one common thread in every training study that there's ever been is the fact that in some way or another, there's a progression. Yeah. I listen, this is not just me talking, Ross, I was just saying, this is literally the back by studies that has to be a way to progress. To me, in my personal experience, when I just did stuff for fun, the progress just wasn't anywhere near close to what it is now. Yeah. I trained too hard, and I mean, Scott, every set was a widow maker with, with probably dropsets and beyond. So he wasn't just taking set to failure. It was a widow maker with force reps and occasional dropsets. Like, yeah. Mate, when you're doing 12 12 work in sets, 13 14 work in sets, per session, and every set is taken there like this, you're not recovering. Doesn't matter what food you eat or what drugs you take. Yeah. I do not believe you can recover from that physically. Yeah. Yeah, you should have possible, 100%. But mate, the amount of fun I've had was just ridiculous. So look, the clear differences between people that do it for fun and people that actually do it for results is having a clear vision, a clear goal and a clear plan. The people that go in the gym for fun, they often have no idea what they're going to do. They just turn up and do stuff. When you turn up and do stuff at random, you've got no ways of tracking a progression. If you have no ways of tracking a progression, it will be much harder to actually see progress within your lift because you're probably doing random exercises, every single time you come in the gym, different training structure, different styles of training, and trying to kind of like, mish mash it all together. And look, all of the training styles work if you actually stick to one of them. Right. But if you try and combine them all at once, guess what? You're probably not going to get what results. Yeah. So you need to have a clear vision, you need to have a clear goal and you need to have a plan. I feel like a lot of our people, they do have a set plan. Yeah. You know, they'll have a set split. I do, you know, this particular split every Monday, I train this or whatever. But then it's getting into that work out, I think, where things don't align with actually growing. You know, because you can still just have a lot of fun doing whatever split you set up and not progress. You know, it takes effort to track things. I think that, you know, it does, I've met a lot of people who tell me, and I've been there myself, like, I just don't want to track this. It makes it less fun. But ultimately, I think there's something to be said, Cuba, about you mentioned, you said that you feel like after a while you've figured out how to enjoy the things that it takes to grow isn't the things that it takes to grow and reaching your goals isn't that really ultimately the most rewarding. That's the most fun to me, you know? It absolutely is. I mean, come on, like, why would you want to go in the gym and not see progress? That's no idea of fun to me. That's hell. And look, I love training and, you know, I love training hard. But after a while, when I didn't see progress, I needed to have a good thinking and kind of have a little bit of a self was like, right, what do I need to do now to actually make progress? I need to scale back. It's as simple as that. Now, I completely get the idea that people say, or, you know, logging takes the fun out of my training, which is like, does it, does it, have you tried it? Because these are also the people that haven't actually tried logging effectively. What these people generally do is they'll start logging the sessions. They will want to take massive progressions in the logbook and that just doesn't happen to score as you know yourself. Even when you first start on cycle, right? Like, you will see bigger jumps in progression, but it's still nothing really significant. You won't see a 20 pound jump on the bar every single week. But unfortunately, when people don't understand logging, they try to take these big jumps in progression. And then what happens? They have to change their execution. They're in demolition shorts. The joints start to hurt because they're trying to lift the loads that are above and beyond the means. So then the idea of fun starts to diminish because they're not actually seeing the progress they're looking for. Yeah. So I come to the lead on the standard concept, right? But nine times at a time, it's not the logging itself. It's more so inaccurate way of logging the workouts that leads to lack of enjoyment. I could see that. Yeah, because then you end up disappointed when you weren't getting what you're one out of it. Absolutely. Now, some of the athletes that I've worked with have been past and a huge thing that I've had to learn was scaling back on our training intensity. And this is me not saying training will reps in his earth. This is me saying not training above and beyond failure for everything that's set. Because in past what I would do is I would take my sector failure. I would fail. But then I would continue with either partials or cheat reps. Now, and you will have not this issue yourself. I can guarantee that and let me know your thoughts on this book as you get bigger and stronger. The cheat reps in my opinion, they have no merit. They have no more value. All they will actually do, especially the cheat reps that you do and bigger compound lifts, they will more than like the drive much more fatigue with very little reward when it comes to quality stimulus. And you can't track it. You know, I got eight reps, plus I got three quarter rep, three quarter rep, half rep, you know, how do you correct that? You know, well, the problem is people do track that as reps. Then what happens is the next week comes around and they try to beat that. So what happens then? It's impossible to beat those kind of reps. And that's the mistake I used to make with login. And that was like what six years ago. You know, I used to log these reps and then next week I would try and beat that when I was already training free for reps past failure. It's just not possible to have that sort of progression week to week, even if you're running Coleman. It's just not happening. I've found I've seen it a number of times Cuban guys that I work with where they're doing this. That's one of the first things I try to get them to stop doing. And what I've told them is is that when you feel like you're not going to be able to get another one, stop like, don't, yeah, well, stop or this, like maybe you, you're you're doing a pull down, go back up to the top, get that nice stretch, good stretch at the top, and go for one more. Like give it all you've got. Give it one more and see if you can get it. If you don't get it, you're done. And ultimately, I think that that's how we can really start digging into build more intensity is because we're learning to harness it all at the end of the set. We're needed. Absolutely. Also, I know, but very well, it's a lot to to understand what you're out for. And about you've actually seen that with that guy that you've probably taught that is that when the sets get hard, people do everything in their power to then continue and make the lift easier. So what happens then is the set probably started perfect and he was doing great reps, you know, it doesn't have to be picked on my execution, but his reps were standardized. Each rep will be able to say if you have to change your position, change your engine motion, execution in any way shape or form to continue getting more reps because you are unable to do another rep without changing it. Guess what? You're done. Yeah. The set is over. Any more reps pass that have no merit. And for me personally, that has been my biggest downfall in past when it came to see meaningful progression week to week. And being able to harness that and rewinding back to what I mentioned about self-control earlier, having that self-control has been a game changing training, it really has. I fully acknowledge having that self-control with my decision making, having that self-control with my reactions in everything I do has definitely paid off dividends. So self-control, man, it's a game change not just for training but almost anything in life. And even looking back, it looks even looking back and the reason why it was such a big moment for me. When I realised that applying the same self-control, that I had in one of the training and stopping the reps at a perfect time, when I actually reached failure, applying that in situations where I would normally react emotionally and controlling myself a little bit more, has resulted in me putting myself into much better situations in almost everything I did. So as you can imagine, I tied you to my training but I also got my shit together with the self-control. Right? It's in it both in and outside of the gym. So that's just a little benefit for you guys to kind of use. Sage wisdom, little Cuba, log book Sage wisdom going out here. It's true. It's true. You know it. It's true. 100%. Hey, think about this right. How many times in a week, you have to stop yourself even doing something or saying something that would potentially put you in a bit of a negative place. It's probably especially if you're on social media. It'd be so easy to just say the right, you know, just give it five minutes, you know, come back to it. Yeah. Yep. And then you don't say it and guess what? You've won. Yeah. But yeah. I'd said it. You lost. So you've got to think of it. You've got to think of the same of the training, right? Every single time you take that rep that wasn't there, you are taking away from your progression because guess what? Every time you go past failure, each time the next session comes around, you are likely slightly on the recovery going to it. So guess what? You won't see the progression again because you're probably blew your load. The previous session trying to get those reps that wasn't there. And it's actually a conversation that Jordan had with me in past when he was talking about his press work and chess pressing. He said to me, like, look, I don't take any 50, 50 reps from a chess press in. So he's like, rap is still like back and back then, especially was still pretty perfect. And I was like, on paper, this almost looks like he keeps him reps in a tank. But I know he wasn't. Right. He just wasn't taken, rap's that I simply not there. That is not capable of completing without taking without without changing the execution, right? And when I implemented that, the progress that I was able to see weekly was fucking huge. And again, that was just an recumoman and applying that to all of my sessions. Not only I was able to recover session session, but I was able to even take an additional rep or a low progression in almost all of my sets. Whereas in comparison, it'd be a progression here and there within a set, then I try and do the shit reps, log them, try and progress that again. And it just be a vicious circle of going to sessions on the recovery, making mediocre progress, right? Yeah, with with how often I'm seeing this, I feel like this point is probably going to reach a lot of people. I feel like in fact, I'm going to say guys, if you're one of those guys, no shame in it, but if that's what you've been doing, please comment and tell me that you're going to change it, and then follow up and let us know down the road in a future episode how that's going. Because I really do believe that this in itself can be a legitimate big impact or on your level of intensity. It's not just that, but the level of progression that you will see will be huge. Sure. I want to finish this topic on this a little bit now. In order for this to work in the real world and in practice, I truly believe you have to learn how to truly take the sets there. And past failure. So you need to experience the hard sets, the sets past failure, the force reps, to be able to understand when that true failure point is because on the other hand, and I'm not sure what your take on is and you can tell us after. I have seen so many people just stop reps when they are nowhere near that point where I know they probably have free form or more clean reps but the reason why they're stopping them reps is because they're getting them comfortable. It's starting to hurt. It's starting to get a little bit nippy, especially when you see the hot squat sets or the leg press sets or even leg extensions. Like you can see it's getting harder. And then it's almost like they stop or they do a couple of reps with like fake hard reps. And you can see the fake hard reps because the load's slowing down. But the finish it's super easy and come back down. And I'm like, yeah, I've seen that before, bro. But you've had a lot more in the tank. So do not cheat them reps and take it all the way. So I do think there's merit in look. There's a lot of clients that will implement this with and you can probably vouch for this. But there's still a lot of people that you probably wouldn't turn around and say, actually, you need to scale back on that sort of intensity because I still have a lot of guys and girls that I wouldn't necessarily tell them you need to pull back here. But on the other hand, I've got guys and girls that are still going to the gym and it's like a suicide mission. When I'm like, Jesus Christ, if you don't pull this back, you're going to put yourself in the ground. Yeah, yeah. Now I'm with you 100% on that man. You do and you do have to figure out what that level of intensity is. Like, you know, we've talked about it before and it's just bodybuilding. We're Ron and Dusty have talked about how like, is a widow maker set really going to be the best thing for growing muscle? It's going to be fun and you're going to learn something from it, too, because it's always in those sets that we really realize what we truly work capable of. Come on, let's go in there. Yeah, general, that's the fun set, right? But it's not a set that's lead to the greatest of results. Look, we could also have the argument and someone actually asked me this, well, why don't you just lower your volume down and do more of these sets? Because in my opinion, I think scaling back with the volume, it still would not lead to the same growth. As it would, just doing clean sets. So in my opinion, right? Their point was basically, instead of doing two clean sets, why don't you just do one set that's like past failure with a widow maker, etc. It's like, well, the stimulus that you actually get from two clean sets is probably greater and you probably feel less smashed off back of those two sets than you would of one crazy widow maker sets. Yeah, the way you're talking about it is this is so this is still this is hard, hard training. Like, I would love to see a demo because if you I'm sure everybody watching right now also follows you on Instagram, they follow your YouTube, they see what your training looks like. So it's not like things got a little tough and then you locked out and, you know, racked it. This is still extremely difficult, but at the same time, what I discovered in training like this is that my knees didn't bother me the same way. You know, I didn't have issues the way I would in the past, man, because there was a time, Cuba, I spent like 10 years with my elbows hurting in my knees hurting, you know what I mean? I'm going to send you over to clip. Okay, I can probably pull up. All right, cool, cool. And that was probably like one rat more, I would probably need to take. Right, it's a it's a long set. So you might, you might want to kind of skip towards the end. Can you, do you have an Instagram or anything? I actually haven't watched up, can I do it? What's up? I, you know what, with this program, if I drag it in here, it's going to boot us off. I'm not sure how to do it, but I'll tell you what, I'll tell you what, I can drop it in post production though. Right, what I will do is anyway, I'll set you the video over and you can, you can pull it up. But when you look at the last couple of reps, like even before the last rep that I do, yeah, I still have to take a little bit of pause to reset and rebraise. So the last rep all down paper, it probably looks like a maybe could have squeezed another rep out. Yeah. But with how it fell in a special speed on that leg press of that concentric and how I felt internally, I know that if I attempted another rep, I would probably need to rest for longer to get it or in Mark would have had to give me a push to continue. So it's a trade off, but the only reason why I am able to recognise that is I do have the self-awareness of what it actually feels like to do a rep that isn't there. Yeah. So there is also merit to learning to train to that place and then once you learn to train with that sort of intensity, weight, killing yourself, yeah. That's when you also need to apply that self-control whilst maintaining the same intensity. Yeah. But the way I see it too cool, but as you're not telling people to stop, you'll still know when failure is because you go for that last say once again, I'm thinking about that pull down. You go for that last rep and it just doesn't go. You know, and that's when you thought it versus trained and now repeat that five more times halfway. You know? Absolutely. There's this part of some back clips they can pull through as well. From the pull session I was just posted as well. You can pull some of those up. All right cool. I can pull this see an example, but yeah, that's pretty much an difference between training for fun versus training to actually build muscle. Have you got a feeling something that you got to feel sad? No, man. I think that that was fantastic. And I'm chomping at the bit to get into this diet topic too because I'm right there with you and I know that you started your prep now. How are we going to couch this or excuse me? How are we going to seat this particular conversation with? So I have started prep and very much excited. Very much excited. I've just started prep on Saturday. So I think we'll probably do an end of that episode on how to start a prep or what calorie food could just make, what to do with your cardio, what to do with your drugs, what to do everything, how to basically start prep on a diet phase and what you need to do beforehand as well. So what we could actually cover is a complete timeline, but I'm actually four days into diet. I'm clear. And people are ready to leave you. I'm not actually but it's already moving pretty well. Initially I always want to start a little bit harder and I do feel like I always drop a lot of it a good way and that inflammation just from my food. So it's definitely moving forward pretty well. But the question, the question that I had for you, because I know that you're like 27 pounds down already. Yes. So how are you finding that so you? Oh dude. So I'm finding it to be fantastic. Like it's been an absolute game changer for me. I've got a unique situation though. We've kind of determined that I probably have some pretty serious mitochondrial dysfunction after I got sick in 2021. You know, I got the long bug and it really had affected me in every way. So for instance, like I might be in a good group, things are going well. I'm making progress. Then we go to the Arnold Classic. I'm up for like four days straight basically and it's just so much activity after that. Usually it takes like a day of a little bit, you know, down time and then you bounce back. I'd find I wouldn't bounce back. I would just be in a hole and my appetite would go. My ability to train would go. My motivation would go. Like I'm talking from doing really good to now at like, you know, can't really do much, a lot of brain fog. So with SLU, I'm not getting those dips now. So for me, it's just to, you know, after the Arnold I had a day where I needed to rest, but after that I got right back on track and within a week, I was doing what I needed to do, but then pushing back at a hundred percent within a week. So I'd say that that in itself has been the biggest game changer for me. But just the cognitive boost that I get from it has helped dramatically in my motivation to say, be aggressive, get my work done, schedule the time in for my cardio, you know, make sure that all my meals are prepped. And all those things is you get those going. They start feeding into it. Then you start seeing the progress in it, you know, that fire catches. So that's definitely helped with that for me. What I've noticed in terms of results, so what have you actually done with your food and how has it affected your training performance? Have you felt any difference with training performance and muscle retention? What have you actually noticed when it comes to not just fat loss? Because I assume fat loss has been what you easier with it in, right? It's so interestingly, I'll tell you what the number one thing I noticed is improved cardio endurance. So that's going to be both in on the treadmill doing cardio and it's going to be within a working set that I'm finding that I can withstand a lot more. And that was a struggle for me previously. So that has really opened me up. When I first started it, my diet was, you know, I'm on track with a diet. I just shifted everything to make sure I'm eating clean eating five times a day. And I started seeing a re-company effect. I started seeing when I added the SLU in, so the scales going down a little bit, going down a little bit, I added the SLU and the scale stopped going down and I continued to improve compositionally without any scale change. Eventually I pushed the diet hard. And I decided, you know, sometimes Cuba, you can take somebody and you know, you remove a cup of rice and you start in an add 20 minutes of cardio and they start moving for me with where I'm at and where I'd been stuck for about four years. I figured I think I need to push harder to get things moving. So I went all the way down to protein only five meals a day and one serving of carbs. And out of the gate man I was starving, right? But I instantly started seeing the scale just start radically moving at that point and I got to the point where I could start adding more food back in. So it's like, you know, once you get that fire started, you can throw a couple more sticks on and they just get incinerated, you know. So now I mean building up carbs three to four times a day, I will cycle them lower on non-training days. And I also I've intuitively been cycling them lower. Like I want to push for a little bit more scale loss by Friday before I do a reload and I'll, you know, maybe say, you know, I'm going to skip the carbs in this particular meal because I know that I'll wake up later tomorrow if I do that type of thing. You haven't made any changes to any other, any other super-suped right? You've just added in 20. I added in 23 now too. So okay. No, no, no, I'm not underage is no nothing really. Okay. Well, 27 pounds no, but as of now I have. We maybe I didn't, I haven't been at cycling a long time. I ran a little bit of a little bit of debuffer, you know, while back, if things go as plan, I got to get my labs done. I want to make sure that my hematocrit's in order. Also too, I want to see if I get any cholesterol improvement from acyloid. My cholesterol is pretty good, but I've been hearing people getting benefits. So I'm excited. I'm going into tomorrow morning to get labs, but I made a maybe preemptively already started a couple days ago. So if things are looking the way I want, I'm looking at something like 800 tests, 600 EQ. Oh, very nice. That will be perfect. Now, what about training performance? How has it affected your training performance all? I might, I'll tell you what, man. I haven't seen any kind of dip. Put it this way. My food is obviously like lower harder or depleted than I had been in a long time and my training is only getting better. But do keep in mind too. I'm not where you're at. You know, I was a competitor for years and years and I maintained that level of training. But after I got sick, man, they were prepared to time that I couldn't train. So getting back to where I am now, it took a lot of humility to say, like, listen, I'm not log booking like you are right now. Like, put it this way. I'm doing for a chest day. I'm doing a one body part split that's working well for me right now. I can recover from it and my last exercise is literally pushups. As many sets, as many reps as I can get for three sets. So I do two chest exercises. As a third exercise, as a set up is three sets of pushups using perfect form, keeping my core real tight and it's just a good way that I can push myself further. But that's because, man, if I was on the, the 20, you might be on the 40th story right now. I was at maybe the 25th story, something like that. I'm back down to the ground floor, you know what I'm saying? Now, we'll be soccer. Are you going to tie straight up all we're just going to straighten out that dose? I'm just going to go straight in at that dose. I don't see a reason not to. I figure with knowing my body, knowing how I've experienced things before, EQ really starts to come into its own later and the cycle. So there's no reason for me to tie straight up. I'll just run it as this. And it's just an experiment. Could you say it's a heavier cycle for someone that's not, you know, doing anything extreme? Yeah, you could say that. But I'm also a guy who's done a lot of gear in my day. So I'd say for me, this is, this is a hefty cycle for where I stand now. But you know, it's, we'll see. Just because I said that's what I'm going to do doesn't mean that's the way it's going to carry out either. I may pull back some, you know. I mean, listen, talking to a log here, that's literally dropping the ocean with a cycle that I've got sent. So I'll tell you what I'm using at the moment a little bit. But okay. I want to, I want to turn one of the one of the biggest cycles that I've ever had prescribed. All right. Are we saying? All right. So it was 500 million of testosterone. It was three amps of problem, which was around 210, maybe milligrams. Wait, are we talking per day? No, just let me continue. Okay. Okay. Okay. Five hundred megs of tests. Yep. Three amps of problem, 200 timings, 100 megs of anodrol, and a hundred megs of debo per day. And that was at 18 weeks out from the show. No, sorry. My, my, my, I say, that was 16 weeks out from the show. Oh, that's completely different than 82 nevermind. No, six. Oh, that was crazy. Target first there. Yeah, 16 weeks out from the show. So let's say it was 720 times seven. That's five grams off the bat per week at 16 weeks out. So yeah, safe to say I did not do that cycle because I, I definitely fought to myself. If I actually do that cycle, I will likely not finish the prep and end up in jail. So it's probably not going to do that. Because I'm a draw and and problem at the same time. That those daily, it's probably going to be a little bit too much for me to handle mentally, especially back then when I was 20, what I think I was back then. Oh, yeah, yeah, I was 20. That was that was my prep for for the British, the actual British that that held some value. And that was the year that were holding it actually the one it's pro card. Oh, I remember that I could actually, yeah, actually, well, I was actually in the overall room. I want to have you, I see you on the super habits. You're kidding. No kidding. Yeah, yeah, and I want the juniors that there as well. Okay. Wow. So that was like 14,500 milligrams of of trend. That's insane, man. It's in some. I'll be honest though, I have done some heavy trend cycles in past, but I've never been 14 hundred. I've never been 14 hundred. I've done, I think Max Trin, I've done was either 700 or potentially a thousand and general art. It just made me feel like shit. I couldn't eat any made me feel like shit. I put this 700. Yeah, I didn't, I didn't have it. There was a time period of what everyone did a hundred weeks of Trinody. Yeah, I remember that. Yeah, I started with last. I started with 50 every other day, but over time through the cycling, increased it going into the show. By the time I got to it, honestly, Cuba, I couldn't really tell the difference. Like it just, I didn't feel terrible on it, didn't feel great on it. But it definitely feels like, man, you're a light heavyweight at a state level show. Maybe you don't need to be doing all of this. Yeah. I'll be honest, you know, in the past two years, my trend used personally, I'm with clients, has definitely less and less. Yeah, I personally don't go off 200 milligrams now. I don't see the need. Yeah. I really think 200 gives me everything that I need. And with a number of clients now, I don't actually train with them because I've actually seen much better results in prep without using trend because they're sleeps bad. The mood's bad. Yeah. And listen, if someone's moved is better, someone sleeps better. The results are better. They're going to be a little self better, you know. Yeah, what am I clients? Dara, you can probably search in a minute, like I'm Dara, Dara, Dara, not tomorrow. He's actually tagging me in like a transformation from where I first started working to tell her to be. So, anyway, long story short, he's around 10 kilos up now. Probably 10 kilos up. And I would put a say, conditions comparable, and he's not using any trend. And for him, it's just, it's been a game changer, it really has, like, is muscle retention's bad, it's performance is bad. We're actually using less overall drugs this year. And he's like, 100 one kilo and a comparison to when he was like 91 kilo. So you can imagine that the difference is huge. So look, when it comes to drugs and it comes to all these numbers, I think people get a massive hard on when it comes to antibiotics and when it comes to crazy circles, but let me tell you now, Scott, the past two years, my gay use and my overall cycles have been getting less and less and have been seeing more and more results. Yeah, I'm especially even in prep. So I know there might be people who don't believe you, but let me just throw something in really quick because I'm thinking people are going to wonder this. So you're a big dude, do you feel like you're able to cut back now because you're already, he's already big so he doesn't need as much. Is it one of those things or what do you think? No, I don't think so. I think there's a definitely a bit of a, a bit of a u curve with gear where yes, more does more to it agree. And I think once you get to that certain point for your own tolerance and unfortunately this is where I know some guys and girls that can tolerate a fucking bulk load of gear and they don't get that negative return. But some guys really do. So for me personally, I think there's a sweet spot at which you will grow the most. For me personally, for me personally, it's between two, up to, up to closer towards 3000 milligrams, but the line of 2000 and 3000 I feel like is the sweet spot. Okay. I feel like that's the best when it comes to return an investment for doing what you're doing and the results not really feeling like your sleep soft as an appetite soft as but again, that's making up and again one important caveat, right? That total milligrams is only made up from test pre more a mast. Okay. Wow. Because I do feel like certain compounds vary, milligrams to milligrams, not for sure that not in the effects that you necessarily get when it comes to building muscle but what effects they can actually cause when it comes to the stress on your body? And again, look, certain compounds for some people, they might feel fantastic. I know you get on with your Q so well, personally, I take 500 times a week, one I get nothing from it but two, it's the only compound that really makes me feel like really depressed and down and I'm just, yeah, I always never want you to run that then, you know? Yeah, I'm just a little bit, and you know what, I don't feel like I get anything from it. I feel like I'm just pulling it in and it just does nothing. So for me, it's definitely off the table. Pressed as well. I get, yeah, trust it on me, that's all Jesus Christ. When I tried that, that was horrendous. And I've got a team man that was even better for me. Do you know what though? I think the only time when I think I would get benefits right would be in prep. Yeah, yeah, I think that. Super lean, when you're super lean and even that at very low dose. But even right now, like the cycles, the start point at 24 weeks out is five hundred tests, a thousand pre-mode, that's it. Okay, what is your estrogen due with the dose like that? See the pins because I know at the moment and I've just had my blood worked on off the back of my bridge, which was much lower than that. And I'm going to see where it lands. But generally my estrogen is actually just above the range on this on this cycle. Okay, okay, the pre-mode is lower, but even right now, because I've only just started, that my estrogen still pretty high at the moment because in my bridge, I mostly did test for a lot of bit of pre-mode. Yeah, yeah. And again, I'm not going to say, I'm not going to say T.R.T. Plus because it wasn't T.R.T. Plus. But anyway, it's mostly above the range. But again, with estrogen, I don't think you should let it run wild. I think it should still be on the control. So for me, I do take my blood work every six weeks with evil, Dave, massive shallow. You're probably not about what we've done. I literally have my blood work from Dave from the day start at evil. Every six to ten weeks since he started. He told me that you are impeccable with your labs and that you were super on top of that stuff. That's great, man. It's good to be able to. We're very very lucky to have him because like the day he set that company up, I messaged him and I was like, Dave, I want to pay it from, I want to pay for like five tests and I want to learn every six weeks. He was like great. And you know what, his service was that good. I was more than willing and more than happy to keep paying until Dave was in a position where he was able to sponsor me. But I was one of his very first clients. I'm not sure if he's told you. But anyway, that's off the topic. Estrogen-wise, I do like to keep it somewhat above the range, especially in the offseason. But then prep, I do prefer to actually keep my testosterone a little bit lower, rather than escalating to testosterone. So from here now, I will probably pull my test down eventually, rather than bringing it in. Okay. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. For sure. It's interesting. I'm with you too. I'm like, I don't mind Estrogen running high, but especially in prep. Like I'm not going to to the point where it used to be, you know, years ago used to say, like, oh, you got to have estrogen low year round. But I do think in prep when fat loss is your goal and composition your look is your goal. I do think that keeping that estrogen under wraps is definitely super imperative, you know? I think so. I think crushing estrogen, it doesn't have any merit. Right. Completely bottom out. I think there's no benefits. However, key print in range, or even on the slack, the lower side, especially as you get close to a show. I think there's a lot of merit because it gives you the ability to assess your physique. Very, very clearly with no water present. Yep. So your decision making is better, whether you think or actually that's not body fat, that's water or is it actually you're still holding body fat, you need to get leaner, get on the forestand. Get on the stem, Master. Eat some fish, it should so I do think there's this definite point at point with that. So generally when it comes to the cycles, I do prefer testosterone lowering prep and then higher in the off season. But again, that's my preference. And I don't generally see any negatives having my testosterone lower. And I don't feel like I get flat at Eva. I think that's a little bit of a, that's a little bit of a myth where people think that the full of testosterone, I don't necessarily think the fuller, it's just the probably carrying more water. Yeah. Yeah. And into a degree you're on more total hormone too. You know, if you were on, say you take your test to a thousand, I would hope, you know, that you were fuller going on to three grams versus a gram and a half, you know. Yep. But equally than that, if you put ground cream on, you're going to feel a lot of fullness from that alone. So true. It's true. After a certain point in my opinion, it all virtual does the same shit. This is why I got this is why I do not actually put that much emphasis into the drugs. Because we know what we need to know about the drugs. We know the differences between the drugs. It's not rocket science. It's nothing super complicated. It's all testosterone derivatives. It's actually super simple. Like yes, all of these drugs do have some unique properties. I do believe that. I do think there's this very little difference right between them. And I do think that some people genuinely respond better to certain drugs. Like I have clients and I've seen people respond extremely well to just master on. And then on the other side, I've seen people that take master on and they just feel like shit. So guess what? Yeah. Don't take master on. Take pretty about you and you keep. Yeah. Oh, you know, if you like you keep like Scott, you take you. Yeah. You find out what works. And you lean into that. When I first ran a few, I ran it at 400. I was like, yeah, I don't really notice anything better. Like I thought this is going to be like a people told me like a dryer decker. You know, and I didn't see much. But a few years later, I was like, well, what have and I take it. I only took you that one time in the ironic high. And for me, once I got that up there, past like 800, that's when I said, oh, yeah, this is for me. But it took that. And guess what? The opposite man. That goes never a thing for me. I just never felt good on it higher dose. I felt even worse. So I just I leaned away from that. That's what I think the most important things are when we try to figure out what's what what what cycles should you do. It's well, what do you respond well to? And I think that's what I try to do and I'm sure you do too as a coach. Yeah, absolutely. Try to figure out what works and you lean into those things with with an individual and who knows what it's going to be, you know? Yeah, Genoa Scott, I found the decker when I was young. I could take a boat load and I felt great. Really? Now, every time I try decker, I just get so much anxiety. I can't touch it. No kidding. And I find it with so many people, even as little as 100 million on the MPP and I can already tell the mood changes. So for me, personally, what I like the most is simple, test pre-mormasts. Like these are the free compounds that I know that I get on well-willed, well-willed, well-willed, I get great results with, and guess what? Ninety-naps out of people really do get on well with them with no adverse effects. And then tremble on, spring color a bit of tremble on is the king, especially in perhaps. So I'm not, I'm not opposed to a little bit tremble on, but again, the dosages of it have definitely come down over the years, especially now. I'm probably thinking this, this prep, I don't think I probably run more than 150 maybe, maybe 200, we'll see. Okay, we'll see also what Dean says, but definitely definitely on the lowest scale of tremble on now. However, however, however, I do have some guys, some guys that really do like the trend, especially some of the European guys, but I have convinced them to take a little bit less, so that's a win. Yeah, what do you think about since we're on the topic, where do you stand with Oral's in the contest prep? Very good question. I'm definitely not against them, but I definitely do like to use them more towards the back end of prep. Yeah, and my choice of Orals would be between Anadroll and Avar, Winstrel and Halo, nothing else really. I don't think there's any other ones that really do anything. And the choice would be between someone that gets extremely conditioned, but needs more fullness, generally, Anadroll works really well. Someone that generally needs to get harder to an agreed winstrel, and you know what, the people that say that Orals don't make a difference, they've never had a good Oral, because let me tell you, I put 25 milligrams of winstrel in and I can see a big visual difference in how I look at our seven days. Oh yeah, same with the same with Anadroll, like for me Anadroll, I had Anadroll again two free pounds of fullness instantly, and I look fuller and leaner. Yeah, so yeah, when people say Orals don't work, it's like, bro, you've never had a good Oral, that's probably a side of a bit wrong, it's saying you've never had good Oral, but what you said is the sound clip for the beginning of the show, you know. No, I'm not serious, no. I don't think people have had good Orals, in that case, and again when it comes to dosing Orals, 25 milligrams, I think it's a great start point, even for some more lat myself, just because you are bigger, doesn't mean you need more drugs. So, you know, 25 milligrams, it goes a long way, and I'm not against the so that mix in Orals either. Don't get me wrong, I do think there's merit to just stick into one Oral and see what it does, but if you already know that effect that you get from these Orals, I'm definitely not against mixing them. Yeah, I'm not opposed to that either. Because I could say earlier, drugs do have that unique properties and unique effects, so it doesn't make sense in certain situations to capitalize on them, right? I mean, especially the cosmetic look at that last, the last little bit, you know, it's not, this isn't stuff where like you're going to use the Oral to look your best through summer. It's more like one day, we want you to look a certain way, and I think that you can really capitalize on. The other nice thing I think about Orals is the speed in which they work, you know, if we want to see get a certain look with a long acting injectable, we have to do a lot of planning, like master on a nothing, love that, but we're not going to be making last minute changes with it, you know? No, I completely agree. So it's not just the sharpness but it's like the instant improvement in training performance that you get is huge. Yeah, and I think to it agree, the neurological drive that you get from them, definitely has a lot of merit, especially in prep. Now, one thing that a lot of coaches and educators often overlook, for example, when it comes to Anavar, and I love Anavar personally because you can potentially safely use it from like eight weeks out or even ten weeks out, and I don't think Anavar would have that much of a negative impact, I'll be honest. When it comes to Orals, I think that's probably the safest, but when educators say that pre-mo is better than Anavar for women, one small, very well, and that's a little bit of topic, but still on top of Corvall, so it's still classes, right? It's still useful, it's still useful. One little thing they overlook is that pre-mo actually has quite a long car fly. So when it comes to using pre-mo of females, they're not on for six weeks, they're on for longer than that. Yeah. For example, so I have personally seen, and that's out of experience coaching a lot of females, women do get more side effects from pre-mo against what a lot of educators actually claim. And is it with their same thing? That's what they're saying, a lot of them, yeah. My personal opinion, it's actually Anavar that does see much less side effects, and I think the main reason for that is because it is so in and out. I mean, you're not taking out of Orals, guess what? It's probably out of your system, right? You don't take pretty much around those, you know? Yeah. You don't take pre-mo tomorrow. It's still there probably for 10, 14 days, if not longer. Yeah. So there's a big, big difference, especially when, you know, we're talking five max 10 milligrams, it's definitely going to have an impact between both. So if any of the female listeners are watching this, and someone is telling you that take pre-mo, it's going to give you less sides. And Anavar, I promise you, it won't. You will get more results from pre-mo. It's stronger. Imagine when it comes to building muscle. But that also comes at a higher cost. If you want less side effects, you want something quick in and out. Anavar is probably your best bet. And this way, guess what? If you're a bikini athlete, five milligrams for last three weeks, six weeks, even, and you're done. Pre-mo, if you're all looking up taking pre-mo five, six weeks, you're actually taking it for eight, nine. Yeah. Yeah. And if you don't look how things are going, you can't change it tomorrow, you know? No, no, it's that. It's laying in about for a little while. So, you know, there's a lot of methods to all those. For that reason, alone, it's just a soap in and out. Anyway, Scott, guess what? It was good. Yeah, we had a few, few questions. I closed the window, though. Don't ask me why did that take me just a minute to get back there. I had it all prepped up and everything. And then I was like, oh, you know what, why don't I close this window just to kind of keep you up? What's your take on all those? What do you think to ask that? You know, I'm with you. I'd say for the most part, man, I totally agree. I generally keep and I could see, I could see something like anovar for the route six weeks, eight weeks out. Ten to me would be like that outside max, but it also depends on what else we were doing. You know, if, if say you had somebody who was fairly inexperienced and they were going to use tested one of their compound, then I could see adding that oral in earlier versus generally, I wait toward the end. I would say like four weeks out with windstroll, something along those lines, I would say maybe two weeks out, three weeks out, or even ten days out with halo, you know, depending depending on the case. And, but I could see that changing, though. Like windstroll, maybe we don't have another DHT in there, then maybe we added it six weeks out. You know, something along those lines, but I'd say I'm pretty much across the board exactly with where you're at on that. I experimented with superdraw for a couple seasons. Oh, yes. Oh, mate. How can I forget superdraw? I'm superdraw. Superdraw. You know what? Good superdraw. That shit will drive a lot of fullness. Yeah. He will. It will. And listen, I don't care what anyone says. I personally, when I had some real superdraw, and I had it before a show, it was actually the night before one of Procard, the difference in my look, the fullness was ridiculous, ridiculous, crazy. Yeah. I could have forget about that. But it's not really a compound that would use on a regular basis. However, I do know a lot of the top guys that you superdraw that quite fall out pre-work. How you know? It's been, it's gotten more popular in the last couple years, too. It kind of went away, and I think it's back. People will compare it to, I think, a lot of times, a replacement for aerodraw. And you made a really good point, you know, you get to a certain point where you get so freaking hard that there's no sense in using something that's going to get you harder, but maybe you could use a little bit more fullness, or the other way around, you know, maybe you're a guy who could use that more hardness, and that's where something like a windstroll or windstroll and halo might come in. And I have no problem using windstroll and halo together. Obviously, it's all about dose, too, you know? I definitely don't. As long as low doses, I mean, listen, they both have different properties. With halo, I definitely think save it for the last little bit. As a champion talk, because for me, halo, I do find halo has a lot of negative size when it costs the mental aspect with a lot of athletes. I have had a lot of people get really, really down using it. Yeah, dude, I won't tell the story again, but my first time taking halo, this is the cliff snowed version of it. I was with my girlfriend after work, and I had like two meals left, and we're going to drive across other side of Detroit. So this is like an hour away through Detroit, now into the suburbs. She had the directions. We printed them off from Map Quest. This is how long ago this was. We're supposed to be there in 45 minutes. She's going to pose with this lady. I'm going to work out at this gym. So I'm going to take my halo right now, get in the past, your seat, just relax, and then you're conditioning for the next 45 minutes. And then train, we got lost. Should we stand in the air? Oh, turn out what it was. It was the worst, man. It was it was the first time I took it on that particular prep. So probably we just in practice of self-control of it, how about that day? Yeah, I did not succeed. So here's our questions. Charles has one for us. He says, guys, do you believe the popularity of push pull legs has caused smaller arms syndrome? Everyone prioritized compound movements and they leave the arms to the wayside from where I see. I think potentially if someone is programming push pull legs poorly, then yes, it can. If someone is also executing push pull legs poorly, yes, it can. The problem is push pull legs is that they are long demanding sessions. If someone loses focus towards the end of the session and loses that intensity and treats the isolation exercise towards the end, with generally will be the arm work like and after for and do not attack it with intent and the same intensity as they did the compound work. Guess what? Your arms are not going to respond because you're not training on as hard. So yes, push pull legs can cause that, but you have to remember that it's not just the split that can cause these issues. It's how you execute the split and how you design that split. Also push pull legs isn't just push pull legs. It could be variation of it that can actually have a lot of merit when it comes to bringing up your arms because you get to train them more frequently which can give you more opportunity to improve them. So I definitely agree with that. It's more so how you apply yourself and how you structure the push pull legs. Unfortunately, if some of the guys are not really that first in programming, the probably aren't going to give you a split that's going to take all these boxes. But then again, it can come down to you after the execution of it. Yeah, I've got two things on that. One being that so and keep in mind because I think sometimes you see less overall arm volume say on a push day and compared to what you're doing with chest and maybe with shoulders and my thought is any compound chest movement you're doing, you're hitting your triceps. Any compound shoulder movement you're doing, you're hitting your triceps and then you're directly hitting your triceps. So there is that and my other thought is that if you let's say that your arms you do have small arms. You come out of it. We you know, 16 weeks later your chest is bigger. Your back is bigger and your legs are bigger but your arms aren't. We're going to have a lot easier time bringing your arms up than bringing up a back. That's for sure. So we're bringing it up some legs. So I'll take small arms in a big back, you know. You should know what I actually say to a lot of people often is you won't lose a show based of your arms size. You will lose a show based of lack of overall size. So focus on getting big and guess what? When you get big you probably will have a big arm. Yeah, they're going to they're going to come along for the ride. No, all right, we got a couple more here. Long time listener. Oh, yeah, this is to me, I guess. He says long time listener. We all know that you love injectable debolskat. I'd love to hear your opinion on injectable versus oral. What would you compare injectable debol too? Psycholink, thank you. So Kuba, I don't know if we've talked about this before, man. I love hate relationship with injectable debolskat. First of all, it doesn't hit my digestive system. So it doesn't kill my appetite. Second of all, I get the Instagram, greatification of getting an incredible freaking workout 30 minutes after I took it. But at the same time, there's some pretty nasty super solvents in there. And it still is an oral compound. So I don't want to be spending my life on that. So that's my take, man. I'm a fan, though, I love debolskat across the board. And if I could, I'd run that'd be like all my cycles. I just keep running debol all the time. But I can't do that. I mean, back in the day, the first few cycles that I did, I definitely did debol, but ever since I definitely had them, I think last time I tried it was many, many years ago now. I probably was, must have been like 2,000 and 15, maybe. Okay. And you know, it definitely wasn't the best for the old appetite. So I'm not a fan personally, because if you can't eat, you won't grow. And you can only eat what you can digest. If you're digest your shot, appetite shot, guess what? You ain't growing my friend. Yeah. And even the injectable catches up with me. Maybe not quite as quick as the oral will, but eventually it catches up. But it's a hell of a ride for about seven days. All right. So we had one more here. He says, a question, when you are writing a diet, what are some of the things that you look for? Things that you would like to see in the diet? I'm talking about different food sources, macros, etc. Just general things that you look for. Right. The basics, four different protein sources at least, which is extremely easy to hit, four different carbohydrates sources. Again, extremely easy to hit, four different fruits and veggies. Now, when you think about it, it could literally be chicken, way, eggs, beef. Right. Easy. Super simple. Rice, potatoes, fruits, pasta. Awesome. Easy. Oh, it's super easy. Right. You can even make it five. Like generally, I make it four just for the ease of it. Right. Anyway, because of fruit, you can even get a bag of mixed berries that has got like five different berries in it. But generally strawberry blueberry apple banana. Right. How easy is that? Now, guess what? If you structure diet based of a little bit variety, making sure that each meal is a balanced meal of good quality protein, quality carb, fruit, a little bit of edge quality fat source. And again, I did want to mention four fat sources as well, which would be avocado, olive oil, any nooks, and potentially even with fat source. Well, the people like the most. I usually do, let's see, not variation or not. And then, some, a fire, a fire, a fire, a fire, a fire, a fire, a fire, a fire, a fire, oh, yeah, that's great. 100%. So, when you think about it, it's extremely easy to get it really nailed. And it's extremely easy to achieve a lot of nutritional variety, which then, guess what? If you have a decent amount of variety in your food, you will be able to not only hit your micronutrient goals, which is your protein carbs and fats, but also your micronutrient needs in a fiber and in your fatmen's and minerals coming from actual food sources. Yeah. So, for me, the basics would be nutritional variety and focus on getting an adequate amount of fiber, again, not too much, not too little. I think a lot of people push for too much fiber, which then can cause issues in itself. And making sure that you at least try to make an effort to meet a lot of your micronutrient goals from your food. I personally use coronameter and the way I structure the clients diet, for example, I know what I'm giving them is going to pretty much meet that micronutrient needs because I do track through coronameter. So, I roughly know how much veg and how much fruit they need and what sort of structure would the diet they need to be able to meet that. That's great. That's great. And it's not so low in the lazy on the part of the client and making sure that you know, because here's the other side of things. It's like, you know, I'm got to prep for all these chicken meals or all these meat meals. It'd be easier to just use, you know, a bunch of chicken breast and just call it good from there. You do pay for that in multiple ways down the road. The number one way that I think I've seen it is just in getting burnt out. You know, eight weeks later, 10 weeks later, it's like I can't eat chicken anymore. You know, two, you know, three, three, four, five months. I'm so sick of avocado because it's the only fat source that I've been using, you know, and you don't want to reach that spot. Yeah, I've completely agree. And you know what? Rotate in nutritional food sources, rotating the different foods. You prevent from actually developing intolerance. Yeah. A lot of people actually develop food intolerances from eating the same foods over and over again with lack of variety in the food. Yeah. Like a fiber. So generally, you see a lot of people that eat a super plain diet where the feet in the hardcore eating fish and rice and they've always got good issues. The reason why I have good issues is because you lack nutritional variety, like your stomach acid is probably dead because you're not actually consuming any foods that will actually improve your gut function. No fiber, no fruit, no veg, you know, it's terrible, terrible way to diet real. And you know what, I cannot think of anything more miserable than just eating, playing chicken and rice. I mean, I love, I love making, you know, fruit, veg mixing it all together, putting it on a pan, taste good and it never feels like I'm actually the dieting. Yeah. You do, you do great with that. You know what I've been into lately, Cuba is? I've got to mallet so that I can tenderize my chicken in all my gut. Oh, I've got to show me that. So good, dude. Because you said me like, yeah, well, I'll send you a video of the technique, but basically I just I'll pound the spices right into the meat and then you've been, I've got one, I've got one, yeah. Yeah, I've got one, yeah. Nice. I said I put it in the pan, man, and it's just, it's so tender. Like, you know, because sometimes chicken, it kind of gets like more fiberist tasting and especially if it's a day old or something, you like, I don't want this anymore, but you can make really good food if put some love into it. It doesn't like, I eat a lot of turkey, but I still like, I prefer turkey. Okay, why are you still doing AFRIEAT? And I always AFRIEAT so it's like, only just cooked, so it's super juicy. So this is like an actual turkey breast not like minced or anything. I haven't cooked, so I do have them like cooked. And I'm going to actually mince my vettison so she makes my burgers that I AFRIEAT. They're unbelievable, honestly, and see you're all fighting them as well. Nice. But with the turkey breast, what I do, once it's cooked, it's still juicy. I don't put a part down, I put it in fridge. Okay. And because you still keep it in a tight, thin and rest, you can then put it apart into the meals. Yeah. So I then put it apart and it's like, almost like pulled turkey, it's nice. Oh, that sounds really good, man. It sounds like things giving to me will have that out of the form of things, you know, leftovers. Yeah. All right, that's all we had on questions, Cuba. It's true, and for me anyway, so all right. Get the show wrapped up when I should go and have a look at the cover. I've got nothing else, man. We covered the diet, SLU, injectable D-Bug. I got, I'm satisfied, you know. So I need to make it. Right, what about? Next one, guys, we are going to cover the best way to actually start, perhaps, or a diet phase. What you should do before, how to transition to it to get the best results and the best effects. So yeah. I love it. That would be good, man. Yes, sir. All right, guys. Appreciate your tuning in. If you haven't subscribed, hit the bell all that stuff, I'll put Cuba's Instagram and as YouTube down below. I'm sure you're already following him, but if you're not guys go over there. And of course, thank you to everybody from Patreon. Throw us some Patreon questions. We'll get to those next time and load us up here with questions, too. We've gotten so much good feedback about the show, Cuba. Guys, if you've enjoyed this, then definitely if you're still around and you haven't hit the like button yet, then definitely do that, because it helps us out more than you know. It doesn't cost you anything. Just hit a little button. That's all I got. And if you're still watching it and you made it to the very end, comment massive underneath, comment massive below, which I made it to the very end. Let's get it. We'll know you'll know and there'll be other people that know it, too. That sounds perfect. Yeah.

I have a child, I want to set a challenge for you. T.R.T. is a poor, a test level of no more than 800 NGDL for a month and nothing else. What's up guys, welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crossland. I'm Scott McNeely and all of our programming is brought to you by you. The people of Patreon, thank you guys very much for your support. We are brought to you by Strom Sports Nutrition, available in the UK and now in the US. I got a sticker I'm going to show you today, Dave, that I got from Strom because I got a couple products from them. Also, we're brought to you by SupplementSource.ca for Canadians. True Nutrition.com. Use our code, think over there for all your protein powder and all your basic body building supplements like creatine and interworkout stuff like that. And of course, we are brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. If you're in the UK and you're on gear, you're going to need some labs. You can go to David and get that done at evalbloodanalysis.com. Dave, we got a bunch of stuff going on today. We have literally like 30 listener questions that they left us from the last show. Plus we got a couple of Patreon questions. We've got a few topics, but guys were just talking about the masters competitors at the national level. Seeing some awesome looking dudes, they want to know what kind of cycles should older guys run to look their absolute best. Plus somebody asked us, how do you get that crazy 3D look that bodybuilders have? What compounds to use for that? I know we had an ongoing topic about is SLU and some of Glutide and all the GLP meds. Is that going to change bodybuilding? Plus we have all your listener questions. So we're going to try to squeeze a lot into this episode. Guys, there's always timestamps below if you want to skip around. Of course, if you're new to our stuff, we'd love to have you along for everything. We have several bodybuilding shows each week so subscribe. Hit the bell, leave us comments and comment with questions for the next show. Dave, here's my sticker. You probably can't read it from there, but it says, Strom. And it says, suck it, England. Strom has been taken over by us, by my people. And look at when I got a package in the mail. We had some bread, white and blue confadiant. They're doing it right, Dave. That's all I got to say. They're doing it right over at Strom. They have stickers and stuff. Look at that. I got stickers too. But what's your stickers? So I got that sticker? What's that? BBK? Was that, was that a serial killer's? Or something? I thought. Bind something. No. These performance because I got some O2 sensor extensions from them for my long headers on my truck. OK. Then I got that sticker. Oh, these are the kind of stickers that you put on the back of your car. These are from your countrymen. Are they really? Yes. And then I got that today. You got all sorts of stuff, didn't you? And that's from your countrymen as well. And that's a stress one. That's a squishy. Oh, you mean one of those over there, don't you? I can probably use something like that. It's unique. Man. All right. So like I said, we had a bunch of stuff. Let me just start with that question because I thought it was like a really great way to jump into the show. Guy asked us about, he says, what do you say here? Just checked out the photos for Masters Championships in Pittsburgh last weekend. Damn. So many big, 60 year olds in both body building and classic. What's the best compounds for someone around that age? I'm assuming Test, Primo, an HGH and probably an oral closer to the show. You guys have any idea? I want a few NPC over 60 classic physique shows in the last two years. I'm thinking about doing Masters Nationals next July. I've got some work to do. And I'm only using 300 tests. I think I need a bigger cycle. All right. So one of the things, this is not entirely strictly to. But what you've got to understand is that when you start getting north of 50, the potential for muscle growth does reduce quite significantly. Strangely, strength seems to still continue in quite a decent old-wood spiral. But, well, static old man strength. Yes, but starting to put muscle size on those later years is getting harder. So a lot of the big 50 and 60 year olds that you see competing in Masters now are because they were previously very big and they've managed to maintain and hold it. Yeah. Having said that is not impossible, but it is more challenging. And it's not just because of hormones, everything downstream from that is older. Your kidneys are older, your heart's older, your liver's older, your cellular death rate has increased, your aging, everything's aging. So as a result, growth does become more challenging. My compound wise had a lot depends on you. Deckers definitely something worth considering or MPP at a low dose for therapeutic type setup with some joint support and some bone density support. Test mast, yeah. I don't see any big issues there. I seem to find that older guys do seem to tolerate gear better. I don't know why. But like side effect wise, let's get stuff like that. Yeah. Yeah. I've seen to have a lower levels of eastern June conversion and they just generally seem to be able to cope with higher doses better. But then they tend to need higher doses to get any sort of form of progress. So I think it's a, yeah, it's catch 22 with that. Also, there's that compromise of that they're not going to be inherently as resilient in healthy as a 25 year old that's running a bunch of gear. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. That's right. Yeah. And I would, things I would be a bit more wary of is stuff like cardiovascular implications from stuff like lipids and from stuff like blood thickening. Yeah. Because obviously, at the back end of your life, arterial plaque does become more of a concern and it's not particularly easy to know where you are unless you can get an geogram. So I would definitely be more wary of that side of things and make sure that those things are on point. And if you have the ability to get an end geogram, get one. I'm going to sleep. Well, bless you, Dave. I can't save the queen. Thank you. I thought you might respond to that. Yeah. She's dead. Oh, I know. But King, God save the King. It's going to be a change. Yeah. It's going to be a change. Yeah. It's going to be a change. No, but he changes to God save the King if we've got a male model. Yeah. It doesn't sound like having the same ring though. You don't know me in. It's because he's being God save the queen for what? A.T. A.T. A.T. So listen, I am 100% with you on the hematical thing. I had seen it firsthand at the second, the last third of me pushing gear. My hematical just didn't want to come down like it used to. That said, I tended to stay on higher doses and between cycles. And I think I never really gave it a chance to come down. I see a lot of people that are running kind of high gear around. And you know what, man, a lot of the younger guys can get away with it. Like, they might be cruising on, you know, 250 tests, 350, 300 tests with 200, 300 tests with the same amount of tests. And like, they're hematical. It's just fine. A lot of guys that are like 40 getting into 50 getting beyond that, man. Like, yeah, it's a good chance you're going to have high hematical, you know. Well, you know, because you're that. Yeah, 57. So there's that. I did have somebody say, like, Scott, I am like 60 years old, I think he said. He was like, and you're in your 40s, man. He was like, you need to stop complaining about how old you are. I think he, I think that he maybe read that joke of us talking about how old I am as being like me really complaining. But I do feel 57 sometimes, Dave, some days. So yeah, cycle wise, what will we put together for somebody in this situation? He's only done. He said he competed. Guys been successful at the state level, running 300 milligrams of test only, man. So it sounds like he's well on his way to doing good, at least at the state level, you know? Yeah, I mean, he can definitely, he's definitely got sealing to all the dose. So there's no denying. I mean, even just test on his own from where he is, he could have the dose and probably do quite well. And I would consider something like Master MPP as the secondary compound. Maybe a tertiary compound. So do a 300 test, 300 master MPP money went to Friday. There you go, crack on, good little cycle. It's, I'd be comfortable staying under a gram from where he is now, but he could push up to those sort of levels with some, some good success. I mean, he won't know till he tries how, you know, his body's going to react to the higher doses with age factors concerned. Yeah, figure if he's been doing 300 and let's just say that the show just happened now, you know? So he has a year into the next show. That gives him a solid off season. I definitely give myself plenty of time to die it. So let's say six, seven months of growing, then five, six months of cutting into the show. And I'm not saying like out the gate six months out, you're doing an hour cardio, but you start cleaning things up, working on tightening things up. You'd have room to run in off season cycle, something like Dave was just mentioning and then from there into the show. Man, just 300 test 300 mast. And then like he said, maybe he mentioned it. He was like, do they do like, 300, do they do like test mast in an oral at the end or test pre-mode in oral the end. I think that would be a great move for him, you know? So it's a good shape. And what we haven't mentioned was the little message I sent you from my Chinese friend. Oh, yeah, well, let's get back to that after we wrap this segment because that is important isn't it? But yeah, a growth hormone, I think that the older we get, the more we might benefit from GPH. Definitely from a recovery point of view is just a general health wellness longevity angle, yeah, I fully with you on that one. So maybe some growth hormone through the off season into the prep in the off season. I wouldn't have a problem with low dose of insulin, pre workout, especially with your growth hormone. I think that that could potentially be of benefit. And yeah, you know, and here's the thing too, I think one more difference between young guys and old guys. I'm okay with doing like a, if it's the right person, some people they put on too much size and then it's too much work to get the fat back off. A lot of times for older guys, I don't want to push their body weight up as high as I would with a guy that is say 22, 27, you know, in that ballpark range. You know, so I would say, you know, still try to focus on keeping it tighter. You might not make massive 15 pounds of muscle gain progress between now and the show next year. But, you know, do what you can within reason, always remembering that you're still going to have to get yourself back in shape. You know, I wouldn't want to do like a hard, hard push up, you know, for in off season, for a guy who's competing at 50 or 60. So, all right. So what's your, what's your message you had, Dave? Oh, yeah, nothing too major. Kind of. Well, basically a cast, look, I got a reason. But I do, I am beginning to think that she genuinely doesn't know. That's in for what? Why the dish stopped? Why who stopped? Because nobody's, yeah. Why the people have stopped doing the thing that they do. She's causing the problem with the other thing, which is why we can't get the thing and we're having to look over things. Oh, thank you for being so clear with us. I really appreciate that. Rose, so I had a message from my little lady in China. Yeah. And basically, she said, she, they're all seemed to be, from what she's saying, they all seemed to be very much in the dark as to why the manufacturers have stopped it. But they generally feel that it's not going to be returned this side of Christmas. But they say it's not affecting peptides. So now I don't know that includes GH. Yeah. But I have seen there being issues with GH getting to each other in some places. Others are fine. Yeah, so that might just be, you know, market fluctuations. But she's saying she doesn't, they are currently saying they don't see the return of raw production until after the New Year. Oh, huh. That's not good. And a small broad spectrum as well. So it's going to start affecting over compounds as well. Yeah, I have heard. We've had people who've listened and that they've responded and message me DM to me and said, hey, here's a message from my source. And they're saying, yeah, we're short on a lot of things. We're expecting to get in like these two products. But it's going to be unlimited quantities. And I'm seeing prices go up. So there is that happening. Is it the end? No. Can we still do what we need to do? Absolutely. Maybe you might have to do it in a little bit different way. I'm sure there's going to be a lot less dependence on pre-moan master. Now for instance, you know? Yeah, I mean at the end of the day, if you're truly in this game for the game, then a lack of drugs beyond being else as a poor yourself, T.R.T. wise shouldn't stop it. Because if you're in this game for the game, you're in it because you enjoy training. You enjoy the lifestyle. You enjoy the challenges that that brings. Yes, drugs are a fundamental factor of it. But you can still do it without them short term until these problems get resolved. Beat three, six months down a lot. And you can find other compounds to do the same thing, really. For what I'm hearing, it might start to affect all combat. Yeah, I got you. But I mean, we have enough time that people could still stock up on at least, you know, the things they know work outside of the stuff that are already terrible. The return of the decorum, the cycle is that way you say, Hey, I don't say it now, man. Aquipoise has always been my thing. I would stock up on EQ and I would definitely stock up on Winstrel. If I were to stock up on one thing for a competitor, would be Winstrel. In fact, I'm using it with a couple people right now who are having a more difficult time finding this. There are these PhDs. I actually have a real world impact on physics on stage. It could. Yeah. If it gets as bad as they're sort of talking about, it might get. This could really actually have a real world impact on what we're seeing on stages. Somebody message me saying that it's like a major, like in prison sentence to be manufacturing Primo in China without the right paper work to back you up. Well, I would say from what I'm hearing, he's got nothing to do with Primo and Massey. It was just those with the early ones and he's to do with Unabolic's in general. Well, now I don't know that's true. This is all second and information. I've no way of clarifying anything. Mine too. You know, all I can do is pass on what I hear. But I don't know, is the only sense of, but I have over people start reporting that finding old compounds are getting difficult to get old of. Yeah. And I have every time we do talk about this, there is always at least one guy in the chat that says, you know, I haven't had any problems with my source has everything on hand. And you know what, there are still sources that do have things that I've seen good sources because I've done some digging that are not carrying certain products. And then I've seen sources that are saying, hey, yep, we've got it. But everything is $15 more now per bottle or sources that are like, you know, we're seeing like, mmm, things that were like the cost of like 80 bananas are now going up to like 170 bananas. That's a lot of bananas. That is, right? That's big bananas. I know. I know. And I just tell Barbara working with people and we had bananas in there diet. I would find another fruit. I mean, aren't I saying? Well, couldn't we do, you know, instead of paying 80 bananas and going up to 170 bananas, what about 120 bananas and 20 coconuts? Yeah, exactly. There's that too. Yeah, three pineapples. Yeah, just add three pineapples to the... What is the highest value fruit? I'm a wind stroke. That's not a fruit. Yeah, no, I'm with you. 100%. Man, we got a studio chat here too. There we go. There's our last one. As long as they don't stop asking for a vacados, honorable fucking... You don't like avocado? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? What? I think we have guac... Yeah. They have guacamole, they're do not eat guac. No. You don't like guac... Why would that take Florida Street, uh, oasis, and consume it as a food source? Why is she oasis? You do... It does look pretty on the plate, doesn't it? That green shit that you stick flowers into the whole's moisture if you've seen it. Oh, that's not guacamole. You haven't had guacamole. No, no. We've got to bring you... That's... That's the equivalent of avocado. All right. Oh. Avocado is disgusting. Okay. Well, guys... Not if you don't... You can't see it. Come in below. If you don't like it... It's in the same category as Marmai. I... I don't know what that is, either. You've had a veggie, Marmai, I mean you. Yeah, oh yeah, I have. I bought a bottle in Australia, brought it home. I still haven't tried it yet. Yeah, well, Marmai is a yeast version of that. All right. You haven't got enough stuff here. We have a couple more topics. Somebody had asked us, and I don't know if we have an answer for this one, man. But he said, how do I... What compounds are best to achieve that 3D look that I see bodybuilders have? I don't like the sort of discussions because I know Drows can have some influence on how I've as he looks in the sense of its finish. But... I mean, you're looking at fullness if you're looking for a 3D look, so I would say things like GH, Astral, OX here. Things that are going to keep you very full. Well, I'm going to give you that pop look. Super draw. That's what you... Okay, he said Astral, and I was thinking, EST... Like... Get got shot. I got you. I got you. It's got a struggling with age. We are looking at care homes for him. What? Shelter housing, something of that nature, you know? All right. But it's going to have to be government funded because the podcast doesn't pay enough to put me in a hole. So there. Yeah, well, yeah, you're useless, folks. Let me down with a bloody supercharger, so you definitely don't have to be paid for Scott Scarrow, Maya. Dave's driving at regular speed. I'm living in a box in my older... Exactly. Yeah. A regular speed sucks. All right. So I think a lot of it is genetics, man, and then getting in good shape. You know what? You get in shape, and here's the thing, if you haven't been into incredibly peeled shape before, you get into like... You get the surface fat off, right? And then you're like, oh, I see my abs. I see everything is out, but there's still more, you know, you still continue to push down. You start getting rid of the fat between the muscles. And when you get rid of that, that's when you develop that 3D look, assuming you have the muscle to show. But regardless, no matter how much muscle you have, the leaner you get, the more 3-dimensional you look when you're full. I would argue Dave that any steroid is going to give you that 3D look if we were in shape. And, of course, there's genetics, right? Dude, some guys have just like... Like you look at their quads, and they just have like, from the hip down to the knee, just billows out in a crazy sweep. Another guy is kind of have straight up and down-shaped quads, and there's nothing you could do about that, you know? No, the only thing as well is things like insulin sensitivity are going to play a factor here as well. If you're nice and insulin sensitive, you know, when you put carbs in you are going to be full, you're going to fill out. If you're a bit blown, that the fact is not going to be as dramatic. Yeah. Okay. So we got another question, another topic. This is when that came from Patreon, actually. And we've asked it on all the shows now, I think. And the gist of it is, is, will the development of drugs like the, the, the GLPs, and SLU, remove the mental struggle of dieting to better manage hunger levels in prep will this take away from the achievement of getting into condition and will it alter the sport. So we've asked everybody else, I want to get your opinion on that one too. I honestly don't know. I have two trains of thought and I haven't yet come to a conclusion of which one I favor. So there's two elements to me to, to, to, to, to, to, to be, bodybuilding. There's muscular mass. Right. And there's condition. There's, there's presentation is, is stuff that you're talking about competition, but there's muscular mass in this condition. Now both require effort, both require sacrifice and for some people, they do find one or the other easier. Yeah. For me personally, muscular mass was easier. Wasn't easy, but it was easier than condition. Now, having said that, part of stepping on stage or being lean, and I mean, when I say lean, I mean, truly lean. So single digit percentage, you know, properly lean. Proper part of the badger honor of that is being enabled to endure the hardship it takes to get there. I like that. That's that's it. That's part of the achievement. Well, it is it is difficult. It's challenging both physically and mentally. Yeah. Now, with the introduction of things like GLP ones, you still have the physical side of things. You're still going to suffer the fatigue. You're still going to be drained. You're still going to be tired. But the mental aspect of craving and such like doors become substantially easier. How easier? I don't know, because I've not been through it, and I haven't spoke to anyone that's actually being through it, but it definitely will make it easier. Yeah. Is that take away from the achievement? Yes. In one train of thought, I would say it does. It does mean that if a guy standing on stage, you don't know now to what level has he endured to get there. But at the same time, my brain goes, it's a tool. Just like test is, just like decarers, just like anything else is, it's available. Why wouldn't somebody use it? And I don't see there being something wrong in using it. Because you could always say, well, then what about someone who uses testosterone over someone who's a natural, does the achievement of muscle mass in testosterone take away, is that a lesser achievement than someone who's natural as grown muscle. And I would say, well, no, because in that scenario, the result is more extreme. Yeah. With condition, there is an end point where it isn't going to get particularly more extreme. So, part of me says, yes, it does take a little bit away from the achievement, but I don't think it's going to be substantial. And part of me is, look, it's a fucking tool. Use it. Why wouldn't you? Why would you not use something that's going to help you achieve your goal when you're already in the marketplace to do that? Yeah. Yeah. That's the way I see it. I'm in that camp, man, and especially for people who like people who are like naturally, you know, a husky boy growing up, you know, you're going to have a harder time getting a change than me. Like, I had a, I had an easier time. I think then some getting into shape, but then also I had a thing in my brain that allowed me to do whatever it took with the diet, kind of like, maybe like there was a couple of wires that weren't connected properly. And that let me die at really hard, you know, I didn't need the GLPs to do that, but I'm all for it, man. You know, if it, and if we can reduce your stress level, you know what I'm saying, so that now you're not like, quote unquote, suffering as much. Maybe you get a better quality sleep. That's going to help you overall lower cortisol, better fat loss. And just in general, have a better experience, keep your mood a little bit better. And you know what, Dave, although, yes, you are still on low calories and you are suffering, quote unquote, or you're in discomfort. Compounds like redda with the GLUKA gone release, you're actually improving, like you can keep better stable blood sugars, you know, while you're still pushing hard, and maybe not even feel quite as much fatigue as you would have. But there's a limit too, you can't want it all. If you bluntly start, you're also unable to eat. You get to stand it and you know what I mean? Yeah, it's not. It's not going to shut it off completely. They're still going to be an element of hardship and achieving condition. And I said, let's, this is potentially where the future is going in the sense that we're going to have a chemical root for both muscular growth. Particularly if we get my assignment, if it is working correctly, there's also the genetic manipulation side of things, which is real. I mean, it is there. It is in development. Will it become commercially viable? Cobb knows, I mean at this point, it would be ridiculously expensive to have your genes fiddled with. But, scottle for all your genes for free. That was wait for something. Yeah, you know, you know, it's going in there. Yeah. But, you know, but are we going to see, I mean, is it going to be in the future that we're going to see such extreme physics, like almost AI relative generated style physique because of the influence of drugs and is that ultimately in the pursuit of finding chemicals that enhance physique? Are we going to undo the process of of bodybuilding itself because it just becomes a chemical game rather than any physical effort because, you know, when you start looking at my assignment, it is, you start removing the needs we even train. Yeah, I don't know, man. But, you know what, there are people who would argue that bodybuilding has already died that, you know, once Dorian Yates showed up, people literally said that they saw Dorian and they're like, oh, he destroyed bodybuilding. He ruined it. But I wonder, and it's been a slow progression, sense of crazier and crazier than we had Ronnie and like, look at Naxilla now, like that guy is just freaky out of this world. The people who said that Dorian ruined bodybuilding, what would they have to say about Naxilla, you know, or big Romney guys like that? It's like, yeah, Nick Walker. Nick Walker, another example. Yeah, yeah, you take the Dorian Yates era, you drop Nick Walker into that first call out and like, what would happen? Yeah. Yeah. They just like, you know, through their hats out and say through the college. Yeah, that's it. Do you think it could potentially divisionalize in the same way that we've divisionalized with open a natural, do you think we could see a divisionalization where there's natural old school drugs? New school drugs. The, the, the, I, B, B would have to have then recognized and admit that there's drugs to begin with. So I don't know. I think there is a half like legal game in there of being like, you know, guys, yeah, I got to do, you know. I get that. I just wondered if it would ever get to a point where there was, you know, like we've, we've got the enhanced games coming with sports. What would we get to a point whether it be a secondary tier of competition for drug users? Yeah. Because of the more extreme drugs that would potentially be available. Yeah. I think the enhanced games is doing it wrong, by the way. They're trying to push so hard into these drugs. They, they juiced up this guy, the swimmer. And then they said, oh, he's going to blow everybody away. And then he got to heavy and bulky and a different swimmer beat him. So, you know, there, there are limitations still to those drugs. So I think that they need to enhance games. You guys need to retool just a little bit. Some of your ideas may not actually align with the reality of how PEDs work. But they'll figure it out. I'm sure they've got some of the way to bug your sides. It goes back to that tool job. Doesn't it use in the right tool for the right job and put in 20 pound of muscle on a swimmer who's not necessarily the right job? Oh, God. Yeah. Because they've got to cut through war and cut through it fast. So, yeah. I think the next, I mean, I know the thing will be around to see it. But I think the next 2030 year in physical manipulation is going to be very interesting. We're going to be around in 30 years. We're still going to be doing the show. I'm not. I'll be looking for a 10. All right. Let's see. We got a bunch of listener questions and you guys are welcome to take part as long as you put questions in, we'll keep doing the show. So if you put questions in for the next 30 years, Dave and I will continue to do the show for 30 years. God, can you imagine me and you sat in gray and you know, wisdom? Well, I'm already getting grayish. So you know, it's a good, I can picture it. Yeah. I'd be 80, you'd be nine to him. Just sat there like with no teeth, drooling on his cells. It's wondering if we've best as bad as I know. How is that different than the episodes we do now? That's true. Yeah. Almost admit, if I wake up in the morning, I haven't beat myself in a night. It's a good night. Oh, all right. Listen, we do have a bunch of listener questions. Let's dive into these. 32 years old and thinking of hopping on a low dose of test. 250 to 350. Life time natural. He's had a 530.lift, 345 bench, 440 squat, 6 foot, 200 pounds. How much will my numbers go up? Okay. So we were asked the other day how much can I gain on a first cycle? Pretty much the same question except for how much stronger will I get? Based on where he is, I suspect quite a bit. Yeah. He's a strong dude. He is because obviously what he's doing is working and he's developed to a decent level of strength, particularly as a natural athlete. So I think when you start to add the magic source, he's going to be impressed. Yeah. I think the could see some, I think this is a typical example of someone who's got it right in the sense of the got the train in the day at right. So now when we add the chemicals, the combination is going to be great at another sum of the parts here and I think he's going to see some quite impressive gains. What actual numbers would be? No idea. But I would expect to see some big numbers coming soon. He's a he adds, it might sound dumb but I'm scared to lose my hair and get guy know. That's the only reason that I haven't ever hopped on yet. So I mean. Don't make. Shave your head and wear a bra. Fuck it. You'll be fine. You'll be strongest. Yeah. They don't get him. I think the better educated he is going in, the better he can adjust. The better he can control estrogen. And I mean if hair loss is such a concern and it's important enough to him. I mean he could go in and see how it works. I don't think you're going to lose all your hair if it's a cycle but if you wanted to continue using gear, it may be not a bad idea to consider finastery. But the finaster I topical minoxidil and then that tends to be like the lease offensive to your body way of using those products versus the internal. I think that you're dealing with like some sort of localized, rather than system-wise it's definitely a better approach for those two comebacks. Hey guys, love the show. What do you think of the idea of attacking multiple growth pathways on cycle to help eliminate risks and sides while still getting good results for example, test as high as possible without needing an AI. 10 milligrams of yK11 for milestone in Hubitian and 25 milligrams of mk67 for growth hormone pathways. Thank you. You might start inhibition is a lot of ballads yK11 is going to be no more than inhibition of my standing on a ballic so I'm fucking bother wasting your money without shit. Why use mk unless you need it for the appetite just fucking use growth. But then again it's not a growth pathway so recovery pathway so. Well that's going to be a great growth. Yes you do, but it's not a direct action is my point. So you're not really approaching multiple pathways they all sort of run into the same process. And I don't really think you're gaining anything from combining them. I could see the mk being useful, particularly from an appetite point of view. Obviously you've got to watch that insulin resistance that does seem to be very person dependent of non people or an mk and have no problems of no people take 25 milligrams and be mess with it. So it still seems to be very much an individual thing. But yeah I don't see, I understand where the thought process is coming from but I think the reality of it is you're not doing anything that's going to really light the fire when it comes to growth. Sticks amount of oxygen, train hard, eat well. I all means have some form of GHB it through a second. I'm not even going to suck. I can't say either. Well you say the word. I can't say the word. Secretive GARG. Thank you. Some of these are brain just go secretary to every time I go to see the open one. I can't get out of that. So yeah, be it that or be actual GH. But I think GH would be a viable addition. We're running test at a level that doesn't require an AI. Why what's wrong with the AI? Yeah, there's that. I'm a bit confused why AI is already an issue. Yeah, their voice. Oh, you're fucking idiots, read to us. I'm gonna fuck the talk in a while. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. His voice and let's take. Sorry, they are not very intelligent individual. Yeah, we can't use that word. We're not allowed to. Yeah, we'll just leap it out when you do the editing. Yeah, do you realize though that that's a week from now when I edit this Dave and I'm supposed to remember where Dave said the bad words. Yo, a professional. All right, I hit the mark button. We'll see if that works. You know what, he does have a point though because if you could, I'm with you man, he should go watch the episode that Scott Stevenson and I did about MK677. There are potential benefits for a special population of individuals. But if you're already healthy and producing good levels of growth hormone, you may not get anything from it. So there is that, you know, yes. Question triggered by the slowly hungry night. If you were older and therefore natural GH had reduced, my personal thoughts are wouldn't you be better going down the exogenous GH, rather than trying to stimulate a failing system. Also I would like to ask him this. He says, so he says, I'm older. So I like the secreticog. Sarah Morellen is the one that I've been on for general wellness. I would be curious to know what he's paying for that because the only, so Sarah Morellen, I'm going to go back Dave to 2010 and you know, peptides were getting popular. GH releasing peptides were getting popular and by 2012 or so we were all talking about I.P.M. and HECSA Rowland. GH, RP6 and GHRP2. Nobody was talking about Sarah Morellen anymore because it was a generation one secreticog. Like over 20 years old, you know, at this point. And we found that it wasn't that beneficial. But in the last five years, tier T clinics have been marketing it because they can sell it and they can sell it for a price that you will purchase versus if they were to tell you, hey, your growth home is going to cost you 1200 a month. You're going to, you know, you're going to have a, you know, a fit. You're not going to pay that, but you will pay for the Sarah Morellen because it's a lot cheaper, but it is not nearly as beneficial. Not even close, not by a long shot, not even compared to the generation two secreticogs. So that would be my argument against it is very expensive for what you're getting, you know, he's buying you, Gio. Oh, 100. It was. Yeah, then he should definitely buy a better secreticog, you know what I'm saying? He's a spending 100 bananas 100 bananas. All right. Yeah, I would go with it. I would definitely, they'll just check it out, man. Look into the other secreticogs if that's the route you want to go. Yeah, but so anyway, MK677, it's not something that's going to be necessarily beneficial long term. But I do think he's onto something in general, the idea of not just using leaning into one button. You'll have multiple buttons that you can press and there is going to be some synergy there of not maybe not, like, like, you know, not needing to use as much of one thing if we can kind of hit things from different angles. So absolutely, if you're using a couple different steroids, then you know, you could get higher levels without getting the same level as side effects if you just use more tasks, you know. All right, what else do we have? Does T3 burn muscle even at 1.5 grams of gear or is it dose dependent? Well, how much to E3? I'm a views and 25 micrograms. It's effectively a replacement dose. I wouldn't expect any negatives if you're using a hundred. And it might start to be problems as body fat skates, particularly low. Yeah. Yeah, that'd be my thought too. You know, the police says he adds it to the after that he says, 75 mics a day, the upper limit of effectiveness, like most coaches suggest. I mean, I would say it's person and environment dependent at the end of the day. I've never been one for this predetermined dosing, you know, where are you have to run X or you have to run Y? Because you might find with someone who's just genetically that way, you know, they start a day to start a court and they never need to go over 25 because they're just losing well without it. But you get a lot of people that will go, I'm going on T3 so I need to put 50, you know, I need to put 75 and Y start. See, what it does and adjust from there. Yeah. Yeah. I'd start as low as possible with T3, you know, make sure that everything else is tuned up. I don't think you necessarily ever in a position where you need to run it that high. Generally, what you'll find is if you get it too high, you can't get full, you can't get pumps. You know, it's very counterproductive to everything bodybuilding related outside of the fat loss aspect. And yeah, it is, it is not just a fat burner. It's an everything burner. So yeah, I would say that no matter how much gear you're taking, if you turn the T3 up too high, you will run into an issue, Scott, brother, I got a slightly awkward question. I eat well and quite a lot, but I often go up to two weeks without a proper ball movement. And I poo, it's really painful and intense. I think it might be connected to my past issues with anorexia. Just wondering if you have any knowledge around this, since you guys have an understanding of health from real world experience, not just textbooks, and curious what to do and how to get to the toilet more often, any advice would be much appreciated. If the number one thing I tell people in this situation is, I ask them is what's their water intake? Because you need to have water in the intestines to be able to have a bomb movement, that water works to lubricate the stool. Number two is making sure you have enough fiber. Actually, that's one A and one B. You need five of those things. Five, but I mean, everything I would say is fats as well. Okay. And even if you don't, let's say your fats are low. If you get that fiber in the fluid up enough, say you're dieting on a low fat diet, but I agree with you fats will be lubricating too. And then my number two would be magnesium citrate as a stool softener. And a lot of people will tell me, oh, I'm already taking magnesium, but magnesium citrate doesn't absorb. It literally just goes through and helps you to add more water to your stool. You can try mercury. That does that as well. Mercury does. Oh, I don't know if we can suggest that to the people, Dave. I don't know if that does that have any size, any size? Oh, yeah. So I've heard of it being done. I've never seen it being done, but if you put a small drop of mercury in a drink, and someone drinks it, they will evacuate themselves incredibly quickly. Oh, it goes straight through. My dad told me they used to in school. They would like break a thermometer open to get the mercury out and then they play with it on their desks. Yeah, I mean, the obviously mercury poison is a concern, but yes, it will evacuate you immediately. Yeah, let's not do that. I mean, instant, please. We've got other options before we get to the mercury poisoning option. Yeah, those would be my first thoughts, though. And, you know, make sure you're getting plenty of green veggies in there. You know, if you're not, don't just throw in a bunch at once because your body might not react well to them, but start working them in. I'll tell people, you know what, like some guys that work with me day if they like, I don't like green veggies, and they'll say, well, just work in like a half a cup of green veggies, something that doesn't give you gas two times a day, maybe green beans. And that's like literally four bites each time you can do it, you know. I struggle with veg cold. I must admit, I always found veg cold, very unpleasant, but I don't mind veg when he's warm. Okay. I've sent you a message on what's up. Okay. Do I need to read that right now? Yes, I think so. Okay. Yes. All right. Cool. Let me ask you this next question. Thanks, Scott, for passing it in my regards to Dave. Oh, I don't know what this means. Maybe you'll get it. Just a quick question. When you upload, the, oh, he says when you upload the episode to Spotify, can you add the video to it and can you use the exact name that you use on YouTube? You know what? I'm trying to work on the video thing now, long story. But since we've been doing this for so long this before video was available and I kind of have to redo the whole thing. Also, too, how about this one, Dave? Any thoughts on this? I'm 65 years old. Test, Deca, EQ, in mass for 10 weeks. My blood is good. Food is good. It says I, one way, 140, high metabolism, been working out since I was 15. I competed in powerlifting and bodybuilding. I just wanted a boost. I've been about a year now since I ran a, as per anus cycle that was tested in Deca, 200 milligrams a week. If he's still in those sort of doses like 200 milligrams of eight compound, I don't, I don't, I don't have any emergency concerns with that. It just, just dosing would be the only fact that I'd be interested in where he's going to be with that. Okay. But I mean, I don't have any issue with the compounds. Maybe two is slightly different in, I don't know, I don't know if I would start with EQ and then drop in to say MPP instead of Deca or if I would run the EQ and the Deca together. I mean, there's no conflict situation or anything like that. For some reason, I've got a little bit of hesitation about putting the two together and I don't know why, because I don't think there is any reason for not to. All right. How about this one? Question for the next episode. There seems to be a trend in people adding additional estrogen to their cycles. Why would anybody want to do that? Love the show, thanks. I've no heard of this. Of you? Really? Yeah. Okay. Yeah. It's been not a huge man, but I've mentioned that there's a guy I'm working with who's from Europe. So I don't know if it's like a European thing, but I don't think it's isolated there because we've talked about it once or twice on the show. And as a result, this client of mine, he's talked about doing it and then a few people have DM to me. Guys that are using literally exogenous injectable estrogen and they're coupling that with their cycles, guys that don't or Rome. In some cases, it's guys that don't aroma ties much. And I've worked with a few of these guys, where no matter what we do, we have to be really careful because they just don't produce enough estrogen. So they might use a very, very low dose, two milligrams, three milligrams a week. And that's exactly what this client of mine did. So he ran a DACA-only cycle. I can't remember what his dosing was, but I think it might have been a little bit on the higher end. And then he ran that with, like, I think it was three milligrams a week of an injectable astradile. I can see it's being useful in a situation where you genuinely don't aroma ties. I'm just curious, is to some of these people running estrogen on top of anti-esrogenic compounds. Yeah. We then sort of like why just don't run the anti-esrogenic compounds. But yeah, I mean, definitely if someone has low-eachage, it doesn't convert it to solid rate, then there would be benefit to, I didn't end from both, broke from a progress point of view, I'm from a health point of view. Yeah, I've never done it. But I could consider it. I've made sure that we have, we're careful with drugs that would cause low estrogen. I've never had an issue with that. A couple people we've experimented with a low dose of mint. I was going to say the other thing would be looking at something like minted, the Ebola, as a background or as just as an estrogen generating compound. Yeah. Yeah. The Ebola would be another good one, low-low dose, just a few milligrams really. Now, I have a question that I don't know the answer to, and I don't know if you do, or if you can ask clever Scott about it. We haven't spoke about Clevver Scott for a while. Yeah. So, Debal converts us synthetic estrogen, it's not biodeinical to what we would normally produce. Yeah, it's like a methyl estrogen. Yeah. Does that have any significant impact in the way it acts in the positive mechanisms that is the estrogen has within the body? I don't know, honestly. I don't know. Yeah, I don't know either. Yeah, it's obviously going to be more effective on the negative stuff, right? Deep. You're in the coming past it, yeah. Yeah, past it. I was reading blunt force, Tanya. The difference though, Tanya, is that your test levels are substantially quite low. So, conversion of testosterone to estrogen in a female is not going to be any way near the level of testosterone conversion to estrogen in a male. Because the test dose is going to be low plus your primary hormone is estrogen, which is why you have to supplement it. Yeah, for females too, a lot of people think like, oh, you can use testosterone as a female and to get your estrogen. But really women don't want to romanticize the way men do. No, they don't. And obviously, dosen is going to be significantly lower unless you want to have quite high level of immunization. Yeah. All right. Do you think I need a blood pressure medication when my BP is 135 over 70? No. Yeah, I think he's all right with that. I would just lie stall up. Yeah, I mean, in the bottom number is 70. So if he was like 135 over 90, then I would be a little bit more concerned too. You know what I mean? Yeah, no, I agree. But I think he could lie stall that, you know, a bit of cardio is the final. Yeah, I can think that it's considered to like stage one high blood pressure because it's over the 120 mark, but it's not to the point where it would be a health problem. But it would definitely be something you'd want to keep your eye on too, you know. If it's like that off cycle, and now you're going to go into a off season phase where you're adding a bunch of water and all that. What's going to happen to it then, you know. The dynamic between Scott and Dave is special. And comes across as genuine even if you don't do gear, it's all good knowledge. Thank you, Mr. Widebody, no wide boy. Especially in the window looking kind of why I don't know what he means by special. We did get another comment that was kind of... Ray on eating special. Yeah, what do you say there? Oh, there was a few that I missed here, but yeah, somebody said something about our dynamic. And how would he remind me of his, their buddies? He said something about like that they give each other crap, and that's how they let each other know that they like them. Yeah. I just give Scott crap because he's a dick, but I mean, if he makes you sleep better at night thinking that we do have a relationship and I like him. That's fine. That can go with up. Jens, could you please share that top five steroids that are the most damaging to sperm and male fertility? I'm 33 years old and I do not have any children yet. So I really want to minimize the risks as much as possible and hopefully be able to have at least one kid in the future. Thank you for all the valuable education that you provide. You have my full support by subscribing, watching, and liking the comments. Thank you very much. Mentor and Ducca, let me tell you. Oh yeah. What about yeah, 19 Norse or you saying in general? Well, effectively, but yeah, I actually did it because they are all significantly impriments for a brutal on on sperm. Yeah. Then I'm struggling about that to be honest. I don't know where I would go from there. Yeah. Yeah, I would say anything that's going to be bio-identical that your body produces is probably going to be. I'm going to say not safe. You know what I'm saying? Let's yeah. Yeah. Also though, he's 33 years old. So how much more time does he have to have kids? Yeah, pull your finger out. You come on, what are you playing now? You're 33. You're life together, the start of family. Come on. Now sell the time. Sell down. Find that special lid. Yep. Stop using your hand. Okay. Brown burner. So this is from Patreon. So it's important we take care of him. He says, upcoming cycle, looking to do 16 to 20 weeks cycle, and that was in test. 600 EQ and 200 trend. First time on trend, cycle goal is off-season growth focus. I'm also going to run six I use of GH. I'm mostly worried about the support all need. EQ can blunt estrogen, but is an AI, is an AI recommended. And it's the first time I'm running trend. I wouldn't run trying for 16 weeks. Even though it's a low dose, I would, if you're going to want to put it in, I'll put it in on the back end of the cycle with the estrogen management. You're just going to have to test and see. Yeah. I'd say week five weeks six would be where I'd probably test the estrogen. It might be left putting no vdex in just as because of the estrogen. It's the one that's the get. So if we've got no vdex in there, at least we've got some protection against Guy. No. I'm going to wait five weeks six. You can check and see where your estrogen levels are. Yeah. I would do something pretty similar. I would always want to make sure that I, and I wrote back to him too on Patreon to say, Hey, here's my breakdown. And I had suggested, yeah, just check estrogen around five, six weeks in. See where you're at and get that scaled away set set aside and done before you start the trend. So if you're doing a 16 week cycle, get that first six weeks to kind of get the levels built up, right? Before you start the trend, find out where your estrogen is, get that sorted. And then that last eight weeks at the trend in. I wouldn't want to, I wouldn't, I wouldn't want to start my cycle peak out. Like with all the compounds only to then remove it and do a little bit less for the last eight weeks. You know what I mean? No, not, not on the 16 week. I would probably stage it. Yes, I think, I think there is definitely argument for an increasing or accumulating cycle plan. All right. Scott is ridiculous with these peptides. He feels everything. Stop. Most peptides are insignificant. You sensitive soul, I used to go. What's sensitive boy, Dave? You are sensitive boy. I will tell you this man, I've been pretty damn sensitive to that SS31. We had, we had somebody who asked, they said, well, can you tell us more? And really, I can't because I'm still just in the, like literally been on it for a week. But I worked up starting at 500 micrograms. Yes, me how much I'm taking. 500 micrograms. I'm up to one milligrams per day now. I forgot it. Day before yesterday. And I could tell the difference in my energy levels. But it is, I'm definitely like, I'm all peaked out, Dave. I have a child, I want to set a challenge for you. Okay. TNT is a port's a test level of no more than 800 NGDL for a month and nothing else. That is not sound like a fun challenge. That actually sounds like my all of 2021 to 2023. Like that was my life was very at that. Dude, sometimes I forget to take my shot and I had to get labs done. My test was like 300. But I'm all peaked out now. I will say that I do think that SS 31 is beneficial. And I'm starting to put pieces together about if you're, if you're getting increased, increase mitochondrial function and number through SLUP332. And you're getting enhanced cleanup, you know, any accident, basically affect from SS 31. And I felt like there was maybe a higher need for any accidents in, like the quenching of free radicals. Then, you know, I think that there's, I think we're kind of like, there's a one plus one thing going on here that could be a benefit to these. So they would be greater than the sum of their parts is what you are saying. I think so. Also, too, I mentioned to him in the comments that I tried, that what is that five amino M1Q, dude, I got nothing from that. I talked about that on Blood Sweat and Gear, like, if something doesn't work, I'm going to be the first to tell you. And I've had a bunch of people experimenting with SLU, and they've gotten a lot from it. So to him. How do you increase SSHBG when you get symptoms, I guess, of low SSHBG? Well, symptoms are you getting. I told you that when mine gets too low, I just feel super worth arctic. And like, you know, I'm not, I'm not disputing that there are symptoms associated with super low SSHBG. I just curious is to whether those, is that it or is something else that's driving these symptoms before you start trying to increase SSHBG? Yeah. Asked for Jen? You would see an increase in SSHBG, yeah. No, would you see an increase in an SSHBG with higher estrogen? So there's that. Let your estrogen come up. That would be my thought. Also, what compounds, if you're using things like mass pre-mo get rid, right? It's going to be more adulthood of SSHBG. No provider on sort of a thing, get rid. Yeah. So there's a few things. Yeah, each snotsomely is easy to bring up to be fair. It's not usually a problem for most people. Not very often I have people that report issues with low SSHBG, unless they are down into single digits. Yeah. And that's where I've had issues. And my will get crushed, I heard that. It's also interesting to see that people with high SSHBG on a TIT basis tend to have low estrogen. Yeah. Yeah. Because there's just no, there's not the same level of free flow and tests for a rheumatoid to attach to. Hmm. How about this one? Anything that you can suggest you says, I wanted to know, what can I do for joint pain? I'm 53 years old and only on TIT 200 milligrams a week and my joints are killing me. So several things to look at and I don't want to sound in solving anyway, I'm not intended to be. But one thing is where is your estrogen level? Is it TIT? Yeah. So, and thing is this something physical that's causing or aggravate in the joint pain, is this something you do? Is there a form of exercise? Or whatever you do job? Anything that could be actually aggravating the situation and causing the joint pain in the first place? Yeah. Because you get a lot of people that will complain about joint pain and look for a solution medically, but not consider that actually, maybe something they're doing is creating the joint pain in the first place. Yeah. Yeah. I was thinking they used to mean like you're training. Are you locking out on your exercise? Yeah. Yeah. So, you need to review that side of things as well. Stretching may help, supplementation may help. Strong actually do a decent, so joint support. Do that before? Yeah. I have been tried it. Do you have a constant recovery? Yeah. Do you know? Yeah. I'll tell you about it in a minute. Yes. So, glucose to me and can join MSM. They're not going to fix joint stuff, but they will add fluid to the joints and kind of sue them. Obviously, obviously, obviously, obviously one is a little bit of deck and MPP depending on where you are. Yeah. I've seen a few people slap, blind, they can't live without deck. Yeah. What was I going to mention to? Oh, Kirk Human. I like super bio-curcumin. It's a natural anti-inflammament. It's not going to do. It's not going to deal with inflammation the same way and said, well, it's going to be a healthier overall supplement and has other health benefits. Like for your cholesterol and stuff. That would help. Oh, my Rick. As well. Yeah. Well, that's Kirk Super Bio-Curcumin is the, the, what would you call it? It's, it's the, the isolated benefits from your tumor, you know? Yeah. And that Super Bio-Curcumin is like super digestible. It's in the bloodstream super fast. You want to take it on an empty stomach. Then I was trying to avoid saying decka because like everybody in the stomach was like, ah, run some decka barra. You know what I mean? Yeah, but the reality is I do know people that it has had a genuine added benefit. But I think you can be as low as 50 milligrams a week. Yeah. You know, I don't think you need to be. In fact, there was quite a lot of study in doing it around joint and injury support on doses that low. So I do think that there's merit in quite low doses. I don't think you said, you know, a lot of people like 100, 150, make it a thing. You need to go that high. Yeah. Unless you want to get real big in the process. Mm-hmm. Maybe not real big on 150, but here's that comment by the way, yes to the shorts idea. That was shorts of just me and you given each other crap. It says yes to the shorts idea. My group chat with close friends is 90% just roasting and needling each other. It's how we show we care about each other. I think that's all we had to if. I think that was all the questions. Good. Yeah. So I'm going to work on that Spotify thing. Like I said, man, we set up the Spotify lake. Dude, we've been doing this show since 2016. It's or so, maybe 17. It's a long time, man. Someone asked me the other day. I think it was right for you. Right. It kind of feels like, yeah, you know, four or five years. Something like that. You don't have any advice for us. I'm sure. We're done with that, aren't we? Well, yeah, I mean, unfortunately we offer this week anyway because I have lots of things going on. So I haven't given it any consideration. I will bring it back if people want to bring it back if we're not. If anybody ask, yeah, don't know. Nobody asks. I thought that they liked the segment, but then they nobody asked for Uncle Dave's list. Like we were supposed to, they were supposed to ask us questions that were, we were then going to bestow a little, a little nugget of Dave's. Of Dave, a little Dave nugget, you know, Uncle Dave nugget. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Dave's just leaving nuggets everywhere. That, that, that's quite big nuggets, that's a little nugget. Well, Dave, what, what's the update on your car? Which one? The truck. The truck is at the gearbox place. I spoke to them today. They haven't looked yet. What do you mean? I thought it was, it was in the shop months ago. No, no, right, okay, so we, the engines built, the engines gone back in. The tunes have gone in, the engines fired up. It won't select gear. We've gone through everything we can think of that might have been causing a non-degear selection. And we've come up with blanks. Yeah. So I've bit the bullet and sent it to a transmission price. It got picked up on Monday morning. The first truck turned up and it was too small. The second turn of truck turned up and it was too small. But the third truck was big enough to take it. Okay. So Dave had it since Monday afternoon. I spoke to them literally just before coming on the show. And they were like, look, we just thought it's not to get to it, but we'll get to it tomorrow. So hopefully, I can't see it being anything complex. I think it's going to be a module that's gone down or something like that. What about the speed truck that you're you're super not, right? Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay. Just making sure. So the one that needs the approach, I'll just give people I'll give me any money for. Do you need money? Yeah, that one. You got like $31 for that approach. Yeah, that might pay for a washer. You'll pay for a leader of gas. Isn't that about how much you guys, you guys do it by the leader, right? It might pay for some of the method all to go in the method of rejection. But yes, no. So at the moment, I'm waiting to solve these gearbox problem. Okay, I got you. Oh, shoot. There was one more I wanted to make sure we got an angry listener kind of reminded me of it. Because he said, is it is it common or possible for the body to get used to a carrier oil or compound where PIP each time is reduced? Like can you get, yeah, like can you get used to a particular brand? Yeah. The question was more about infections. I can't find it off hand, but basically, oh, here it is. Question for the next show. Do you know the difference between, how do you know the difference between an infection or an allergic reaction? I've been getting my gear from the same source for years. The stuff I got most recently had different labels on it and every shot just inflames me. The source is well known. I'm sure you guys know who it is. He said that this is impossible. All my stuff is tested. That's the only one, you're the only one to complain. And he thoughts, I just had an emergency room visit. My arm blew up from one of the shots that turned red. So first thing is, no, not always gears tested because he's not going to test every single file that goes out of door, so that's bullshit. Yeah. He may be actively testing batches, et cetera, but he's not testing every file. He could be a reaction to carrier oil, it could be a reaction to strength of the drug. You can technically be allergic almost to the compounds. I used to get massive swellings off test, particularly like test properties of Christ. If you're getting regular swellings that are then subduing, then it would suggest that it's not infection and it is reaction because infection wouldn't go away like that. Infection would stay and most likely worse. But you can trigger stuff like cellulitis. Yeah, yeah, there's that. So I've had serialized a couple of times off injections. And it's like a fake infection. It's not actually an infection, but your body's reacting like there is one. So there could be a couple of things going on. I would suggest smaller shots. Potentially try and see if it is one particular compound or if it's all compounds of it's one particular compound, then look at maybe combining it. So for argument, I used to walk my test down by combining it with deck. Right? Deck is a great one for that too, isn't it? Yeah, so that basically what was happening was the concentration of test per mill was less. Yeah, because it was more oil because there was oil that was carrying the deck. I had no issue with decker. So you can do things like that. Anti-Histamines can also help. But if you've been to casualty and they've told you it's not an infection, then obviously you're not getting infected. And if it wasn't an infection, it would be lasting. You will also find generally that with infections or contaminants, that you get a localized small lump that's red hot. Whereas with reactions, you get more generalized swelling. Like the whole thing. Yeah, over a great surface area that then becomes red and every time. Yeah. Yeah, that would be, I'd agree with all of that. I, I, man, but if you're getting that kind of reaction, it might be a good idea to find another brand now. You know, and I mean, like, he's, he'd had a hospital visit because of one of these shots. Like I'd be very, very pleasant to take that again. Very, very important question. The best chipy in the whole this field. What's a chipy? What's the best chipy? Was it a, was it a code? Harry Haywoods. What's a chipy? Dave? It's a fishing chip shop. Oh. Harry Haywoods on Manchester Road. Okay. Do they know you there? No. But the owner, I do know. But the owner doesn't particularly run the shop. And the owner is gorgeous George out of the film, snatch. Oh, no kidding. He was in the movie. Hmm. That was a good movie. Hey, where was the chip's place that you took me to? Remember we went to that was, it's correct, that's it. Yeah, you went to compost. You know, for that was a good man. Those are some, that was some good fishing chips. They've sold it. It used to be family owned and they sold it and it's not as good as it used to be. It was pretty decent. He's not now. On the way, say so right, but it's not like it was. That's one thing you guys do right over there, by the way, fish and chips. We do lots of things. Hmm. There's a couple of things I don't agree with, but we speak correctly. Oh, yeah. We don't know how to sell words correctly. W don't know how to pronounce things. Wild. No, yeah, we call it like that. W H I L E. You say, you say, wild ist. We also say, wild, yes, but you know, we pronounce aluminium correctly. We pronounce what's the source correct. Yeah, I do too. We're chest of the sauce. Yeah, Roy's sister cereals. Worcestershire sauce. Yeah, yeah, yeah, aluminium. We say that correctly. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. We can do it anymore. Hey, so I have a support max product. It's got Dave's name on it. Well, it says cross lands. Hmm. There was no ass on the under your name. I don't know if I don't get that to focus. He's not focused. He's not focused. That's support max isn't. Yeah, look at that. I had very little. I had not a huge amount of input on that to be for no. A little bit. A little bit. Well, they put your name on it for God's six. Yeah, we tweaked a few things. The rich rich came up with the concept and the price in and how it had to set in the sense of to be marketable and to be effective. Yeah, because then today, if you can't get people to buy it, it won't be effective. Yeah, he said he didn't want it to be more expensive than a bottle of trout, right? Yep, no. That was effectively the conversation we had. You get a little NSE at a little 60. You get a little bit of citrus burger mat. You get a little batin. You get a little bit of Tudka. Coins I'm Q10. Hawthorneberry, Daniline root. D3, magnesium, selenium. I mean, it's a nice, it's a nice little product to add on if you're on cycle on all around or kind of. Yeah, it's not going to be type and dosing of everything, but you're going to get a good product without taking a hundred pills per day and spending 200 dollars on it. You know what I mean? The idea was to have a cost-effective, effective products, both from a financial outlay and an effect on the body outlay. Could it be dosed more in certain areas? Yeah, of course it could. But that would have broke the price ban that it was looking to achieve. So I think for the money, you won't be if a value. Well, I talked to Dean who's running the US version of Strom. And he told me he said, like, we see support max. I'm opening this other one up now because I'm going to smell it. I want to see that smell. So like, you know what I mean? How vitamins different vitamins have a different smell to certain smells to him? He said that he saw support max is being kind of the, yep, smells like vitamins. He said that he sees support max as being like the foundational product. And then you could build off that like add the thrombome max to it, you know, on top of that. So I'm going to run this and see if it helps my himatic riddle because I could use always with my CPAP and my sleep apnea. I could always use hope with that. Yes, a good little, oh, Sarah Pepteys. I have to be careful with that. Sarah Pepteys is also in nanocyanis. Very good syrup Pepteys and not a nanobart, both really good for avoiding blood clots if your blood is thick. All right, well listen, you guys leave us questions for the next show. You guys did great this time. Most of you did. A couple of you guys, a little questionable, but we still love you. You guys are, we're glad you're with us. And we're glad everybody's watching the show. Dave, are you accepting new clients right now? Yeah. How do they reach out to you? I just threw the socials. Just don't make my social socials. What about pillars of gear? Are you still running that? September the first week at September, I'm looking at doing the next course. What is it? Your course. So six weeks, hour and a half, two hours a week, basically, so an overview of anabolic cycle design, reading bloods, that sort of stuff. Okay. Yeah, I know that you used to call it pillars of strength. Yeah, we used to go of training and food as well, but it has always people just want to talk about drugs. So it ended up being combined down to just the talk course. I think it pillars of gear sounds good to me. If people want to do the headquarters, they can still add on the diet and training sections. Okay. So the end of it, if they want to, it is, it is a possibility. Yeah, one of my clients did pillars of strength a few months ago. And he said that he ended up getting like some really good one on one time, getting to ask questions and stuff like that. It's, it's, yeah, it's live with me. So it's not like, you know, it's all, you can communicate. You can bounce back and stuff. Can people call your names and stuff during it? And you actually see that? Yeah. All right. Well, how would you react if somebody paid for the course? And then they just, what would the turn be? Slegged you off the whole time? Depends on the mode. Yeah. Anything else you want to share with people today? No, I don't think so. I've got some stuff to talk about in about a month's time, but nothing could. All right. Well, listen, I'm very, I'm glad everybody's here, but I'm also disappointed they didn't leave us any Uncle Dave's wisdom questions. So you guys got to get on that. We want to help you out with everything we're not qualified to help you with, like your relationships and you're still like that. Shake, we don't know for the last time. Exactly. Exactly. Guys, we appreciate you tuning in. Thanks for tuning in to another episode. Go to evalbladonellesis.com. Get your labs done by Dave's drum sports in the UK and in the US supplement source.ca for Canadians and true nutrition.com for all your basic health supplements like protein, creatin and enter workouts. Thank you, everybody, from Patreon and for another episode of the podcast. We'll see you soon. Thanks, Dave.

Whenever you do a set, you can kind of like go into the void, but every now and again you come back to reality first, put second. Yeah. And you're like, okay, I need to get back in there. For that split second, I told myself if I died right now, I would be completely okay with that. And then that's just for your form or rest. What's going on, guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with coaches Skip Hill and Jubaria. Scott McNally today, we are joined by the one and only Dave Tate. All of our programming is brought to you by truenutrition.com. You could use our code, thank for additional savings, high quality third party test and supplements. We've got a brand new website, check it out. Use our code, think it to get additional savings. We're also brought to you by supplementsourst.ca for our Canadians and we're brought to you by Strom, sports nutrition for those of you in the UK. Dave, man, this is something we've wanted to do for a long time. So thank you for joining us. Man, you just killed that intro. I have been trying to work on my intro for a podcast, I've butchered every time. It's okay. You could do recorded. You got to record it. You know, then you just like cut it together afterwards and nobody knows the difference. You know what I mean? Well, we did that with one. We did that with one of my sponsors, but I'll mess up my own sales. Oh, yeah. I do the sales calendar for a lead FPS. So I plan the sales. I'm the guy. Yeah. I'll get on the pie. Hey, go go lead FPS. We have specials on. I don't know. Stuff a gym equipment. Give gym equipment. Yeah. Yeah. One of these days you're going to throw something out there. Like, we're specials on everything 50% off. And then like, you're going to run the woods. That's good to happen. Yeah. Well, for real, we're grateful to have you here. I had the opportunity to come down and check out the elite center. What do you call it? The compound is this version five or the compound now? Yeah. We call it the compound because it's a mixture of the warehouse to office. And I don't want to say gym because we don't have members. So we'll just call it a corporate business. But you've been around for a lot longer than that. And I think at this point, all three of us have had the opportunity to to check the latest installment of the compound out. But that's a place of lore, man. Like, that is a place of lore. And that's something we really wanted to start out talking about is talking about the company, elite FTS. But then also talking about like where it came from. Talk about hardcore training and talk about, you know, just just some of the experiences you've had over the years. Okay. The reason it's called the compound is gym one more title that many, many years ago, because we were in different locations at one time. So because of the sizes of the company are for a long time, it was downtown in an old beta $400 per month building. And then when we finally moved into a bigger location, the gym had to go out in the country. And an old John Deer dealership. And then the warehouse was across the street from the office. So there were three different places that housed everything. And then we were in the factory. Damn close to 20 years before we could actually put it all into one location which we have now. So the compound kind of stuck because at one point, we had the three buildings that were all right next to each other. But you had to go outside to get to each one of those. So that's a real fast track of the history, but this this year actually this month would be 25 years in business. So it was founded in 1998 and so I mean, it's it's crazy now, you know, like I can't say that right We we told Dave before the show were like we got to try to cut down on the Volgaardy and skip was like not as just not gonna happen when we get Dave on it's just not gonna Have Well, we're we're totally fanning out today because all of us put on our elite Derb now this shirt I don't know about your guys is but this has been one of my favorite training shirts since about 2007 You can hardly read it anymore No, with I mean, I still don't know why this three Yeah, with the company history is there anything in specific that you're Wondering about because there's a lot of off-shoots. Yeah, what what do you think skip? Well, here's the thing I have been with a lead FTS for about 10 years now and I do have some rapid fire questions Later, not now which I didn't let you know before so I'm just throwing a match of now scouts What you know for Dave awesome? I should know this I might get fired for this day We'll be like she and I just you need to just get rid of you know if I'd probably make Rhonda fire me That matter What how did you get how how did you where you just sit around and think in this equipment is just like there's not equipment good enough or start because for those who don't know and I'm surprised by this but in in bodybuilding a lot of people don't know that elite FTS equipment really is like there's nothing stronger I laugh and I always make this point the cissy squat could hold someone While they're standing instead of a plate they could be holding a box car and it's not gonna move It's not gonna bend it's not gonna flex you know the bars just Hold ridiculous amounts of weight that likely if you're not in the 1% of 1% You're not ever gonna need it, but you can get on this equipment knowing full well That nothing is gonna have to it's not gonna break and as a gym owner you would think Well from a liability standpoint I don't want cheaper equipment that is sold and buying I want this expensive stuff So what would you thought process? I mean did you just think you know what I'm gonna build the baddest ass strongest Ever notice how I decrystall know that you did good. You did good. They can't really get me for that one So I don't know I mean did you just know somebody who was building quit me? You're like you know what this woman do what was that? Where did you how did you get into it? All right, the equipment actually started The whole business started with me working as a personal trainer and You know moving into an independent contractor role to be able to pursue the consulting and seminars that I was doing at the time So I was assisting Louie Simmons with a lot of those things at that time So that's where the the name actually started is you know It's it got to a really weird place where I have you know 40 50 sometimes 60 Villival hours per week and then I'd be working on my own company stuff in between clients But yet I was being paid you know and I really wait for that time in between clients as well So I didn't want to lose the gig that I had because it was really good and But I still had to be able to work on those other things So with that in mind the first products that we brought out were Dragon sleds God I think back Training manuals just simple things that you could put in an ad in power lip and USA and then About a year or half year and a half into it Louie wanted to get out of selling accessory items because he was in the mail order business and basically still is now And the item see was just tired of dealing with where things like a man or a squad attachment weight releaseers Safety squad bars The Jimmy quit that so sumo a sumo 2 by 2 power rack a Bells watt belt a few other pieces and he Pushed that he didn't push he gave that to Tracy and I as You know because he wanted to get out of it But it also helped us tremendously because he gave us the contacts and the resources and he gave us a lot of product on Consignment which you know allowed us to have inventory without really having to buy inventory Which we could have died at the time as that fast tracks through the equipment company that he had at that time the building equipment Basically went out of business and it didn't tell anybody so for For for we got in my name been six months for six months I'm trying to get updates, you know from Louie Because I basically I was purchasing it through Louis which was person at purchasing through the company which was in Pennsylvania at the time And granted I already took the money, you know, so say you guys buy power racks and now you're wondering four months later Where the they're at and I can't tell you who that because Louis doesn't know because they're not returning his calls and what ended up happening is He drove down to where the company was found out there padlock They went bankrupt and tell anybody basically this all and so Louie was in a buying there I'm in a buying because I got people's money that I've already spent You know, I've used that because the the company's made on floating cash Yeah, you know, so it was back then the delivery time on equipment was long It was average of 16 weeks 12 16 weeks So I got your money for your power racks I'm taking that and I'm buying books from Dragon Door and then I'm flipping those books Hopefully before I have to pay for the equipment Yeah, and that's that's cash flow and What happened during that time is I bounced around through a couple different equipment companies that were just as bad as what he was dealing with and Then I found the company that I've been working with for the past 15 whatever years it's been forever now out of out of South Carolina and when I first got with them They didn't want to work with me because I was online and nobody thought you could ever sell equipment online That far back And and that you know the the They had already they they already had I history of working with a very big company in the industry which kind of screwed them over So it was all this kind of came together at the right time because it was a very blunt honest You know Handshaker Grimmett 15 years ago, which has worked out to be very well for all for both companies because the We rely on each other, you know a lot, but that's where the conversation of quality and all this stuff came in because I didn't want to have to deal with returns on Clipman I didn't want to have to deal with all these other things that you have to deal with in that equipment space because it's The margins are not high, you know, this is manufacturing and now I'm basically there's two companies selling that product So now the margins are being cut because two companies are doing that So it was it was a bigger discussion of here's the quality that we have to have because the real market's gonna be and The university's high schools is where the main focus this was that the gym market is kind of an off-shoot market But it's a really hard one to penetrate because of all the different types of equipment and Scuse that you need you know, it's we all know and I've known this from being around for my gyms My whole life is nobody has the best life Right, so if you wanted to outfit your own gym you're gonna have several different companies in there because this part this Like extensions better than this one and this one better than this one and you're not even to think you're ever gonna come up with the ultimate best line Where so the nuts and the bolts we're gonna always stay The strengthy limit which would be the power acts, you know lap. Oh, now is good hand raises reverse hyper things that kind of fit into that mode So that's this way. I said with the company There's a lot of off-shoot so the equipment is one one side of that which makes up about half of our revenue stream through there But and as it's as other companies come into the mix and you know the different Reena's there in it becomes The messaging becomes a little bit difficult because we're not really in equipment company Where you know, I don't do the manufacturer. I'm one of the retail and now what we'll retail I won't retail anything that I won't use myself. I think that's the best that's out there and The retail end is what supplies and supports the content That's how the whole thing was designed originally that the content would always be free And then the profits from the retail is what's gonna pay for the content and that's where the million plus pages online If come from you know through the videos and all the other stuff comes from because there's no monetization of That and so that's where that happened now the equipment also There's seasonality associated with that with the markets that we're in so Obviously the Q4 it's a different market because those are gonna be a more home-champ buyers and stuff like that Once budgets get approved and then Q2 Q3 do very well for us I equipment but usually do really crappy for us I'm a parallel rap straps and all the other stuff So a large part of this was how can we string together the seasonality of the different products that we offer? So we don't have droughts of cash flow throughout the year Exactly Yeah, I think a lot of builder body builders don't understand because again I mean I've been training for almost 40 years and all the gyms I've ever been in the only elite FTS equipment I ever have seen in gyms is the equipment that I bring in And that's bizarre. It's bizarre to me so and and I I have another question too because I'm that I'm curious about I you can cut me off at any time scout, but I'm kind of no this is good man As far as body builders need to know that It's not just the equipment like they were saying the the gear the When I say gear the wraps the straps the sleeves and things like that This is just really high quality It's really good It's just great and I'm disappointed that so many body builders don't know about this if you want your gear to last a long time You buy quality stuff you may have to pay a little bit more for it But it will last you longer. It's like buying a good computer that's gonna last you five or six years versus buying one Then slightly less expensive in it last you two or three years So for those of you who don't know about it check out a lead FTS check out their pair check out their pair And of course suit equipment. Yeah, exactly. I got a very year definitely for 12 years old and they're about the same as when I bought them and no kidding Hunters I mean there is literally nothing frame I think a big reason I think a big reason for what you're saying is and it actually Would I would chop it up as One of the potential mistakes I made over the past 25 years is I've always hyper focused on a target market of Lifters that place training is one of their top three or four priorities of life Where I don't care about those just starting out They began and stuff like that so in the past I avoided platforms like YouTube because the demographic was too young So in and basically what I was trying to avoid was I did not want to be the muscle and fitness I did not want to be the men's health. I didn't want to be that That's all general low hanging crap people can try anywhere So I wanted the content on the site that's a step above that Right so if we got article submissions and and contact Coming our way that was that it would get rejected all the time and and So the that in turn looking back You know Was a mistake because the people on YouTube get older Everybody gets older right? Yeah, you know, so they grow up so there's been a lot of back tracking with all that But it also means that say if you walk into a gym someplace and you do see our racks in there You know 100% certain that whoever owns that place whoever's making the purchasing decisions takes their training Way more serious than anybody else Because they know who we are So most people aren't gonna know That because it's not we don't have Google ads That are retargeting everybody all over the place You know, we don't have all these other things because it's kind of been one of those things where I don't know if I really want to Have that be my target market if that makes sense absolutely by that it creates a certain degree of scarce scarcity but it also makes it really freaking hard to grow You know, I We're talking a lot about business with just something that I definitely wanted to make sure we touched on But you know Beyond that there are a lot of people that are involved in in like the business of strength the business of fitness and that they're not They're not like a true passionate fan of and you are not that person like you are If you're one of the most intense people now I've never seen you train in person But I've seen some videos. I remember watching I can't remember where this what like what time frame this was But I remember watching you on a belt squat after you did something else like you guys were like supersetting something like You might have been with John you might have been with him and Scott Stevenson But you went to a belt squat and that wasn't even the first thing you did and you started doing reps and you got like 10 And then you just kept going and it's like there's this death metal just playing it like so loud ear piercing And I think the video was black and white and there was probably chains involved I just was like taken back because this belt squat set went on for minutes like it was just rep after rep And I just I guess I also want to make sure we got into this man Where does that intensity come from? I don't know I think I can go to the default answer That you know every every meathead has you know it goes to get beat up when I was a kid all the time you know, but it's some point time You're gonna grow out of all that crap. Yeah, I don't know it's um It's just a metal Challenge because I'm not stupid. I know physically that one said isn't gonna do shape for me It's not like I'm gonna get two more inches on my quad or 50 more pounds on my squad if anything It's probably doing worse Then then then positive and I completely understand that but I Love it too. Yeah, and it's it's just just the last week the last the last Week of the year there's there's one thing that John and I used to do we used to deadlift with chains off mats for just a challenge set a high rep set and I hate deadlifting more than anybody you'll ever speed to I absolutely I Right But once a year since we've been doing that I always do it at least once just to see if If Because I know what my rep record is just to see if I'm still at that same rep record with the same chain saying set up all those other guy stuff Because if I do it then I know I don't need to ever deadlift the whole year and I can still And And if I don't do it it still doesn't mean I'm gonna do it any again But this is one of the one of the scenarios like what you're talking about and We change some things in our weight room to put the podcast table in the corner and just make the setup a little bit easier Deadlift platform is there now So for some stupid reason I don't know why because now the deadlift is like the main Freaking attraction of my gym which I Problem with yeah, I decided to do that in the one thing I remember about the set is But well, maybe rep 10 or 11 I did 15 Because the way the gym situated now I can see the the squatter dude on the wall in front of me It's got a red background and I you know Whenever you do a set you can kind of like go into the void But every now and again you kind of come back to reality first put second Yeah, then you're like okay, I need to get back in there for that split second I told myself if I died right now I would be completely okay with that and then More rap That right there whatever that state is That's like bliss for me. Yeah, I freaking love it now it's counterproductive to every training goal I have But It's it's a really weird addiction. I just above John had a little bit of that so when you put us together for those training sessions that we did it just compounded and this This is stuff I couldn't do when I was powerlifting had to be expressed differently You know at singles and stuff like that because this is I there's no way I would have done any of that crap But I did a lot of that you know offseason powerlifting before I came to the left side That's how I trained all the time. I would say almost my offseason if you go back to old school hit training That would be how my offseason was aligned You know before 1990 7 so powerlifting meets compete for the meat you know take them on golf afterwards and then start ramping up using more Hit training protocols which is just that how can you completely oblibiate yourself You know and It seemed to work for me at the time so I love to I love challenge that so I love to really have these singles Everything in between I can just take it or leave it. I don't really care Yeah We You know when skipping I were at Swiss and we got to Sit in and with the memorial that that you guys put together for John that was really touching and and you know Everybody had a lot of stories that in some of them were sadder you know and it definitely It definitely was was you know some of it was hard to listen to and when it came to you I specifically remember you had said that You know this isn't what John would want John would want us to be happy and to remember the good times and to be laughing And you told some amazing stories there man stuff I had never heard before like I and I want to tell you too Like John has meant a lot to all of us like he's influenced this channel from this from the jump man since I've been podcasting Andrew was real close with John and he you know he's been a big part of of all of this so To hear those stories to me were just you know it was really impactful man and I want to first I want to say thank you for sharing everything And and second I'd love to hear you talk some more man because I and I know our audience would too Because he was somebody that I think we all really looked up to a lot and I know that you guys had a really unique And special relationship and it's interesting too that crossover, you know because you aren't that traditional bodybuilder guy But you guys made something work and and and I think that you were both better for it, you know Yeah, it was Started because John started writing for teenager and I was I'm my I don't want to say my end of writing for T-Nation but it kind of it was getting to the point with the T-Nation where I was starting to come to the big realization that my best Content wasn't even on my own site and then when you have other people that are writing for you what kind of examples is that You know and so John had some stuff out there and There was there was something I was coming back from I don't know what that had get was now But I reached out to him about I don't know what article that he wrote it was something in there and and that Doing choir about One of his programs or whatever the hell it was and he said that he would just come out and Give me the program whatever wasn't I look at the program like I can't do this stuff I mean this is just there's an arm day on there. I'm a And so so then when he came out it was you know discussing you know laying out helping me to lay out this foundation because You know I had to figure out a way to blend what I really want to do in the gym with what I have Probably should be doing in the gym and it's that becomes a weird situation when you're your whole background It's being a strength athlete and then you want to start putting in a bunch of high-perchipy work But not tap the resources that you need to recover from the heavy stuff that you're doing You just can't combine two things Yeah, you know something's got to come out and I didn't want to let anything come out and After the first leg day that we had that he came out It was just like I'm doing this man and then it was and he had a story coming in too because he was just He was still at the bank, you know, so he hadn't really committed to that yet But he was in the process, you know, so he had a lot of doubts as far as Could he make this work you know as an entrepreneur with the client that he had and you know And what would that look like you know moving forward would it be a paywall? Would it be just online clients would it be You know ebooks programs and I'm telling him you do ebook suck I we've had a couple do well, but most of them suck you don't want to do that and Then it's was his pro card, you know he wanted to get his pro card and I thought that I could offer Different perspective and if there's one thing that I've learned about training and even business for that matter is When you start consulting with people they don't live in the same world that you do Different ideas come to mind but You need to discuss those ideas you can't just have this person from the outside say do this do that Because I'm not familiar with that body-go-ny world familiar with how to change exercises You know to be able to target weak points and how to Do exercises in such a way you can get more out of them without having to go really heavy and that's just because I'm so beat up So That was and then a lot of that was just strategic talk like how long do you think this is gonna take realistic You know how do you answer when you're gonna get your pro card But like it's just like a year is this two years is what what is the timeline here? Yeah, what does this look like when you're just gonna say it's not gonna happen and walk away Like what is that and it wasn't being negative? But it's it's we're gonna if we're to lay something out that was the look I like long term plans So if we're to lay something out that looks like a quadriting up Then do we have four years or after three years you're gonna say look I'm now whole You know I'm about two old to be able to do this like what is this timeframe and then once we have that It was you know what what what do you think your weak points are you know this kind of stuff And we knew we had to bring up his lats We knew we had to do something about the waistline You know which it's thick right so Getting some of the heavier crap walk was gonna be able to help and then he Was very adamant about his training effort had to go higher And from where we started I'm thinking okay, I've all floor there But what's this look like you know like when we like two years from now Whatever it's gonna be what does this look like and his reply was I don't ever want to have somebody that can come in here and Train with us and not walk away and feel like they were not just they he wanted them to feel like they just got murdered All right All right, you know that if we scale it you know if you cycle in scale it right over two year period Then anybody that comes in for any leg training session is gonna feel that For a long time Yeah, and but then it's So that's kind of how that all started is there is a lot of that dialogue But where there's also the other side of I've been in this industry for a very long time in the business side of the industry And I've seen you know what happens in all strengths for body voting included and What what that looks like as well and I've seen when it's done to People that could be really good fathers that end up not having kids You know people that could end up being you know very good husbands or spouses Whatever and end up divorced because all these other types of things so there are other discussions that we had too Like so when you get this pro card what's that mean after that Is you're gonna be like 50 right or whatever he was gonna be I was Joe You know you're gonna be like 65 by the time you get your pro card But what's what's that look like you know in the the original agreement was that 20 would retire When you guys procur Yes because that would be like as Olympia because Realistically thinking was he ever been a win the Olympia was he ever been a win a pro show You know it's these All things that you look at his statue you look at his physique and this was before he went to 12 All right you gotta start stacking that up and saying where can you realistically end up with this and then is it worth because your your kids of little You know they were babies You know when I met him you know these sacrifices are being made by his kids and by his wife not by him Yeah, you know so so that was That was one of the first things was that is let's get this shit under control and Enbalanced because if it's not and but he's a balanced person of begin with But if it's not in balanced if it starts to get be railed then all of it gets be railed You know you start getting in a situation where you think you may end up getting into a bush You think your pro card is gonna come in that next year Where the in a year and a half you know Realistically probably not you know the stress and all the other crap that got to plays a lot So that has to be an order and as I said during Swiss the one thing that he pissed me off about was when he Would you have this pro card can study was gonna you know compete in the next show And then I'm on the phone with his wife and I like You know and But then he sold me on it and went from there But it was it was There's always stuff you know the end of Jim that was funny where he had I call him bodybuildingisms You know like you feel like you feel it. Are you pumped like you don't ever Don't ever Okay Right that's like you know As your dick hard you know Like this this does not resonate with me, you know It was you know it's always better to look strong than be strong and I was Hell You know so I'm in a lot of the other things that are just you know Bodybuildingisms that we would all make fun of he legitimately so would say yeah It's seriously right oh seriously and I don't ever say that again It's amazing I mean there are other times where there were there were leg sessions that we had because there's no air conditioning the fans I mean it's terrible and the warehouse that we were training at the time Where we would have ice buckets that we put our hands in between sets okay ice packs on our Max and back and these would be three hour leg sessions yeah and just burn in the crew Whatever electoral lights and all this stuff. I mean you're drinking piss and drinking. Oh you've even pissed half the time Yeah, you're sweating so bad and So I mean his workout thing there's no doubt that was it was insane It sounds like he learned a lot from you, you know and I want to ask you first yeah when ask you what what did you learn from him? um I learned that Bodybuilding goes in these weird waves and you have And strength is the same and you have this the science side right where you'll look at things and you'll be For instance, can you really shape a muscle right? I mean you have the muscle structure that you have you can high-perch if you can grow the muscle and I mean the But he would say No, that's bullshit You can And then he'd show me examples and I'd be like I Get what you're saying But I also see the other side You know and and he's like what other side is there the person did not have lower laps to begin with and now they do Now they just have laps, you know There there was a little bit of change of my perspective on exercise selection and is far as Bodybuilding and weak points for a bodybuilder and he and it wasn't really that much different been the exercise selection for Somebody that might be weak in a three-quarter lift or the bench press or we could have certain spot or their bench press or weak because of whatever that was so I had to He taught me how to kind of take that away from the biomechanics of a barbell and what the person looks like Another barbell and then just the biomechanics of how a person is moving and then how their muscles are working Which was he was an anatomy chart? It was really thin skin So when you can physically see you know the fibers moving you know and The upper laps the irractors, you know the traps Especially with back work it became very easy to see while look at this guy He's very weird. I'll dominate on everything and he's doing for his laps He needs the you know depressed the shoulders pull his rib gay do something to get that stress there and so That a lot of that came from John and then he would have other bodybuilders come out Train with them and you can see this that's like this is obvious. This is not doing a whole lot for your laps at all But it's build the shit out of your traps and where it melts. Yeah, yeah, which is why you know they're so big So that was a big part the What about wider yeah, well, I was gonna say like so I'm thinking to though like some of my training partners in life The people that I've literally gone to hell with in the gym Some of those people have become some of my best friends too and I know that you guys became friends outside of the gym as well Yeah, and I guess I was kind of almost thinking of in that direction You know we learn things from people that we just don't expect just through you know interacting with them And and and I guess can you talk a little bit about that side of your guys's friendship too? Yeah, yeah, I'm trying to do everybody too much You guys you guys know this man it was it was a fault. I'm I'm paranoid to the highest degree So you have people treat different people into completely different ends of the spectrum Which was that's that's one of the biggest things that I missed about him Because if I had something I was Dealing with you know or if he had something he was dealing with then we could speak to that of course You know where my perspective lies Here's the worst outcome And that's and that's not a bad thing because that's how you grow so expected you know lean into it Because where he was on the other side like oh no, he's a really good dude This is all good. It'll all work out really good guy The answer is always in the middle You know, so then I was you know I could come back to him and say well what if what if what if he's not? You know because the other ones were really good guys too But then this acts happens so what if he's not like what's the plan there? And then he would come to me and say well what if this what if this worst case scenario is then actually that You know what if what if what is the best case scenario of this? Yeah, I never thought of that The worst case not happening and That was that by far was the biggest you know because he was so optimistic you know and Trustworthy probably I mean he had reservations on people he would just rather make the mistake I'm being Too trustworthy yeah, I could really to that He always said and Dave's in my mentor in business And I think this is touching on exactly because like you said he was always maybe a little too trusting a little too wanting to see you know the good and people I guess especially in business situations I'm thinking back to like the Prime situation all the bullshit was Aaron P. J over the years and even clients that you know He thought he had a good relationship with and then he found out there in South Africa selling his plans and keeping on them profits and unbeknownst to him So maybe is there any particular situations you can think of where you had to say John this guy's trying to You like no Why I remember all this you know and the one that you're talking about I was saying that from the beginning from the jump Like this does not look good You know this this doesn't make sense Not only that but the contract and look Then makes sense there are just weird things associated with it and it just It didn't seem right and and I get what he was trying to do I really do Because it was centered around the entrap which he was really freaking proud of you know and that started I believe with You know biotast but then it And graduated into John Swarmila with that due still believe it's available through turning nutrition now and But that was one I mean some of the other ones the the biggest one to be honest with you wasn't that the biggest one is when When he was having problems with his wife that that by far You know and I spoke about that at Swiss to because that is That was a turning point You know when you know when you're trying to with some that was a turning point for our relationship I guess as well because when you're training with somebody you don't really Know you you you they're training partners I've had people I've trained with for 15 years. I can't really I don't know their wife's name You know like it doesn't matter you're in the gym. I just trained with it doesn't matter But he was he mentioned that he was having you know issues And with his wife and and what they were and it was he said that she'd be better off with somebody that was from the church That pissed me off because it was like okay here's two things going on here I thought this pro card mattered you know now we're just gonna just fuck that all up because You see that you know the grass is green on the other side and that's not actually true You know why don't you just be the person that she wants you to be what's so freaking hard about that you got married for a reason You know you can vouch for it. So I I pushed it back on him hard and Because he needed it, you know and then he went and did it you know not only that But he actually the faith became not doing it for her but doing it for him You know so when it comes to John's humbleness and the persona and all this stuff that people see on the internet See on his YouTube channel. That's from Mary. That's not John Mary may John You know and that that is a very important thing that granite John Yes, he still John is the training knowledge is still all in there but all that Stuff that he's known best for now is from Mary you know it's not from You know any other place by the back and The fact that you know he looked inward You know to just figure out how to become a better human You know and then was receptive to having somebody call him out on his own bullshit Which is very hard You know for a lot of us to get people like that in our lives Right because you reach a certain status You know and whatever endeavor that you're in and then the older you get people They they don't want to insult you. They don't want to You know hurt your feelings. They don't want to piss you off Whatever it's going to be you know so you end up being surrounded by people that just agree all the time And then they so you you don't know You know what you're saying now is bullshit or not bullshit So it tells somebody calls you out on it and that that situation there Kind of open the door for us to call each other out on our bullshit You know so there's so that's and that's that's a It's an important thing What's the mark of a good marriage as well? I think when you Come together and you're able to Balance and pull those things. I mean it's it's very similar to the relationship that you have with him in a sense It's you're both coming from different directions and on a lot of things you're meeting in the middle And I think it's it says a lot about the type of person that Mary is it says a lot about the type of person John is as well because we all know that the position that John was in he was dealing with I think a lot of sick of fan it You know people who he had to kind of probably Decifer and try to figure out as this person Close to me because they want something from you or to gain something versus do they genuinely Like me as a person and and I think in this industry it's also very difficult to not get caught up in that I'm a celebrity. I always say a false celebrity, but you know I'm a celebrity and all these people think I'm great and they're gonna agree with everything and then you have to go home and You're just dad Or you're just the husband and for him to be able to balance that out I just from the outside and I knew John but I didn't know John as well as you guys do and I only knew about Mary By discussing with John the parallels that our wives had about how they were kind of Appathetic about the industry in the sense that they didn't really love it But they didn't hate it because of What it provided for for us Not just you know revenue stream or anything but just our passion for what we do So we always after and said our our if our wives ever got together They would talk about an I-roll about the industry itself of everything that they've heard over all the years and I think that that balance I know I have it with my wife and I always got the impression from speaking with him and I finally got to meet Mary at Swiss And then you get to talk with her very long but She it didn't surprise me that she was The person that I anticipated that I expected she was very sweet I could very clearly see that that was I always say you know his better half and I do think well What happened very ground With with the industry and say spouses and so forth My own wife included what they Need to be reminded of and I think that we we lose this Our self a lot of times is all industries and all businesses and all sectors have crappy people in it Everything does you know body buildings probably no worse than Wall Street we just don't work on Wall Street Okay, so it's you know There's there's good and bad you know of all of it and when you're a spouse or you're a significant other You see more of the bad than you do the good Right because you see the ego of the laughter that you're with and then the only Time you actually see the sport is on game day if it's a firelifting meter or bodybuilding show People are not really themselves on those days because it's a competition it's focused you know and You know it's an ego contest and there's a lot of other things going on so a lot of what they see Is not appealing at all but what they need to remember is when they have people Like us that are working in the industry you can look at the industry and define it like many do Our government our governments corrupt boom by good we got it no problem But anybody that really knows a whole lot will tell you what you really need to do is to make sure That your own house is in order that your own families in order than your own communities in order Because that's where you can make the biggest difference So when you're in these industries where those significant others need to look and where And we need to spend more of our own time looking as who is the end user and what are they benefiting So in John's case he sells tons of programs there's tons of programs out there There's a 16 year okay, there's a 15 year okay, there's a 14 year okay that just purchase one of these programs Or is doing one of these programs and love is training and Looks forward every time they go in the gym and has an idea of what they're doing now You know and that right there is the consumer of the industry and that is What I will remind Mary of when I speak to her every now and again, you know because she's still in the industry But remember who the end user is don't get clouded with the politics that all fall above that That's great good chatter and good drama, but that's not life You know because if They all realize that and then they see the impact and the differences that Leaders in these industries have They're they're changing people's lives, you know, they're they're helping people become Better lifters and better bodybuilders and they're they're making a difference in that small Spear but there's a lot of small spheres that add up, you know, to make a big difference So that's the one thing that I all bitch about all these industries to know end we can go up hours You know I'm drama of all that But I'm I'm I'm a tune enough and John was a tune enough to get a separate back It's okay that's that That's just one part of it that really doesn't even need to occupy a whole lot of my mental space This is the bigger part What difference is being made like is this kid, you know now gonna you know Get stronger and build confidence And then it's some point in time stand up for himself You know then years later, you know You know, let me use that then just segue to this question because we're talking about the impact that John has had any Impacted so many people in such a great way that it's it's mildly Envious if I'm being honest maybe a little bit more than mildly but With the relationship that you had with John with him being a bodybuilder and you guys trained together Was there ever a point when you thought to yourself? I really want to get on stage oil myself down And go out there and dance around Dance around Well, what the tells you about the diet you did Yeah, well, you got pretty peeled Yeah, I did so it's once I graduated because I started powerlifting when I was 12 13 years old And so once I graduated high school went on to college I found a what a gem that had like equipment You know like machines and shit not just power acts and barbells and stuff that I used for five years or whatever and so I and Powerlifting you had powerlifting USA but then you might have one article and like flex in the very back of the magazine Which is like one half half the pages that add and the So it's in my roommate was a bodybuilder at the time at one the Ohio so I'm like maybe I'll just I'll do a show You know, so I did and I got killed because I didn't die at that hard You did a bodybuilding you did a bodybuilding show I I Yeah, I was actually I You guys did I think John kind of prepped you when he was also died and and you got real good I want to know a little bit about that but but finish your story about bodybuilding Yeah, yeah, no the bodybuilding so it's I got wife the friend of like fifth five in the team to this It was bad right now like this sucks like this sucks And the guy's I was training with says of course. It's gonna suck when you just placed dead last in the team division You know, so it's I did I did another show and that was a little better It was like heard or something or something like that and again it was like this sucks I like that you know I like the training I love the training that was a really good change I love that but I didn't make much difference one way or now there it's I can take it or leave it it didn't make them much different the But the rewards sucks and then of course there's what you didn't win So then I did one more show and it was supposed to be a qualifier for the Ohio So I did that show one that show and then I realized as I'm standing on stage with a trophy that was taller than me Which was kind of cool because most of them are like little barbell things and and I'm I'm Basically the lights come up a little bit and I realize I'm standing up here in my underwear and everybody in the crowd is wearing Boat next sweatshirts with tank top underneath you know, we can see this. Oh, yeah, we know those well Yeah, like the team Michael team Michael this. Oh, yeah, yeah, just get to where's it? I'm like this is terrible With what had he stopped and so I go I go home and I Straight pass out and my apartment that coma and my training partner picks me up the next morning to go training and you see He's like there's Oreos on the board. Oh, thanks There's a whole floor. It's just It was terrible. It was pizza boxes And it says why guess you're not doing the Ohio And I still like your glue One more time Stop so I'm like I respect what you do and I like what you do But this is not working for me I'm out and so anyhow and then that segues and I go back in the bodybuilding that put on 3040 pounds of lean body mass Her back the powerlifting and I put on now I'm a two closer to 75 from a to 42 and my total drop 200 pounds and that's kind of really and there's because The all the muscle I put on was not functional for what I do as a powerlifter now getting to what you're asking about John is the After our retired from powerlifting, I needed something to train for Because even now I still need something to train for because if this is just about exercising fitness I probably won't do it. You know, I just it's never been that you know since I've been 12 That's the paradigm shift. I don't know if I'm mentally strong enough to to make that Found ways to hack it, you know, just I will find something to train for each time So with with just then he had you know the carb cycling then and then I made work with Shelby for it Which I'm already first and then it was you know Justin which was carb cycling then I believe it was Shelby He was both of them. I worked with little bit different both kind of carb cycling Shelby is way more heavy on cardio Which sucked by the way And then with John it was different because with those guys before hand it was more about I want to die it down And then rebound back up, you know for the post show rebound which is supposed to be some mysterious best way But I'm also getting 20 pounds of lean mass Yeah There's interesting stories with that too, but anyhow that what John it was I kind of wanted to do that because my my set point changed to where my body weight at that point was now like it's 27275 to 80 really ridiculously high Where when I power lift it just weighing to 80 was a task Now the muscle mass obviously different when I was 280 you know years years back it was not it was more fat Then it was The lean body mass I carried before with John it was like how am I? Can I change this set point to 250 and and not rebound back up and so his little trick Was basically just a moderate diet so five meals a day Clean foods for the most part you know if they're not clean foods it's still gonna fall within the calorie protein range Just simple swapping and changing and You know checking body fat every couple weeks and weighing Standard what we didn't have to do were the photos and crap like that Because I didn't care I'm not doing a show for one thing he can see me when he comes out to train that's another thing and but once I got to to 40 I think it was I'm starting to think okay, we're done like this is cool like this is over now We're going to maintenance mode man because 250 is what I want to maintain yeah, not 240 he's he John played these stupid metal games man I He would say you see that and your shoulder and my dude I can't see my shoulder there's no weird going to jam so no I don't see it In my shoulder so he take a picture You see that there's a vein by ready to pop out or you ever have a vein in your front And I like I like no actually I haven't this kind of bothers me because I've seen big fat fox I've been and I can make the super heavyweight Have that big gross vein in their front belt, but I don't like this that was the halo chest and popping through Yeah In two more weeks and that will come out so you started this two more weeks shit And so that's how going if it wasn't that and it was You know you see that vein in your cab it's going up to your you know your addoctor now So that's the really really start to look like a garden hose I can do I could do that that's I can do that to where we said it was yeah two more weeks and it's like okay Where we see you're you almost have a veins in your abs Hands in my abs like this getting never happened And this this keeps going and it and I remember the one Saturday I woke up I weighed myself and I was like 24 And I go in and I I don't give a shit what you said We're done There's nothing else that's gonna pop out and means that I give it about We're done and he just kind of snicker to little So when you normally would rebound how many how much did you usually gain? I said about 30 freaking pounds Every freaking time because where's that gonna put you? Am I he's kind of a bitch 250 Yeah Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's a play that with uh yeah I said way a little bit yeah, of course, man We could be talking great stories about John all day, but um yeah, I was really interested in the you know your your business model of You know the equipment sales is really just there to be able to provide the funds for the education Yeah, and Education been like like a big driving force for you like your whole life and what what kind of inspired that I love that Well, the vision of the company when I when it was Founded was to live learn and pass on Right, and this this a lot of thought went into this I would not be who I am if it wasn't for the coaches and the power lifters that helped guide me as I grew up Right, so it's my dad threw me a power lifting gym when I was 12 Because I was getting my ass kicked all the time and Those guys taught me how to get strong mentally and physically, you know, and it also and at the same time My earlier teen years we're starting to go as stray because once I started to get a little bit stronger and learning some wrestling skills there was this Revenge that I thought I had to seek on a lot of people which I did which was starting to become a problem Right, which was you know, which was Several chips aren't trips to juvenile core for things like that So anyhow these the first off those guys They're 40 35 40 years old they didn't have to help a fucking snort in those 13 year old kid Learn how to squat bench and deadlift Nor drive me three hours to a power lifting meat now coach me at these meats. They didn't have to do that And if it wasn't for them I wouldn't be sitting here today talking you now I also had You know a wrestling coach after I got thrown out of college or flunked out of college You know call me out on my bullshit You know tell me that I'm not stupid like everybody said I was I grew up in special-ed classes And barely graduated high school so the my whole education system was basically You're the idiot go sit in this class here's your tutor We're just gonna get you to graduate and that's the main goal I graduated high school without ever taking algebra biology I had or at rock science I had business math You know I had a reading class you know and stuff like that and How how how I ended up in college is still kind of a mystery, but the but my first year was taking courses I supposed to take an high school and I transferred and I clunked out and then when I came back this wrestling coach You know pulled me aside national school was doing and while I was there I found the library which was kind of cool I've never been a library in my life and I found that International Journal of Sport and Nutrition the Soviet sport review the NSCA journal all these strength and conditioning resources And every time my girlfriend would go study I went and I just went up to the shelves and I read all that crap Photo copied all these all these things So when this coach asked me how it was going I went on this tyrant about two hours on how linear Periodization isn't as good as block periodization and we probably need to look at block Periodization to be a not been playing around with all this and so he he pressed me on the school and I said I know I flunked out so I'm back as you know I should be working at one of the factories in town Wow, I was track that's right here basically to do But I'm gonna kick ass in the gym because I just learned all this other So I mean training is always been my first priority anyhow So this all worked he called me out and said that I wasn't stupid I was just in lazy and that if I could go on those shelves and learn that then there's no reason why I can't learn algebra algebra To anything I wanted to learn I just wanted to do it and That was my head a lot and it made me go back to school Which ends up you know getting the degree in that so Louis Simmons is another one You know he didn't have to give us product on to assignment You know he didn't have to invite me to come train at West side of Barbell You know or teach me the things that he knew so this I feel I owe these guys You know because that's how the gyms used to be you would go into gym you'd earn your dues Right you you you'd you'd have to train hard and I mean the whole goal of being in the gym was how do I get with that group over there Right you can't just walk up at least then you just can't walk up and say hey I want to train if you got Yeah look at you know like get your ass out here you're You know You had to earn your way in and then once you were in you know Then it became a matter of okay this is awesome Not I want to become the best here And then once I'm the best here I want to go somewhere else around the best and But all those people along the way I didn't pay a dime for any of that not of that You know so now I'm online and I'm looking up strength and conditioning and information the forums of junk all this other stuff is junk And it's like well how how can I answer questions? You know and not have to deal with trolls and all this bullshit that comes along with it I just want to answer it be done and then go to the next so I can help more people by doing that And so this the website started is just the Q and A and then have a store and then After that then people started asking about products and stuff like that so the drive is coming from This is this is what the gym is made me who I am the good parts and the bad parts You know and it can help a lot of other people as we all know Otherwise we wouldn't be doing the things that we're doing So how can I give access to that 12 year old kid that 13 year old kid who was me or who is you know now and not have to have them go through a And paywall and all this other stuff to get good information But they need to be serious about what they do Thus it needs to be one of their top priorities to actually yield the kind in other words They need to earn their way kind of like you used to back in the day You know they got earn their way into the better contact, you know then when they find it That's what's there so that is been the vision from the very beginning the tricky part was how do you pay for it? Right because now you if you're gonna have you know at one point time we were putting out 62 articles of mud And that was you know before Social media and we had training logs and we had Q and A's we would do Around 4,000 Q and A's a month on average There was somewhere between 6 and 800 blog posts between the training logs and coaching blogs every single month and then 62 articles Where in some This that's a lot of editing that's a lot of programming You know, that's a lot of things to go into that how's that paid for? And that's where the product come in where content's changed Obviously a lot in 25 years We're now contents more expensive Right because now you need video people you need you know it's it's a dip now it's becoming a different Spear because the cost of Contacts is probably five times higher than it's ever been With the revenue not being five times more so now it's like with the podcast How do we find sponsors that can offset some of this cost but not take over all of the cost So I can't tell them to cough You know, I don't want to be held into anybody You know, so yeah, if there's that and then other means to be able to produce it But the division hasn't changed it's how The content has you know the the way it's being produced and how it's being tracked and how it's being Because you you still have to figure out is this providing a return Because most of it doesn't but isn't providing enough of where we turn to at least just pay for the content Is it hard because it's constantly changing like more like every year it feels like there's a new App or new whatever out there is hard to keep up with yeah Yes, I mean as far as what the message is no Where to put the message yes because the message requires you know There's so many social media channels. Yeah, it's there's a different dynamic when it's a company that you're running instead of an Individual where if it's an individual that does their own online coaching or whatever it is They're posting their own Instagram. They're posting their own Facebook. They're doing their own YouTube Maybe they're outsourcing editing on whatever it is per video and it's it's all them doing it right so they're They're only cost they can opportunity cost right now if you have to take that and say to yourself Okay, now I need to hire a guy to do YouTube and that's probably gonna be 45 50 Now that person probably isn't gonna want to do Instagram and all the other stuff so who's gonna handle all those things? Yeah, you know, and it's like God damn you know at what point in time You know and then when you're when you're a company everybody's quotes are ten times higher because they think you make way more than you really do sure You know, so it's it's crazy you know with I've had quotes just to be able to strip the podcast clips in shorts Yeah, $4,000 per podcast good God good God, you know, like there's no way that's gonna no that's an outlier Yeah, you know it's it's different because you got it for those that are doing it themselves You need to ask now if you were to hire somebody how would that look? Right, so then that's the space so then it's like what where do they put it and then if it is your own personal Instagram Are you really gonna let somebody actually post on that Because I won't yeah, I went on post on the company one But if it's my personal one hell no I don't care if they're contractor who they are they're not didn't get in there and Have access to that yeah, hey, if I got to tell you man. I didn't realize first of all I I'd always seen a leap as being I thought the equipment was the main thing and that the education was in addition to that That number one but and I don't want to make this about me, but I I know you don't know my story But I do want to take just a minute to share that I Had gotten clean and recovery from drugs in alcohol 2005 and I had no-in body building as a kid But I came back to it at that time and it had done so much for me That my goal had become to to help to share that with other people so they could have their own version of the experience I had and and through that I started to Q&A and then I got to get paid for that Q&A And eventually that became a podcast and that became Many podcasts and that's evolved into what we're doing today. It's it really just strikes me as being a Similar drive and everything you're talking about about where you're at now Those are the steps I'm trying to work toward are I'm looking this year, you know, how do I how do I pay people to do things because When you do you couldn't do everything you're doing yourself and I you know I saw the studio you guys had set up in the gym. I saw all your equipment Man, I saw your people walking around shooting stuff like that literally blew me away The level you've been able to take it to and that's that's where I want to get It's been amazing just to see that and I can see like you wouldn't be able to do it yourself You just wouldn't you have to have the network you have and having the skills To manage all the people that you have to manage it's it's very impressive man. It's very cool Yeah, there's not we have less staff than you think okay. There's definitely under 15 But where I'm very blessed and fortunate is You know she and who's our senior contact manager? It should be with us every 10 years Yeah, I mean may you know and our customer service has been with me 10 years sales are up as many 10 years You know a warehouse manager is 10 years so I got enough people that have been with me for a long enough period of time That they're they're great people you know and and and without them we wouldn't be able to do anything That the fastest turning department is definitely contact 100% You know, so that that's always hard You know to find people that are gonna stick and and a lot of that now can be outsourced This far is editing and stuff like that and the outsourcing of that can be done cheaper than actually having a higher and Employee but you lose certain control if it's always evolving let's put it that way So yes, you're gonna be frustrated. I'm sure you are now. It's gonna always stay that way Yeah, never changes Yeah, and then YouTube throws a curve ball at you and takes all your money away for swearing Can you know my pushback on that is you shouldn't be completely dependent upon what the YouTube I agree you know that's got to be a piece of it because that can go away Yeah, you know even a spot any of the sponsors that I have can go away Yeah, you know, so how how's that always and this is my paranoid self, right? This is the where John would step in right and it's like how can this still work if all of that went away? Yeah, yeah, how does it still go right because that that's the lowest hanging part that needs to move And it's it's I used to try to keep double people in content So if somebody was sick or quit I had somebody used to back up You know that was a good idea for a while but it destroys a culture You know, so it's always evolving so there's the internal Part of the content which nobody sees which is kind of good sometimes Then there's the external which is what everybody does see yeah, you know and that's that's Finding ways to keep that Row of it to your target market Yeah, yeah, and and and and and I think the big thing to is for me is not Compromising with the vision, you know because there are I mean sometimes we may talk about things that won't necessarily Be able to be monetized and that's okay because it's important to us to keep the vision the way we keep it You know versus trying to change to please a sponsor or to please youtuber whatever else, you know So we can still swear I just want to make sure of course of course if we have to we have to They've asked you Yeah, it's after three to five minutes where yeah, I've had to work on it I've had to work on it to because I've seen a couple of the Podcast clips, you know a couple of them will do well. Yeah, you know other ones I'm like man what happened here? Yeah, you know, you said the F word and like are you kid man? Oh, yeah, this is like zero because of this Like just honestly I would like I don't know if I'd want those listeners if they get turned off like dropping an F bomb here and there like come on It's not the listeners. It's the it's the platform not pushing it because of it Yeah, yeah, and that's where the monetization thing comes in because if you're not monetized then the platform doesn't push you anymore. Yeah, you know They push the content that they know they can make money off of Do you guys have anything else we want to talk about? Yeah What was your favorite or hardest workout and one of your compounds and who was it with? The hardest one was by myself and That was it's good to have it that way because I know I can verify I'm watching a few videos Dave to know It was it was on a leg day and It was I got in that stupid mindset kind of like the bells what thing you were talking about On a leg on the leg press and it was I was I was Hiss going in frustrated going in and it's just one thing let you another and wait and let you another I mean was There were probably seven different challenge sets throughout the training session Then I decided that out of everything the leg press was the hardest so I was gonna go do that again Which was like an upset with a strip set and all this other stuff and Then after I got done with that I passed out and woke up in my own feces You're it this was the greatest thing and I called John and I think it was like on a Wednesday night or something I like dude you ain't gonna believe it happened So I'm playing this all out and like I just woke up in my own shit Is that I remember saying you want me to send you a picture? No Me a picture and then he started to lecture me about you're never allowed to train your legs by yourself You're lucky you didn't die yeah And um, but that I that was by far something I don't ever want to repeat again because when That Saturday whoever came out was a nurse and I'm telling the stories I think it's all cool Michigan It all to me like no you you were almost dead Wasn't dead I wasn't here right now But that that was probably the one that tops the chart because if I've ever gone too far it was that Whew I could say I just want to say for the right Do not Is this you should try to see someone that does his day flu like especially like if you know you're going in and it's you know Saturday You're having a leg day with someone that you know is equal to the challenge Would you start thinking about it like Friday morning Friday at Friday night like it be on your mind and It was almost it was like an anxiety that was building It was almost like a relief just to do the damn thing because you'd aren't on something similar to that Maybe the week before but maybe attacking a new weight or a new a new Personal best or something like that For for the bodybuilding hyper to be training now. I don't know about things like that and so I was in there Now for a strength work That's where it's going. Yeah, yeah, if it's um And if I'm in a peaking phase or pushing and I and there's something that it's not just training it's gonna require More mental effort Then and focus and what we needed. I'm probably thinking about that for at least a week before or maybe Me too You know some of the bigger ones it's all year You know, so there's always something each year that I know is gonna take me year to be able to get to You know because it has to be phasic so you got to you know There has to be downtime to ask re-plushes and then you you're not gonna get where you need to get in one push It needs to come down push back So checks and balances so those lifts and there's usually two or three that I have each year I mean there they they are to be done sometime between October and December You know, so like year and goals if you will The only difference between the way that I train those now compared to when I was powerlifting is I don't have a set gay A parlor than you have a meat the other competition you have a set day. Yeah, my day can float by three months So if I'm too beat up I can back down I don't have to force it We're most of my injuries that I've accumulated because we're always because I was forcing to be able to get Something on a said date where that date could have just pushed You know a week two weeks three weeks God, and then I wouldn't have had to push through I could have trained around and um so I have that That's the way I kind of structure my training now So there are some and usually the squats and one that's gonna require more focus than anything Most most the training that's just Checking the boxes You know, but then the other ones yeah requires focus and I love that without that I wouldn't I don't know what I did Yeah Now sometimes with the things with John it was a trying to think of and I know he was probably doing the same Like what can we do that's gonna be more brutal than what we did before yeah You know and that's That became a little bit more challenging and then That also becomes challenging because they johns backs messed up I go against lower backs messed up so now we have this off this off this off this off Any kind of structure around that So I pivoting so well we'll have one we have one more question for you and I think it was Andrew I think you came up with this one was what was one thing about life that you learned from Louis Simmons You know we you've gotten to tell us a lot about just how influential he had been to you It sounds like in business and in training just do so many areas And you know it's like kind of a big one to just drop on you No, it's um Louis had the same basically you live by your own sword, you know, so I mean he If anybody lived by his own code He did bar nut so it was more of What what would be my code? You know that I want to live by and stain I don't want to stay staying within the rails because I think that was a fault of his You know that he stayed too within his own rails that all the time But they still have that focus on who you are and embracing who you are But maybe add a passing lane You know instead of just having a one lane road You know have one What would it have? passing lane you know just to dodge some things here and there and Because that man's focus on who he was his strengths his faults He knew and he was 100% fine with it and he didn't give age What anybody else thought in one way or another way to a point that I it's an admirable and I admire it But and I I want that But there needs to be some flexibility Because it's misinterpreted right so he he lived in a bubble I live in a bubble so I for me to sit here and say he lived in a bubble is a big thing But he did he lived in a in a in a very very very tight bubble Which is a decent thing when Your your more out in the industry I think you need to have a passing lane You know because otherwise you know too many things are gonna be misunderstood misconstrued or just You know that so it you knew the the other thing I learned from him In the opposite thing was to to know your bias And understand that there's other ways Right to to him there's one there's one way it has white right And he's allowed to have that bias Strykin Louis Simmons right that's kind of like like you know this like like 10 likesner was you know a hit guy He's allowed to have that bias he's like the hit guy, you know and remember gardens like the hit guy is allowed to have that bias But when when I'm looking and seeing those other people in the industry and then I see I have a bias Yeah, and I don't I don't sell training. I don't sell programming. I want to show people how they can become there's lots of ways You get where you want to go I want to show all those different ways because I've used a lot of different ones I need to be very cognitive of my bias where he he wasn't it's like fuck off They don't know what they're doing You know and but he and his spirit and his art he truly truly believed that yeah So it's that was the one thing I learned from the opposite end Like don't be so biased that you don't see Everything else that's going on Because in an industry where there needs to be a abundance You know and an abundance mindset this is one way to really limit you really quick That's wild Good advice too. I think that's good for all of us Well For sure, all right well we appreciate all your time here, man. This is this is been incredible and and this is something that we've wanted to do for a really long time So I can't thank you enough for for hanging out smoking to your cigar on the porch down there and the nice weather I appreciate All right guys, well, we'll definitely have everything for elite linked below so if you guys want to check that out Go check it out. There's a lot of great content there and a lot of great equipment too If you haven't already hired one of us for coaching go to team skip that calm You can go to body buried that calm hit me up hit me up at Mcnaley diet's a Gmail that calm and as I mentioned Our sponsors at the beginning of the show true nutrition dot calm user code think Supplement source dot c a they have great deals that roll week to week for our Canadians Strong sports nutrition for those of you in the UK and of course I can't forget everybody over at patreon Thank you guys very much for everything that you do for another episode here a blood Sweat and gear special gas to Dave Tate. We appreciate you watching guys

That's the hand shot. Scabbing Yali, romparlo, like share, subscribe, comment. And of course ring the bell. It's good to go. There you go. The change that's all you need to know. It's just bodybuilding. It's just bodybuilding. We got some questions, Scott. Yes, I grabbed a handful. I also want to say too, if we haven't gotten to one of your questions, if we missed it or something, then please repost it. I had somebody say, am I blocked? I was like, did you do anything that you should be blocked? But I guess I missed this question. I don't know if you can't be blocked. So I don't know what you said. I had a question, you didn't answer it. But I didn't, I don't know what his question was without taking back to hold episodes. So that said, don't take it personal. If we don't get to your questions, we're trying to get to as many as we can. But if we don't get to it, please repost. All right. So we've got one here. They thought this would be fun to start with. Question for all three of you. If you had a theme song that played every time you went out, what would it be? I'm thinking, the theme song of going in the gym. If you had a theme song that played every time you're walking in the gym, like the way wrestlers have you, what would it be? What would be your entry song? Yeah. Wow, let's say I got to say I just think for a second here. I'm from Detroit. So I can do that bomb. Do some like some. You know? What's it? Some kid or rock. Yeah. I like the way you said that. I don't even know what I'm going to do. I didn't either. Really? I used to get whenever I would MC shows, usually like the DJ would ask what song do you want to play before you come out to host the show? Yeah. Now it always say put on a, put on, let's create bot by the Ramones. And they would put on. That's a good one. Yeah, that's a good one. Hey, oh, let's go. Yeah, yeah. It's like a pump you up song too, you know? Oh yeah. Do do do do do do do. Not baseline kicks in. Do do do do do do do do do do do do do. Yeah, yeah. That's a good one. I can't even think of what mine would be, but I have to just point this out randomly because it just brought this up. I've been watching all the NHL games. Obviously right now with play. And the basketball games and it blows my mind that when you hear the music and the background before they start playing and it's the same shit for when we were kids. Oh yeah. So it was made before I was born on half of it. No one has created a good enough song to be part of like the pump up shit that they play in between. Right. You know what I mean? Yeah, you go to hockey game and you still you're still here and like all the same songs from the 80s and 90s and even 70s. I don't really watch a lot of hockey as it like another one bites the dust that kind of thing, you know, where they're like, you know, that kind of thing. Oh yeah, that would be a DC DC. Yeah. Yeah, a lot of DC. Yeah, that was bells or something. Yeah, pump up. Yeah, pump up. Yeah. Yeah. And then you know, yeah, yeah. Sounds like that stuff. You don't around. Oh, that's a good one. What's up, Joe? Yeah, down. That's going to be blasting on every fucking thing. That's going to be sporting event. Yeah, yeah. It's also like part of your after 10 games in the last week. I was like, a minute. It's the same stuff. So it's like since the early 90s when I started playing, you know what I mean? So it's pretty wild to see. But and there's been great hockey. So Ron, you should really be watching. I said Scott, there were eight teams, obviously, or eight teams playing in the last round, five of those matchups went to seven games. Oh, wow. So holy shit. Yeah, it's fucking amazing. Yeah. Yeah. I've heard. I haven't been watching anything but a little bit of the highlights. The Bruins got beat by the Carolina Hurricane. So I was a little upset about that. Yeah. Game set home team, there you go. Sorry at home. So that's a home team for me now. So when the wings aren't playing, now that is my team for permanent. Like, but of course, when I went to the Kane's game, it was against the wings and I rude for the wings. And we won somehow and we saw. So that was amazing. See, you're a week after that. I forgot. Oh, yeah. That's funny. That's funny that you, I wasn't even putting together the Carolina Hurricane's where your home team now. I think we do the math. That's hilarious. Yeah, like two hours. I mean, they're not. I mean, they're in North Carolina. It was too hours for me. Like we drove that into watch game. Yeah. The Carolina. Yeah, it was awesome. Yeah. We're right there. So, but I, yes, Scott, I am a wings, tried and true for life. Yeah. People take the Detroit Red wings pretty seriously around here. Yeah. It's a kind of like a religion. Yeah. Seriously everywhere. Like what is the game? Even as bad as they are. The eyes of the lady. Half of the crowd of wings fans. That's in Carolina. I was blown away. I was like, oh, yeah. I'm not alone. Like when they score wings, I jumped off and I realized that half of the arena jumped up. I was like, oh, shit. I remember we used to always hear stories when I was a kid about Steve Isherman in about Bob Probert. Do you guys remember him? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. That was the man. In fact, I think he got caught with some coke or something across in the investor. We've raised you or something like that. He's a rough dude. Oh, yeah. That was Bob Probert's job was to do cocaine. Yes. He's getting a lot of trouble. Yeah. At the other time for hockey back then, Scott. And federal. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I remember playing NHL NHL 93 and you'd get federal. I got federal. I've been rising men. I got federal. I got federal. I was super fast and you'd pass to Eisenman. Oh, yeah. One day. I was like, yeah, he was. Good shit. Wait, this is a good one. You were able to begin. Yeah. This is not a question. It's a common. Scott, we need a segment called Dusty's two cents where he rants for two minutes. I kind of feel like that's what all our episodes are. But they're longer than two minutes. Yeah. Yeah. We just have a whole lot of people need that. Yeah. Yeah. I actually try my best not to. And then something will happen. And here we go. But that's how magical the wands. The magic of the rant is that you put effort into pushing it down. Yeah. And then it's the pressure of the rant that pushes it up and out. So it's fully explosive when we get it. Yeah. You ever shake in the can of soda and then pop the top? Yeah. That's all the need it to be like that. It's not a proper idea. New bodybuilders. They are shaking me every day. I'm just. Pop the top. I don't know. You know. I think we got some. We got to we. Yeah. Yeah. Throwing up. We got to fake Brandon. Cover for being on the show. By the way, everyone. I hope you enjoyed the brand. I'm sorry. Obviously we're recording this before you've seen Brandon Curry. So we don't know the feedback. But we hope you guys had a great one. Brandon was just awesome. You just like. Just talked. Yeah. No. We went way farther than you needed to with a couple of questions too. There was a couple of questions you fully went into. I was like, oh, okay. We're going there. Okay. Yeah. He's super. He's super open and just super friendly. And that thing I said about him giving back. It's like he gives back to us doing this podcast. Yeah. Yeah. No. It's all part of bodybuilding. I'm with you guys. Like Dusty, you would said, like the perspective you got. We talked about it off the air that like, you know, watching him, you know, offstage. How he handles himself. He's one of my favorite bodybuilders in the way that he does bodybuilding business for, you know, for that reason. Yeah. Yeah. I agree. I'm sure I think people. I would love to hear everyone's full review. If someone who didn't know this side of him. I guess a lot of our listeners probably consume much more than I do. That's the first time I've actually like delved into bodybuilding. Because anytime I've talked to Brandon, it's not about bodybuilding. That's the one thing people don't realize with bodybuilders is when we get together, we don't really talk about bodybuilding almost ever. So. Yeah. The only way we do is if we're on a show and then it's like, oh, that's the topic that people want to know. Yeah. And you got to talk about a certain amount of bodybuilding. But then you want to get like deeper past the actual lifting of weights and eating a food and did like the mental stuff and then then you got to branch out and talk about, you know, Instagram accounts. But it's in hell. It's in hell. All right. What do we got here? Let's see. Iron bore ear. He says question for you guys. What goes through your head in the lead up to a big deadlift squat or any other hard lift in a workout. How long before does the anxiety kick in? What do you think of and how do you overcome it? Yeah. And I still get a bit of anxiety on leg day. And I think that one of my kind of goals is to like make sure that that continues to happen. Do you know what I mean? Like I want to make sure that I'm training at least hard enough and push them myself enough in the gym that have like some anxiety on leg day. Because that's just, you know, I don't know. That's like a marker for me that I'm, you know, at least trying to get the best out of myself. You know, like I don't get anxiety on chest anymore. I don't get, I used to get anxiety on back days sometimes because I'd be like, okay, fuck, I'm rolling the 200 today. I got to be into this, you know. So like that, but you know, leg day anxiety is like something I'm kind of like a proud of. Like I take a bit of pride and make sure that I have some. So I especially get it when we start with hacksquats because that's kind of been our exercise that we're using as like. The real marker for my partner's strength, you know, kind of as real progressive lift has been the hacksquat. So I've trying to stay in there with them, right? Like I'm trying to like keep my, you know, my minimum sort of reps and make sure I get it. And then make sure I keep a certain standard to my hacksquatting. So that's been like a driver. And I know like one thing that I always did was I just take a little walk. You know, like before the big set, but my headphones on pull my hat down a little bit farther maybe and just take a little walk. And just, you know, my, my music is a huge driver. So I'm literally listening to like the power of the music like the electric guitars and the drums hitting. And I'm like listening to it. And it's a real motivator for me, but I'm also thinking like. I've done this before. So it's just a set. Like it's all in my head. This is going to be hard. Like all I have to do is just flip a switch. They just flip the fucking switch, you know, just breathe and push. That's all you have to do. You know exactly what you're doing. And I'll just give myself a little rehearsal like that, you know, and, you know, the set still turns out pretty good when you do that. You know, like I remember just a couple weeks ago, I had to do a little bit of a walk before my set and I came back and I smoked it. And I was like, even even braiding with me is like, it was like, was that 10? I think you got like nine or eight last time. I think you even went up a rep, you know. And so it's got to have that little chat with yourself, man. Sometimes. I had fun at you said the little, little walk. Because I literally do the same thing. Like obviously you're sitting or whatever right by the bar. Or do you sit a lot more? Yeah. And you, I sit the entire time. Then you, I do I always walk away to a further mirror to put my belt on. It's like I just walked away with my belt on like, and same thing. I mean, all I ever say to myself is do what you do. Because I, yeah, do what you do. I don't, I don't really think, and this is going to sound funny, but, uh, and this is going to tie in the story he asked for. When I was first getting into deadlifting, six plates was like my nemesis. I couldn't get it. I would go in every week, pole, mess, pole, mess. My training partner actually got a halfway up once and missed. And that was a trigger for me because I'm like, well, now he's done better than me. And be how the fuck do you get a halfway enough? Finish it. That's weird. Um, so the very next week, I got one rep. But it was like the four minute mile. Uh, as soon as I got that one rep, the next week I got four reps. And it was like, okay, right. And since then, there's never been a way to put on the bar. Um, that I didn't pull. I've just always known what it fits on the bar. I'm like, this is happening today. Um, now granted the other thing is I don't shoot for one rep anymore. So it's more like, can I get eight? Can I get ten? Um, and, and that's to me. It's, I truly believe as long as you're not being ridiculous and saying, oh, so I'm going to walk in and do 900 pounds. As long as you're not ridiculous, I really do think the majority of it is mental. If you decide you're doing it and you truly have made that decision, it goes. It just does every time. Yeah. Yeah. I robot reps is one thing I say in my head. And it, and the reason I like, like, like that phrases to me, it like, it captures a lot of things. Every reps I dente call. Mm-hmm. Right? The speed of every rep is identical. The mechanics of every rep is identical. There's no fatigue visible from rep to rep. They just continue to just, you know what I mean? It just like, it's just, I don't know. I was always like, I don't know where I got that from, but it was like a trigger thing for me. Yeah. And it makes sense. I've used that now. Since you said that, you've talked about that before. I've actually used that in my own training, and I've told other people. And I think that sometimes earlier in our training, one of the first things we need to really figure out is, you know, how to control the weight. You know, you see people where it's like, one rep is fast, and then one rep is slow, but being able to keep that consistency. And I've used that term. I've been like, you think of a robot, the way a robot would just be the exact same every time. You know, whatever tempo you set it to, if it's a pause at the bottom for a second or not or whatever, like it would just be identical. Yeah, you know. Well, all right. Okay. Good. So this was related to the last episode. We're talking about dusty things that he, you had your list of things you would not do. In insulin was one of them that you did. Oh, yeah. I thought you just getting sexy. All right. I've been doing this for a week. Okay. It's a for the items on it. So I'm not going to push you. I'm not going to push you for all of them. All right. But what was one thing that you said you would not do, what also is on that list of things, if you can remember. It's, it's funny because I mean, I actually saw that. And I was like, insulin was the big thing I would not do. So the one thing that that I wouldn't say, I wouldn't say I never said wouldn't do it, but I've just never drawn a lot of attention to it is. I definitely am a proponent of sight injections. Not SEOs, but sight injections. I don't think that most people understand that if you've ever seen someone, for example, that's a big old lump on their glute. Because they keep hitting the same fucking spot like a moron. And it becomes a blemish. Or a lot of times, guys, in the middle doubt, because they just comfortably hit it all the time, you'll see like that has a spot to it. So one thing I'm a huge proponent to is putting your shots and places on purpose. So if you're going to hit your doubt, hit your middle doubt, then hit your rear doubt, don't go too far the front because it's dangerous. But same thing with arms, like a lot of people, they're always hammering me about triceps. I've been hitting my triceps consistently for years, but I go up and down the triceps. There's about five different spots in the back head. I hit three in the front and I do look at my arm when I take shots and go, hey, like at this point I really should now say I don't do that anymore because their cartoonish compared to my shoulders. So now everything's in the delts. But before getting sick, that was part of the process. I'm taking this shit anyways. Where am I going to put it? I think a lot of people just blindly take shots. I've also always thought the glutes is the dumbest spot. Hey, you don't want to blur your glutes. Be either fucking behind you or so. How's that makes sense? It's not easy. I never understood how that was the first spot. You guys ever think about that? Oh, put it in your glute. I'm like, y'all ever tried to, I mean, why do you ask this difficult enough? I don't need to do it with a fucking two inch syringe. She says, why is this getting enough of this? See, we got the rent. We did. We did. Always get the rent. That's one of the things. And I'm sure someone's thinking of the triceps. Not really easy either. It actually is. It's not that complicated. Just go use your countertop to pull your elbow forward. You're good to go. I do it by myself. No problem. So that's not what I said. I wouldn't do. But I think it's something that most people don't talk about that. I think it's funny. Same thing with SEL is when people are like, oh, would you ever do that? It's like, if I could do it correctly, I knew it wouldn't fucking up. Why not? We have rules now with bodybuilding. That's interesting. I'll take everything. But God forbid, I would do that. Yeah. It's like the problem is the downside with some of them that I've heard is some of the dangers. Of watching people who have used a ton of them and seeing some of their health problems. Yeah. Yeah. Knowing for sure, if they were related, you're not saying they are, but I don't know if they're not. Well, you know, so I have said, I think I have said, I think. I have said that I think sight enhancement, oil, like all the synth all and whatever the names were. I think that there's, I think the terrible food kidneys. Everything has to go through your kidneys, but when you use a steroid, you're using like the type of, you know, the type of oils and, you know, great seed oils and stuff that they medically use for stuff. And it's because it's easy to metabolize. But you know, the synth all and stuff. I've never had corners telling me. You still wouldn't go in the gym, you know, had corners. It's like, yeah, everybody. I've never had him telling me when not when master died. He's like, yeah, synth all the guys that took the synth all are all going to lose their kidneys. I remember you told me that. So that was just interesting because he was there for the 90s, right? You know, because yeah, so so, but, um, Hmm, mine was always DNP. Yeah. That list. Yeah. I never took DNP. I thought it was crazy. But that was something you didn't do any of the dry. Yeah. So that was on my mind. Yeah. Yeah. These were things you said you wouldn't do and ended up doing. Um, so yeah. We know, I was the same with the MP plus I didn't see the point. It's not hard to get in shape. Like, I should say everyone is, it's not difficult to get in shape. It's hard. Well, there's a bit of a disability tell me how terrible they felt on it. Yeah. It's a terrible, it can hardly train. And I'm like, well, if you can hardly train this, sounds like no fun at all. Because the training is the best part. So we're going to take that. Question is because if you make the training no fun, then I quit. Yeah. What do we do with it? That makes total possible. I remember back in the day is like, your cardio is supposed to be like not exist and also you lose muscle. I'm like, and you'd be rolling the dice in sandwich. Which don't hope that you would maintain muscle no longer enjoy training. But getting shape. It's like, what could've gotten shape anyway? It's a fucking point. Yeah. I just said I never did it. So we've got two pros and one guy who's not a pro and the one guy who's not a pro did do DNP. So what does it say about how much you need it? That was so, so here. Share your experience. Did you feel like dog shit? We had talked about this a long time ago, but I re-enimbered. Yeah, I ran it twice. It's probably a lot of people they hadn't heard. But the first time I ran it, I think I was like week five, four and three into a contest. And it was like middle August. And I was working for the pop company. So I'm like in the back of like, you know, we're houses and stuff. Just like covered and sweat anyway. And then you know, I'm on T3 and I'm taking the NP and I'm just in like eating no carbs now and it's like dying. It was bad. It was, it was bad, but not the worst I've ever felt honestly. And I think it's because I didn't run a lot of it. And then the second time I ran it in both times were really just because it was like, I just want to know. Like I want to know, I want to understand it. And you know what it was. I've got all those in my life. Yeah. I'm TMP, but yeah. A lot of like, I don't know. Let's try that. Right now related to bodybuilding. Right. Yeah. And the second time I ran it was early, like really early, like week 17, 16, 15. And the idea then was to try to get a big chunk of movement early. So you kind of like jump ahead. But the reality was I already was on a good diet. I was progressively losing fat. And then when I took the DMP, I dropped 10 pounds. But then it was like, well, what do I need to do with my diet? No, my body was responding differently. And it took me like another two weeks to actually get back into a groove. So I don't think I really made the progress I wanted. Plus I took something that can destroy my to conjure. So yeah, it wasn't a good move probably. You know what I mean? I'll totally. You know, it's fine. I guess I'm not in Mixie more, but is DMP even some people still talk about it or no? I remember those, I guess. I don't know where is it crazy. I don't think it's as crazy as it was. But it's still out there. And it's usually the lower lower level competitors. I think that assume like you had to be on it to get that lean. You know, I've had some people tell me that certain coaches put everybody they have on DMP and I've seen emails. I've seen it to DMP, they can the protocol and I'm just like, crazy. Man, that's wild. Okay. I'm going to get it. What's next? Another diet question here. So question the next episode. Does anyone else have an issue with excessive pooping during the off season? When I'm dieting, I go maybe four or five times a day. And that's not a big deal. But when I'm pushing food for growth, I'm on the toilet 10 to 12 times a day, no diarrhea. Just lots of healthy looking poop. That's, he says I spend hours in the bathroom and he's getting to work late and daily life. I could imagine. So he says, I love to show all clean food about 4,500 calories. That's a lot of poops. Yeah, I said a real name on that. Kevin, is that a troll name? Kevin Ramsey? Kevin from home alone? Kevin's last name at home alone. I don't know. So the only reason they say that is because like 4,500 calories. I don't know if that's enough food to make 10 poops. That's why I'm going to ask you a little bit about what's really low. I was saying the same thing. I'm like, that's not a lot of calories. I was like, I was like, we're all the time. I think the whole time poop is growing crap was pretty impressive. That's what it is. It's a good day for off season. That's like, you know, yeah, you think solid for lot of soups. Yeah, well, how much volume though, like maybe every poop is just like two little golf balls. And he's going 10 times a day. But, but, but, but maybe he's sitting on the toilet long. He's laying little, laying little poop eggs. Yeah, maybe he just keeps rushing it and he gets up and then five minutes later he's like, Oh, go go shit again and it's actually not two separate shits. It should have been one shit. Take your time. My dog does that with me. He's just three times. I'm like, you can't even do that in one. Oh, yeah. He has spread his shit there with your leg up. Mark your tears. Hold it. Hold it. It helps him to keep his teeth in like, using dude wipes. I mean, you're definitely not using paper for this. That would be. You're a trash. It's a lot of life. And how often is he showering? Because like, that's like, that's like, I think it's getting your assholes fucking destroyed. If you take a tashets, if you take a tashets, your assholes like, oh, wow. Just imagine like, no way. There's this imagine day 30 of that. You're like, yeah, it's like 300 shits. But then, you know, yeah, there's no time to rim. No time for rimming when you take attention. No, there's no way. There's one on its way. Right now. There's no space. There's a turtle had popping out every five minutes. Jesus. No, you're not doing it. You're not doing it. The sex life's so much. You're going to do it so much with the sex life. You should quit bodybuilding is the moral of this story. It's just not worth it. It's not worth it. Yeah. Because the reduction in rimming is just too much to sacrifice. For sure. For sure. Wow. We saved you. All right. Yeah. Carl's got one. He says, uh, they just certain way you need to live a minimum standard. That's all I'm saying. He's not wrong. He's not wrong. Okay. That's what we have to limit. Delemy is that an acceptable source of protein or is the quality far worse than beef chicken and basically whole foods. So I have an interesting fact about myself. Perfect. I have never ever really eaten Delemy in my life. Really? No one. No interest. I know they're holding Canada. They do have it there. Yeah. I don't know. I can't even remember like if I ever went to the Delemy and buy meat. Huh. No, but like can you ever like a sub sandwich or a subway? You have it never with Delemy. It'll be like roast chicken or meatball. It's like that. No kidding. I just never appealed to me. And it's like it's called meat. Because it's always served cold, right? I'm just no interest. Yeah. Okay. See, and I thought like everybody would run through the baking thing. They hated on. They had like cooked nuts. Double burn. I don't do the roasted beef. I do the roasted beef. The angus steak. Yeah. That's a good one. Yeah. Nice. Okay. I'm going to do this. I don't really know much about Delemy. What are they? They just a lot of it's like smoked. Like then a lot of that Delemy. Yeah. I don't know. Yeah. I think it's, I mean, the thing is it's still cooked meat that they slice. Yeah. So like if you go to a quality place that it's literally a turkey that they're slicing up. The only question mark I would have had. Yeah. So I've been on the road a few times. I've been on the road a few times. Yeah. And I like stopped and bought turkey sliced turkey. Yeah. I've done that. I guess. But I've been sort of thinking of like, you know, all the other ones that I just like ham. Like ham, alony stuff like not a ham guy. Yeah. I hate ham. Yeah. Or alony stuff. You did your ham rant at Christmas, Ron. Oh, yeah. I'm just going to feel about it. Yeah. We know how you feel about ham. Yeah. You had a follow up on the question. He said, if you had access to the emergency notification system, it could send one text to the entire nation. What would it say? Stop wearing a cross. Sorry. Sorry. It was too fast. I had people messaging me about that and Foot Locker had this thing. Somebody sent me like it was like, you know, sporty Friday or something. It was like a picture of cracks. Yeah. That's pretty sorry. Sorry. This is this is one of the most interesting things. This is one of the most interesting things. This is one of the most interesting things. This is one of the most interesting things. This is one of the most interesting things. The election was stolen. Yes. New hip hop does suck. Thank you. Yeah. Everybody gets the message. This is interesting. We're talking about that. Told you. I got trapped in a car for two miles. I almost didn't make it. Fucking terrible. That's a great question. But we'd never really answered. So my answer to the other question is why? Like, oh, we'd be really expensive. To eat deli meat. Yeah. And it's not complicated. I think people really have a lot of, I'm going to say, guys, but people over Completely. It's so easy to make food now. I literally use an instant pot. You can drop four fucking chicken breasts in there with a drip of water and a couple of seasonings and go take your shower and come down stairs and stuff. Like, so the thought that I think a lot of people like, I always hear people, oh, you know, you should be well, meal prep sunday. I'm like, fuck are you doing all day? It takes an hour. Yeah. You're going to have another rant. I just put the pot. I cook a pot of rice twice a week. And it takes me like 10 minutes to make my breakfast total from start to finish. Yeah. It's the longest thing because you're making the breakfast fresh every time. But yeah. So I do think that a lot of people would say if they're worried about processing stuff, but the end of the day if you're buying turkey and chicken, I guess I guess it's the same. You know, yeah. So it's just if you want to pay for some of the sliced up for you. And I can't imagine what amount of meat is 10 ounces of sliced belly turkey. Oh, the amount of thin sliced turkey, be like a huge pile. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Be nuts. So a lot of sodium too. Like you're going to get, I think a lot of salt preservatives, depending especially on the brand. Like, yeah. Maybe nitrates. Things you don't want in your body too, depending on the brand. Like you smoked and stuffed. Well, though, no, though, you use like the potassium, the sodium nitrate and stuff, the preservatives, to keep it good. Right. And so it's got a ton of salt in it. And just stuff that's not good for your body. There are like organic meat, you know, sliced belly meats and stuff. But I mean, you're talking a lot of money then, too. So. And I eat 12, 15 bucks a pound, right? Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. Did you have anything dusty? And then that other question, the emergency notifications and emergency messages. Just the crock. Just the crock. So I'm going to pop. Okay. And hockey was better in the 90s. Everybody gets that message at once. hockey was better in the 90s. hockey is better. Emergency. Emergency message. Yeah. All right. Yeah. So this was on. Excuse me. It was on. Bloods what and gear as well. But we didn't get runs take on it. Tips for peaking consecutive weekends. Doing three shows in three different countries. Men's physique. Well, first of all, if you have to do three shows through three weekends in a row and three different countries. You better have. You better be in great condition because you need to be. Absolutely top world class condition in order to look good three weekends in a row with travel and everything. Because the secret is to not have to change fucking hardly anything at all. That's the secret. So you basically have to look stage ready to get not a bed like, you know, now like really fucking good like in same where you're training partners and your friends see you and they're like, do you know what you're going to have to drop water? Like, you don't have to fucking like when people start saying you don't have to do anything like that's how good you have to look. Just to minimize the chance of fucking you know missed flights or whatever bullshit might come your way. You have to prepare to have, you know, things not go perfectly and you also have to plan your trip really really well. Make sure your flights are good times. Make sure you get in nice and early to the hotel. Blabble, blah, blah, blah, blah. You know organized people do do well in those situations. So it's not all about like dioretics and and everything. It's about being in crazy shape and being very organized. That's something people don't think about. They look for some magic carbs schedule. But the best thing is to just fucking be in shape and be prepared. Okay. Think we got one. How is that? Nothing for gusty. Dusty. Dusty entered it. Pretty much the same. The only thing that I said was I said I would skip the second show and I would just nail to them. But you know assuming he didn't have to do them. Right, right, right. Because I guess I have wallets and it's easy. But actually I do think that I did say that same thing is when you are sliced out of your head and actually Scott I'm going to send you an example of quicksage around the subject. You can throw up there. It's putting your phone. I think people don't realize how important it is to be like Ron said peeled. Yeah. So now picture I just sent Scott. This was like two weeks out from a show at 10 p.m. at night probably two gallons of water deep and that is there's no lighting. They just changed the thing like we didn't have lights in the gym just the gym light. So when you look like that you can just kind of wake up and go. Yeah. I think a lot of people really put the higher here. I'll have a lot of time. Oh, I've got X amount of water in me. I'm like, if you're peeled it doesn't fucking matter. Yeah. You don't need a bunch of dioratics or anything like that. I just don't think most people will take their conditioning far enough to begin with. You know, so like Ron said if you're sliced out of your head you wake up. You go to the show. Maybe you don't drink as much tonight before. And you do it again the next week. You know, because the bigger the swing you take coming in for the show the bigger the rebound is back up before you have to do it again the following weekend. So I really had an end to add even though we did it. Ron just because you nailed exactly what I would say. Okay. All right. I got one more here. So by the way guys, we're kind of got like a little bit of an abbreviated show here, but we we also had a breeding curry on the last one. So that makes up for it right? Because we've been people tell us they're like, you know, we're doing two shows and they're like the only thing that I don't like about this is that the show is shorter. Is that but so shorter, but you know what? You're getting to so you get more we're actually more per week. You know what I mean? So there is right. All right. And not everybody says that we just had to come to change the church maybe. Yeah. All right. All right. Thank you. Johnson. Johnson. Right there. Yes. Says a got a question for the next show or any future show that you think it would apply can untreated sleep apnea make it much harder to get dialed in for kind of test shape. Hmm. He says he does have a CPAP machine and you can actually sleep again. Yeah. What about reverse negative metabolic? It says can can a CPAP machine. See, PET machine. So I can actually sleep again and reverse negative metabolic effect. It's waiting on it. I see. Yeah. Oh, yes. Yeah. For sure. I mean, I never went. You got a check. I did. Sorry. Yeah. I wonder if I should have got checked especially when I was really heavy. But I was felt like I slept pretty good. I don't know. I like I never felt like I had a problem and, you know, especially now being lighter. I mean, I don't even think I snorke anymore really at all. So, but I, I theoretically. Yeah. I mean, fuck sleep quality and that's the people who wake up a hundred times a night. I mean, that's just gotta be like brutal. I feel. I did that. But I didn't know I woke up. Like I know I knew I woke up like two or three times maybe at most. But then when I got tested, they're like, oh, no, you woke up 350 times. So it's like, oh. So yeah. Yeah. So, and the thing that people don't realize too, you know, you did not sleep at all. Right. Right. And the thing that people don't realize as well with that is that if you're not, uh, if you're not breathing in your heart has to beat faster to carry oxygen to your brain, meaning that your heart doesn't get a chance to ever slow down. So you're basically doing like slow steady state in your sleep. And you, you can't get leaner from that. I think I do, but I don't think it's good for your longevity. I do. I think it helps me. I think it might just do it. I do believe that there might be a connection. I do. I do, but I, I don't know. It's, it's my bro science for the day. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. That's all I got, guys. That's how you got. Yep. That's to just what friends you owe me. Yeah. And it does these connection is, uh, wavering on us. Okay. So everyone came, we got a, we have 97 devices now. Oh, okay. That's the thing. What's the deal? Give us a rundown dusty. You are throwing axes with the ladies and stuff like that. How many times a week do you have, you know, go out and have fun, mate? Oh, every at least twice a week. Nice. Is this the thing? Um, the axe throwing. This was. No, I'm just slow. See how slow the delay is. He's got a little delay. He's got a little delay. He's got a little delay. It's fucking the apps got. I don't need to. You just got to let him be quiet and he'll talk. He'll do his thing. He'll watch. Just watch. When, when I, when I finished this sentence, I'm going to say, done, but anyways, no, so we, I went axe throwing for the third time this week and the guy actually walked up to me at the end and said, hey, I've been watching you through. We have a league and I kind of high five myself when I kind of felt like a loser. Okay, I'm done. Why? Why would you feel like a loser? It's a good skill to have. You never know. You know what? I bet the guy, I bet the guy has a, the guy has a, there's a league, but it's all a bunch of guys that are like ready for the apocalypse. Yeah. There are fucking axe throwing zombie killers. And that's he's going to go meet a bunch of like minded individuals. Yeah. That's what I think. Good people. It was just interesting. I had to ask. I had to ask. You know, you and your squad there got quite the look showing up to throw access. You know. Okay. Well, well, well, let everybody go. Remember to like share, subscribe, comment. We got away for the delay. Wow, that's a thing about me. Wow, that fucking delay is the worst, isn't it? See, I'm wondering if this is that was his, his delay. It was like seven seconds. Okay. This is long. Okay. Thanks everybody. We appreciate it. And we'll see you soon. And remember, it's just bodybuilding.

I remember this era everyone was going over to oxygen and we thought there was like some magic happening like oh yeah What's going on over there you know mysteries see someone with an oxygen tank like that Be like oh my god if you've been there. Wow. You found the secrets Yeah, it was you and I love you and you ain't but bodybuild any food. Yeah, so that's why I got a handle I got a handle volume of what oh Go there right now Have just right about it as as they say dusty a tolerance for high volume Yeah, you need a holiday to tolerance for high volume Everybody welcome to it's just bodybuilding reacts We got a reaction video for you today dusty handshaw the producers coming now. I myself big round part low Remember to like share subscribe comment and ring the bell ring the bell. I am mutant dot com born hardcore Good eye mute dot com get your all in get your ISO surge and everyone should get on the gear dusty 20 big round 20 Dennis wolf getting ready for the 2014 Mr. Olympia That's the reaction video we have for you here. Chess workout from battle for the oh yes, so we have some more Okay We're five days out of this only 2014 It's gonna be the next four days gonna be just the last workout So it's not the usual workout. What I always do and so a bit different just you know Maybe We're gonna use right away to do some you know some different sets some Maybe couple more sets Maybe drop sets. I don't know how I feel and just just going with the You know, who my feelings and how about you? reject you know Yeah, we're gonna eat chess today chess Gals couple sets There's a warm-up you know, the less the less week is always different so you do well The face is died it down. Yeah, it really is I'm gonna jump over here a little bit to the back work. Okay. You got some calves and then it looks like we don't even see Dennis too calf so you're like watching me do Didn't work You got the shirt I remember this is four days a day yeah, I remember when he first came out like when he first got big And he was hitting the magazine covers. I felt like oh man this there's gonna be like kind of head like the same haircut as Jay You know what I mean they had the black hair kind of hit it slick back and I was like oh, that's gonna be like the next guy You know what I mean Yeah, I remember when I first saw Dennis here just turned pro and there was like a photo is of him in a magazine or something Yeah, they were like you know because he won the world championships didn't he isn't that we got his pro card? I Think anyways anyways, but I can't remember how he got it, but I remember seeing photos up and I was like oh damn Because like you know the back the V-taper in the in the back shots and stuff was just like absurd and no Yeah, any ad huge Watch it a young age, you know, yeah, so it's funny I always found him to be just the few times the same like the Arnold was probably my first time seeing him and just that front relaxed The shoulder waves quad so we've been the tiny ways was just like The next world yeah, I think he was 2005 world championships was the first place Procurs I think I think he was the biggest looking guest poseer I ever saw because I saw him guess pose like Put him in like a month and a half after the oh yeah, so he was just like ballooned just ballooned to like cartoonish levels I was just couldn't I was what the hell am I looking at you know Still so lean you know, but so he mungessing Yeah, there's blood Boudge yeah, blown a huge post Olympia and I remember him being at the 20 15 Fibo because he was the current Arnold champion right so he won the Arnold in 2014 and Then oh no with 2014 Fibo he'd won the Arnold like a month before yeah That's such a hit at Fibo with the European Huge line that German audience yeah, his line was massive yeah because he was a current champ Arnold champ yeah I remember talking to him And I made a joke about how it takes a month for all the pretend to wash off guys Guys, you've got to put so much on you you could must stay Kim for Canadian just by looking at his skin There's no question you know to hear him talk, you know So did you not tan for shows then, Ron? a little bit but The last while I I actually had like a a bit of a skin cancer in 2013 removed okay, they told me that I shouldn't tan they just don't don't tan so I I didn't really tan that much Because they didn't really do much for me. I felt like it was almost a like a waste of my time Yeah, and I just used a lot of proton man Like I was like wrong go from white to red back to white Just like the skeleton melanin melanin changed that for me. I think yeah real dark color, you know I took I took a couple shots of melanotan back in the day when those peptides first came out Yeah, and then my all my freckles turned like really dark dark Oh yeah, yeah, so I stopped because then You know, that's not good. Yeah, so So he's gone pretty light he went like what two two and a half plates on that on his main set of incline there Yep, so he I can imagine that probably was still like he probably still feels like you know Pretty tired at this point. Yeah, he's just messing around just pumping weights Yeah, this is definitely a last minute decision because he's just putting blood in him I mean this is essentially his pump up workouts before going we all know how that feels just Squeezing a little bit and then getting out of there I just try to get these workouts done in like 20 minutes. Oh, yeah, as always my goal in the last week like 23 months be out of here Yeah, get some blood move on Yeah, they never make for the best Training videos because you don't get to see what guys actually do you know But they look their best Yeah, really really the mature videos was always about Okay, let's get to the part where we see how wacky this person looks. Yeah. Yeah, yeah, you know, does he pose in this at all? I think he does because the thumbnail had his shirt off so he looked freaking nutty as would be Expanding for this period of time right? 40s out There we go. Okay Does he take that shirt off? Let's see if he gets it up a very often Really trying to rush to the edge listen I am trying to push it guy. We're already we're getting three quarters of the way through and he still hasn't he still got it on so he's See getting through the flies here. It's gonna be one of those Dorian segments Yeah, we're Dorian then 96 battle for the Olympia and he just trained didn't talk to the camera and then he walks into Steve's office and closes a door in the camera space And that's the Dorian segment. That's it. Does it pose all you get nothing? So you get you was over to this machine do some more flies now I actually like that machine. I love that machine when I had shorter private emotions I used it as a press instead of a fly and it is the only thing that worked for me And didn't bother my my front like that bicep tendon was really irritating me for a while Right. Yeah, it's good We had that machine at the old powerhouse world headquarters in it was plate loaded the plates were in front of you and then the cables would run behind you just a big contraption of cables and and and You know plate loaded versus they went to the selectorize later like this one I don't think I don't think we're gonna see a shirt off. That's it No way Bro we're gonna talk what's the reason we have them on well if somebody was a lie Just live in the lie or Bruce doing it now. What I see let's see what we can do Let's see if we can find some other Dennis wolf Come live be careful how you search this could be. Yeah, I don't know get rid of me Dennis wolf. Neek him Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha Very unusual balls he moved to go like shirtless bodybuilder. It could really go sideways Yeah, there's Dennis James what about this one You got this is 2007 so this was this is seven years before that something like that and That doesn't look anything like okay. He's wise Yeah, especially there we go. All right. Here we go. He's in this. Is this better guys is this better? He's in the sleeve list. Oh this is called a see-in Yeah, I remember that. What's with your last name? I, my first photo shoot was a bedroom. No kidding. So what's what's me those talking about here? Leave that down for a minute. You're a tape. Where in that? Is where in the oxygen tank top? Oh yeah. Still has the hair. Seven. Still has the hair too, Dennis Wolf. Never lost the hair. No, mellow six younger there. Hey. Yeah, damn me. Sure. There he goes. Oh, there's that gym is waste mall. And you think by the way. Oh yeah. Like way, small. I used to think it was like a huge gym. It's nowhere near the size of your gym, right? Not even close. Like half size. Yeah. Yeah. Half. Maybe. Like not even counting if you do the downstairs. Like half of the main gym area is the whole gym. Oh, I thought it was called a C.M because we had mellows in the teal, but it looks like it said, gold's on the wall there. So maybe they're at a different gym. I don't know. No, that's the same gym. OK. It might just be before you swap that over wherever. That's the same gym. Remind the dusty. Where is Colosseum? Yeah. Was it full of chin? I can't remember. Yeah, I think so. I think it was full of chin. Yeah. Full of chin. Where? I don't even remember. It all. California. Yeah. Sorry. That part I thought was the out was the part you already knew. No, I couldn't remember. I couldn't remember. I couldn't remember. Yeah. Yeah. Everything the same. But to my attention. That was he giant setting all this stuff? Yeah, I think he's giant setting up. OK. So he's adding two more exercises to the giant set this time. Yeah. Yeah. I always loved that we had like there's different sections of time where someone came out with this new better way to get big. Yeah. And then you take somebody like a Dennis Wolf who's already huge and they stay huge. And then kids like me back then are like, I should probably start super setting your head. He's like a look like dash teams but wait a minute. No. He already looked like that. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Right. He didn't look like he was 18 there by the way. He did. Yeah. Yeah. First time was. I remember this era everyone was going over to oxygen and we thought there was like some magic happening. Oh yeah. It was going home over there. You know, mysteries. See someone with an oxygen tank like that. You're like, oh my God, have you been there? Wow. You found the secrets. Yeah. It was your not a lot you only think about bodybuild any food. Yeah. So that's what you got better. You got a handle. Oh, not a lot of you. You got a handle. Law him of what? Oh. Oh. Sorry. I'm going to go there right now. Yeah. Just right about it. As they say dusty, a tolerance for high volume. You need a. You need a tolerance for high volume. You need genetics that can really handle volume. So. Yes. I've done some of these giant set workouts. I've trained with a couple of guys that were on me. It was programs or like, hey, you want to giant set with me. I'm like, sure, let's get right to try. You know. So I've done a few things. And then I've witnessed him train a few guys like for videos. I was on the set when he was trained in man well, Romero back when he was trained with me. Loast some of those put him through a lake workout. Okay. I just remember thinking it was crazy because the order of exercises didn't make sense to me. Mm. So like the fifth the fifth exercise in the in the giant set was lunges. Mm. So you're so like, I mean, I every single rep manual did. I thought he was going to fall over. So there was just this like I was like, oh, this seems high risk. Mm. It's just seems high risk, you know. Yeah. So I think that was a case where, you know, that you run into a people where you get confused between the difference of burning being better. Mm. Right. You know, I got a client that I did it. She posted a video on your tag. I mean, where she was doing leg press start at one plate for ten two plates for ten three plates or ten four plates for ten and she's like, they were burning so bad. And I'm like, I'd rather you just went right to four. Yeah. And did his major 20. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Pre-existing with the lighter weight on the same movement. Like, I'd get that it burns, but it's not helping you. I'm just jealous of you can pull the bar behind us. All the way down too. He's going to work. Yeah. Yeah. That's amazing. Of course. It's going to be impossible to do five, five, five, five. So when you feel something very good, check it out five. When you don't, you know, the three. But this is not detailed. So the last three, I just need to be careful. I love her a little bit. And I love her everything. Now this two is not too heavy. So heavy. Every rap is three to five seconds. Last one. What do you guys think about the dumbbell pullover? Yes. Wow. It's on. Back in the day because I didn't have a pullover. But then I learned that I did a lot better with an easy bar on a decline. Okay. Really? I could smoke them. Okay. Yeah. And when you go on a decline, you get a little bit more shortened range. Because you can bring your arms a little farther to your waist. Yeah. Yeah. And then also, meadows would put a band around that and tend to like the rack. So when you get to the top, there's still some tension. Yeah. Because they're an imperfect range of motion, right? Yeah. And that doesn't mean they're not useful because the stretch is very loaded. That's the most important thing about them is they're big stretch load. Yeah. And that's what John really liked them at the... He had him like in... when we did his plans, they were always like the last or second to the last exercise. Yeah. And it was more about that stretch than anything else. Absolutely. Who's that in the background there? Oh, I can't imagine. I can't imagine. I'm gonna roll it back a little bit. Yeah. I guess we don't see him again. Which is one of those regular dudes. Yeah. Just to regular dudes. That's just how good some regular dudes are. Looks like... looks like Kormir. You know? Kormir is gonna peel his shirt off here to get in the back of Dennis's video. We'll see if it's a Chris. It's gonna take top with crazy. It's Kormir. It's 2007. Oh, yeah. Okay. A little bit late. Yep. Detail. Detail. Detail. Detail. These are the detail exercises. I'll tell you what though. This is a fun... more fun exercise to watch than the other one, right? Oh, yeah. A little more entertaining. You know, we're going on here. So this is just back to back to back. So he's doing the dumbbells. He's doing the rows. He's doing the standard grip pull downs. Yep. Notice he's keeping that as a clutch. Yeah. And also too, for everyone who's thinking I want to try this, please don't be a jerk because Milus's gym is empty. Yeah. You're gonna get away with this. I'm gonna do this with a few seconds. Let's go down here. At 530pm. Yeah. So he's gone back to dumbbells. So he did them and then he did pull downs and now it's back to dumbbells. So what we're doing? It looks like it. Two sets. We know the Bacero didn't do any cutting of the film. We know he went to the right way. So there's that. There was no creative editing at all. It was start and stop. Yeah. Start and stop. Yeah. Sometimes the stop part didn't happen for a real long time, too. You know? Yeah. Like J.E. to hold bullet oatmeal. Right. Yeah. We're there for all of it. Yep. There's some like generational memes in there about mincero videos. Like a whole generation of bodybuilders that are just content to watch Ronnie and he's hit at Elbax Day Coast for like 40 minutes. I am self not talking. You just got it right at the two in his food. He said like two words to the waiter and that's the part you get excited about. You're like, oh wow. Yeah. Well, he ordered. Yeah. Yeah. I will say this. I know that I did the cornbread mixed inside of the. There he goes before I was like, I got to know. I got to know if this is good. I did the instant grits mixed with your eggs. And it was so much of cheese. Yeah. I did put it in a mixing bowl and sit down and eat that because it's just so much food. You know, you do doesn't egg whites in three, four packs of grits. It's a lot of volume. But it's good. That's funny. Yeah. You're daddy. That's the goal in life is to get volume up. Yeah. Conqueror. We're going to see him pose. I don't think he poses in this one either. I think we just got the tank top finally. This is a long segment by the way. Well, this is just the one work. So it's going to be long. We're going to zoom to the end. All right. I'm going to go to thirds of the way through here. We get it. So that was all I'm saying. This is a, yeah, that that was a workout in itself, I think. And now he's doing another huge giant set with all different exercises that he just did. I wonder if Milo's has got a bunch of intro workout in here. Have you seen him stop to drink anything? Because I, oh, he definitely would be Milo's has been pushing that for a long time since the 90s. Yeah. So he's got a drink on something definitely. Especially for workout this long. And I guarantee that there's some glucose disposal agents in his bloodstream. Yes. Yeah. Yeah. That's a word for him. He's a young, young, he day. That's a day. See you. So much more. Is that like open he day? Not much more. The pitch. Much more. More even. It's unusual. We already. That's open he day. Zero coke. To. To. Stable days. So. We all three. It be. So much. You can do some zero carb this year. I think dusty. Just to push people. You're not here in there. Just. Just to see who really wants it. Yeah. Let's see. Let's see. Little zero card. Right. I'll move us forward. I think more here. I think. I think. Two nice people. We have more. Yeah. More pullovers. Another variation of the same thing. Yeah. So one thing that I think is so funny is that people like that even at that level you could start doing random stuff like this thing. He was going to somehow. Change your whole physique. You know what I mean? Yeah. And then we kind of ended up back where we started here. Well, he's run out of equipment. He's used the whole gem. I mean. So. So. He's. He's a lot of variety. This is Dennis was zero carb at this point. Yeah. Yeah. Because he's somewhat Dennis. He looks pretty flat. Like I mean, his muscles rounded. Crazy still. But like looking at the veins. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I can only imagine if you're to give that man a cheeseburger and some fries. What would happen? Dump some salt in it and watch me explode. Right. Right. Just go weird people used to pull sodium. I'm like, why? How's that work? It's a lot of drink like. Have him drink like 200 grams of carbs and eat a cheat meal. And then just like. It's like a club. Yeah. For a couple hours. Yeah. Very. Yeah. You see no bear claw. I think that was it. To pleat it everything. So I'm just a hungry man. Yeah. I'm just hungry. He too. I think. Yeah. I guess. Very good. No pose. He's not going to post today. He's flat. That's what I'm thinking. Yeah. I mean, that's flat. I'm using air quotes here. Yes. Better than I ever was at any point in my life. His worst. So that's cool. What's on I'm thinking about myself. Wolf oxygen gym. Oh wait. There's some posing. Here you go. Run. No. There we go. To have my family here and that always support me all the time. And of course see how. See how Dennis still has calves. Yeah. They're not giant. But he still has calves. He still has the inside head of his calves when he's facing front and back. He still has some muscle there. And the lower lats are. See, he's still got calves. Like he. There's two toes gone seven. Yeah. Yeah. His calves disappear around like. Oh, nine ten. They start disappearing. The one goes first. I can see the way if I were being critical. It looks like the right calf. Right one. Some little smaller. Yeah. Yeah. So this is because when he turned pro. He had calves and there was nothing missing right. Yeah. So I'm not sure what happened. There's some kind of nerve entrapment in there. Probably, you know, like I said that kind of happened to me on the one side. I think it's my S1. But but these these shots are great. Like they really are. And I wonder how Dennis Wolf would have done. By today's standards. Now, granted back then like we were talking about on one of the other shows. You know, like Phil didn't really work on ab control because he didn't need to back. Then nobody did. Right. You know, pushing it. Yeah. Right. Right. But with how small his waist is imagine if he could suck a vacuum, which if you were modern day competing, he would totally be working on that, you know. Right. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yep. Funny. You either have low lats. And then your waist is wider. Or you have that tiny waist, but your lats are higher. You know what I mean? I would say high lats all day long because I think it looks awesome. It's cool. Like the waist is so small. Yeah. And you mean for flat you got to admit he's still. But those chests blown out here. Also another thing we have to laugh at is like in 2007, this is a quality we're dealing with. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Just say how things look now on your phone and that like portrait mode, you know. Right. Yeah. But yeah, the legs on them are just crazy those quads. Oh yeah. And they all way. So what do they need to hear? I wonder what he weighs. Oh. Yeah. That most muscular. That's a classic wolf shot too. The way he hits that muscle. Is it going to be right there? So he winds up pulling it together really well and winds up in fourth place four days from now. Or no. Yeah. Oh no. Sorry. What year is this? Yeah. You're the 114 still. Seven. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, seven. He got third at the New York. He won the keystone and he got fifth at the O. So he lands top five this year. Yeah. That's a good one. Absolutely. That was classic. All those like, you know, that homilo's, uh, Call of the gym era where he was training all those guys out of Call of Sam and. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Johnny Jackson went there to train them for a while. Oh, yeah. You know, he came over. He came over. That's a weird time. Yeah. Yeah. Johnny, train them for a while. Yeah. He trained Johnny for a couple shows. Yeah. You know, just trying stuff. You know. Absolutely. Intra workout. Intra workout. Technologies. Yeah. That was four. Huh. A lot of guys. I think a lot of guys, a lot of guys back in the day. I think that's what they hired him for was like, I think he's just going to find out like all this time. Oh, yeah. All that. You know, what do you do with the carbs? You know, that's sort of stuff. But it was a fun era, man. Yeah. Good time. Okay. Well, is that it. It's just bodybuilding reacts. Dennis Wolf. Train it with me, Los. Okay. Thanks everybody. Remember like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Ring the bell. Thanks guys. James muting dot com dusty 20 big round 20. Get your all in, get your ISO surge. Everyone should get on the gear. Thanks again, Scott. Thanks again, dusty. Remember. It's just bodybuilding. Relax. Always crack up when you do that. The react.

So my job was just pushing through, you know, so your job is to gain weight, to build muscle and bring the pitch on stage and show countless people the improvements. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building