Dusty, the Ray Bork episode. I know that made me so excited when you said that earlier. I was loved when I slide a hockey reference in there. I mean, Bruins, do you have the old time hockey? I think it's my one redeeming quality as a Canadian. I think if I didn't have any hockey knowledge, you'd probably would have just posed me a long time ago as a Canadian. Yeah, you wouldn't have, because you're going to Canadian at that point. But you don't even talk Canadian either. Like, you're not an overly egg guy. You know what I mean? I drop them in there. I drop them in there. Maybe I'm just conscious of it when I'm around very judging people, Dusty. Or I'm as Canadian as anyone else, and I don't catch them. Could be possibly possible. How have you been doing? You're still 300 plus. How's that three-on-our-plus life? You know what? It's been surprisingly comfortable. Okay. I'm shocked. I did get a sleep study. Oh, I still do not have sleep at me. Really? Just blows my mind. No, no. Do you think there's a reason you don't have sleep at me, or do you just think you're lucky? Think I'm just lucky. Because I do. Everyone I know, number one, I don't really snore. Yeah, it's been a time of just crazy. If I do, I know exactly why I can only sleep on one side. But I thought because I was having sleep issues. I was like, I wonder if I'm waking up and not knowing. Yeah, of course. Because of that. You know, so got that done and, yeah, I mean, nothing. Nothing abnormal. And you only have normal things being my size and not really having me. Did they tell you how many times did you wake up? You know what was interesting is, so I don't wake up much. The issue is the same thing I had at home when I wake up on my mom. So I don't wake up. You know, typically, do a sleep study. You wake up. You follow. Like people don't even know they're waking up. Right. They're just coming out of the sleep. They take a brain wave thing. It's not even like a wake up thing. Yeah. So yeah, you know, basically they said, my, my patterns of sleep are normal. But when I actually wake up, even if I'm exhausted, it's only been three hours. I literally will lay there now for three hours. Right. So you weren't because I'm just wondering what the threshold like, you know, theoretically, like, let's see, got six hours of sleep. And you woke up 10 times. Yeah. Yeah. That's that. Like how many times a hour? Because that was my, I mean, I went in there and told them, She had the only reason I was there was assuming sleep happening because quite honestly, I was also looking at as an edge. Like, if I even have a little bit, yeah, I can get my insurance to script me for the machine and use it. Yeah. So I don't care about using it, especially now that the new ones are like, up your nose as an interview. But I wouldn't even qualify. Yeah. That's not the whole way. It was getting some free shit. Same as always. And I'm trying to get a t-shirt. You know, I always, I was thought I should probably get one done, but now I've dropped like a bunch of weight. And I remember I snored when I first hit 300. So my first time hitting 300 was in 2001. And I just, I mean, I just weren't going to have a trust me. There was no one. And it was like full blown like debaul. And Burger King, like I said, like it was. I wonder what the case is. And I was snoring a deficit. I did snoring. I can't see when I'm back though. I just snorkeled on my back for sure. Yeah. I can't sleep on my back. I just don't. Yeah. I can't sleep on my couch and stuff before that way. Yeah. And I will have a big band. I can't, you know, then I'm waking up. But yeah, I also wanted to, when you became 300 leaner, I bet you weren't doing that anymore. No, I like I said, I snored when I first hit 300. But then like, you know, years and years later, I found out I wasn't snoring at that weight. So, you know, I think it's, you know, they say it as, it's like largely dependent on this or comforts of your neck. Is like the stats. Yeah. It's a frightening. No wonder I don't have it as you. I think the three main factors are the number. The number one factor is being male. Check. Because like almost no females have sleep apnea because it's, they're just not big enough. And then, and then of course, circumference in the neck is like a huge predictor. And then I think body weight. It's smaller and you're big or it being big. Being big. Like the bigger your neck is, the more likely you have sleep apnea statistically. It's interesting. Yeah. So, but of course, you know, I always joke that the reason I have such a big macus because I have such a huge head. So it's like, it's, it's the head to hold this fucking thing. Yeah, I mean, I was like, yeah, but you know, the, the ones on the toothpick like, you know, So I married an actuator. Right, right, right. You know, because I, I have, uh, I had a suit made. Matt and I like two years ago, I think. And the guy made me like, my neck was twenty two and a half inches. Right. Yeah, yeah. I knew it was big. Yeah, that's that's a real deal, big neck. I know, I've been no neck club since like 1993. So, you know, I spent many years just like that, you know, The traps to the, to the, to the don'ts. Oh, yeah, just, just nothing but hoodie, you know. Fuck it. So, okay, so everything's going good for you then. You're strong, you're healthy. Yeah, body feels great. I'm actually took, um, I'm going to have take, I will take it five days off straight. Um, intentionally just Tom is getting ready to start prep for Gene and Ashens. Oh, okay. So I told him I was like, you know what, I wanted to take some days off. I'm going to say it. Yeah. Yeah. And, you know, usually I lose my mind if I'm not in the gym. It's been good. Then relaxed. I did lower my food intentionally because I decided, All right, before we do this really big push. Because it's a condemned and I are going to do a video series on 16 weeks. So it's kind of, it's really like a prep of off season. You know, like, yeah, yeah. Um, so I was like, fuck it. So I've been eating four or five times a day, um, which I was, but small, you know, I think I, like, last minute I had this town's estate in 300 grams of rice, like, Norm, yeah. I mean, we're not all just three in our pound guide meals. So, so I'm not, I'm not looking forward to Wednesday when I got to get back out of it because I'm going down there and filming with them. And we'll be back to normal. Okay. Okay. Um, things here are great. My hamstrings healing. Are you back in the bike? No, not yet. I'm being very cautious. Um, I did. Uh, I decent leg workout the other day. You know, like I went with like that, you know, like, warm up prep weights. Right. And I did like super careful deliberate like, like curls and presses and I did some pendulums, but like, you know, a less weight, but, but I moved the weight. So it's actually pretty hard to actually fail on a couple sets. So it was like, good. I just feeling the stretch. Solid. Solid. Yeah. Yeah. I did some hyper extensions. Yeah. I was able to do my first like, you know, first, stretch load, hip extension. Actually, that's why I asked. I was like, we all know that you can curl. It's get the curl with a full stretch or not. You know, yeah, yeah, yeah. So yeah, feels good. And it's funny how fucking pumped. Um, while first of all, my legs, because I hardly, not anything for like a month, right? Just to do an extensions. So the pump was like brutal and agonizing. And I was like leg press and eight plates for sets of ten, like real careful. And like, no, I was pretty sore, but the pump was just a rageous. And then, uh, and then the pump in that hamstring is extra rageous. So it's like, there's still something going on there that causes it to like feel like it's got to pull extra blood or something. I don't know what it is, but it's got to help it. You'd think getting it just in gorge with blood would help it. You do. You have your, you know, tissue guy doing a company on it. To keep it open. No, I've been scraping the shit out of it with my grass and tool and gunning it every day, every second day. And once I gun it and scrape it, I do like toe touch holds and, you know, some groin stretches and really working on it. So yeah, because it actually, if you, I don't know why if anybody who puts a cup on you and leaves it there is fucking confused. Uh, that's been debunked a hundred years ago. If you put it on and move it around, it is actually separating. So tissue and what's on top of muscle from muscle and you move it, you'll actually feel in here like gravel. And then as you keep going, it'll go away. If you had that mix and that healthy, you'll be stunned. I have my clients buy a cuping tools because they're cheap. And as long as you don't crank it on, you just have to won't fuck yourself up. Because, you know, I've never been convinced by what I've seen and read of like cupping and I see people with everything just stuck to them laying there and a ball is just like, I'm not convinced. Yeah, do the same thing on the move it. So, okay, I actually feel it separate because now everything else is pressing into it, you know what I mean? You're, you're grass and everything else. Now you're actually separating and pulling should of part. It brings blood there. You'll feel like it warm. Okay. And then when you do the tissue and top of it, it'll loosen like half the time. Okay. Well, you know, I'm open minded. I'm going to try. Okay. I'm going to try. Okay. I'm going to try. Okay. Okay. Okay. You pay other people to tell you what's good idea. Yeah. Okay. Understandable. That's all of my smarts from. I'm a great human. I have Google level knowledge of the whole universe. Like you long said, it's already done. Yeah. And if I, and if I hear, if I hear it on one of my podcast, and I just think, oh, that's straight from like a PhD guy. So I have a PhD level knowledge of that topic. So I'm a doctor. Yeah. There you go. Essentially. And I take shots. I mean, how am I not a doctor? Yeah. Okay. Do you want to start with questions or you have some stuff you want to chat about? Let's do questions and that always seems to lead us down. Yeah. We don't know. We don't tend to want to. We don't tend to get much down with the questions. So. Okay. Well, here's one. Let's start with this one. Currently, no appetite in the offseason at all. And I've still got months to go. It just feels like it shut down. How do you deal with this? An easy fix is to do like 10th of payments walking before you. Like what? Like what? Like what? What? I mean, it's often as you want. I mean, I'm not saying go on a treadmill. Like walk. Yeah, just boost things up. So when I'm dead in the offseason, I've granted not every has it's got to make that happen. But the things I do, like say you're working, you're going to have lunch. You got to hour, 10 or 15 minutes and you can outside and just do it. Crazy. Yeah. You should like walk. Promise that meal of it. I'm easier. So, you know, breakfast, lunch, and dinner, at least you do that. It'll boost you up a ton. Right. And don't kind of torture cardio and don't be. And also cardio is in the mix. I think so many guys in this is where you and I don't do this. The same. I'm a believer in cardio in the offseason for both the heart and because it helps you appetite. Yeah. No, I actually, that's the first thing I tell guys is if you can't eat your food, let's add some cardio. And I should have done that more. Like looking back, I would have done more offseason cardio. You know what I mean? But, you know, I didn't. I was in that old school like, nah, save the cardio. You know what I mean? But I would have done a little bit more of something offseason. But I think it's a good way to keep your appetite up. And then the other option is of course you could like, I mean, fuck, maybe he'd benefit from doing like something unorthodox like a 24 hour fast. It's just once. I might like, joltam or maybe just do a two week mini cut or something. I know you don't want to waste time in the offseason, but sometimes that's how you get ahead. So, I guess it just depends. First, I think also some some guys eat so much junk that it gives us the slower clean up your offseason. But what's your offseason actually look like? Yeah, yeah. I know a lot of people that use the offseason is like, well, I just got a good calories and I agree to a point. But when I'm in the in the gest and nail in my offseason, and I throw in like a complete shit meal, whatever that would be, something really garbage. And that's when it really hurts when you're in versus chicken rice and like I press food with things like avocado, where it's like it's a ton of calories and it's very little substance. Yeah, but that fat versus the fat from you know, chili cheeseburger. It's a different thing. I think as far as how it's going to weigh you down, if you can eat that way and still get your food and I was saying wrong with it though, that's the that's where I find myself contradicting from one client to the next. Yeah, because some of them can do it or need to do it. And others are like, man, I had that cheap moment, but then I couldn't get the six meal down. I'm like, well, that's like this. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. No, I agree. If you can do your offseason, but have it look like contest food on paper. I bet you'll be hungry here. Then if it looks like a bunch of junk. You know what I mean? Oh, for sure. Okay, you got one is failure failure. Heavyweight or lightweight as long as you go to fail, you're going to grow question mark. Well, that's actually pretty much what the science is telling us. I mean, I remember reading that study a while ago about that hypertrophy study. And they said that at the end of the day, over the course of all the different, it was like a meta study and all the different stuff they saw. They said that three to 30 rep range seems to produce hypertrophy. And the only common thing was going to failure training intensely high effort and RP of nine or more. You know what I mean? So that was interesting. And then I know that Brad Schoen and Feld guy that scientists guy. He was just on Foo Ed's podcast a couple weeks ago, the real body building. And he talked about that study and explained it in a little bit more depth. It is interesting. So I think this study said I don't quote me on this, but I think this strength gains were obviously better with the lower reps. Right. But hypertrophy was an intensity. You know, that joined a failure seem to be one of the triggers or close to it. I think too, and this is part of the question, you do have to pay attention on what you look like. Yeah. And what works for you because I do not all doubt the hypertrophy. I do think hypertrophy, but I think that you have to ask you more of what it looks like. Because I do think there is a common denominator on guys who hate to word heavy. Train heavier and what the muscle looks like. Look at Dorian. Look at these guys. Like there is a common denominator of weight. And the equal increase in muscle mass doesn't mean it looks the same. That's what I can say. Also, I guess there's a, and this is going to be maybe hard for me to put into words. But I sort of suspect that the smaller and newer you are. Right. Right. The, I mean, the weaker you're going to be. Right. So training in really heavy rep ranges isn't nearly as dangerous. Right. You know what I mean? Like you get a guy who's bench in two plates. I mean, the training in the five to seven rep range a lot is actually very efficient for him. Right. I mean, it, it's, he gets a lot of stimulation. He's training heavy. The way it's built up in his strength. So that adds to the formula down the road, Bum, Bum, Bum, Bum, Bum. Whereas a guy who's like already like your size, I mean, you could do a 15 rep set and get like, or a 20 rep set of anything and get like crazy activation and failure of all your fibers and. Right. Your nervous system's more adapted and all that sort of stuff. So there might be like all these nuances in there that aren't part of that study. Yeah. saying is when you want to get these facts, take them into account. Because you know, that's the main over the years you have even guided me on some mood. It's like, okay, you're the strength now where I understand what's heavy to you for 10 is the same, just higher weight than someone else for 10, but you've got ligaments and joints and things that aren't made for that anymore. So how can you make it harder to force yourself to bring the weight down? Yeah, I just remember when I did a lot of conversations about like, well, maybe you should go slower instead of adding more weight or maybe you should pause the bottom instead of adding more weight or you know, I mean, the only, so number that number one thing that that I think of when that topic comes up is I remember Dorian once said that looking back, he said he developed so much strength and power that he became a danger to himself. Right. When did you say he was using a machine in it? The machine moved. That he was doing leg extensions and he was so explosive that the machine would shift on every rep. And now the door. So there's like a full stack with fucking plates on it. And he's hitting the top so hard that the machine is becoming weightless for a split millisecond and shifting on the floor. Right. So, you know, he was generating, I think the, he said he was generating for so much power that he was a danger to himself. And then, you know, the injury started coming. So I was just kind of, I remember when he said that I was like, oh, that's that could be a thing. Like I could understand that. Yeah. You know, that's in in a lot of ways. That's exactly for example, why body builders, always tear hamstrings when they start being athletic. Even though they try to avoid because they have so much strength in those muscles, like, you know, your leg curling entire stack, you're stiffly deadlifting 400 plus pounds. You have all this unbelievable power in the hamstring that most athletes don't have. Yeah. But the, you know, everything around it isn't used to the speed and immediate stopage and the, you know what I mean? Of whatever. So that's why, you know, body builders tend to get hurt when they, when they cross over to athletic stuff at first because their nervous system isn't set up for all that stuff. But, you know, you could see that a muscle could, you know, a guy could get so powerful that, you know, the joints start going, uh, can't hold this down. Yeah. You know, you said with the running, you're, you have the same level of explosion. Only now you don't have the 400 pounds that keep it in a control. It's just your body weight. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So stuff just, let's make our talking stuff, stuff starts hitting the end of its length and it's just too much. Yeah. That's uh, I always tell, what I'm trying to teach people how to train. It's like control in the negative and then I always call it a violent explosion. Right. You see their brain like, what do you mean by that? I'm like trust me. I, it's like, it's a lot when you give it. It just can't look like a lot because a thousand pounds on top of you. I, uh, I have a, I have a session booked with my trainer and the money Tyler at the gym. He's like, real athletic coach and he's a guy that helped me with my footwork a little bit so far. So I, yeah. So I have a session with him on Wednesday and we're going to move around a bit and, you know, and also too, I, I send him videos of like, I'm like, this is, this is what I want to be able to do in like five years and I send him videos, right? And he messages me back. He's like, you have to learn how to fall. I, I love that. I love that. And I was like, yeah, you're right. I do and he's like, on on Wednesday, we're going to do some breakfalls. We're going to get you falling down. We're going to fall down. We're going to, we're going to fall down. We're going to learn how to fall. And he's like, because it's just, it's good skill you have to have. And I was like, yeah, you're right, totally right. I mean, I was taking a footwork and being able to jump around, which is super important, but he's totally right. I got to learn how to fall down better. And I've actually had some really good ones. Like, I've had some slams, man. But I like shoulder rolled. Like, I still had the, the nervous pattern is still in there. And I remember the first time I shoulder rolled out of a trick and I stood up and my whole back was just covered in dirt. And I mean, I'm feeling for broken things. Yeah. I was immediately like, my god, my, and I'm like, okay, you know, and I realized that was 100% fine. And I was like, holy shit, I, you know, that could have gone bad. But I managed to like, you know, and I fall in my gut, so shit would have been broken to show. Yeah. So I feel like I've gotten lucky a few times. And then the hamstring pop was like a little reminder like, you know, I'm, you got, maybe not the first time. But when you guys get, when you're comfortable doing that with him, you got to record it. Yeah. Yeah. I why I put up a few videos before when I first started moving and then everyone just messages me, man, you're slow. I'm like, I have a moved in 30 years asshole. Other people think that we wouldn't know that. I literally say that all the time. I'm like, dude, there's not a athletic bone. I, yeah, I had the ladder out. I had the ladder out on the turf. And I'm like, doing the footwork. Right. And the important thing, because my trainer is right there. He's like, don't worry about how fast you're moving. It's that's get the pattern right. Right. Well, that's what I'm doing. And then like 10 people message me, holy shit. Is that as fast as you can go? Look, fucking like, I'm like, I was literally told not to think that way. Well, yeah, sorry, I'm not to brush it. Yeah, just some people. Oh, well. And then I, I quickly message some back all the helpful advice I could. Yes, I'm sure you're a giver. Okay. Who would survive longer on a desert island? It doesn't say it doesn't say it desert. It says on an island. So it could be jungle with nothing but a Swiss army knife. You were dusty. You. Not even a question if my life at all, because the only thing I would be doing is sitting at the edge of the water trying to find a place where my cell phone would work to get someone to come. He's sitting there. I got no bars. Ma. The meatloaf. We want to now. I put a sharpen spear in your other hand and tell you to throw at any fish that you saw and then I'd go cut firewood. There's no, yeah, that would not be. I feel bad because I have not represented myself well if someone thinks that there's a shot in the hell, like it survived. Dude, it's, I'm embarrassed for myself. I thought about that many times. I thought about that. You remember, you remember the show lost? Yes. So I'm in like, I remember like that, like, you know that. I remember the whole first, like I think I watched the first four seasons religiously. But I remember just a concept to get stuck on an island. You're like, holy fuck, it'd be, of course, I had all that extra luggage to rummage through. That wouldn't be, you know, full, very helpful. I always thought, you know, if I was, if that was my situation and you see all that luggage floating in the water, you got to get all that. You got to get all those bags, man. Orce, like something might be in there. It's kind of value. Imagine if you had like, even just like imagine finding a can opener or something, like, or a knife or a board, do you think anything? I mean, you're like, I don't know why I need this scale, but I might weigh something or antibiotics or like, yeah, anything or just a nice clean pair of underwear. Hey, it's a fucking cold in my food. Fuck. I need to check it. You was funny. I mean, all kidding aside, it would be, I think in the beginning for anyone, you'd be a train wreck, and then you get efficient because you have to. I mean, that's what is actually cool about the way we're wired is if you could somehow survive on accident in the beginning, you would begin to become efficient and find a way because the end of the day, that's, that's the old saying, I read a funny and it's something I share quite a bit as suicide's a normal issue in the world. It's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a middle Eastern saying, but it says, you know, if you think you want to die, I have someone drop you off a million, you know, watch yourself struggle to stay alive because I don't want to die, you want to kill a part of yourself. Right. I'm saying thing like, someone like me that says, there's no fucking way I would die. My final real quickly, you become a lot more resilient than you think because once you realize that the guy's not going to come fix your shit and you got to fix the refrigerator on your own, yeah, you'll give it a crack. I might only have one because I don't want to go through to I ever, but whatever. Right, right, right. I had that fix the hot weed water heater at my house the other day. I don't like people in my house that I don't hire, so I didn't want to call like the maintenance person. But I had to find my screwdriver because I only have one and I had only moved in this place a couple months ago. So I looked for it for like 10 minutes and I realized it was more efficient to just go buy another new screwdriver. Oh, you couldn't find it. I didn't look long enough as I was like, it's fucking gone. Whatever. I was wide out of the way. All right, shit. It was my turn. I wasn't paying attention. So much. You have to go again because I'm not doing my job. What's going on? Go again. I'll be probably ready. Most disgusting meal you've used for gains. You're like, you know, he's this chicken shakes blended me ever. Well, we've planted that for a minute. I mean, I've blended food before. You know, to get just to get his down. Right. But I mean, for me now in hindsight, like the most disgusting thing I've ever eaten was just regular tuna and green means was a normal part of my prep for weeks one time. Supporting and what he's looking for in the answer, but as far as to gain weight, it's never been too crazy because what I typically do because I actually understand macros and are like, like, most body was there. So hardcore. I eliminate things and make it easier. Like, if I can't get food down, I drink a coke to your carbs. Right. Right. Right. Right. So I just simplify it down until it works. You know, so the only thing you might get out of me is a wide variety of food to make the calories work. So I'd say as far he says for gains. So yeah, contest time, I would say tuna and green beans all mashed up in a bowl would probably be the most disgusting thing. And I ate that a lot. Yeah. We both just get when you're when your carbs are low, it's dump hot sauce on it. And it's fucking mash it all up. And he's steam the shit out of the green beans. So they're really easy to eat. Yeah, that was disgusting. And then I remember back when I was in Australia, I used to put my oatmeal in a bowl. And then I crack like six egg whites into it and a whole egg. You might go. And I'd mash like stir it up with cinnamon. I'd just mash it all up and I'd microwave it for a minute. Stir it. My kit stir it. My kit stir it. I do that like four times until it was like thick porridge. Yeah. And then I dump some like vanilla protein powder in there and some berries and just eat that. Yeah. Man, that used to give me the worst gas. But you're not doing it. But I kept doing it because it was just cheap and I just saw bodybuilders were supposed to have gas, you know, you're young. I was like 19, my own bodybuilders were supposed to have gas, you know. And so it's interesting when people talk about the pastries, egg whites and normal egg whites because pastries egg whites never give me gas. It grew right? And if I cook normal egg whites, if I cook them, I'm fine. But that middle of the road where it's like not cooked, it's still technically a liquid. Yeah. Real egg whites? Oh, oh. There if that's something goes on. Real eggs, like, you know, because that wasn't it's cooked enough that the salmon L is gone because you heated it in a mic for four minutes total. Right. But it's not cooked cooked. You know, it's still a liquid. Right. And man, but that was back in like the 90s. We didn't even have the card day whites. Right. Yeah. It was optional. It was the only way. So I just thought I was just, I'm getting my, getting my protein and my carbs in. But then when I stopped eating that meal and my gas immediately disappeared, I was like, oh, wow, that was a lot. Which my argument of course is also if you're getting that much gas from it, some is not getting digested. Right. I did something in that mix. You're like, yeah, my body will always think, oh, man, I ate that meal way, way, way too many times, way too many times. Hey, what's going on, guys? Thanks for watching another podcast here. I think big body building media. And thank you to our great sponsor, Trunutrition.com for making this all possible. Trunutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudeau, the creator of DC training. You wanted to create a supplement company that offered high quality third party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders, just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors, plus health and performance supplements. Check them out, Trunutrition.com. And hey, if you use our code, advices, you directly support our podcasting. Thanks, guys. Let's get back to the program. I've got a pointed one for you. Oh, okay. It's for both of us, but I want you to answer because your relationship and a couple memorable experiences with Rich. Oh. Okay. I actually put up a picture. I think a throwback of me and Rich. Yeah, I just better. It's all that. It's a few days ago. I think it was this last week. Okay. You have to share the restaurant story in the chair. Because I thought that was a good description of who Rich is that people don't know. Yeah, there's so many stories. I basically do sum it up. I basically met Rich in 2012 when they sent me down to LA to shoot with them for the first time to be part of his series to interview him for one of the episodes. And so that's what I met him. We immediately got along immediately. As soon as I met him, he was like, hey, bro, what's up? I was like, all this guy's fucking awesome. Right. Like, so first second I met him. I was like, oh, man, this can be so easy. Right. And I knew my job was to interview him because Ryan sort of thought, hey, you should be like, you should be talking. We got to put him like, phone your hand. You got to figure out something to do with you. Right. And so I knew my job as to interview him and I just immediately was like, so relieved. And then like, you know, you know how it is when you're shooting stuff, it's like hurry up and wait, right? So you're just sitting around all day bullshitting. And yeah, just like, I remember just thinking like, oh, this is going to be so funny. Oh, this dude. And then also two like we were shooting at Metro Flax. And every single person at Metro Flax was coming up and like shaking his hand. And he wasn't famous yet. Yeah. They just knew him because he was an LA guy. Yep. And mutant had just started putting out some stuff. So he was just getting like, and so the the topic that kept coming up was people were coming over to like, man, I'm so glad things are going good for you. Right. And shaking his hand and like all the brothers and all the other guys and all the Mexican guys and everyone because they know Metro Flax is like LA man. Yeah, for sure. And so I'm much more ocean side for those of you know, no LBC long be long. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, we're in Long Beach. And so that that that that gyms like, you know, there's all types of characters there, man. It's awesome. And um, you know, military guys everyone's coming up. And then I remember Mike Rashid was a trainer there and also before Mike was famous. And Mike wasn't famous yet. I don't know why you the Mike Rashid was. And he came up and introduced himself as a, hey, I'm Mike and I talked to him for a minute. And that's why I first met up and then he just started talking rich like man, fucking awesome to have you guys here and they everyone just loved having them around was funny. Anyways, um, there was never a boring moment. Like, conversation was always funny. Rich was all his talent. Some crazy story about growing up in LA surrounded by the Venice school's body building culture because his mom was a body builder. He basically grew up at Gold's gym. And and like he remembers going to Gold's Venice, like when he was a kid, like, mom was there training every day, right? And so he saw everything there and and he always had these crazy stories. You know, he told me just like, and all the characters rich knew like, you know, all the fucking craziest dudes, you know? So like we're out eating one time right this, he took me to like this Persian place to get this this steak and rice. Right. And it's kind of this total LA like outdoor or we're sitting on a plastic table, you know, like and he's like just the best food in the area. Like fuck the fancy restaurants. This is where you come to you. This guy's got the best food. So we're eating this massive pile of meat and rice and the people that were stopping by to say hi to Rich, like the locals, because we were in his neighborhood, right? Yeah. And the locals like every single one of them was like completely, like, you know, I'm from Canada. These are like movie characters. Right. You know, like Mexican guy with half his face tattooed. Right. He comes up and he's like Rich and they're talking and he's got the low jeans like, and then, you know, he's got the high socks, the total LA Dickie shorts thing like that. And then the next guy that comes by is like fucking homeless guy says hi to him. Right. Hey big man and Rich is like, what's up? And then he goes, we'll give that guy our leftovers. Go. So just stuff like that. He knew everyone man, you know? So, and you know, we walk up to the little window to order the food and the guy just turns. He's like, muscle man, you know, like, just yeah, everyone starts, oh, I got cooks some more food and they're all joking around and he just, it was funny to hang out in LA with Rich in his neighborhood where everyone knew who he was. Like everyone knew him. They didn't know his rich piano. They just knew he's like the muscle man that like hangs out there in the neighborhood. You know, it's funny. Just all the crazy people he knew. And, oh, that restaurant story was we went to we went out for a team dinner at like it was Mexican restaurant in like some fancy part of LA, you know, some nice part of LA. We went to like this Mexican restaurant in the mall and Rich pulls up a chair and sits down in the chair breaks and the restaurant's full of people and the chair breaks and it's like a big scene and he stands up and holds up the broken chair and he goes, I win. He's the biggest. You know, I win. It was pretty awesome. But yeah, yeah, it was good times man, you know. And, you know, I know that guy had like he was an extreme dude. So, you know, his life was fast and furious. But that was just how he rolled and I remember him saying to me, like I remember him saying he's I'm not going to live long. Like I remember he said that to me. And like I remember thinking he was just being like, you know, like I just say in that. But he sort of like knew he's like, I don't know. I'm not slowing down. My life is like full speed ahead. You know, he sort of had that attitude. And so yeah, man, I was just rich, crazy times. But I was very lucky to get to hang out with him because I was like a really interesting time in bodybuilding, like everything changed because of that. Yeah, he was just rich, like not whoever he knows now. I ran into somebody just barely literally who at a restaurant that was like, do you ever know? And it's funny. He says nobody, but a new rich. And he asked if I knew who rich was because I reminded him of his smile as a slap. Because again, he was a good dude. And didn't even take me further. You've ever been. Yeah. And I'm sure when he picked up my checkout for it, he looked like, oh fuck. Yeah. Yeah. No, he, I met a lot of, a lot of cool people because of rich. Yeah. So yeah, that was, that was fun. Fun times, man. You know, so boom, lucky. It was like it was interesting because that changed everything. Like he was the first guy to blow up on IG, like that. He like, you know, 2012 IG came out and he just happened to be out and out. There to watch the explode. It is fun to think of him and Mike were in the same gym and no one would have known who either one was at that point. Yeah. Yeah. That all happened quick. Okay. Um, what are, oh shit. Is your turn now? No, that was just did that one. Where was the one I had? I had this one. I'm talking about the meal thing. What's the biggest blender drink that you ever used on a regular basis? Oh, God. So the radio is exactly what I just said. So I would do ground beef because it was easy. Um, rice. And I just did just regular coke for sugar and just blended it up. That was a normal. It's not good. By the way, wow. And the trick with the coke by the way, if you knew you were going to do that was let it go flat. Right. So you would open it on purpose and let it go bad in the fridge and then just use that as calories. Huh. Wow. I found by using more rice, it would still be like heavy when you would eat it. It's like sitting your stomach. So if I got half of the carbs from sugar, essentially, it's good to go. It was terrible. I don't like, like when people watch because I still drink it. It's terrible. I'm saying I drink egg whites and people are like, oh, I don't know how you do that. I'm like, this is nothing. It slides right down. It has any like thickness to it. I'm like, it's like drinking pudding made of ground beef coke and rice. That's fun. I never did that. I my blender drinks would have been the ones I made in high school where I put like ice cream, yogurt, fruit, bunch of like protein powder, you know, all sorts of stuff in there and blended those up and drank. Like we call that John Bajus in the States. People take $9 for that fucking drink. There you go. There you go. I'm going to go again because this is when I lost growing glutes for female clients. We see a lot of fancy exercises. What are the top three exercises for growing glutes? Growing the glute muscle, glute high-purchasing your feet. Top three exercises. Guards, leg press. And if we're going to throw one of them in, I'll give them a hip thrust if for once in their life they do it right. No one does. Right. Because everyone urges their back. People don't flatten the back and actually crunch the abs a bit. The glutes almost hang on a proper hip thrust and you squeeze the glutes up. You're not driving the hips don't hinge past. You know what I mean? Yeah. Where you're bringing in the hip flexors and so many other muscles. You're tucking your ass underneath your tucking it up. Yes. So that is actually a great movement and the reason that I pissed on was because everybody does it wrong. And I think I see some of the trainers posting and I mean trainers that are in the video and they're doing it wrong. It's like 700 pounds. But it's not a glute movement. Or you see a female doing it and her pelvis is the highest part of her body. And it's like no, it's actually not it's not it's not tucking their pelvis underneath flexing everything in the glutes. Yeah. I would say I had squats lunges and stiff leg deadlifts because stiff leg deadlifts load the gluteus maximus amazingly well. And people always think of them as a hamstring exercise. But there's a huge glute load. If you do them a certain way, your glutes do a lot of work. And I always felt like I got the violent contraction at the top of a stiff leg. If I stood perfectly straight, those are typically straight. Flex my glutes and came out of that. My glutes took a huge pounding. Yeah. But then then the hip thrust is like people forget the hip thrust is like kind of a new exercise. Yeah. Like everyone's all about hip thrust and like well for the first like 25 years of my bodybuilding, no gym had a hip thrust bench. Yeah. And the only people that were doing hip thrust were like the odd fitness check would do them off in the corner with like a little 20 pound weight or something. No one was doing them. And you know there was lots of big glutes in the gym. Lots of good time stage. If you're you know what I did do a lot of and I'm so I'm still a believer in overtraining when it comes and I mean that a positive way. When it comes to trying to get out detail. So I have a lot of my clients do higher rep to modead less. But rather than just like the idea at the top of the rep, your knee is still bent. But your hips are driven so far forward because the glutes fired so hard. So I'll have them do a routine where they do and it's funny you said that they'll do both adductors and adductors 20 reps. Then walk over do a sumo deadlift with whatever weight for me would be 225 20 reps. Then immediately a stiff leg does a full range of motion for 20 reps. Then 80 lunges in a row 40 per side. No but no weight. Do that three sets and that was how I warm up athletes before they start every day. Right. And I'm telling you what you're I mean it's like I've told my athletes like your ass is going to hurt for the rest of this prep. But when I get you inside out you'll know why. Because the detail is is wacky you know. So the it's funny you brought the stiff leg deadlift because I do RDLs and always when people see the video they're like why don't you go up all the way. I don't want to activate the glutes or low back. So as soon as I feel them even begin to enter I go right back to right. Right. Right. Yeah. It's specifically for hamstrings the way I do it. And I stiff leg is even more so it includes I think than on the other side because you have no bend. Right. Right. Okay. Another thing about that that I'll throw in is I think that I'm all about efficiency. Right. You know if you've got X number hours a week to train and you got this so that breaks down to the time for this many exercises that you can put a high level of effort into. I don't believe in doing wasting exercises. Now obviously there's application for all different stuff but I'm just saying generally when you're thinking of being efficient and you want big glutes. You want to focus on training the gluteus maximus. That's the gluteus giant part of the ass that you want to grow. So when I see women spending a ton of time on hip abduction pushing out the hip machine all these different silly positions are doing in the hip abduction machine push them out. They're working their glute meat and their glute men which are on the sides of their hips and are deep in the pelvis and are relatively small muscles. And don't have much potential really at all for hypertrophy like you know you double the size of your glute minimus and it doesn't make a visual difference in your butt you double the size of your glute maximus and your ass is going to be enormously round. Right. There's a lot of time spent on the wrong muscle. Yeah like grab some weights and do some hard lunges get on the squat rack do some squats do some proper hip thrusts where you're activating the shit out of the glute max. Plus the glute men and the glute meat if you're doing lunges and stuff all that stability yeah that's taking care of. You're doing Bulgarian split squats taking care of you know do the big exercises don't waste just time like like I won't be able to change my list if we keep talking. I know I know it's a thing you know and glute's after I do the Bulgarian split squats. You know I'm just not a fan of the glute the glute programs where they do a whole lot. I mean I understand you know there's different levels of fitness and some people are just trying to move and exercise so I'm not shit on everybody but I'm just saying you know if you got that bodybuilder mentality where you're trying to I want like bigger glutes I want more muscle on my glutes you know the competitors mindset get lunging get squatting you know you know I know everybody likes to lunge hard yes we are heels are hard yeah I mean like get your ass kicked I don't care how long you've been lunging when the weight gets high enough it whips your ass got I love walking lunges I dread them fucking dread them because I know this is we we actually just ordered and I think every gym should do this that has a track and let you do lunges is the jack stand version of of right back but I have a someone have a set on either end so I can lunge to it and we're acting and then turn around lunge to it and we're acting for the next set because I was like I just asked Lance I'm gonna hate kind of where these because if I do it alone because of my inability my shoulder movement issues I need two guys to put on my back yeah or you got to use dumbbells or something yeah and then what I'm done that take it off of my back yeah or I can drop it which is not the favorite so that's funny I've I've always dreamed of like having more space at West Coast so I can put an open rack at the end of the turf you know I love that that would be what I'd love to have right now we have two shoulder machines there but I'd love to just have like a fucking open walk through squat rack yeah so you walk let's exactly the only reason I'm doing this way is I can go heavy enough then to literally my one I won't be able to come back yeah that's like it'd be sick then I just set them up rack yeah yeah so yeah I actually just ordered those Friday so I'll have them soon I've been doing a couple of gyms it had like a set of jacks and they had him kind of in the corner but you could just bring them out and set them up that's awesome right yeah yeah it's so much cheaper that way okay I got a really good one but you're in this is this is gonna stop for you yeah top three favorite actors and the role for each of them that made them got that list for you it's too fair ericard who is the actor that's original like we should have bought this one in advance you need to use a week to plan for this Harrison Ford obviously he was Han Solo and Indiana Jones for me right what when I saw the fugitive I realized that Harrison Ford was a fucking legend right it's valid that's a great movie okay oh geez I'm trying to think of some actors what people wouldn't get straight now now if you mconna hay all right all right all right yeah the a lot cooler if you did you know what's good I could get an older and then they say the same thing yeah you know that obviously he went on to act the fuck out of a lot of movies but yeah that Matt to McCoyne is one of my favorites I mean he was great an interstellar too I mean what did you win an Oscar for something I just drawn a blank I'm trying to think because I'm doing two things at once now because of it uh fuck was it oh he said that my favorite movie oh yeah fucking Dallas buyers club yeah oh Jesus fuck was he amazing in that how about uh what was the move with him and where he was the lawyer I think and lawyer no older he was a lawyer I mean yeah yeah yeah he was fantastic in that movie yeah with time to kill was his big break hey yeah that's when he realized he could do a lot of stuff yeah because he did obviously days at confused was the big break where he like got into the industry and everyone's like oh this guy's you know this guy's got something but then he landed the Lincoln lawyer and when it came out all of a sudden his agent was like oh shit you're getting like you're getting off earth now from like scores stazy and like you know his agent called him a little while like day after that movie came out and he was like this might be something that you're not expecting to go quite as big as his um damn I got to pick a third one shit because there's a couple spots left for best actor you know what I mean man I mean you got guys that I've always loved like you got Christopher Walkin and and you got like fucking Jack Nicholson and we got all those guys I was trying to think of some some good roles that people wouldn't have thought of oh I mean I mean Jack Nicholson's done some crazy shit he was awesome and they departed you know he's one of the greatest he's one of the greatest but I'd say you know Matt Leonardo DiCaprio has has done some some amazing stuff man it's hard to pick a third that's a I'm running through the list because I was trying to think of some less obvious choices yeah yeah no it's so many it's not gonna be talking I remember it's on the air just you and I were talking about Tom Hardy in the movie but he's done yeah and then him as what you haven't seen yet but him as Alfie and Peaky if you watch that you'll be like you could watch him act right now it correct me if I'm wrong but he's not on season one is he nope yeah they bring a man right yeah no and then he ends up being on quite a few afterwards but one season I don't even remember now if it was two or three he was in it but I mean his character especially because if you know him all is all the other roles he's played seeing him do that you know he's amazing I always thought the Brad Pitt was unbelievable I remember when he first started I was like oh he's the pretty guy and then you saw watching the roles you know like you know this guy's a phenomenal fucking actor like him and the fight club was not him and was it 12 months he had it seven as a great movie I just made someone watch that recently and I watch 12 monkeys again recently too that's that's even you know what else I thought he was good in which was more simple but meat Joe Black when he was death oh yeah like his was just such a simple role but I'm like oh that's actually not really an easy thing to do yeah yeah I've told you to watch allies too right yep oh yeah that's good yeah so he's a lot better than I used to get credit for and and there's one guy that I got a mansion but I know he's such a fucking weirdo and a not job in real life that but I swear to god Tom Cruise has a team of people that pick the best scripts for him because I don't like he doesn't make movies I don't like yeah Tom Cruise is very good at picking the movies he he does like every script that he picks he's in a movie I'm like fuck it's probably good you know how like with Brad Pitt that you know I mean it should be like well he doesn't make bad movies like he's probably a pretty good movie man we should watch this got Tom Cruise in it and but he just he's just done that so many fucking times where I'm like ah Tom Cruise is in it a better watch it and then I watch it and I'm like oh what a fucking great movie like vanilla sky and oblivion and like just the wide range of shit he's done yeah I was gonna see the the last my last choice the little throw people off his Johnny that I think he's a fucking amazing actor he is good he's a crack is saying it's personal side to prefer the reason he's so good I just put fear and loathing on the other day did you really yeah when the masculine hits yeah that guy and and I think when he when he started being jacks bear I was like wow like you're really good it's you watch it it's like it's a little too good it makes me worry a little bit at you yeah yeah you did you did good man I was I was afraid because I I know you and in asking you for something so simple and you know who else honorable mention who just because I think because I've seen that guy interview the guy was on Rogan and after he was on Rogan I was like oh my god I could be friends of that dude because he's kind of normal and he seems I can break interesting fun dude but Robert down to junior yes so have you seen Lesson Zero it's kind of fucked up because he plays a guy that gets hooked on Coke like a rich kid who gets hooked on Coke and his life to spirals into a hole and he actually became a co-catic making that movie wow so when you watch that movie you're kind of watching like the destruction of Robert Downey junior and it's like it gets real bad yeah real life is yeah he even jails for that well like decade after like he he was a little longer for a long time like you know he lost his career and had to do the comeback you know and then next thing you know he's fucking Ironman and and and tropic thunder and you know and tropic thunder he got nominated for a fucking Oscar in blackface that's how good he was he made it he it was clearly not racist no one was upset at the time while 2007 so the woke woke bull shit hadn't started but everyone knew that but everyone was okay with it because they're like oh this is satirical like he's making fun of a ridiculous Hollywood elitist asshole actor so it was fucking brilliant you know you know we get to switch this just because as we keep talking I just sitting here I was like oh he fledger the Joker oh god yeah we gotta go we gotta go okay okay awesome who was turned his it's my turn right that was overwhelming I'm apologize why do you do it the question okay I actually thought about this already recently so the first part is not impressive is it's you know and it's kind of the same thing I think so I'm gonna cross this a little bit and I'm gonna have you jump in and out now we had the conversation about like the dark place and things that sometimes you do that all became way to normalize on accident typically I do what we do because I love doing it and that's it there's no thought there's no connection I lift up heavy shit because I like to you know I mean like so it's not like we had a couple conversations about moments in life where it's been necessary to put more thought into it but I think that that went too far and people didn't realize it 99.99% of the time I do it because I can and I think it's crazy and I just want to see how far I can go it's literally fun so I don't think that like even for you I don't think you chose bodyguard I think it chose you like you were made for this it connects with the way your brain functions it connects with how you're comfortable I'm never surprised when I go to someone's house like yours and it looks like mine everything's where it goes everything's done a certain way you know what I mean I can't fall for four because it's gonna fuck up your world for just a second so like that now as far as at this level I think when I say what like now when I say like what's your why it's more on why do I post on Instagram because that's harder for me than going to the gym oh yeah time to make sure I have someone to film me is pain the ass that is work for me do we this that is not at all yeah if someone says to me I want you to take a week off of all work here I don't stop I still train I just don't ease my phone yeah and that's that's exactly it so the why for me on those things is because there are number one there's people that depend on me now to it because it's just shocking this is for people this is 100% how I make a really really good living and that's all so driven by the fact that I have taken my spot and realizing that you myself JP a lot of people but a small group of us are keeping the the last of the dying breathe alive surgeons of people who understand that these the ways not the right way and I've seen them live it in their 18 years old right and they're back to eating fishing greens because it fucking works whether or not science agrees with us right you know I mean or understanding that training this way is necessity to a point so there's a responsibility those things that that are definitely play a role but you know the majority of like I said the majority of the why that I would need to explain is why I show it not why I do it right you know I really there are actually been days where I've had to remind myself because I'll tell time when I walk in the gym I'm like I'm here today like really really here so there's no phones yeah yeah yeah you know I mean like yeah yeah I think some of my best things I've ever done most impressive have never been filmed because I'm in a place where I'm like fuck that yeah I know what you mean I have shit to do you know what I mean I'm about you yeah well my why has changed obviously um somewhat uh I so someone kind of asked me like what you know why do you keep training the way you do last week on my questions and I said that you know I really relate to what the rock talks about when he talks about his anchor for the day you know and you know it sets the standard for his entire day and it keeps his day structured like he has to eat after he trains and he has to do so then it's like starts the structure you know and you know that's like they say the same thing they say you know making your bed you know that they say the making your bed in the morning triggers you to to complete more tasks throughout the day and I could see that you know for the rock um getting up and training at 530 a.m. is just like making his bed like if he doesn't do it he feels like he left his life in disarray that morning you know and and so you know even though I don't train at 530 in the morning I still see training as like the anchor center point for my day like no matter what's going on no matter how chaotic things are and how stress things are everything shuts down out about four o'clock I have over 330 everything stops I have a I have my you know get ready to train go to the gym have my pre workout brain shows up for 30 Boba Boba and then by like you know 637 phones back on and turn my messages back to work fresh clear headed you know tidy up for the night on my phone you know it's just it keeps everything locked in and then of course the physical stuff you know obviously I I always loved looking like a bodybuilder I was loved you know you know you got to go through life looking a certain way everyone looks a certain way it's reality how do you present yourself to society you know well you know I always like presenting myself as a bodybuilder this is you know who I am this is part of my you know I see the history of what I'd done I carry it around with me you know um also too like I don't I also train because I want to take care of my body now you know like I mean I spent a lot of years of using it in the gym and doing things that probably weren't totally correct you know all those years as I trained um and you know I had lots of injuries and I should listen to my body more during this in that period of time and now that's a big thing for me like I want to be able to keep doing this you know and I want to be able to keep training I want to be able to keep carrying around a certain amount of muscle and taking care of the body longevity you know I'm taking all my Dante vitamins and you know it's like the newlyweds and the same ones yeah I got to get on Amazon and I know the bra and actually I just ran out of about 10 things so so you know I I want to live longer now and I obviously I know I you know walked around really heavy for a long time but you know quality of life's a huge thing you know you can make it if someone said you're you're only gonna make it to 72 but that's kind of young but at 72 I'm gonna be squatting so talking at 72 versus I'll still be rocking at at 72 you know I'll be doing something I'll be up and at it you know so that's the plan you know if someone said you can you can squat and diet 72 or you can have all sorts of horrible things go wrong with you and spend a lot of time in the hospital and live to 92 yeah and I know where I'm at now in life what I've done I've done that's in the past and now I am move forward and just be as healthy as I can and you know take care of shit so that's the goal I found it's funny but you know you and I talked with us I had a hernia surgery when I was it was in 2008 and back then because I had three hernia's fixed and they knew what I was doing they actually helped me out the gym for 16 weeks and I had went in for surgery the biggest I'd never been my entire life was 286 soft 286 and I was mildly depressed during the 16 weeks out so I ate very little and what I did it was shit when I got back in the gym I was like 250 in fact 12 weeks later because all the aches and pains I had dealt with were gone I was 293 in the best I'd ever been and that triggered something in my head that was like okay I need to learn to take breaks you know so I'm going to initiate after my next show in 2010 I'm taking a month month and a half off so figured half the time but what I didn't account for is that I'm mentally unstable without the gym and I'm being dead serious two weeks in to it I'm going to borderline called manic it was bothering me I remember a sido actually we're on the phone he's like hey this isn't helping anymore right right go train right and it was funny so I had to identify the fact that I'm not wired for that so like like the rocks and like you're saying like the fact that I've went four days without training and feel good is weird I'm like okay this I must need this because it's not how I function typically you know that's the other thing is I can't imagine doing in the other way you know I go to gym like it's why when I do take time off it on train because if I can't train like this I just don't want to it's no longer the same thing I'm playing golf now I hate golf okay we've got to hit this oh this is an interesting one I like this who's more of a bodybuilding Yoda Dante or John Metals it's impossible there it's oh well now you got to like exact like you know maybe there's a better name to use for the other one that's not necessarily less knowledgeable but just character driven I'd say John Meadows looks more like Yoda then Dante that's like we're going with a look first hey John would agree he's like a good John would be like yeah he's right yeah I'd say I'd say John's more of a Yoda although Dante might be just as accessible as Yoda so maybe like so bad and so true Metals it's too accessible he's like you know you got to think Yoda was living on Dagobah and I'm mud hut with no cell phone service yeah that's a good question that's a good question it depends if you're going with the look or the you know the character traits right now maybe that guy said maybe there's another example I think to directly answer the question you're a sense I think one thing that's a little different is everyone thinks it's a huge gap between Dante and John and how they do things and I kind of laugh because to a point it's it's very very very similar oh they would rationally and reasonably agree on probably every single thing yeah well and they're even their way of doing things like a lot of people said John is different as a high volume guy and I'm like oh now I work John if you're doing eight sets on a line like seven of them are warm ups I've trained with John and the eight when he's going to kill you yeah so just like Dante you're doing one set yeah we're doing John and Trent legs with us and I remember I was like oh that was yeah it's exactly what I do yeah it's right yeah we go over to the pendulum we did a warm-up set and then he said okay you want to do a rest pause and we're like yep you know I think you know what it is to is and it's now I'm here across where I this but everyone that you follow that legitimately is creating freaks agrees but they're packaging they're looked differently whether it's for your education or to make money because I used to think for the longest time that Joe Bennett was a pinky twisting squeezer and then we talk and Joe does 95% of his movement exactly like I do but we and he and I actually had some some I wouldn't come conversation but some banter where it's like oh the reason I post this stuff was everybody already knows about that lips right right I spend you know he spends his Instagram time educated on things that people don't know but if you didn't if you don't pay enough attention you think that that's how he trains it's not all he's just showing things you're not doing to add 10% last you know that's what he said I think a lot of the videos I show is the last 10% of the workout yeah because that's what people don't know and then there's people like me who are only posting rows and squats so that's covered why does he do that also you know yeah I think that people be shocked how similar John and Dante see things yes okay what skill or ability do you wish you possessed can I say it as far as I want sure oh my god I want to be a musician oh there's something like I can't imagine a cooler job than than standing there like like when you're an actor and you're great actor people go watch him when you look at the watch them do it while you perform you're making the night of 80,000 people right in front of you yeah and also when you're not there in the car they're listening you oh you got a moment they're listening you you think about how many times you hear a song and remind you of a moment in your life how many there's no other job on the planet it does that like to me that I think awesome you know and I just imagine what it would be like to stand there and be like oh I did this I mean I I literally gave 80,000 people or whatever it is the night of their lives tonight oh no I think it's it's absolutely agree like I play guitar I've been picking up a guitar for 30 years and patterned out chords on it and having fun and I've learned some stuff and there was a point when I was like at my best like 2006 2007 I was like I could play a lot of songs on my guitar I didn't touch it for a few years and all that stuff but I would I always wanted like you know I just never put the consistent practice into advance my playing like tremendously but I've always like just love man if I could be a guitar wizard oh fuck right you know like when Eddie Van Halen died and I went back and watched all the it all the all the tap and video all those stuff he's doing during the concerts when he does his big long ten minutes so those and just amazing shit but yeah play guitar like play guitar like you know like a pro there's a really good documentary on Netflix that I really enjoyed called hired guns right and I think it's called hired guns I'll be didn't get the title wrong and it's about session me session musicians right so for example you know Alice Cooper Alice Cooper is a guy yeah every time he tours he puts a band together but they're not always the same people you know what I mean like over the years he's had a bunch of different guitar players bunch different drummers bunch different bass players he gets hired guns you know and so the people their names aren't on the aren't on the bull the the sign and they don't get any real credit for the show people say well I would see how else Cooper tonight yeah they don't mention your name right but they so it they follow the interview and follow around a bunch of hired guns guys that do that stuff or they're the guy that plays on the album like when you buy uh you know you buy an album by Stevie Ray Vaughan or whatever I mean you don't know who the drummer is yeah it's not like to be buying acdc album you know that that's a band right and that same drummer is like he's like their buddies and on the tour and they're recording and they like you know he's in their studio and like no this is like hired guns so it's really interesting because that's a huge like most musicians aren't in successful bands that they get hired so like the phone rings pick it up they're like hey Billy Joel's doing an album he's gonna need a drummer would you like to come and record his Billy Joel he really likes your stuff and you're like fuck yeah let me know what the dates are you know yeah like that's already sure that you're well known in the industry by the people that know to ask for you yeah it's almost like the difference you know I mean it's you know when we watch that Chicago Bulls thing which you know on Netflix the realization of how cool it would be to have the money in fuck the thing like it because you know I mean how this Cooper can't just walk down the street right drummer can exactly hey I know he was just much money but I mean I think in a lot of ways I like I think that I think the less money you know yeah and the drink and coffee Starbucks I have no one know who the fuck I am yeah yeah no but you'll like it you'll like it it's that if if if that's interesting you I have to ask you about this because you've you've told me 10 times and literally about to put into my notes the what is the guitarist that you've told me 50 times that you said like you would just walk around playing guitar I can't remember if he was on Rogue Inter whatever they were describing how he became an Eddie Van Halen yeah Eddie was known for like taking his guitar in the bathroom to take a shit like he's fucking like that was a joke right is that Eddie just lived with it yeah and I was what was that that thing that you watch where they were describing like how he was that was it and that looks thing was it a interview or that was someone on Rogue and was talking about that I mean that might have been in one of the David Lee Roth interviews because David Lee Roth is on twice he was spectacular the second time but that might have been I can't remember who said that which is I just remember they were talking about it but I'd already heard that that's something I'd read before right I had to I had to I had to survive actually like 10 times what God did I got watch I'm gonna watch the Rogue in one so that'll probably get me my my point sure when I had to listen to that yeah no no that's funny that we that's funny it we both kind of picked the same you know skill I'd say if I had to like simplify that question and it wasn't it wasn't like it wasn't like a big deal like like play guitar like a wizard I would just say like I would like to be a bit more organized I'm pretty organized guy but you know I often wonder like oh man I can make this more efficient and like fuck I should be using this app I'm on my putting my stuff here why do I have you know oh we got it you know like I always try to be more organized that's something I admire and you know you meet somebody who's kind of far end of the spectrum organized I'm always like I admire that I'm like oh they're like they like perfectly right the name of everything on each folder they don't just know like and it all looks perfect and it's like oh fuck I admire that I think you have you know there's a wrong truth late I know it's changed for me is um when you have to be yeah well that it's great to know when you really have on the retail stores and with body and I was doing this my life had to be a certain way to get all done whereas now I'm just as organized but when I start working that could be two in the morning it could be eight p.m. right you know literally half three times in my clients give me 24 hours is some of them are getting responses immediately and some of them are like I lost shit to do today so when I get done I'll start. Oh here you go I body building one after I've already given these what's the best strategy to take when you're ready for a show too early princesses wrote adding food back in etc. Can you reread that? The best strategy to take when you're ready for a show too early. Oh well I mean most people aren't ready when they think about it. I think this is also thing this is tricky because as you know we've done shows back to back back and been ready for 12 weeks. Yeah yeah I know well you just have to monitor well you know what simply you have to monitor your body weight like I know it's not about weight but let's face facts if the scale is moving something's happening. If the scale's not moving at all if you're 250 every morning every morning then you're in a really tight maintenance hold and you're maintaining the situation very well if your weight goes to 247 one morning what are you going to do? If it goes to 255 after you make the correction. You know what I mean like you just have to kind of try to hold your body weight is really like a key because I mean that's what aceto did with me that's what Chad did with me do in multiple shows like okay let me know your weight every morning like the first show happens and it's okay okay I need body weight every single morning we got three weeks and every single morning hit the way okay yeah yeah we're right where we want shit right where we want show okay okay that's do this you know like so that's an important thing but normally you know it depends on how fried you are at you know if you're ready and you're exhausted and you're fucking starving there there's going to be more to do than if you're ready and you're not doing much cardio and you got lots of food yeah you know what I mean so you just have to try to like adjust I mean you got activity and calories and you just dance the dance it's it's so simple that it's a important speed and and you you try to like so you know if you're surfing on surf the curve you're on a wave you try to stand the wave stand the wave you know you don't want to come right down flat bottom and sink and you don't want to go over the top you got to just stay on there yeah it's funny because this question I had somebody reach out to me and I rarely answer questions about what someone else is doing a coach but I disagreed enough that I went with it and I didn't know the coach was as a fucker he said to me I've always gotten ready for shows where I was ready a couple weeks early my new coach said no that's crazy we're gonna come in right on schedule and what I read that I was like well how the fuck do you do that yeah because my fear is always like that's why it's on my clients like they'll be cruising along all of a sudden they get sick I don't know where we got time yeah don't I mean like there's plenty of reasons to have extra like if I have a client I know I can have ready in 12 weeks I asked for 16 right okay Jim it's gonna be fine the diet won't be as brutal as it would have been for 12 but I'm not worried um so like you said balancing it being way too early in the morning I really don't think exists unless your months early because I've done shows me it's 10 weeks apart and never come off the diet really out of the day or here there after each show and been totally fine and every single time I've ever competed in a row the last show is better than the first um and I have that athlete who that didn't work where I pulled them out of this shows we had plan for because their body said fuck off it's not working you know what I mean but if you're not going to get to that place on accident for one show so everything you said is is absolute on that what you got okay if you could only do three exercises for the rest of your life what would they be? that's really not that difficult um if I could only do three and here mine are gonna have nothing to do with shaping the body the way I want to just my favorite things to do um I would hack squat I would deadlift and I do have a row of my favorites I look forward to seeing them on the menu right right right right my honorable manual would be RDL's because I just love them right right well I guess if I could only do three exercises the rest of my life I'd probably go at this point I'd probably go with cosmetic exercises because I just want to look in a t-shirt if I'm gonna be if I'm gonna be cold and small I might as well do like dips because then at least I can have pecks and tries and then maybe like underhand rows so I could have like a bit of a back and some biceps and then maybe like side ladders we go to your throw in there that's valid you know what you've covered your entire upper body you know you need to get a little bit of me you know you maybe you know ride my bike in a tank top I look okay well I'm skinny ginger things so there you go there you go get the legs out of the way maybe it's time okay that wasn't bad there wasn't there wasn't too did oh here we go thanks my man it's guys give me good questions uh what do you hate about social media in the bodybuilding industry how to put this into a sentence um what do I hate about social media in the bodybuilding industry well I guess like I don't really know how to put it but like fakeness but it's not really exclusive to bodybuilding that's like social media just generally you know the real sort of artificial image that people put out of what they want the world to see them as is uh and I get it obviously we're gonna post our highlights and yeah and you don't have to get personal like it's not like I expect everyone to put their like most vulnerable moments on social media anything like that that's not at all that's that's like I don't I don't do that that's you know some stuff's private and for your you know like I don't even like showing the inside of my house right like if I'm doing a video I like kind of put myself to the wall I don't know I'm just a private person you know pretty personal guy but um I would just say like you know when when people are completely fake um and and the sort of artificial illusion of any sort of expertise right and lack of lack of humility regarding having expertise you know that's that's a problem that's that's a problem and it's it's a problem for everybody including the people dishing it out you know they wind up into deep and you know it's at least to disappointment all around and yeah I don't know I'd say sort of like you know intentionally misrepresenting yourself in a real fake way as sort of I think one of the biggest detriments yeah I would say for me it's there's no accountability on social media so back in the day we had forms and everyone was publicly out there and you couldn't mute other people see right now I'm on on on dusty handshow's page I'm a fucking expert and I'm the king and if you disagree me I don't like it I block you I delete you when you're out you look at me I get rid of you there's there's many many ways that I can make sure that as long as you're only on my page I'm king shit and what I say goes back in the day when you jumped on a form for example Dante yeah it goes on a form where everyone's doing volume and this and this and this and he says I'm gonna write up what I do and it's totally against everything and I'm not saying you're wrong I'm just gonna say think about this and put it out there and the internet decides the the world decides who you are and what you know right because they will go back and forth with you and you don't get to mute anybody in fact the only third time something gets muted is when a moderator of those forms deterred party steps and he says I'm just guys in idiot goodbye and I love that because when I came into bodybuilding and when I as I continued to educate myself I started as a guy who was listening and by the end I was someone they were coming to an asking and with that for some reason there is a fear of the simple sentence I don't know enough to have an opinion on that I say I don't know all the time because like I admire that Chris Asito says I don't know all the time if you work with Chris he says I don't know half the time and you know I think that's very important it's something that I look for in people not just coaches you know you know a little bit of humility with what they don't aren't experts on you know like even and I can even kind of tell you could just tell a lot about a person like for example this one guest that's that Rogan is had on a few times he now has his own podcast and I watch it all the time and I mentioned it he's that Lex Friedman guy real likable guy super smart he's into like artificial intelligence and building robots and stuff right but he's also got a Brazilian Jiu-Jitsu black belt yeah explain the physics of it and and and he plays guitar really well he plays every day for 20 minutes it's part of his like mental strategy and just an interesting guy you know knows a lot about a lot of things and there's a couple times on the Rogan show where he's like yeah I just you know I'd have to defer to an expert on that you know and I was at Meyer when someone who's like obviously you know you got a PhD in science you got a black belt in Jiu-Jitsu all that sort of stuff and there's also an interesting thing just to mention it but on his channel he's got the the speech that he gave when he got his black belt and he says I have a PhD I went school my whole life you know my goal is to build robots better than anybody in the world I want to be the best at what I do and I learned more on these mats than I ever learned in school and I remember thinking like oh this is an interesting dude he gets it and that's a guy who will defer he'll go I don't know enough about that topic to have an opinion you know what I mean and I really respect that about people people who are willing to just go yeah I just said I'm not an expert on that because I just hate it when people blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah blah yeah yeah but again because if you're wrong so for example um I get a lot of questions because I got my PhD so often and actually I am very well versed because of that. Yeah, but I'm not sure. And you can give people advice. You can say on my PT did this for my shoulder because he said this was going on and yeah, yeah, you can pass that knowledge on, but I know I get it. But if I, but I have somebody that mentioned something, this way I don't like about like you said social media is I can go for it and be wrong and answer. Then if Jason wanted to come on and jump me and tell me I was a moron because he truly isn't expert. I can just block him. Yeah. And that's what I don't like because I like the idea and what's funny is I don't know if you saw what I did. I hope Q&A with only him answering. Right. That's totally right. You, you, you, you get my PT for how, you know, for the next hour. If you had your questions, he's gonna ask questions he's gonna answer him. Right. And I had so many people DM me with the opposite. So awesome that you brought an expert on. Yeah. So I don't know why people are afraid of that because we're saying the same thing with my training, I'll put up something like John Meows on this. Don't think that matters. This person has to have it. I brought it to them. They're still happy, but at no point in my, like, oh, this was my thing. I had someone messed me the other day. Someone asked me a sarm question. And so I just said, you know, actually this, you know, I, all I know about that is this one study that I just read. Right. That said, this and this and this and that's all I know. And I still got a message from someone. Quit bashing on stars. You don't know what you're talking about. I just said, I don't know. I'm like, how much more clearer could I bend? I said, I'd never used this sarm. I didn't know much about it except for this one study I said, you know, like it's just, they're really broken all the way down. I don't know. I down. I, yeah, it's just funny, you know. And if people wonder why, you know, people that people are hesitant to try to help and give information, right? Because it's just always someone willing to message back some dickhead comment. Here's one. What do you think? So I guess they're asking me. You, right? What do you think Dusty's favorite category on porn hub is? I got asked the same thing for you. So you got asked the same thing? Oh, no, he's up to the wrong. That's funny. If you don't know this, I'm just pointing that we've never talked about it. Go ahead. Well, I don't know. I know what, I think, I think you have a type. Probably do. Yeah. It would be the girls that do disgusting shit category. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Right. So you're scrolling across, right? You got to do this as as anal as gang bang, as lesbian. And then there's like all of the above plus some muscle. Check. Like this one. You're the reminder of his, uh, I guess a category might be called but whole fitness luts without an accurate. I love it. I love it. I love it. Sorry, Dusty. I'm not even going to say he's wrong people. So I'm just actually searching right now. See if that exists or if I'm going to agree to agree. I do believe that's the first time I've used this term on the podcast. I hope no one's too shocked. I can read it. Seems you're just letting people know what you know. What do you think? I will admit, you know that meme that goes around it shows the porn hub zoomed in porn hub, but it's like page 158. Yeah. And the quote is like, where the fuck is that clip? I don't know how to describe what I like, but I know it when I see it. Exactly. Well, experience it even better. But yeah, see everyone looks at the the point in nails a little bit different. I'm like, right, right, right, right. This could hurt. Let's do that. I don't know. I think I think I think I covered that question pretty accurately. You didn't do channel. I'm I'm not going to fight any of you said. I'm not arguing. Takes one to no one. I feel good about that as well. Good. I don't have to answer. I said too much people will look at me differently. Always the goal. It's your turn now. Oh boy. Okay. This is almost the way it's time. I'm going to do it. What influences you, or I was a your style of dress and attention to detail in all areas of life? Oh, style of dress. Yeah. I'm influenced by who paid for it. Okay. Next. Well, a monthly check has a little something to do with it. No. So I number one is I like I've always like to dress comfortably and simply. I'm hot all the time. So I like thin t-shirts and thinner hoodies and stuff like that. So I like to dress a little light, I guess. I like baggy track pants and you know, you know, and a by a pair of sweat pants. I'm like, oh, they're not too thick. You know what I mean? Yeah. You got to have a couple pairs for, yeah, I live in Canada. So you got, you are home. You need to be ready. Yeah. You know, you're ready. So, but, but I was like to dress simply lightly. I've always been a sweat, sweat pants and and hoodie type of guy. I mean, from day one of my body building, I was always just like sweat pants and hoodie sweat pants and hoodie. So I've dressed the same for essentially the last 30 years. Jeans and t-shirt, rock and roll, style. Like, like, you know, like, you know, I was joked that I, you know, I love girls and jeans and a t-shirt, you know, that's sort of thing. That's a serious matter. That's a serious matter. I was never, I was never like, you know, I'd see I worked in clubs for years, right? So I'd see some people come in all dressed up. The girls are all dressed up with their heels on and the guys are all like, look in snazzy and I was like, it's too much for me. I just didn't give a fuck to do that and go out dressed like that to the club. Like if I'm going to the bar, I had like t-shirt, jean, if I was going to the bar like back in the day, the dress up would be that I'd put jean in my hair. Right. Those are the same jeans and t-shirt. But what am I going to do? I'd wear my t-shirt, you know, the one that comes from the not jam pile. Right. No. That's why I love the vintage. You're saying. Yeah, you know, and I'd wear my clean runners that don't get squattered in, you know? But yeah, and then, you know, the big thing was when I started MCing shows a few years ago and I had to get some suits. That was like an adventure. Because I was like, oh my god, I have to like dress up a little bit. I, you know, I want to like put a little bit of effort into this and so I got some nice suits made and I would really love to wear one again for some fucking reason. I've been locked out of wearing a suit for a lot for the whole year. So, but I don't always say just being simple, comfortable and cool. And, um, cool. I'm always, yeah, yeah. And, um, you know, there's the odd time like, you know, I'll see somebody dress a certain way. I go, if I was like a normal dude, like a skinny body, yeah, I would dress like that guy. Oh, yeah, I do that a lot. I see a lot of looks that are, I guess, in my, I know what you would see is different in my mind. I like over the top cool looks, not fancy. Just too far, because I'm like, that's essentially what I do with my body. All right, was, was went too far on purpose. I got a friend. My buddy James will show up at an event. You know, maybe it's something you got to dress up a little for. Yeah. You know, so you were like a button up shirt and a nice pair, you know, pair dress slacks wherever and he'll show up with like a bow tie in a fedora. Yeah. And you're like, I would have like he could pull that off and suspense. Yeah, I like to do the good pull up. And I'm very clear on what I'm not. I could not do that. Yeah, he could pull it off and you're like, fuck, Jimmy, can we anything? Yeah, I like that. Yeah, so my, I quicking into that is exactly the same as you comfort over anything. Yeah. And then the other week is wedding and clothing. Yeah, fucking hate sweating. Like, nightmare nightmare. Then, uh, if I'm going out, it's to not appear like I'm trying to look like a body though. I do not like things tie to my arms. We're just hard to do now. Honestly, because then usually, it means it's sloppy and it's 20 22 and charms. Yeah. But I mean, just what you don't look like that guy that intentionally wore shirts that's too small. Yeah, he had to make sure the world knew that he had big arms. It's not a black gas patissured that goes down to my elbow and has no markings on it whatsoever. Yeah, that's a face. And that's like my favorite going out shirt because I think like, you know, you can still, I mean, I'm lean. So he still see the any forearms and stuff. But, but it's black, too. So it's like he's kind of like, I feel like I blend in a little bit and I just, not it's not a, you know, it's funny when you're younger and you're in the bodybuilding. The goal is to look bigger, which I'm going to need the house. Yeah. Yeah. I know. I'm going to go to the restaurant. I want to tight wire t-shirt. Yeah, exactly. Because any more, you know, a little, a little higher on the arm. Yeah. You belt cap against a black background, you know, and that shit just goes backwards. Now you're in black slightly too big. Just slightly. Yeah. Yeah. And maybe no one will notice which doesn't work. Also, too, I developed. I was never a jewelry guy. And I just developed a zero jewelry tolerance at some point. I own nothing. I don't want to watch. I don't own any jewelry at all, except I have two rings from nationals. You know, I only put the pro card ring on. Yeah. When I am C or like if I think of it, it's like a big dinner we're going to or something, but I always forget to put it on. Right. Yeah. Which is like that. And that's my weird thing. I'm wearing an entire outfit that's $86. Talk about them. And then I have a ridiculously expensive watch on every day. You know, leave it ridiculous expensive, but that's the way it was. Right. It's got a confusing thing to see. You're like 50 archaques, 12 large pants, three art t-shirt. What the fuck? It is kind of funny. You got $50 or Chucks in what is that a printed gild in t-shirt? Yeah. Yeah. That's exactly right. $7. $7 with the silk screen. Yeah. Yeah. But I should add this watch. Sunsable. Yes. Yes. Yes. That was a good question. I like it. Yeah. Because I didn't actually know the answer to that. I had to like think it up. What do I mean? I find myself during COVID, especially I was like ordering stuff because it was bored. So I bought like a few t-shirts that I would wear to dinner. But they're like, they're like kind of like stuff that brags about how old I am. Like I got a jailbreak, an ACDC 74 jailbreak t-shirt. I love that you're like me. You can brace the fucking your old. I'm just announcing it. Yeah. And it just says $7. We all die now. $8. Number 74 jailbreak. That's all it says on the front. So people who see it are like older people are like, oh, fucking cool shirt and young people are like, no idea what that shirt's but trust me, do you have any people are trying to figure out why you said all right three times? All right. All right. Do you know that that wasn't in the script? No. Yeah. Yeah. Well, what you got to watch Matthew McConaughey on Joe Rogan. It tells a whole story about how that that days didn't confuse role exploded on him. He wasn't even supposed to barely be in the movie. But he had like a gun line and they kept him and then he got another line. They told him to come back the next day. Put him in the background of another scene. Bob, Bob, Bob, Bob, Bob, Bob, Bob, Bob, Bob, Bob, he rewriting and then the all right, all right, all right. He just was supposed to say it once. All right. And he said, all right, all right. And they were like, fuck. It's just God. See, but that's okay. So here's the deal wrong because I joke about this. Some people are just cool. That's the thing. That's why. Yeah. Because like I like I people think I joke and I'm dead serious. I'm not cool. That guy says that and you're like, yeah. Yeah. That's exactly how it should be done. Yes. Yes. Cool. I got time for one more man. So you gotta make it a good one. Make him solid. Oh, man. I got covered this week. I have a lot. There's two. I guess one of them's kind of mean unless the guy's dead. I don't know if you talk about it. So I got two questions here. Maybe we can do them both at say time. That's fine. Because they're both great. One is who's the most underrated bodybuilder? Hard question to say are we saying historically or currently or at the pro level right now so that we'll just let that rattle around in your head. Okay. And then any times when you met, it says meet an athlete, but we'll say meet someone above you and we're disciplined. Yeah. What do you think? Yeah. This will surprise people. And I have to have to because I know the industry and everyone's got a bad day. I'm going to practice with that. But Ronnie had it to time in his career that he was not the favorite of a lot of places that he visited. Who? Ronnie Coleman. Oh yeah. Okay. Yeah. So there were a few times that from people who I know well in the industry and I actually had to end up seeing in person where like he showed up like because he wanted to come and he could. Right. And that in the yield of crisis I know Ronnie. Madam sure it's almost hard for me to even imagine. But it's true. And I can't imagine because I am known to show up when I want to to things but not professionally ever. You know that. Like I'm never late coming down the stairs and I'm about. No, but I'm late to the gym every day. Right. I'm late at my own time. Yeah. You know what I mean? So that was a that was a shocker because because there were multiple occasions where I didn't event that he did and I would see something and be like, I should you went with? Huh. Yeah. So I think that for a moment and who knows why it was an arrogant strip in that I think it's since disappeared. Yeah. That was disappointing for sure. Sometimes that happens when you're at the very top. There's just so much going on that it's almost impossible to be good at managing your time perfectly. And now maybe he's just getting tugged in so many directions with so many you know like I've heard some nightmare stories from other people too like Johnny Jackson told me about this one time they went somewhere for an event and the promoter had like him and Dennis James and like four people in this and the promoter just without really telling them wanted to do these three drop buys on the way to the event. Yeah. And he's like what are we doing stopping at this story? Is that what we're just going to run in for a minute? It takes some photos and they realized they were being scootered around to these things that weren't on the itinerary. There's like a view and all of a sudden they're they're like hey we're supposed to be at this event that we're being paid to show up to the people are at and you're running us around to your friend's supplement stores. You know so there was like a big thing and they're like we're going straight there and Johnny said like oh yeah flex wheel I put his fucking foot down he's like I'm not getting in that fucking vehicle unless we go straight to that event like he was really pissed and eventually they got there so like there's totally guilt you're saying but sometimes that sort of shit is happening on the side but yeah and get messy. Yeah well there's definitely there's just ways to do things like I said that's quite a preface with you don't know why yeah you just know then you see it and you're you know and you watch like how I would walk into a room if I was two hours late and there was a line of hundreds of people waiting I wouldn't have walked in. Yeah and everyone would have known that I was mortified when I got there you know what about what about most underrated body builder. Oh god this is such a list. I'm trying to think back okay which one do you want to go with we going current are we going all time current who's a pro right now and you're like people just start paying attention to this dude. Oh I'm sure because I have to look at it well because my brain just didn't work but I know what it is. Can I tell my disappointment story? Yes. So I was at the Olympia one time with mutant and I looked at Krahalway. You just disappeared I was just you're back and I looked across the aisle and lo and behold Gary Stratham was sitting there right and I was like holy fuck I was like a huge Gary Stratham fan when I started training because he was my height and he was like 228 pounds at the 1989 Olympia. Bro amazing and you know what I mean and I just remember thinking like fuck that's an awesome body builder and then he did the WBF thing where he was like the big 250 pound freak and he was like one of the kind of like oh shit and so I was like I want to go meet Gary Stratham so I kind of walked over there and he was sitting there and he had his phone and he had some papers and he had some food and I stood there for a second and he didn't look up and there was no one around like the booth was getting like finished like it was early in the morning and but there was like it was open like people walking around and I noticed there's some kids came up and stood at the table with me so there's three of us now standing at the table and he like he was there just not look around used to acknowledge us so I I walked back across and I was like hey hey I mean it's time in a bad morning or whatever and those two kids stood there for a while and he just picked up his phone and then I watched and he looked up the kids and he went and he looked back down and his phone and I was just like the fuck you doing it that booth yeah thank you and and also too like it's like 2013 if I didn't even give the shit that you're there is like you know like you should be you know pretty happy that you're at the booth people want to light up for you still right and I watched a lot of people like wait a lot at that booth and he was like very taken his time and I just didn't get it remember just thinking like well that was not how I would have handled that battle you know who else did that actually I'm not subject to nail the Morris Pacific and my experience was Frank Zayn I did I had a show that he was at and we were backstage and we were you know number I watched him interact people and he was just kind of dick and then you know you just stand on the side and they got the overall going and I was like so we he and I were taking that to him like we think we're taking this to a video that I don't know they're all suck and like right right and then thinking I understand what you're saying like at that level but to literally say that other people around in shit too was like he and I had a little bro moment oh yeah and that's how you can't just follow that and then he walked up and hands through very blatantly I don't give a fuck and then walked away and I'm like you know that me at my age doesn't give a shit about you I barely can I don't consider you on the grace button there's I think you look at small men like yeah so now you're enhancing everything already this like about you take it on yeah it comes off it comes off at a bitterness of how things have changed yeah and I was just so then I was it was just that was an experience what was directly made yeah there's no denying I was like oh you're a dick you know I mean and and the only difference was thank God it was old enough that I didn't say that because I was like oh so you're a dick got it now we both know so and I've had now since I've seen him twice and he was both the same I'm like oh you're an asshole cool good enough so I know a lot of people a lot more famous of you that aren't right yeah yeah don't ever lose sight of the fact that you're lucky that people want you know pay you to show up to stuff that's I mean it's a last forever you do like I hate when someone says oh I saw the gym and I want to bug you I'm like please do yeah no I never gonna give a shit but I'm in the gym I know what you mean I will take this is you know I mean yeah there's a right and wrong way to do it yeah but there should never be a time where someone doesn't feel like it should walk over yeah I just I just I just asked people I'm like listen I love it when people come and say hi during my workout I'm lucky that people want to do that just don't ask me a 10 minute question yeah because the reason I don't like that is because I want to answer your question and correct but I can't because it's too long of an answer so if you ask me a question why I'm training I'm forced to give you like a super short answer or tell you like can't answer your question so just save the questions that's all yeah like what a good moment I'm like what's up hey you know watch show the other day was fucking funny that one part was funny you know my go bigs man you know like it's all good yeah agree so and as far as underrated body builder go so first thing on the top of my head was a keen right but I think there's still a lingering underratedness right he he there's still people that don't say his name when they should right no that's that's definitely and I mean there's also lots of other guys that I think are underrated like I think Raphael's underrated over sure he's got one of the most beautiful physics on in the on the planet right now and and is a threat to win anything he enters but I think just when people say who's underrated for some reason the first thing popped in my head was a keen still underrated yeah so I was gonna so I'm gonna do two as well one well known one not as well should be I think Max Charles's underrated okay and I do know that he's got to hit it just right a little bit and he and I actually had a conversation because I was like no I don't know you have to do and I was really impressed because his answer was I have to get bigger yeah he didn't know but he was like no he's just to be bigger he's not so I loved that because it showed me who he is and then Sean Smith uh how something to like saying is just a briefs I fucking love that I love that dude's build he is a nutty looking freak yeah and people know him so he's getting there but even as competitive body below I think he's better than he's getting quite a four so far I just wanted to keep looking like that on Instagram because it makes me want to train back we're sure we're sure we're sure we're packed it's a uh is a mr potato we're like oh I had a doubt he's not like a separate piece of meat I love that look though he's got the 3d the crazy 3d thing I love it so yeah he's a favorite for sure okay well I know we got to go and I got I got a full bladder man I push it in the bush in the bush line okay remember everybody like share subscribe comment rain the bell banner put the banner at the beginning of the show as well banner again there you go we got to we got to get some guests on there's a lot of people that are like oh want to come on let's do it and we just have a book done because we're having fun chatting dusty yeah we'll keep you seeing a lot of them shut it but let's let's have a talk we'll line up a couple February interviews for everybody okay thanks buddy and remember everyone it's just body building

What's going on, Dusty? You know, living the dream, I remembered late last night to toss a question box up at about two in the morning. And wouldn't you know, these crazy fuckers are awake. So we got a lot of good shit. Yes, I did the same thing. I did the late night question post because I saw years go up. And it said it had been up for like 10 minutes or something. That's tomorrow. That's right. And I was like, holy fuck, this weekend, just evaporated on me completely. So I put one up and got some real good ones. I like today. Did we have any, we have any flatland bike questions? Cause I got a tell you, I was watching your skills last night. Right. And that was impressed. You are a still a very large man on a very small bicycle. So it's so interesting. I've never used a great with you before, but there it was. You know, everything's getting smoother. The guys that are right with were like, they're like, yeah, you're way more stable now. And you can roll things for longer period of time. You know, yeah, yeah, I see only type of stable I have, right? So yeah, they said they could see like, you know, it's just like, it's funny. It's like bodybuilding such a metaphor for life that it prepares you for other things that are seem overwhelmingly difficult. Like, you know how bodybuilding is, you know, like I can ever get as big as Paul to let's do 70 on stage. And then like I was like, 265 on stage at one point. You know what I mean? Like you, you don't, you, you, but you know, you just chip away at it and enjoy it. Right. And do the process. And then next thing, you know, you look behind you and you're like, holy fuck, I like put on 30 pounds of muscle. Right. You know what I mean? Because you love what you're doing. You're not doing it for the end result. Yeah, you're like, you're enjoying it. And so it's, that's the rule if you just can find things where that's how you, that's how you have to do things. Right. Like that's the secret is just the joy to process. Oh my god, no one's ever said that before. What I know it's standing, but it's just so true. And this is just another example. Like like it took me a month to do a foot jam tail whip, which is like, one of the first three things you're supposed to like, you know, learn how to do it. Took me like a month. And I was like, almost killed myself like 10 times trying to do it. You were able to do that before though. Oh, yeah. Yeah, when I was a kid, I could do all the shit. But I mean, that's like, it's another lifetime. Yeah, that's what I say. And so so it was just a matter of getting it all back, but also now you're, you were different, you're bigger. Yeah, it's just so I don't need something. I'm not that nothing. It's nothing. Same. It's not, yeah. It's just so funny. But it's just, yeah, it's been cool. So, you know, I look back on stuff like, you know, there might have been a trick that I could do back in October. But when I do it now, it looks way better. Right. It's not like I haven't progress because I haven't learned another trick. Right. It's like, you know, is your squat ever perfect? Right. You say that though because I've been, I told you a million. I was working with like, I still watch like barracks and all those skateboarding things. And it is amazing. The guys who literally make the most ridiculous trick look like they're sleeping. So easy. It like it doesn't look like they jump like it just just floats and you're like, and even other guys who are extremely talented are like, what the fuck? Well, they're the ones that are the most amazed because the general public has no grasp of what they're seeing. Right. They can't, it doesn't, it doesn't even compute in their head. And the, the people that are really good are the ones that are amazed because they understand wholly fuck that guys, that guys, Dorian Yates level. Right. Like that's not a backtable by set. That's Dorian Yates. Like, you know, it's, it's, it's like everything. It's like, you know, just think of all the, the unknown players in the NFL that you don't know. Right. But the other guys in the league know them and know they're awesome. Right. Right. And, you know, you just know he plays an NFL. But the other guys are like, oh man, that guy's a fucking machine, you know, and they've seen them training the jam and they've seen them do his thing. So yeah, it's just like everything. And actually, this is funny because I thought about this topic. I think it's important. I was going to save this for later, but then you went kind of brought this up. You're welcome. I think it's important for us to stop and appreciate. I know this might sound corny when it comes out. Let me explain. Stop and appreciate what we're seeing. I think that we don't, we don't stop and appreciate things enough. You know, we move real quick. We're always in a hurry. We're staring at our phones. You know, the old thing. Like we don't, we're not looking up. We're not watching like it for around around staring at our screen. Right. But it's funny because one of the things that I notice when I ride with these guys is they'll be doing something that I know is like 15 years before they could do that trick. Right. Like you know what I mean? Like the one guys riding for 37 years, he's still learning new tricks. Right. So I'll see them do something. And I see the people that are walking by and they're oblivious, right? And I've talked about this before just like in body building and someone's in the gym. They don't really understand. They just see the like press going up and down, but they don't really get it. But this just been another reminder that like, hey, you know, I wonder how many things I miss. Like what I'm right. Who do I not appreciate? These people have no clue what's going on in front of them. They just see some guy in a bike. And they think of all my little cousin used to do tricks on his bike in 80s. No, no, no, it's not the same. Right. It's just like my cousin, my cousin was a body builder. Right. Yeah. That's the equivalent, right? No, it's not the same. No, your cousin didn't do what I did. Very true. And so it makes me wonder like, hey, like, what am I missing? And I know this might sound funny, but I think it's a good practice to like just slow down and watch stuff. So like the other day, I picked up some meat. And I went and stood and I just happened to be kind of like looking behind the curtain. And I just sat there and it's watched this guy cut stakes. Right. And I just watched them and I like took a second to go, holy fuck, that guy really knows what he's doing. Right. Because like he was so fast. And there was so much danger involved. Those guys will take your arm off or the saw or something. Yeah. So it just and I just sat and appreciated. And I'm like fuck. And then that guy came out and I go, hey man, fuck, that was awesome. And he kind of chuckled these like, yeah, but do it a long time. That just makes nothing up. I just felt compelled to tell him like, hey, like fuck, you didn't really know what you're doing. And so I don't know. I think that's a good reminder for everyone to maybe just, you know, take a minute and try to appreciate something that maybe you don't notice. You know what I mean? Those are, it is, it is all the way down to simple things. I used to be able to tell, I've never had the same star like shrink for years. And I could tell if my, my main barista had made my drink. It's the same drink. And I could look down like, I'd say, like, I'm like, you made it today. She's like, yeah, like fuck, I knew it. There was something that, some order of something that takes place that she did differently. And when she left, she actually told me what it was. It was just simple. Was she would add all my cancer while it was still hot. I'm sorry, I explained to my cancer. And so it would melt properly. And then mix the ice and the water in, you know what I mean? So it's like one tiny little detail, but it's like if it's cold, it doesn't mix. See, now we have to have a chemist on this show. I am a chemist. Tell us. Yeah, it's all. Maybe there's something about the heat. It's like, like, really pulls the splendid into the into the fluid. It's the cancer and adds the sweetest, which is what I need. Right, right, right. But it's funny you brought this up though, because I literally yesterday, I had a newer client. He sent me his pictures and he says, in the pictures, sorry, it takes me so long to send the pictures. Or I mean consistent, I mean, because they're embarrassing. And number one, right, they're not embarrassing. He, like, I've been worse as a pro than he is now. So I'm laughing, but, and he said, I just thought that I was a lot better than I am. And I, when I started working with you and I saw pictures, I realized that the scale and the pictures don't match. No, 40 men exactly, right, because we're all 250, we're all 270, it's the same thing. And what was funny was, and then he also said, because of that, he miss some meals out of frustration. Water was off. I'm like, so let me get this straight. You don't look as good as you thought you did. So in order to fix that, you fucked up the diet, fucked up the drink. How does this work? But, but obviously I turned it back around. I was like, dude, I never, when I started bodybuilding and actually doing it correctly, all I worried about was each day, just doing what I was supposed to do. And I remember, I'm sure we've talked about this before. I remember the day I was in the gym training and I had a tank top on or whatever. And I looked up in the mirror and I was like, oh fuck. Yeah, bodybuilder. Like, yeah, yeah, I mean, I talked about it. Yeah, you know, and it's like, I, I, so I told him the same thing. Like, you just, I never thought about it. And I'd ever knew that was going to happen. Yeah, I just remember a little bit. I looked up as like, like, I hadn't seen myself in six years or something. You know, it's like you see yourself every day. Why was it? You, I could show you what bench I was sitting on in the gym and be like, yep, that's why I realized it was a bodybuilder right there. You know what I mean? But it's, it is like you said it's an interesting thing because you don't, as you're chasing these tricks. It's not like you're thinking, well man, in seven years, I'm going to be doing all these tricks. It's just this one. Yeah, just for that. Oh, yeah. Yeah, just an over again. Yeah, get better. Just try to get better in some way. You know what I mean? So that's, that's the fun part. Is there so much I can get better at that it's, it's going to, it's fun, you know? But I'm enjoying it. I'm enjoying it. I'm having a good time. And I actually, I, I kind of, you know how I like gym equipment. Yeah. I guess I kind of, I'm kind of a gear head. Like I like, you know, I like the parts. Like whenever I see another guy, like we had another guy show up last night to ride with us. First thing I did I went check to was bike. Like, oh, yeah, he's got these. He's got these. Oh, yeah, 23 millimeter, stem, all the way. He's got, oh, yeah, 15 millimeter forks. Oh, yeah, blah, blah, blah, blah. I'm just like tech and his bike breakdown. Right. And I'm like, oh, I guess I have something in my brain that likes to do that. I think it's, you've probably always had that. I had, uh, my, one of my mentors I watched is, but I'm not into cars really. You know, it's weird though, but you're in, but you're into like, things and what makes them work. I have a friend that I watched his kid one time when he was like, right. And he came home and I said, hey, as I broke his different and he's like, what do you mean? I go, well, like most kids like open a door and then they close it. Brock opens a door and one of the sea what was happening. Why was it like, so I watched him watching the hinges and trying to, oh, yeah, yeah, he's too. And I could see him analyzing. I'm like, yeah, yeah. And I've always been the kids like, who gives a fuck the door opens? Like, like, it's a bird. You know what I mean? And that's the guy I've inside called the fix it when I fuck it up. So good to know. It's always funny. Have you ever met anyone like, I think everyone has a different level of that. What, can't, what, mechanical awareness? Yeah, or my case, complete disloved. Yes. So, I don't know. I find it amazing when I meet like a 40 year old. So don't worry, you're not old enough to quite a bit. Yeah, good. I'm a 40 year old who has zero awareness of like the simplest function of something. I was like, I get not being mechanical, but you must have been forced to use a screwdriver at some point in your life. Yeah, you could fix this if you had to. I'm not that mechanical, but I guess I grip on a farm. So I have like a default advantage. But like, you know, you must have been forced to at least try to fix something once. But they're like, no, no idea how this, no idea how this works. Like, it's a, it's a, it's a picture hanger. You know, it's funny because you're right. I, you know, I don't like people in my house either. So that's a tricky thing. Yeah. Um, and my garbage disposal was giving me an issue. And I was like, well, now I'm at a, okay, I'm at a head here. Either I have to fix this fucker or someone has to come in my house. Right. Right. So I was like, well, I'm gonna fuck with it for a little bit. And I ended up fixing it, but it's like, that's a perfect example. Like, that guy wouldn't be like, I guess someone's coming to my house and I hate that too. Because when you live in a condo, they're like, yeah, well, come in. I'm like, well, not what I'm not there. Well, but what you're gonna let ourselves in my good fuck you are. That's right, right, right. Right. Yeah, yeah, yeah. I only leave for two hours and 17 minutes per day. You can't come going most time. Two hours and 17. You got the drive time. Matt and perfectly with with that, you know, it's like the fact that it's an odd number. Like that tells me that it's probably more like you to be the actual number. He's actually getting so straight now. Yeah, yeah, yeah, we're an even making that. Up. You know, when someone drops away to specific reference, and then everyone is like, oh, shit, that's actually true. This psycho-bap actually pays a set of actions. Funny about his late one. I missed a light and I saw Harvey tapping his foot when I walked in the door. Like, bro, where the fuck you been? It's been two hours and 18 minutes. I was worried. I'm never late, never early. It's the same time, my time. Oh, man. So you got some solid questions, huh? Yeah, I do. I have a few. First, what do you think? Trim the dome. I had the, I didn't realize because, you know, I'm wearing the, I wear the snappy pull-up mask, like the neckator. Oh, okay. Yeah, right. I find them far superior to any other type, like the cylinder weight of the lift. So, um, I, uh, so, yeah, well, okay. So my beard, I wasn't even paying attention to it. It just got long. It's got like crazy. And, uh, so then when I went to shave my head, I shaved my head and I left the beard, right? Because Emily's Emily likes to shaggy. She likes me kind of like, so I'll just shave that head. And then I looked and it was like, two drastic of a difference, like, shaved head and then like uncomplyly unshaped homeless beard. And I was like, oh, it is a look. It's a look. I've done it before. I've got some pictures, but I just didn't, it wasn't feeling it. So I put the clip regard on and trim the beard up. You did it yourself. I'm proud of you. You know, let's, I got in trouble for that week. You go. So I'm not like, spin. You spin money and have professionals touch your face, right? Yeah. Yeah. Well, I don't, well, because see, I tried. So I missed. I was outtown. And so I had to trim the edge. You ever like, my beard wants to be higher, right? Well, right. I made, I made a mistake. Right. Now to fix the mistake, you got it a lower. Yeah. You can't make them a sick like three times, which I did. And the next thing, you know, I'm rocking like a chin strap. Like it's 1997, again, which I didn't 2010, but don't judge me. So I literally went in and she was like, what the fuck? I'm like, I was gone. She's like, you know, long we're allowed to touch your face. Yeah, that's so funny. Ever. She's like, I have to fix this. It took like an extra 10 minutes to blend it. I mean, I'm like a sleep. So I don't know what's happening, but woke up. She was like, that was work. Don't touch, don't touch her. That's hilarious. If I make any mistakes at all, I just shave it right off and ruin new one. We have to say, I'm fat. And the chin collection is getting strong. And like, I live in denial that people don't know I'm fat with my cheeks being all big up here. I pretend like no one can see that. Of course. But you know, it's that thing. Like, when you, we have to film everything, because this is our world now. And what are you doing the gym all the time? Yes. So always see is that I got more chains than a Chinese film book. And that's just not good for me. I'm on the cover. No, this is not going to work. It's like, everyone else is watching the numbers. Like, oh, it's a good, strong press. I'm like, how fat am I? Fuck. Are you serious? It's not good. It's not good, Ron. So this is a cover. Plus I found, I should be favoring over the masks. So if I were masks, sunglasses and a hat, I could be handsome. Somewhere under there. This, this situation could be helping you. This is the great equalizer. Forcing the dating process to be online. So then they, of course, that benefits you definitely. Because you can just appear phone. And we'd be, yeah, actually. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. That's funny. Did you, you know, we never talked about my fact that I went to a smile bar and got my teeth whiteened. I saw it. And I, and I got the whole facial and all the moisturizer, you know, the stuff like that. So I thought I actually thought you were going to bring that up. And I thought fuck, does he didn't bring that up? How did he let that slide? Oh, yeah. How did he let that slide? Because that's a type of thing that I thought you were going to be like, what did they do? And then you were going to know the names of all the masks. And so I would know that shit because I, I care of my skin at all. I just paid for someone to fix it when I fucking up. Ah, okay, okay. So I didn't get any Botox or anything. So I'm not on your level. None of that stuff was involved. Well, you're not like, oh, I needed it. Yeah, yeah, I know. But it was just that it was like moisturizer and stuff. It was, you know, a birthday Emily's birthday in Valentine's Day the same weekend. So it was kind of a, you know, kind of a day date for us. We went and got facials and got the teeth teeth whitening. And it was just kind of fun. But I stepped into the little bit Scottsdale. I felt a little bit of a mess. I was going to sleep. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, it is hanging on a sec. My dog's making all these weird noises. I don't mind. I like him. Put him on the show. I want to see him. I think he's just trying to get attention. I thought I'm going to bring him on the show. I wanted to, I want him to see him. They don't really know him. Bring him on. Turn it again in the pillow. He just started to get me to come underneath. That a boy. It's a battle of who wants it more. The bed. So he's okay. Let me have something for you. Fell asleep and you just chilled. Fell asleep and just chilled. You know, they got that thing in your mouth and they're just out last. It's like an hour. But you do these little thing in your mouth? Yeah. Put us asleep. I said, this is how fun it all. It's actually not even uncomfortable. The chair is so comfortable that I was like, who? That means me. I'd be saw in logs over there. Can't breathe. I'm on my back. Who brought the retired offensive lineman? And about the fat guy with the multiple chains. It shouldn't shave his beard. Yes, that's me. Okay. So I got lots of questions. Do you want to start? Sure. Let me open him up here. I'm sliding right to the beginning. Today, I'm just going in order. That's a vote. All right, that's a lie. I'm not going to do it. I get a dumb question. It's all out the door. That's dumb. I don't know what this means. How does that have an accurate log book whilst working around the clock shifts? So I can change. Yeah, I don't quite understand. Is he kind of like referencing that he does like like, dash shifts in night shifts? I sure. Yeah, do you think that's what he means? Like he's working all these weird shifts? I mean, I assume so, but you're, I mean, here's the bottom line. Is your log book, your log book? Yeah, he just log it. When you get to that bottom part, you try to beat your numbers. Yeah, you go. Same thing with food. That's one thing I've had to deal with with people who work different shifts. I always say, well, breakfast is the meal after you wake up. Yeah, yeah, I don't care what time you wake up. No. But when you wake up, that first, you held, just called me a one and we can move forward. And meal five or meal six. Have a right before you go to bed. I don't care. Yeah. I do like to, um, like, I always call it breakfast dinner and I have four lunches. Oh, okay. Yeah, yeah, yeah. And lunch one lunch two. But that's fine. Dinner's the last one. I just call him meal one to five or one to six or whatever. Right. So yeah. But yeah, that's, that's, you just, you just act normal. That's like the, right? It's like the, it's like a metaphor for life. Just act normal. Well, and that is your normal. So that's yeah. And you know, matters. You can't alter it because all I work today, shift this time. I'm tired. Like fucking, you'll be the one. All I would do, all I would do is, since you're log booking, I would just write it at the top, work days. Yeah. After nights, training after three meals, training after you know, empty, whatever. That's all. Just record that because, you know, you might see a trend there over a long period of time. Yeah. Simple simple. Yeah. Simple simple. Okay, my turn. Yes, sir. Would you rather be iconic and timeless, or considered a visionary and a trend, center? Oh, for another be sure. Iconic and timeless rather than a visionary. Yes. You don't need to create stuff. You just want to be real fucking good at it. Well, that's it. Well, because when I think of iconic, like I think of, it's fun. I actually just said this yesterday on a picture of Luke. Like I think the term legend is so overused in the world, especially overseas. Like what I think of iconic, I think of James Dean, like that dude's never going to die. Like, yeah, I guess iconic sort of, it makes me think that there's like some images of you that the whole world has seen. Yeah, and that's how I think. True. You know, or something about you that like, yeah, that's a big word. But I think if somebody said, like, if somebody said, if you would describe, or you asked 100 people, you know, who's James Dean and some of them were there when he was alive and the rest of him weren't, I think a common term would be like cool. Like, yeah. You don't know, I mean, like, if that's the visual definition of that, you know, so, but yeah, that would definitely be my choice, what about you? Yeah, it's interesting. You know, there's, there's something a little blue collar about being a visionary, though, or like a trend center. Or change the world that way. Yeah, I'm a creator. There's something about changing the game that is, that is sort of appealing to me, I guess. But iconic and timeless, usually comes with like, you know, some pretty cool benefits. Yeah, I mean, it's like, you, you know, do you want to be jeans and a white t-shirt? Or do you want to be that awesome outfit that it would reward for six months and then realize it was pathetic? Oh, hey, that's a good, that's an interesting reference. You know, that's how I look at it. Do you want to be jeans and the white t-shirt, or do you want to be one of those sequence? You know, right, sequence. I think, yes, if you look at it that way, that's a great way to do it. That's a great way to do it. So yeah, I got a lot of simple ones, but I actually dig them. We'll have the same answer for this. What do you think about people calling themselves natural when they're not? I don't know, I don't really care about other people. I'm so new, we were going to have to say, we had to buy out of the front. Kind of really care. I just, like, I don't know. I just don't really care about what other people say and do. It doesn't bother me. Well, I mean, it's lame. Yeah. Like, but I don't pay enough attention to be like, I can't even think of anyone who does. Like, I don't know who actually does that. I've heard, I know people say people do that, but like, I don't know who actually does that. Who says they're natural and they're not. You're in any ways because in this day, and I just like, nobody cares. Like, I got called out recently by a guy in one of my posts. He's a guy, well, don't forget you're on steroids. And I was like, well, everyone here knows that. That was, that's, I also drink water. I mean, I assume everyone kind of knows these things. I didn't need to point it out that that coupled with training hard was what I was getting at. You know? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, now I'm, I'm the, I knew we would answer at the same. I don't care about those types of things, but one thing that's along the same lines I brought up yesterday was, I am amazed at the, the fraudulent way of being something you're not in the way. Yeah, I industry. I saw your little Instagram story. Yeah, that's her obsession. So that's sprung up because a guy that I bumped into, he has a following, it's more than double mine, which is who gives a shit. I don't really care. But it throws it off when no matter what you post, you're getting 700 clicks. I could take a picture of my dog shit and get 700 clicks. Like, if I put a funny thing, look how big my dog shit is, click this. Like, so basically my point was who are you lying to? Roll cares. I don't, I don't keep track. And that was kind of my tangent is the people who I'm most respect in the world, some of them don't even have social media, let alone fake it. But yeah, so that's more a comment about you versus yourself than like, if you're not natural and you claim you are, I'm like, okay, they all, I guess they all come back to the same thing, which is insecurity. So that's fine. Yeah, and then of course there's everyone's going to have a semantic argument to what natural even means. Yeah, well, I'm definitely not whatever that is. Yeah, that's me. I'm not a plant. That's funny. I got an interesting one. Yes. What bodybuilder? 80s only. What 80s bodybuilder? Would you like to train with in their prime? 80s. Good spot. That's funny. I was going to say this party too. Yeah, because I think there's a man here. Yeah, because he trains super fucking hard all the time. He has a really good reputation for training really hard. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's that's hilarious. Because I thought I thought about maybe sand Tom Plats, but all I really know about Plats is training is his leg training. I don't really know anything about his leg if it's other training. You know what else that I like is, and some of this is done for you, some of this is done by you, but Gaspari was known for being the way he was, but he never really talked about it. Like it was just who he is. It was like you're not going to be watching a Macho Valley video, motivation video, and here Gaspari do a long interlude about training hard. It was just like that's what you fucking do. Yeah. Whereas I'm less inspired by the talk. You know, I know a lot of people like really get it. I know Guy, for example, Sister Nina, he'll go on pretty good tanges and they're hardcore. Like I definitely see how people click with them. Right. I don't need that shit. I just see, that's not how it's not how you would express. Yeah, yeah, I get it. No, I don't, I don't, I don't, I don't look at, I've never heard branch Warren go on a big thing about how he trains. We just all know. He's right. Yeah, right. You know what I mean? And that's how I vision Gaspari to as he was just a maniac. Like I could look at his physique and tell you, disguise fucking nuts. Yeah, play he had a real good rep for dieting hard too. I mean, he was kind of like one of the first stridey glue guys. Wasn't he? It was the first real stridey glue guy. You know, that's how I mean those. And I think that that again and you're right, that was diet. But I, yeah, I just know that the training was that way. I, and then I watch him like that's his life. It's like doing, you know, I remember it's been time with him. I really, always shit. I remember someone telling me, um, I know a few people that trained at goals in the 80s. Like I've had conversations lucky to be lucky to have some good chats. And the one guy was like, yeah, Gaspari used to, used to train like super fucking hard for like two hours. And then he would be like, oh, my carbs for the day. And he would eat an apple. Enjoy all 12 of those sir all the gifts. He'd show up and show up and train in the morning and then have his carbs for the day. But you just a single apple. So so yeah, they died at hard back then. Here's a good one. Yes. If you could, A, you got to choose one. Never get injured or never lose your hair. Never get injured. That's not even, it's not even a question. I think we all know the answer to that one. But I'd say it is funny because it's a question for you. Well, a lot of people ask, you know, it's weird. Is I actually had someone that's one of the questions here is, uh, if, uh, do I regret not taking what how you said the finastered, uh, to prevent hair loss earlier on my career? And the thing is it's not that I didn't know it existed. It's that I know how genetics work. And my mother's dad was ball the shit. So you know it's common for anyways. Yeah. It was like, now or later. Yes. You don't mean 30 or 45. Does it get different? It's the same shit to me. So yeah, it literally and plus I think when I look back at when I would have started that, every dollar mattered. Like right. When I got into it when I started competitively by building, it was very much like, okay, how much money do I have? That's how I like it. It's kind of funny. But I laugh because I get questions about guys like, for my first cycle, what should I get? And I remember thinking like, I have $86. What can I get with 86 bucks? Yeah. I'll take that. Yeah. Yeah. You know, so it is funny because people assume when your life style is changing, you're, you know, 13 years deep in the shit. They're like, oh, well, these always been other than do whatever. Like, oh, no. Yeah. I was like, what do you have? It's almost out of date. I'll take that. Right. Right. Do. That's funny. And what are your thoughts? Let's talk about this because we've talked about it a lot, but it's nice to just like clear things up and give our current thoughts on it. Caseers updated information or experiences. What are your thoughts on Perry workout nutrition? So obviously he's talking about the pre-intreposed window. How do you tell your clients about that period of time? What do you usually do? What do you think works best or looks best on paper? Makes most sense on paper versus works best in real life. What do you think? So that was the, I mean, it's an interesting question. Because I have, I have altered that over years. I used to be, I used to be a little too locked into the science. And my fear was blood in my stomach versus in my muscle for digestion of any sort. So I was worried about that in the past. So I was always afraid, like I used to eat my meals two hours before I trained in nothing. Nothing. Now it's really person to person. I believe, I understand that recovery is for sure there, but I think of, whatever you have to do to make sure your workout is as hard at the end as is the beginning. So you don't run out of speed, don't run out of steam. Because we all know there's a difference. They're like, I still eat two hours before I trained. I want my stomach empty. Right. I'm training. I just don't like to feel anything. I don't want to be cinch in my belt up because I eat a big meal, obviously. But then, it's kind of a running joke at the gym, but very regularly in the middle of a workout. You know, you have those two packs of sneakers that I like the two little thing in there. I'll bust out and eat one of those like halfway through a workout on the regular. Oh, really? Yeah. It's just like, I keep them in my bag. I knocked out one of those that has nothing to it and I'm good to go. And I have been drinking now because of my new sponsor. They have an intro. And I said, fuck it, I wanted to try everything that they make. Yeah, from jump so you give good feedback on it. And it's got some carbs in it. It's very light. It doesn't have any digestion issues. But for me, I didn't notice a change between that and just taking the EAs by themselves, as far as what I felt. Right. But I think that's primarily due the fact that my meal is pretty large before I come in. So that's why I say it's personal person. And I tell all my clients like when I first send out their plans, there's no supplements written. None. Right. And they're like, oh, what about supplements? I want to manage money to have. Because there are supplements that are valuable. I can spend 500 bucks a month of years if you want me to. But if you've got 50, I'm going to tell you exactly what you use. Yeah. You know what I mean? And so point being is to answer the question, I don't think it's the most important thing. But look, everything should come back to how hard the workouts and how's your recovery. And what does that nutrition do to alter that in a positive light? Yeah. So I want to say a few things. So for most people, when they think of the pre-intrend post workout window, all they need to worry about is that the most important thing is their food for the day. Like, there's nothing beats your food for the day, like your total food for the day. If you're getting your food in, you should have stored glycogen by the mountain, full or by the, by the, of truck full, you should have plenty of liver glycogen. You've got some fat. You can use for energy. Like, if most people don't need to worry about whether they can make it through their workout. If they're nutrition throughout the day is on point. The thing about the peri workout thing, you know, the wall, especially the intra, you know, I know peri is pre-posts, whatever. But, you know, if you eat a good meal, like say steak and rice, fucking, I don't know, whatever. Chicken and potatoes need a normal body building meal, whatever you eat. At least an hour before you train. Like, I always try to have at least an hour so that I'm, you know, empty stomach and all that sort of stuff. 90 minutes is great. Two hours on like day, that's kind of my rule. As long as you got a good meal in your usual way out of train, hydration and sodium and electrolytes are more often than not the reason why people don't have good workouts because they're not hydrated enough and all that stuff. Most people aren't carb depleted. They're eating junk food. Right. Right. Right. So it's like, yeah, they're in there. But a lot's of body fat to use and it's as most people aren't, it's not a food issue with most people. It's a water and an electrolyte issue when they have shitty workouts and bad pumps and stuff. And so that's something that most people need to address. However, the intro workout window looks great on paper. Having clustered extra in there looks great on paper, having EAAs in there looks great on paper. Makes sense technically, you know, with a whole like passing through the gut quickly and efficiently and the adiata and all the essential amino's being present in the bloodstream, blah, blah, blah, blah. So for those reasons, I think that if you have the money for that stuff, it's a great idea because who knows over a long period of time, you know, what we're going to, you know, over the course of a year, you know, how much better we work out, how much better did you recover, how much more muscle did you put on? Like I said, I don't have any scientific evidence to show that X amount of muscle came from EAAs, but there's things that we do because they make a lot of sense on paper and there's no reason to think they wouldn't be a good idea. You know, it's not like we also have an opposing study that shows that EAAs, you know, lower your response to, um, you know, like epinephrine and like adrenaline or anything like that, there's no study that shows it buffers your mood or or anything. So, you know, with no reason to believe they're not a good idea. I think, too, you have to factor in regardless also, of studies and things like that and some levels, what did you see in your training? You know, I've never, I've never been someone who can get hit with placebo because I don't really think about it. Right. I'm seeing that. So, I find myself to be so, I'm usually so skeptical that placebo just won't happen for me. Yeah, so I've had a few times of my life where I've used a supplement. In fact, one of them, it was a product that I force used to make and they stopped making it because it didn't sell, but it had crystalline fructose in it which restores the liver glycogen first. Okay, I had some other things in it too, but long story short was, I started using it and I remember one day I had a really good chest workout, which has always been pushing as my weakness. I didn't think any of it. I was like, oh, good work out. Then the following week, I had another really good chest workout. It took four weeks for me, your weight a minute. I've only changed one thing and I didn't pay attention to the other workouts because they're always good. Right. Likes I just can do what I can do and I went, oh fuck. This works for me. And I bring that up because right now that the world and the the science now says that branch chains are complete garbage and we should throw them away and they suck. And I'm like, what about the last decade that I used them and can absolutely tell you when I did or did not happen? Right. Sorry bullshit. Like, I don't, I don't give a fuck what your study says about that because I can't deny what I got out of them for a decade and if I took them out for a week or so, I could tell. Right. You know what I mean? So I do think people have to and I don't, I'm not saying ignore science because obviously it's got its reasons and there are things to to be said, but you can't ignore what you see there. It's like people also go off about that. There's nothing magic about going on fish versus chicken agreed on paper. But I also can say every time I've ever done it, my skin becomes gone. I don't know why it doesn't make sense on paper. Science doesn't back it, but every time I've ever done it, which means guess what, the end of a show, I'm all like fish and I'm taking my shit to see through once again. You know, so it's a meaning. It lights. Yeah, that's another example. Egg whites like egg whites versus a boiled chicken to get rid of all the fat. It's the same, but it's not. You know what I'm saying? And I've all, I've went down to all the way thinking like I envision chewing chicken versus chewing cod. I think was that how am I digested to? That simple little difference. You know what I'm saying? I'm not working through it. I don't know the the reasoning behind it, but I do know the result is different. So it's hard for me to, you know. So I think point is, people should pay attention, same thing with their interest and stuff. If you absolutely can tell a difference, then there are a must. Yeah, I think people focus way too much on their pre-workout and not nearly in that they should put more put more into their nutrition and their post-workout nutrition and all that stuff. They focus way too much on their pre-s. I know people that can rattle off every ingredient of every pre-workout, but they miss meals. Yeah, same thing with drawing. I'm like, dude, you miss meals. Like, you know, that pre-workout is not going to make a difference for you because you miss meals. Yeah. For like, you're just like, yeah, you get your basics. And I always had a rule where I had to eat within an hour of training. Right. You know, I don't believe you have to like finish the last set and then immediately eat a meal. I don't believe that that's necessary. I think people underestimate how long their previous meal stays with them. Body builders have this really fucked up completely wrong idea that because we eat every two to three hours, that means we're going immediately going catabolic as soon as the three hour of the month. Yeah, three hours and three minutes. It's like, oh my god, I'm in the negative. I'm in a calorie deficit all of a sudden. I'm suddenly in a deficit. I'm dieting. I just started dieting three minutes ago. I'm flat. A flat. It's like, you ate steak and potatoes and vegetables three hours ago. Steak is like takes like eight hours. Today, just the meadows are leaking into your bloodstream. For the rest of the day, the carbs will get in there a little quicker, but the veggies are slowing everything down. It's a big, long process. You're not a starving child. Like, you're fine. You're going to be fine. You're not going to shrink. You can drive home. You can cook your meal. You can eat it. Of course, I urge people to eat their meal. Relatively close to their workout. Just so they're not behind on their meal the next time. You know, like, you're thinking about the number of hours or a week. Yeah. I'm just thinking about like, if you're a great adult, evenly. And then also it's easier to eat your food if you spread it out, you know, you're not pilot meals on top of each other. So yeah, that's relaxed a little bit. Get your meals in. Yeah. You're going to talk about that. You factor those things into. I've had I've planted a very busy different times a year. I'm suffering. I'm like, here's what I care about. You see all the food I wrote down all of it. Yeah. Eat all of that before you go to sleep. And nothing else. Okay. We're good. I just remember to guy. Remember how you said earlier, meal one is when you get up. Yeah. Yeah. So that was just, didn't need to be told to me. Like my concept has always been that. I mean, when I was young bodybuilder, I lived with a friend who worked shipwork. Yeah. We keep work nights and days and stuff. And I mean, he always called breakfast the meal after he gets up. Yeah. Right? You know, sensible. I mean, we'd die training together sometimes and stuff. But I remember I met this guy one time I was working the bar and he had this giant tub of like potatoes and chicken. Right. And it was like his whole day is worth the food. And he's like sitting there and he's like eating it, eating it and plowing through it the whole shift. It's like all he did to sit on a stool and eat. And he's dieting for a show and I'm like, dude, you're like, you're just pile, you're like, do you even have meals? You're just like eat all day out of this. Like how much food are you dieting on? Right. It's like, oh, I, I have to get this all in. And then when I get home, I self doubt my breakfast. And I go, what do you mean breakfast? And he's like, well, by the time we go to bed, it's four in the morning. So it's like breakfast time, I'll pretty much, I don't want to miss breakfast. Because I sleep till noon and I'll miss breakfast. So you've been eating all day. So he eats his egg whites and his oatmeal, his breakfast at like 430 in the morning and it goes to bed and sleeps to like one and then gets up and like has a meal and goes and trains and does his day. And then would go to his door shift and hammer four or five fucking meals were the food during his shift. And then I breakfast before bed. And then I breakfast before bed. You're okay. We're just calling something different. I got you. And I'm just like, oh, what a weird way to look at it. You're up thinking of myself. So you're having eggs and toast for dinner. Cool. Yeah, just so funny. Like it was just the way he looked at it. It was like, well, I don't want to miss breakfast because I sleep till noon. So he wakes up in the morning and he has to eat fish and in the happily because you couldn't possibly have fish and broccoli at 1 p.m. Just so far I should say couldn't have egg whites. Yeah, no, like lunch time. It's like breakfast is something that happens and if he's not there, it like can't happen. Yeah, imagine if he slept through it. If he got home, he's going to have a midnight. Yeah. And then there's no breakfast. He slept through breakfast. Oh, man. Crazy McDonald's. They actually stop serving it. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. That's the thing. He can't make oatmeal after 11. Micro-aive like fuck you all see tomorrow. It just pushes the oatmeal back out. No, no. We're the time asshole. We don't do oatmeal at 1 p.m. I do oatmeal at 1 p.m. Yeah. That's so funny. Oh, man. It's all how you look at it. See, you know, my annoying ass should have to have a conversation. I don't have to make this make sense to me, man. We've been in our, we would waste an hour of our lives. So that's the reason. So somebody asks me, it's like, no, no. I think I think I may, so I'm the type of person that would have thought, hmm, that's stupid. Right. That's my first thought. And then I would have thought, I'm just going to subtly mention something and see what he says. So I would have been like, oh, yeah, that's cool. Yeah, you know, I tend to, I tend to have my breakfast foods after I get up. When I wake when I wake up. And then I would have just like seen what he said. You think what you can't fucking do? That's 4 p.m. Yeah. That is asthma. I can see you. Wait. Yeah, see that's great, though, because like that, those are the people I would have to. I would have to ruin his life in that. I run. It's time to get serious. Okay. All right. You and I are allowed to lead, allowed to lead for a porn director. What would our movie look like? So we're directing a porn now. Oh, come on now. No one needs to know my, my, my, my sick ideas. Let me ask you this, though, like, is there a storyline like, you know, they all have to know. It's totally gone, though. I said, I don't know. It's to that either. I don't need the guy with the milk to show up at the door. Now I believe he's the milk man. Like, snow, no, but all be, I appreciate the visual themes. So there'd be like, you know, the really clean sets, clean sets would be a big thing. No, like hotel rooms with like fucking blankets hanging over the windows. It would be like it would look nice. You know, be rent. We'd we'd have to rent like, um, you know, a $10 million house in North Vancouver. Right. Right. Yeah, which we've already done for a video. For a porn video. I was eating pizza, but whatever. We'd read like some mansion in North Van or some swanky condo downtown with a crazy viewer. Some and we'd we'd even get a set director get it like real nice. So the the pillows on the couch match the bikini that the girls starts in, you know, the whole thing. See, yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? And there's maybe a couple colors. There might be like like a neon color and like a like another color to offset it with a white couch. You got to set it up. It's got to look good. You know, you got to think, hey, what are we learning from working in something in the street and running YouTube and all that? You got to think of the thumbnail. It's very true. It's a thumbnail has to capture enough attention. So it needs like a super hot chick and it has to look high budget. You spent some money on this. I just got to spend some money. You guys spend money to make money dusty. Good camera. Maybe even two camera shoot. But yeah. Let me go to the mine show. Yeah, you know, it's going to be it. You want to keep the set very minimalist. So the performers could really just explore the space. But you need enough people on hand that the production gets done correctly. It's actually funny because you know now that I've I've talked to a few people in the industry like there's nothing enjoyable about it. I got cut cut cut. Now I'm like, clean it. Cut me right now. I'm in the middle of something. It's some wipes. Like literally so you're like, they get done with the day. And I'm like, so the sex is actually terrible while you're making a point. You're a bunch of fun. Yeah, that's cheap. Cleaner ass cheek. Look, it's got all like a reflection. I can't have it be like real life where that actually just happened in fucking keep going. No, it takes a dick out of her button goes, give me a ball of water. You're going to have to go for several hours. Yeah. What's like, I hear the bathroom. Are you serious? Yeah. No, trust me, Dusty. Those girls do not have to go to the bathroom. That's been handled. They want to have to go for several hours. Certainly handled for sure. So, we done that question. I don't know if we should be done that question. I might come back to this in a little bit. I get another idea. So, yeah. Yeah. So, and then we have to make sure, you know, you got to have a good ratio. This is important of the like strip T's intro to actual scene. Right. Because sometimes you get like there's like a seven minute strip T's intro. And then like yeah, that's one. Yeah. I already skip. I'm like skip to head. It's a waste of their time. Yeah. What did you just put so much effort into this shit? She could just walk in like that and then they could be gone. I'm going to need to see it come off. You know what else I like? Here. Here. Tell me if you like this too. Here's one thing. I had this discussion with someone. Do you want to do you want do you want to grow to say anything? Or do you want to just model? No, I don't want to speak because half the time to the worst actresses you've ever seen. So it's painful because they're talking and I'm like, I got to watch your eyes read it. Yes, baby. You looked so good. The old talking I want is real talk. So she's like, she's like, hey, I'm here for the anal scene. I'm really excited. Right. Yeah. Like, like, like, like, you're a, what is it? Someone owns their shit. I'm like, yeah, old school. You know, when you watch him, you're for the gang bang. Be awesome. We tell you this is your first time. Well, you want me to be honest. You want me to tell you this is my first time. Does this your first time with four guys? Well, on camera. I have to tell you this. I have to tell the whole world this. So I saw a screenshot from a Twitter thing. This girl put up a post. I don't care if this is really not the ruin my game. It was awesome. But someone put up that, you know, they had the worst news because they got pregnant after having a train ran on him. And the, and the first comment was, I can't help you with who the dad is, but please name the kid Thomas. I fucking lost it. That's so funny. I just see the one. Why is my name Thomas? How do I talk about it? Hey, you got to play play with fire. You might get burned. That's a rough one. It's a rough one. Okay. Is it, is it your turn or my turn? Do you have a question? I did. Is your turn. That's right. I'm almost still. I'm almost upset that you've got the porn question. I wonder if I'm losing my touch. Oh, yeah. So I got to move the question. Oh, boy, this guy. He, he sent me a DM. Because it wasn't enough, wasn't enough space on the, yeah, to get what I mean. So, and I like it. Because it is it is good. So he asked three different questions because he believes they might yield three different answers. Okay. I'm right at the gate. So who knows it might be all one movie. I'm not sure. Okay. So favorite movie when someone says what your favorite movie what do you say? Second one is movie that you'll always stop on if you're watching TV and you're changing channels and you see it. You saw a stop on it. Right. And then the third one is your desert island movie. So that would mean you'd have to watch it over and over again. Oh, there are not enough. That's three different questions or not. That is three different answers. Yeah. That's three different. Yeah. You know what I mean? I'm not. You know, might be two might be one. I'm just saying. Yeah. That's definitely three different answers for me. And the old sucks is favorite movie is almost impossible for me. Yeah. And it's because like what day is it? What's happening? Like yeah. There's there's there's so many different answers. Yeah. I mean because I could name it. I could literally lay out an answer that I would object to ridiculously in an hour. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So can you you want to go? So I'm going to go forward anyways because I'm going to. Okay. So okay. I'm going to start with my my movie I always stop on is the Matrix. Oh yeah. I can't not. I don't know why. People. So let me just say this for anyone listening. 21 year old movie. I remember my brother called me one day in like 1999. I remember he told me and he was like my brother never calls me like I'm talking fucking ever. So he's my brother. Like yeah. My brother is like you my family doesn't really call each other. So it's not a big deal. But like when I see my bro at Christmas, it's like hey I was going and we're all good. But he doesn't call me. Yeah. So he calls me and he's like I just have to tell you that I went and saw the Matrix last night. And I was guiding for a show and in college. So I was so busy that I was like, oh yeah. I sort of heard there was some movie that was good. And he's you have to go tonight. It is incredible. You will fucking love it. My brain is like bent. And I was like, oh and my brother I don't think my brother ever recommended a movie to me before. So I immediately went and people who haven't seen it, it is so fucking great. So ahead of its time. And it's so funny to watch it now because it sort of makes you think like fuck. It's so true. So true. You know the whole red pill blue pill thing. I'm sure there's people out there that have heard red pill blue pill. And it only means. Yeah. Yeah. That's that's that one. Oh and by the way, I'm getting honorable mention the days of thunder. Because I stop on that fucking movie every time. Okay. That's good. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. What is yours of that? What is your all that? Well, and then you got to give me your desert island. Desert island. You can have to watch it over and over and over. So it has to be something that you can handle. Wedding crashes. Okay. They'll funny to me every single time. That's hey. There's nothing. I think I've actually already desert islanded that one living in my house. So right. That's just another one of those movies. Yeah. Plus it's positive movie. I imagine if you're on a desert island. Probably. It's last. I'm going to hold on to my, because I am going to make a statement on my favorite one today on an argument that's tomorrow. But once for once we're there, you're going to do your two first. So I can get gutsy. Okay. So favorite movie. And I guess I sort of think like this is the movie that you'd wreck. You you really want everyone to watch. Make sure everyone's seen this. Because it's your favorite movie. You know what I mean? Right. That's sort of how I see favorite movie. Like you can't believe when people haven't seen it. You're like, oh fuck. You missed out. But I usually tell people pulp fiction. Good choice. I just thought there was so much at that time when it came out like the way it was structured. You know, and everything and the casting and the writing and the soundtrack. And like that movie was just an absolute fucking piece of work. You know, it was Tarantino just let it all out on that thing. Like it was it was awesome. One of the greatest movies ever made. And some really fucking awesome dialogue in there. You're definitely not a butch. I think it's classic to me about that movie is I did not know because I was not. I used to go to movies, but I really, I just got a movie. You know what I mean? Yeah. I didn't realize that like that's where Samuel Jackson basically came from. Yeah. Or that that essentially put Travolta back on the map after being gone for the most time. I was just come back. Yeah. Yeah. And and Tarantino thought he would fuck. Because someone else was supposed to play Vincent Vega. I can't believe I can't remember who it was. He had someone else lined up to be Vincent Vega. Someone watching. I'll know. And then at the last minute it did fell through and then Travolta. I look at a Travolta. I can't remember a story. But yeah, that was like Travolta's big huge comeback. And you know Bruce Willis is in it. And you got such an awesome character. Yeah. That is definitely gold for sure. I can definitely side with you on that. And then movie I'll always stop if it's on TV. I guess I have to say die hard because the only time I really watch TV like cable TV is at Christmas time. And I always stop on it. It's like if I had to think of which movie have I stopped on the most in my lifetime. Right. It's probably die hard. I can see it. It's because of Christmas time and you know what TV watching. Yeah. I'm the same. I don't even have cable. So you know. And then desert island movie. That would have to be something that made me, you know, happy and all that stuff. And give you like a thrill because you got to watch it over and over and probably remind me my childhood. I would probably say, fuck, it might even be Star Wars. Might even be, might even be the original Star Wars or Empire Strikes Back or something like that. I could always have that on the background just because I grew up on that and it's like, right, you know, real happy time movie on a desert island. So yeah, any of those. Just solid. So yeah, some of your sorts of movies, things because as we're talking, I start thinking of more movies. Yeah. This is why I can't do a best ever. Because like for example, you know, it just entered my mind while you're talking with that casino. Yeah, like one of my favorite movies ever. Yeah. But then it's also like it's like a three hour movie. So it's like, you know, the elicit is like your favorite like do you want to watch it 30 times? Exactly. No, it's a lot of it's a large chunk of your life if you were. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. There's so many. But I would say that that's a good list. That that's a good breakdown. Okay. Okay. Your turn. You were ready. Well, no, I was too in. I was way too in. Oh, here we go. Show us what you did. I was I was invested. I got that same one about the hair and the thing that's interesting. Okay. This is a good one. People always talk about keeping gear low. But what is low? Under a gram, under 1500. And he's talking about total numbers. Wow. I would it's a minute. It's just changed so much over the years. I would say keeping your total under a gram would be a great idea for a vast majority of body builders. The bottom line, they probably would be a lot healthier for it. They probably make just as good a gains in a lot of cases. For the most part, it's usually about like the quality of stuff you're using and how you're using it more than just total numbers. Right. You know, like I I knew a guy that you know, he was taken 1,000 milligrams of prima bull in a week. And he was doing it because he thought, oh, well, prima is not liver toxic. And it's you know, it's like really mild, right? But prima was a DHT derivative. And when he got his blood work done after months and months and months and months, like he almost considered a thousand prima like almost considered it like crews. Oh my god. And you got his blood work done after months and months and months and his cholesterol was absolutely like the fuck to the point where they were like really, really concerned. And then he unfortunately wound up having a heart attack. He's okay now, but he wound up having a heart attack and his, his obviously his cholesterol numbers were a massive part of that because they were really, really bad. Right. Like emergency bad. So so and then it, you know, I think it was within a year. He had the heart attack. So, you know, those, you know, it's more than just dose, you know? Well, to say you're taking and also I think you got a factor in, I think we're most people lied to themselves is, I won't lie and say, oh, I've been, I'm under a gram all the time. But in the off season, it's like next to nothing. So then when I'm actually prepping, I'm mind you, I have a competed in two years. Right. Then yeah, there'll be, there'll be 600 tests. There'll be 300 adrenaline. There'll be 300 master. I'm like, look, I'm already a 1200. I have that anything I'll say. And so it's not to bullshit. You can say, oh, I take next to nothing all the time. But that's time period of like eight weeks. That's exactly it. Where, yeah, I'm blasting, you know, I mean, I'll just get crazy and say maybe $159 milligrams during an eight week time period with everything I can think of like a possibly throw in the mess. Yeah. Yeah. That's a ton for a very small period of time. But in the off season, I'll blast away on four on a milligrams of test. Yes, so here's a funny thing like I've been 320 plus pounds on like 500 tests, 309. Yeah. And maybe a bit of GH. And I've been like 320 on that. And the strongest I've ever been. Whereas I've been, I've also been on 2500 milligrams of total stuff on stage at 265, you know, pretty ripped. So it's, it's the last eight weeks of contest. And that was one, that was just the one year that I ran. Like I, I went, I went that one year when I say that number 2500, I never took that much for any other show. I did that once. And it didn't really yield a better result. So that's why I say I'll need it at once. But, but the point is is like off season when you're eating, you don't need to run these higher doses. And you don't need most of the compounds are irrelevant. You don't need them, not irrelevant. But just, you don't need them. Yeah. And yeah, and you got to be healthy if you want to train and compete long enough to get good. So try to be sensible about what you're doing. Yeah. I think that you nailed it, though, to his off season is simple and his low is needed. And that's everything is it's like food. I get a lot of times you get that question of like, well, how many carbs should I eat? And it's like, well, I don't know. But start here at S. We'll see where it goes. See what happens. Lesser more. And with gear, start less. Yeah, I'll start less. Because if you started a gram of three different things, you're taking three grams, you're not going to think the answer is that you should be at a gram total. Right. You know, so start low sea results or don't see results. And then go from there. But again, this is where I have the one girl who asked a ton of questions she always says, why do we, why do we downgrade the importance of gear? And it's like, no, it's not. It's not that we're downgrading. It's that we're pointing out the fact that without the food, the result from the gears questionable anyways. What's happening? You know, I mean, you can't rely on it as the BL end all if the if the food's not there. If your food is correctly shocked at what 770 dollar milligrams will give you in the off season. Yeah. Yeah. I always found for me, and I mean, I won't bullshit it all. Like I pushed the doses up before in the off season. But I found I felt so bad the eating became difficult. Training wasn't as good. So I always had to, I started working things backwards to my answer to all my clients is the same. Okay, cool. What's your training like right now? I always want to hear the trains at its peak. And that's how I look at diet and drugs and everything else. If I increase the food too much and your training starts to alter or we're gaining way to the pace that's fast enough that we're getting low back pumps and shit like that. I'm like, oh, on paper that looks awesome that you're gaining, but it's affecting the training, okay. We got to back it down. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So simple simple simple. You're turning. Okay. What what TV? What television characters or actresses did you have crushes on? Oh, listen, Milan, which I hate saying now. Oh, she's not. Yeah, but man, she was hot when I was a kid. So she's who's the boss, right? Yes. That's funny. Um, peg Bundy. Of course. Okay. Yeah. Yes. It's something about the milk factor there. Um, trying to think, oh, and then when I was at that age carmeletro. Okay. Yeah. Hey, that was a that I now one didn't know Sarah. No, the 90s. Yeah. She's still with her. So yeah. Yeah. That's a Jew. Um, so I remember having a huge crush on Donna from that 70s show Redheads. Yes. Yeah. Eddie huge crush on her. I still like that. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. But I had I had a crush on Donna and and then that actress I can't believe a camera her name right now. I'm judging you for that. But go ahead. Yeah. Because so that actress wound up in oranges in a new black. Right. Right. And she except she doesn't have red hair. She has black hair in in it. And she wears glasses. And during that while that show was on, Emily would have people tell her when she'd ever glasses on sometimes people would say, Hey, you know, you look like and she'd go you grow from the oranges new black and they go, yeah. And I happened a bunch of times and I thought it was so funny that I had a crush on her so many years ago. And now I'm dating a girl who had that. Yeah, was getting accused of like, Hey, you know, he looked like. Mm-hmm. So I just thought it was funny. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So that that's who else you don't get one. You have to be right. I mean, I don't fan weight. That's to your frozen. Do I look weird of my cross style? I don't know if this is frozen or judging me both. You're there. I'm here. Van away. And I get that. But you know, me, I don't typically lean towards blondes. But yes, yeah. No, just what if, you know, she was also glamorous. You know, can I buy a buy a vowel? You know, turning the letters? Yeah. It was good. You know, I remember being young and there would be a couple of the prices right girls said I was like, well, that's really pretty. But you know, you're like a little kid. No one knows why I'm watching this. Betty Rubble. I think my first crush. Maybe why I'm a way of why I like to brew nuts. I don't know. First across that floor. It was all the way back to Betty Rubble, dusty. You know, Wilma was a little naggy for me. Well, I'm going to back that. I'm just going to add a little shout out to a lot to put up with Fred was a bit of a dick. So so yeah, there you go. Does that satisfactory? I can handle your list. All right, Ron, this one's for you. What was the hardest part of starting a gym? Oh, hardest part? There's no one part that's it's not like that. It's like the whole thing. It's just just big huge job. So there's a million moving parts, right? And it's just just putting in that you just have to like, you know, once you're committed to an opening date, there's nothing you just have to get it done. Right. So like the hours were ridiculous. That first month. So we signed a lease and in one month our rent was our first month rent was due. So we were like, okay, well, I think we paid our first month or whatever, but we knew that like it was coming. It was coming. So we're like what we have to open in like 28 days. So we had to get all the equipment. Keep it we were keeping get rid of the junk, get the new stuff in, paint the entire room, Renault, a bunch of shit that was fucked. It was a lot of work. But I'd say probably the thing that stressed me out the most because we were each handling different things. Right. One guy was kind of taking, making sure the police got painted and ran out. Right. And another couple guys were doing this and setting up the computer system in bubble. So but I was handling equipment. So I remember I bought a bunch of leg equipment. I had some Atlantis and some arsenal stuff coming from out east. Right. And it didn't show up until late afternoon the day before we opened. So I was like really nervous. The leg equipment was going to be there. Because we had everything else kind of set up and we had big holes on the floor for where the leg press was going to drop and the hack squat was going to drop and it's big places on the floor ready for it. Just hadn't showed up yet. And I was like tracking it on my phone. I'm like, what the fuck? It says it's in town. And like, you know, one of those things. Then a semi pulled up with like 430 in the afternoon on Saturday. We opened Sunday morning. Yeah. So that was I guess for me that was like that as soon as that truck pulled up, I was like, because you don't want to be the one. You're the you're the you're the chink in the armor. Yeah, you know, everyone else gets there. We clink. Petersers set up staff is hired. Bathrooms are functioning. You know, quote me. Yeah. Yeah. We're missing one very important piece, the especially leg equipment. Because that in my opinion is your gem is your leg equipment. Okay. So I have I have a follow-up question to this question because it's important. What do you credit? Primarily the culture that you have in your gem. Because I'm now that I've been in a gem from start to today, like true start point. Culture is everything. It's the reason that the gem is busy. Because at the end of the day it's like a nightclub. Other than that, you've got equipment and a fucking room. So um, well, I think the fact that the ownership group was in there working like turning ranches, you know, drilling holes in shit, cleaning, wiping equipment, greeting the new members. I think that's a big part of it. I mean, we always had great staff that were smiling and friendly and great. Like staff staff was great. But I think it also came from like when we opened the ownership group was like in there. Right. You know, and so when people came into sign up, they're like, oh, there's like, you know, always one out of five owners was there. Like, you know, the owners are here all the time and they're like helping, you know. So that sets a bit of a tone. But I think that I honestly think the music is a huge part of why our gem is different from everyone else's. And there's a lot of gems doing it now, but but not around here in 2017 when we opened like everyone else's plan like satellite radio, like the top 40 station just so nobody complains about anything. Right. And we were playing like, you know, I mean, three years has gone by. Like, it's a lot more common now. But like back then, like you'd walk in and hear like old metallic alive and then you'd hear an NWA song unedited. Right. And then you'd hear like, you know, Samacey DC and his loud. Right. And then you'd hear, you know, like it was just a punk rock song fucking Ramon song that come on loud. And then you'd hear, and it's not about what the people listen to because almost everyone at our gym uses headphones. Right. But there's a huge mistake that people may when they think, oh, well, I don't want my gym uses headphones. So it doesn't matter what music I play. Right. I can just play top 40 radio because everyone that wants to listen to good music will just wear headphones. No, you're wrong. The mood is set when they walk in the door. If I've walked into gyms before that had the fucking traffic news on, I just want to kill myself. Right. Yeah. Right when you're walking the door, you're like, really. You walk in the door and there's like, you know, a fucking punk song on. And it's like playing pretty loud. And you're like, awake. Yeah. And it makes a difference. Like walk into Metro Flex in Texas. Yeah. You can't walk in there and be those. You don't need to actually walk in because you can hear it on your way in. Yeah. Yeah. You know. So it's, it's, it's, I mean music sets a tone. Like, you know what I mean? It's, you know, you're a difference between you go to like, you go to some cafes and they've got like some lay mass shit playing. Right. And then you go to like a cool cafe and there's like some like funky beats playing. Right. And they're like, I like this place way better. It might not even be the music that you would normally listen to, but it just sets the tone. It like this is a more of a mood in that room. Yeah. It's very true. Very true. So I don't care that people put headphones on. I hope, like people listen to whatever they want. It's not a vote making people listen to certain type of music. Just about setting a high energy. All the music we play at West Coast is high energy, relatively fast beat, you know, all sorts of stuff. Yeah. I do like the as you're a variety too, because that's the one thing like you said, people do want to, they want to feel it. But I do think it's important because I walk in and I change the music as soon as I get to the gym. Yeah. And you wear and don't you listen to headphones or no, I don't, you don't, but they're playing what I want. Yeah. Yeah. But yeah, like, and what's funny is what I listen to in the gym is not what I listen to during the day. So like right now I'm on, I'm on a slipknot playlist. Oh, are you? Nice. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Now. Yeah. It's, it's all, I mean, music like there's, you know what I mean? So we walk in. It's funny because I'll walk in and as soon as I walk in the other switches it, because that's my current thing. And sometimes I don't even record. I don't even know the song. So, but it's angry. I'm like, that's what I'm looking for. So I have a funny, uh, we're talking about music. Um, when we, when I hook up with those guys to ride, who we, Joe brings a little speaker, right? Right. Who to, and so the other night he goes, hey, you want to, you want to play some music? Yeah. And I actually, I go, you know what? I listen to whatever I want all the time. All day, all night, the drive here, home at the gym. Like, I don't listen to anything that I don't pick ever. Right. You know, you do this. So, you guys just knock self out. Right. What do I mean? So it's kind of fun because I've heard some music that I had to go, what is this? Right. A couple times. What is this? You know, I like this. I mean, so there's this in my life. Yeah, like I couldn't even quite define it, because there's certain types of music I generally don't like, right? Like, I'm not a country fan. I don't really care about most electronic music. Right. I don't get EDM. Just, I just don't. But there's the odd time you'll hear a track from one of those genres. Like, there's a, there's, you know, I have a favorite country song, but I don't like country music. Right. But so like the other, the other night, this like, electronic song came on. And I was like, wait a minute, this is actually what is this? This is cool. Right. Yeah. I need just one. That's what I got. I got to say, I've flown all the time just again. Yeah. Like, why do I, why do I like this one? But I don't really like this genre at all. Yeah. The other 30 songs before the suck, but there's, yeah, I didn't even notice them. They're just very violent, you know? So that's the, I like, when you get exposed to something, you know, that's one of the things I like about the people who watch this show, they send me music all the time. Right. And, and it's funny, some, I mean, obviously, I don't like everything they send, but some of the songs, they send, they're pretty cool. Right. And then, like, the one, one listener got the impression I was in, they're like super heavy metal. So you sent me, like, a bunch of death metal and I was like, oh, dude, I can't hear this. This is just, no, like, no region, death metal or, or what do they call it? You know, no region, black metal or whatever, like, it's just so crazy heavy. You don't hear anything. Laura prepon, fuck dusty. I knew I would fucking, and I see Emily with the dark hair. I see what they're seeing, but that's the girl from that 70 show, but without the red hair. She's way off. It would dark hair. Well, I wouldn't know. And I mean, I liked her in that 70 show. Here we go. I'm just talking. And they know, they know. Hey, Ron, what's the matter of role? Would you star in a porno and you get to pick the star you fuck? No. No. He's against it. He doesn't want to be in one. Why? I did it. I would never want to be in a porno. Who don't want to be in a porno? All the people you I'm just kidding. I'm all the people I judge. Oh, my god. Who's there's a good one? I would want to be in porno. I just like to watch it and judge those who make it dusty. But you give them a, but it's a, is there ever a good judgment like that's great work? Well, it is. I actually, I quite often see I like to be impressed. You can just stop the sentence right there. Click the chill off. We're done. I like to be a guy. Click show ends right there. I like to be impressed. Oh, yeah. That's me. Press. Hey, what do you want? Wait, right there. I appreciate being impressed. In general, that's fantastic. That's, that is funny. Okay. Okay. Yes. So we're reacting. I have to answer all these later. So don't be judged if I said who cares. Okay. This is fun. What lift in your career? Are you most proud of? Like, I must have been where we're talking about a single moment. I didn't really, I didn't really have any like crazy lifts or any like ridiculous stuff. I had some like strong periods where, you know, I think I got quite a bit out of my body for what I was doing at the time. The strongest I ever got was I squatted. I squatted six plates for a single one time. And it was fucking scary, man. But I squatted it. Right. And I think I was 23 or 24. Anyways, yes, squatted it. Scared to shit out of me. I squatted, sorry. I dead lifted. I did five and a half plates for five sets of five a few times, which I guess is quite a bit of volume if you let me show it out. But I did five sets of five and a half plates. That was my absolute strongest I ever dead lifted because I never really did a heavy single. So I don't really know, you know, it's funny because my answer, this is not what we were thinking. The proudest lift ever has the first time I pulled six plates because I fought it for a long time and couldn't get it. Oh, so you're talking it. Oh, so okay. So to me, it's probably that pressable. That's the amount of the greatest lift. I remember picking it up and putting it down and feeling like I just shook the world because I had missed it so many times. It was my four minute mile. Right. Oh, okay. I told this before like yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I got it one wrap and then a week later I got it for three. Yeah. But the one wrap that's that will doesn't matter what I do for the rest and I've pulled eight but that was the one like where I was like holy fuck. So if you're going to say that I would say then my proudest moment would have been I did a four 25 bench when I was 20 which I was super proud of because I was like I remember like I've never done it not a five inch. I remember just like being wide away like and like vibrating I was like I benched fucking for 25 because I'd never even touched four plates before. You went to four 24 24 24. Yeah. So yeah. So what happened was was John and I were training together in New Zealand in 1996 and we just I remember he we always trained Dorian style but this one day and we're just out of the blue. Like I run the imprepared for it. John was like let's bench heavy today and I was like oh okay he's one change things up he's like yeah I just wanted to do some benching. Let's not do like a normal chess workout it's just benched to see how we feel and I remember so so okay so he just started doing like doubles and racking it putting weight on doubles so I just started doing it we didn't even talk about it and then next thing you know he puts on four plates does a single and I was like fuck so I got under it and fucking did a single and I was like fuck a bench for a plate is it Kate we're going out and I was like oh we're going over for a plate because I just done something I'd never done before. Right. I was like I just benched for a plate so I'm like should I have ten of each I just fucking went for it. Yeah because it did 385 and I got it so I went 405 and I got it and then went to 425 and I got that and then he went to four and a half and he got it. It's 42 as we also all know that that's not at all how you would approach it if you were trying to see how strong you'd be you tired yourself out multiple times before going for the heaviest weight of your life. Yeah we took huge rest like we were there for like an hour and a half but I remember he did four and a half and and then afterwards we were like I think that's pretty good because we don't even really bench. I liked that too that's that's so the bro that you tell you like I think that was all right. Yeah that's pretty good and then I tell this story I've probably said it dozen times but the next day I had a big bruise on my arm and I wasn't sure if it was like try to perform related but it kind of scared shit out of me so I never did any heavy singles after that and then the six plate squat because I was really scared but I didn't want to fucking I was all talking myself into this six plate squat and then that day I wasn't really feeling it but I'd already told a bunch of people I was going to squat six plates and there was some guys at the gym no like at least one six plates a day and I was like fuck you broke literally my only rule because I told them that all the time I've I've never done something for the first time I guess I have a couple but I never went for something really big for the first time on camera or even recorded it right the first time I go for something I just feel like I never wanted to train for the camera or for people I just had a camera there I was just quietly put it on over in the corner by myself and go for it and just you know but because yeah I just have this fear of getting injured going for something like even what you said like the bench how many guys have that story where that's where they tore their pack yeah it's for some heavy benching today like random yeah you were 24 so that's something but but someone came with me now like let's do some heavy benz right yeah but you go fuck yourself and remember I'm right squat it remember I squat it four for a single and then I did five for a single and I had five and a half for a single and then I put six plates on and then I I did my knee wraps up like extra tight like I fucking did them up extra tight and I cranked my belt and I just went in like comma I'm just gonna go squat this fucking yeah whatever happens that's how you get strong though I mean you can't you if you doubt it miss yeah you know and I've missed plenty of times on on a squat I just knew how to get out so it was fine it's jump yeah yeah yeah you know the fucking what I would say that those are those are lifts just because I was like that squat I was pretty scared and then the bench I was like I thought John was crazy when he's like he was like we're going up you're hoping to do four I'm good well I you know how when you bench like I felt like the bar went up like one mile an hour I don't know your bar the bar went up flew up and you're like that's not what I remember how was I fight it for my life I just did it it did not fly up and he's like no I flew up you know and there's no video on the phone to check the bar speed or see if there's any possibility you can add weight you're all ears jerks I thought I saw you walk to the bathroom and come back during my rep I could have swore you walked away I came back or flew up yeah no it's funny because I do like to point that out though is that that's the impressive stuff for me because I see it in the gym too like I'll look over and see like a kid go after like a three-fifteen dad and and pull it in a way where I'm like that was impressive yeah yeah I get it all the time people have this thing in their head that if you're pulling seven eight plates you don't that's nothing to you and I'm like I can see when some of the locks in the set and I'm like oh fuck yeah yeah so this kid at the gym the other day was sumo deadlifting four plates and he was just like tapping the floor and going up again like bang and there were perfect reps and I know it's just four plates but he's a little guy like a frame smaller guy you know we got lots of muscle on him but I could just see his his core and his back were rock solid like like you know that whole hip breathing and I could just see the power like that's the how much tension he had running through his back because you know you could tell when someone's got a bit of a soft back yep and I could tell his back was just like iron like there was not fucking moving and he was just driving it with the hips boom boom and I was like oh that guy's locked in like that's him so if he's like crushing that weight and it's heavy for him and he's straining and he's like pushing himself and those faces purple but you just appreciate the effort you know yeah I think you would see things when you've been in the sport long or that other people can like I love to watch Jordan Peters train not because of the weight he uses but I really think he gets more out of every rep than anyone I know like I can I can pull what he can pull but I don't think I get like I watch every rep and I'm like fuck man he activated every fiber let's take every rep is last yeah but he didn't he gets three more you're like oh he's done and then he gets another one and it's like that's just impressive to watch if you ask me it's like that's what's not it's not even the weight it's like right his body's functioning different than mine you know what I mean yeah so I got a training one here true um someone asked him a question it's how would you program barbell squats barbell rows and RDLs or stiff leg deadlifts in a four day split to obviously you know keep your lower back healthy so what's your answer so let's assume they're on a four day split so was that training four days in a row and then a day off no it doesn't happen for you to just like the story this week yeah yeah it means to be too on one off too long too off would be how all right roll that um you know what's weird is that that's person to person um because for me if I was trying to maximize that my rows would be on the same day as my audience so my take on that is very similar but if I personally would do squats and stiff leg debts on leg day both on the same day right and then I would have my back workout half the week later right yeah so we have the same exact mentality just opposite thing I would say yeah separately and that would be you know three three to four days later than that one right and if yeah and if you wanted yeah and if you wanted to make it normal deadlifts I'd put those on back day with the barbell rows yep so yeah so you're kind of using your lower back twice a week right yeah and that's kind of because I do get that question a lot with how DC training works is sometimes because they're moving days you will line up that you did a you did RDLs one day and you're bent rowing the next day um sometimes it's just how false and what's funny is I find that's easier to do then I would hate to have say RDLs on a Tuesday and then blasting back on a Thursday that's when I can feel Tuesday's workout I don't feel it on Wednesday I'm good to go we can we can roll you know okay but I also think one thing guys are missing out on right now that I don't know how is the the Theragons the hyperisers those things what they do to prime a muscle before you train is immense I use hypervolt the hyperized company they make a foam roll that vibrates also I'll hit that before I train have you seen the high-press fear yeah yeah like it's like that but this is just probably about a 14 inch roller and yeah okay that on the low back and then it doesn't matter I could I could not push it out of the day before I'm going to go again it's funny you see in those guns everywhere now like this footage of um like inside the buck and ears locker room there's like yeah like all there's a gun there's a gun there's a gun there's like three of them laying around and then the fucking I see it in the bike world yeah like one of the guys I ride with he has a gun he uses it before he comes out use that home and then drives the spot yep yeah like everyone's using it they got they got yoga mats they fucking roll out and they stretch out and get all mobile and then they get and then they get going and then yeah it's it's like yeah every it's it's crazy you know you think about where sports was 20 years ago 30 years ago like when we're in hockey players we're chain smoking and then none of them lifted weights oh dude like I we we talked about that I used to get uh your honor here where it was just as long as your body happened and blast we used to it's funny because I look back like we used to I would my my diet was so terrible when I played like we could don't with a late night game and in mind you I'm on a team that's paying for everything yeah and but we had to get back home we were busing back home after a weekend trip they would pull off at 7-11 to eat so you get not chosen whatever the fuck you could and just be back on the bus and that was like pro wrestlers that's hockey like all right you're good to go and I think and now these kids would be like a fuck you're athletes while their parents would be calling how come I suddenly get nutritious meal they have a hockey school we're the fuck right you know yeah we're not chosen with the cheese sauce from 7-11 and a and a Mr. Pive is not dinner yeah yeah it's a different world now man everyone's got to perform and people push themselves so much harder because it's standard and everything is so much higher what's the thing you'll do like thinking about when we when we were when we were kids what it meant to be a great skater versus now yeah yeah you know like I see shit I'm like how the fuck did that just happen it's like no I know I'm I know I'm old because my first thought is no helmet a yeah what's this what was this you're speaking of well hey we're so we're also eating tidebods these days so let's say yeah let's not assume that makes them more impressive than that might just be stupid so yeah after sure so dusty very important question yes what is your favorite cheese is it on sandwich I don't know fuck tell us the difference well it really matters because I mean like I'm not putting pro alone on a cheeseburger okay I'm putting on turkey sandwich okay right and I mean am I do I have a what do the hell I can never see that word the board with the cheese and the meats and my wine yeah it's a very fancy thing then I got a variety of of cheeses okay so if I have to go with just one cheese okay I'm going classy I'm getting those moot I call them the moot cow cheeses they got the little cow on them and they're red little plastic shit around the outside okay that shit whatever that cheeses those are awesome and what do you do with those I eat is it you just eat them yeah they're not supposed to be like put on anything they probably are but I am white trash I just unwrapped them and I put them in my mouth what are you doing what kind of weird shit are you into I just eat that's their like Reese's pieces they're all this individually what do you do with them up boy and you see we're getting back to the porn question huh all right yeah it was late for what you're gonna say there oh see so here's a thing with me as I'm actually not a fan of many of the cheeses that I've tried really I'm very simple guy I like moots arella on my you know they put around pizza on my sandwich maybe or on my cheeseburger maybe a slice of cheddar on the burger or cheddar burgers good but other not I don't really I'm not a cheese guy now sorry not fancy no I'm not I enjoy good cheese but it's kind of like someone that's far classier than me I had ordered it and I was like oh that's good what is that that's how I function you know what I mean yes okay your turn neck lift we got time for a few more buddy you need a neck lift is that what someone said someone asked me about a neck lift I don't know what that means means getting your your chins your chins taking care of it oh here we go a local anesthetic for gyna surgery to say if money is that a bad idea no no bad idea it all you don't have to be asleep for that no fact I having nothing to do with money I'm not a fan of going under if you don't have to ever I told you about when I got my quad surgery right tell me the doctor your doctor asked he's like do you want to go under and I was like oh I have a choice and he's like yeah we can give you a you know a shot an epidural right just paralyze your your legs right and do it while you're awake and I was like oh okay so I actually said yes to that I don't know what I was thinking but I said yes and he's up we don't fucking do that so they bring me under the room and they set me up and he takes this fucking needle right and I realize all that given me a shot in my fucking spine I wasn't thinking I was like not thinking you thought there was going to put in your life I just wasn't thinking I just wasn't like thinking right and he comes in I'm like I don't want to check it out and he sticks it right in my spine right and I lay back down and like a few minutes goodbye I was like so your legs numb and I'm like no when he's like can you move around I go yep when I move around he's like oh a few more minutes because so maybe legs I'm like yeah he's a kind of fuck so he goes wow we're going to give you a second shot because they must have missed the the the cavity right so he fucking comes in and he's getting another shot and he's like I hear him say like oh I can't get in there and he's like like I can feel it in my back because he's trying to get you out dude I think he's comfortable like having a conversation so then he just pulls it out or no he stuck it in and then they lay back and they ask me again if he hears eggs I'm like yeah and he's like so then I he comes back he's like we don't think we can get find the spot because you've got too much muscle right and I'm first of on like isn't the spine like is it still the same place yeah still in the same place right there's no muscle on the spine like it doesn't I can touch where the spine is yeah yeah like it just it makes sense to me but thank you for telling me I have too much muscle it makes me feel better about myself stroke my ego then charge me through grand so he's like yeah so it's gonna give me two fucking shots and nothing happened so then I just laid back and they give me the gas you know you ever had that one time when they put you under you know they tell you to count backwards or at least they do yeah yeah these count back where it was later yeah so what was funny was I remember I went in and it was funny because I was like count backwards from a hundred you know I mean I remember I got to like 87 and the doctors like starting to look at me and then I was gone remember it was longer than most people like I could see them was like you're supposed to get to like 96 you know yeah yeah but it was the same result then I just woke up hours later and what the fuck happened I remember I woke up and the first thing I saw nurse goes oh you're awake and she gives me a pill and it was obviously it's a perk or whatever they give you when you first wake up right and then I was just saying the dumbest shit I guess I was like cracking jokes like I don't know what I was going to get the third time fuck Emily and all Emily said was oh your piece of work I feel like creepy old man that starts saying like sexually harassing things but they give him a pass because he's like 80 yeah but you didn't get that pass yeah well I think I think I got the pass because I was on lots of drugs like we'll just look at that pass everyone it's laughs always so loaded on morphine let them say when he wants I can only imagine the shit that they've heard actually though yeah I can imagine it just nurses are a tough bunch you know have to get it ourselves that's not kidding ourselves they are they are a tough bunch I get some really fucked up people that fall in my other way got a question or what we got time for one more I wanted to get a good one I hate this because I'm gonna ask you I'm gonna ask you this question just because it's not that I'm seeing what it will what is the worst cycle experience you ever had oh worst cycle experience I ever had well I don't know about worst there's probably lots of dumb little stories but I'll tell you about one that was probably really dumb was I would have been like 21 and back then there was only two types of gear either got European amps human grade European amps or you got really good vet stuff but and of course there was a lot of people had the misconception that vet stuff was like made for courses but it's exactly the same test probe is test probe it's the same compound the chemistry is identical I want to speak of the horse anyways if you just have a different picture on it you know so we used to get the good vet stuff a lot so we used to get boxes the test probe cases the test probe and they were 100mg per mill and they were the iso green and white and it was cool no 10mb oh yeah 10mb of 100mg probe and it was like univet right from the vet right you know a little hologram stickers on the box and everything it couldn't get any better but those are the old days people who take underground stuff now just do not know but back in those days probe always hurt now a lot of probe still hurts I don't use probe anymore but I know some guys it's still hurts I've had probe that hurt if I probe that didn't hurt but whatever back in those days I don't know exactly why probe hurts I think it has something to do with the the ester on the on the testosterone if I'm not mistaken there's something on it that makes it anyways long story short someone can explain why probe hurts we can do that in another episode but that old vet probe everyone used to say oh it's really good but you get a pretty sore pretty sore spot right so I just thought that you were supposed to get a sore spot right so I used this vet probe that was so good like I remember like you know taking 300mg a week and just like growing like everyone in the gym being like fuck you're gonna be a bodybuilder right I don't know and but the thing was is every shot I took was like crippling right but I thought that's what everyone meant by your supposed to get a sore spot right so I'm like crippled fuck like a kind of fucking walk few times like put it like couldn't we put a shot in your delt can you move your arm for like three days like fucking crippled and I just saw well that's just that's just what it is and then I don't really have a choice because this is the only access to this only good stuff I can get right now but you know and then I finally had a talk of the diet and he's like no no no you know I was supposed to feel like that and I realized that I was especially sensitive to you know probe back in the day other guys would just get a sore spot but I was like fucking crippled and it didn't matter what I did was like not my fault it wasn't like I was fucking it up right was just but I went through like I did like a three month cycle of that stuff just fucking agony like in three basically so you were in pain for three months because you were taking three shots a week so every shot one day when they fried that you were fucked I don't know how many weeks I lasted but I lasted way too long until I finally realized I was being a stubborn dummy as you were saying second shot I had been out like I'm out we're good yeah yeah yeah so now I tell people like you don't have to live like that you know you know what I mean what about you well mine's easy and it's relatively famous which is 2013 shot of Winnie V oh yeah the bandage tricep oh yeah okay and by arm actually like to give me an idea I don't I don't like pain meds at all I don't take pain meds just against them and I actually call the friend and said whatever pain meds you have in your house bring them to me I met him in my driveway with a glass of water and took it and my skin actually it looked like I was getting a burn from the inside out yeah yeah we talked about that skin falling off and my tricep is permanently has a point on it so people to this day will say oh well you obviously have SEO in your arm and they think like today well that's actually eight that's eight years old and my tricep has a permanent point yeah I've done scraping every type of thing to get in everyone never gonna be gone that's my fucking arm it just looks like that now I'll be small down the line and have this fucking it's funny too because I I'm actually cognizant of it when we're filming and stuff and I'm like I'll see the video I'm like how someone's gonna pick up something like yeah no I've had people ask me to like just tissue to Zarms I'm like no and they're like are you sure and I'm like because I've seen it I'm literally sure his arms look identical every time except they've slowly gotten a little bigger over the years the shape is never different from expo to expo they look identical yeah but it's funny because I've never hit them so I always have it like yeah I used to put stuff on them just not shot them not not not oils like that just normal stuff but that I can't put that arm anymore because of that though because I am afraid that any swelling will just highlight that and I have done it before like you know you're especially in prep or somewhere I just gotta put somewhere and that would be and then you're taking like fuck I've done actually did a video shoot one time where I didn't die to where long she's or a t-shirt I still started up on my dudes it's not good unless you want the star of your video being that tricep t-shirt right right right right today remember so I remember the man like the the early 2000s was crazy I remember going to the expo in 2002 and Rest in peace Matt Duval um remember Matt Duval of course the arms great guy remember Matt Duval was at the muscle tech booth and he had a little bandaid on both the inside and the outside head of his tricep and then a little bandaid on each bicep and he had a tag top on and you know it's signing away taking photos signer away and I was like what is it you have six bandits on your arms like is it just just like just leave them there you know we all know that's for right but I just can believe he had the mind at the booth yeah because I just take them off and well I was surprised that they what did the manager a muscle tech say athlete rep yeah back then did no one care like was like 2002 that much of a gunslinger era he if you just dropped to the expo with bandids on your delts and just well here they were just happy you took the needles out they're like well he removed the syringe so that's cool I just I remember just seeing it I was like and I mean he had awesome arms but like he had obviously just shot them up or something yeah and I was just like fuck oh yeah and some of the bandids had the little red dot in the middle like they were literally yeah like literally did that this morning before coming to the expo like yeah I was just like oh man like I just thought that was like I was like oh is that what's going on like I shoot in the arms up for the expo what's funny to me because you know I have had people out it's a very common question especially with that and they'll be like are you against or you think it's cheating and I'm like no I actually don't think it's cheating I think my problem with SEO uses you fuck it up and it works yeah another thing that's what you're doing and you're going yeah like so so to me the reason was risk to reward is people always just said to me and I'm like if I was gonna do SEO I'd use my shitty biceps right I'd be putting it in my muscle that sucks that I've been bitching about for a decade yeah and the reason I never put anything else in the biceps is they would hurt yeah I couldn't train and then my mentality especially the way I like to train I was like I'm gonna tear something because I want to train the way I want to try and I want to do that I'd rather train than have a bigger arm so fuck it we're in training right you know but yeah it's funny looking back is yeah I would have literally walked up between my friend and they do take the fucking are you serious what are you doing like what are you I would absolutely be lying you like are you what what's the fuck going on with you I he looked like he was just having a good old time in the booth I was totally normal business is usual you know he's a great guy right so he's like hey I'll take pictures people lined up and we'll move you know like oh wow like and my was my first Olympia too so I was just like oh like this is how it is okay start looking for bandages and other booths yeah yeah you know it was just funny fun times man just health conscious that's all yeah okay well dusty thanks again remember everybody like share subscribe comment ring the bell it's just bodybuilding we appreciate you anything you want to say before we go today sit man just other than Scott good better on his coba trip oh yeah Scott he's got covid he says he feels like dog shit but you know that's what you get for being around people you should just be all by yourself forever that's all the magic yeah yeah okay thanks Jesse remember everybody it's just bodybuilding

Hey everybody, we're back. It's just bodybuilding