of muscle minds Dr Scott had 12 tips to be your best. I remember that one that was good One of those 12 was to not coach hop or switch plans before you had realized any potential gains I've also heard him mentioned before that cycling between fortitude DC training and mountain dog training Would be beneficial because of the different styles how do you optimally balance these two And then he gives some suggestions as in like weight to switch until you hit a plateau or switch every 16 to 20 weeks or an arbitrary length the time to increase frequency or volume And possibly provide new novel stimulus. That's a good one That's a good and those he's actually already got the answers So it's good, but it has everything pretty much it's gonna depend on the person okay, so So some people Some people who like more frequency maybe they One way to this could be explained biologically. There's some variants in the The dopamine receptor like there's like seven seven different major isophorms the dopamine receptor Which determines your your sort of need generally speaking from a personality perspective for novelty and newness and and thrill-seeking activity Okay, so if someone needs something new and novel for them they might be going along and making good progress And start to get bored even though Things are going well yeah, in that case, you know as long as it's not two weeks in right? You're still doing okay They probably should switch just to keep the novelty in place because for those people Who want them desire that novelty that's could impact their training efforts So they might end up doing let's say one dog one mountain dog training program last 12 or 16 weeks And then then they could pick up another one and keep going But there are to getting a little bit tired of of John's training program for and this is the lead of John the person just needs new novelty Yeah, some people just need something different all the time So in that case switching would be a good thing. It's not that the deep of the mountain dog training has stopped working per say it's just it's gonna it's gonna start working stop working for them Because they're gonna start getting a little less enthusiastic about the training yeah Or simply because even if they're able to buckle down they're sort of discipline and they could keep doing them out another mountain dog training program If they can switch to DC and keep gaining and be happier doing so Do it yeah absolutely So make that change because they're just kind of keeping their mojo working and moving from one program to another Some people and this is dependent on the person's experience while I'm just thinking of another scenario where someone Lot of John's programs it depends on which ones but a lot of John's programs you'll have like a baseline of like three workouts that you might do in a week and then he'll have another three or Maybe two different number of pumps that's a sorry if I'm bashed by his and I've I help John with right his book But I haven't done a lot of mountain dog training until recently But so you you can you can vary the volume of training that you do Depending on which one of those optional workouts you do So he has flexibility Sort of in the way that I have volume tears. He's got flexibility in his program So someone else is going along might Have to do several of John's training programs to figure out how to Appuette apply those to their own recovery resources Yeah, to best make the gains So if they do one of John's programs and they just do everything he says Which is probably something I would do just like I'll just do it all and it's way too much Yeah, well, then they should they might think well, you know what John actually put these options in here for reason Probably because some people just can't they train so hard that they can't recover Yeah, you know for them a set of a RP RP E of 10 is really an RP E of 10 where some people are leaving three or four reps in the thing sure compared to someone else They do better to stick with it to try to learn how to tailor John's programs to get the most gains for themselves Okay same thing goes with with DC training or or for to do training some people just love my training program and some people like I've had a number of people when they first time they did it And they realized this for the most part They just said I'm gonna it more as better. I'm gonna do volume tier three The turbo version and they just destroy themselves And they're just like they're a rack after five or six weeks. Yeah, it's just not the right version of the program for them So I wouldn't just do like a typical I suggest somewhere around an eight-league full Blast and cruise period. That's where most people land but it's not always so if someone does that and they're just a wreck by the end And they just decide well, I'm gonna I'm gonna switch to DC training Well actually the DC training might for them be a a devolume And they might start growing from DC training. Well the DC training is much better than fortitude for me It could be well, you know what you just have it learn how to best apply for if you training and choose the appropriate version and volume tier for you Yeah, so they could have a learning a learning a curb to have tab there So for some people they've seen to ride it out and figure out how to about to eat out and squeeze out the best gains Depostable can from whichever one of those programs are using yeah, so Time depends on interest level. It also depend on by the time you go on like let's say you did like See you did a 16-week bound dog program a then eight-week for DC training program and eight weeks afforded to you training There's 32 weeks yeah like you started that right after a series of shows Then you've only got about you know with some breaks in there you've only got like 16-20 weeks before your chart you're gonna do a neck show absolutely so you've done all three You know you're gonna have to pick one to die it in you know, which one you use is gonna is gonna matter Just even if you did mountain dog training on your tire off season you might find that you can hold your strength You're muscle masterly well with a higher volume foritude training and you decide to do that Did I didn't for a show cuz you have that experience or You might want to say you know how can I I want to stick with mountain dog training dance with the one who brought you Which Dante said which I said a million times? I think I just heard skip say it on one of the What's what in years? Makes so stick with mountain dog training. That's what got you there and just modified it my preference would be reduced the volume Don't release the effort levels Yes, stick with the quality of the stimulus but reduce the quantity and ride it into your show So all of a sudden you're not like Okay, what the fuck do I do now? I went from you know 16 sets in a workout or 10 sets in order with John and now I'm doing like one rest-pause set with DC training This is enough like what's gonna happen here? Oh, yeah. I dropped my calories too That's just that's just a programmatic chaos Yeah, what they did that not a smart way to like a transition from off to all season of pre-contests So it's gonna depend on the person depend on their attention levels or their attention deficit levels They're desire for novelty how much they like the gains they're getting And some people you know you're only gonna gain so much too You know most people in an offseason here's the thing the reality of it is not like you can't just like continually make Notice the gains for years on end most people were diet down and they'll go again You know yeah, so you only have maybe nine months through which you're gonna like push it in offseason before you diet in for a show For most people absolutely so So a lot of ways to do it. There's no right or wrong. It just kind of depends on the person just like You know five five times a week for three sets is not the perfect program for everybody Yeah, you know Sticking with mountain dog training until you're sure you haven't made any games You should do it for three years straight You may not be the smartest move for some people whereas others might have they might like that That's what happens with games the more advanced you get is Literally just like Jordan's a perfect example of this You know he's actually switched years now very recently. He's gonna some dropback kind of a TRT approach Yeah, he just posted this on his yeah, I don't know if you heard this but but you know for years Eat me out like one or two reps for workout is a total victory You know so for someone at that level Trying to progress from you know 98 to 99 percent of his Genetic protect enhanced genetic potential There there is no like you can't just be hopping around for things from one thing to another Right you need to be very very precise and controlled and stick with the same programmatic design and just Very it so you can gradually move up Rep by rep over the course of months You know an extra 10 kilos over two years is substantial for him on Basically core exercises if he comes back to for sure though Anyway, that's a prolonged answer, but it kind of depends on you. It's good. All right well in that case let's wrap up here For another podcast here. I think big bodybuilding media of course check out Our sponsor turnutrition.com our code is advices and Of course go to fortitude training.net. We talked a little bit about scots training plan today Look at his book That be why OBB coach calm or you can find it Be your own bodybuilding coach by doctor scots Stevenson available over at Amazon Hardcover which is great Scott it has been a pleasure man I'm really grateful to be back on the show with you Yeah, yeah, I'm glad it actually had a lecture time because I could put some more time into like putting these slides together and kind of make this hundredth episode Should we give them the bad news to bad news that like this is gonna be it like after the 103rd we're just done like we're 102nd that'll be it we're shutting it down. Okay. Here's the deal Scott. So we're recording this and April first day right yes April fulls day but people fulls day never mind we're not That joke went and work because it doesn't come out until tomorrow I forgot to tell you I know But it's still gonna work it's still gonna work people be like why would these assholes Light to us it's not a April fulls day was yesterday You can still do April fools and like irretroactively like that It's real work because this is April fulls day So it's just like it's like a bomb, you know, you said a time run it's like a you know a 24 This is a bomb will go off for weeks on end as people watch the podcast right all right it's a much better April fulls joke for that reason Well, thanks man. I'll see you

What's up guys, welcome back to Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McNally. All of our programming is brought to you by TruNutrition.com. You can use our code devices for some additional savings. And of course that helps to support our programming. Check them out for all sorts of high quality performance supplements, health supplements, even things like a whole food, multi-vitamin. You can get that stuff through TruNutrition. Scott Stevenson. We're back with part two. Now is this