they know now. Yeah, but if they haven't seen that episode my strip or sass comment We'll really seem out of left field Even better even better with the You're human australia, so what the hell That was not how exactly what happened Or you say that you did not have a hooker in your room and I said You make it sound What he says it All right Okay, Scott you have to answer that for my what inspired you start coaching same same thing with me I had the confidence because I it started slowly, you know I had my own success and people started asking me questions and it got to a point Where I was investing so much time into helping people for free that I was like if I'm gonna keep doing this Which I love doing I have to make something for doing it so you know I started charging but yeah, I guess it's kind of different nowadays because there's people that are just like hey I've never done anything but I want to become a coach and then they just They just put it out on Instagram like I'm taking 10 10 clients actually I did I took I took a bunch of clients for free to ward the start So Before I started charging money to people I put these I had these little projects that I put out online Through this supplement company I was working with and I said hey I'm looking to take 10 clients on and we're gonna do a blog I'm gonna explain how we're dieting them along the way and I got paid to do that too because it was kind of like an educational Thing that kept people coming back to the website and then we posted the pictures all along But I tried to pick 10 different people like very different body types So I could try to you know get more experience and it was after that I was you know I did that a couple two three times and I was like yeah, I want to start charging for this now. So That's cool. All right, so it seems to be the same story with all of us I had a friend asked me to help him with a body transformation Do you remember the EAS Body transformation contest? Yeah, like that's what he wanted to do so it was like would have been 1999 And he asked me to help him so I helped him and he looked incredible like he fucking transformed And he sent his photos in and they messaged him back and they they they were like your photos are killer The only thing is when he sent his after photos in they were like very body builder like he was wearing posing Shrongston he was posing and they were like we were looking for you know the kind of the the Dad holding the like with thick swim shorts holding the newspaper like your photos, you know You but you know you made it to like whatever level of screening and all that stuff so he did good He looked fucking awesome and and and and then I helped the guy for masters national He was actually my second client ever Master's life second client. Yeah, he he just asked me to help him and I I said okay. I'll help you And he wound up like transforming like he looked so much better at the nationals that year and he got second And yeah, and then just guys at the gym just started asking me to help them for shows and You know just went really well You know couple guys one like you know one regionals local shows like overalls and stuff and then people just kept asking and So yeah, it's been a lot of fun, but it was just an evolution I sort of got sucked into it. I didn't really mean to I didn't like ever at any point think I'm gonna be a coach and then I think I was at the point where I probably had like Because like full-time clients and I still was like, I don't know if I even want to be a coach like You know like it wasn't like I said out yeah like I didn't ever set out to do it. It was never a thing I like I want to be a coach like it was never like that it just happened So but you know, but I still you know I love getting people in shape for shows. It's awesome. It's so so fun, you know I'm actually surprised Scott when I went in Canada or is the people that live there don't work with Ron and the reason I say that is I've been to Enough shows in Canada that it's comical that I can pick his clients out. Yeah I'm like oh you have this one in music. Oh yeah, I did and I'm like yeah because they're fucking shredded like it's Literally and because he won't say this, but it's funny Ron also on the regular takes like two clients into a show and then wins both of those overalls and we used them like yeah this guy we're here with 76 clients. I'm like I would go to the guy who comes in with one in wins like yeah. So I'm gonna go to the guy It's it's it's it's it's it's such a different thing now a lot of people you know a lot of people want I'm just not as spreadsheet guy and I can eat any spreadsheets. You guys you know both of you guys are very humble too About your coaching is you know a lot of people they're out there and they're like you know I'm the best and I'm the master shredder or what you know they come up with their names Right you I know neither you guys really do that but the people I see you work with both do or real You guys really both do a very very good job Chris is Sito When we message he calls me the he literally calls me the Canadian trendmaster And even programmed into his phone as the Canadian trendmaster Doesn't have I don't think it says Ron let's show me a screenshot I was calling him any to a screenshot of his phone and sent it to me and it says Canadian trendmaster You'll you'll love this run so my friend Daniel term pro last year and Masters and he's decided he wants to do like two shows but like back to back and then be done How you just wants to choose shows his body brother As a pro would be done so he Reach out and he's talking to me about getting ready for shows and keeps mentioned him I was kind of like waiting and then he finally was like I'm ready to compete as like You think you should just work with a seat out and I get this is that an option and like will if I Ask him it's an option so he's like of Of course I want to work with a seat. So I send Chris I said hey I got a guy that's friend of mine that won't waste your time Will you take him on for for these for these two shows is answer back was will he eat a potato even if he doesn't want to It's lost because I like this is how Chris talks because everyone comes to him and they tell him this I'll do anything Whatever it takes I bleed for this sport and then he's like I've eight ounce pear like can I have rice? He's like Really eat a potato even if he doesn't want to that's the line Like Chris is so down the like that is the filthy I'm sorry So I I sent it to Daniel a screenshot I sent to him because I did that fucking thing rotten if he asked Will he eat a potato Can I have rice That was it I'm like it only people who know Chris well understand that that is and there was no like back and forth first Because I don't do that whole like you know when people like want to borrow money for me They're like hey Ron how's it going how's Emily how's how's the dog Jim going good and then they go kind of ten thousand dollars I just hit yeah, I'm like can you help my friend or can I borrow a 10 grand like we don't need to do the bullshit Let's go so yeah, that was his answer back with no other words will he eat a potato? You know he doesn't want to I just got this guy. I just got this bad from Chris. I said Oh, there it is Do you still call me the Canadian trendmaster on your phone look at the top of the page? And there it is Oh, that's classic Good shit. He's one of my favorite people in the sport and all behind us So when we were when you said like you didn't really want to be a coach Ron I kind of did in part of it was looking at guys like Chris To me that was fascinating and I wanted to like you know I wanted to kind of do something Something of my own like a guy like Chris aceto so yeah, it was something I wanted to do That's awesome. That's awesome Well, you keep getting clients and your clients have good man and we're all your both your guys clients look awesome Every time either one he would put anybody up and like I yeah the legs like the legs are always shredded You know All right, that's one question. I got a solid question for you guys This is my one of my great clients mark If you was a giraffe Where would you wear the bow tie top or bottom? I Look at around space you think you And for reasons for both Well The bow tie would go on the shirt and the shirt would end at the shoulders That's a valid point Right Elgeraf and it doesn't have a shirt, but it's wearing a bow tie and no shirt That's a different story now we're talking about a stripper giraffe It's a valid point does he just have cuff links and the bow tie? What do we got going on? I assume there's also a jacket and a shirt and then that would mean it would end at the shoulders So it would be it would be it would be at the bottom of the net I believe that's a few inches you have a collar, you know the beat. Yeah, I think it's the roasting in that Most of them I can't stop I feel like that's the right answer. I feel like now that you've presented it that way I couldn't see it any other way And you get it arguing the other way no unless the less Scott's giraffe is absolutely a stripper Right yeah It's got like well mind the chibbendel for sure and There we go time to tough Making good money and a rough economy Oh god, that's good stuff. That was a good one Did you see that I love that amber herd? Only fans memes oh God assume It's just funny like shows like the CEO of only fans sitting with his hand around her he's like you'll be right It's gonna be fine Okay biggest pet peeve from clients is it late check-ins bad pictures um Making it like what would it be typical Well, I mean the things you just said are valid but I don't I don't let them falling short on their goals affect me Like my my good clients are not laid on check-ins and they fill their shit in they do it right so I don't worried about that That's I can't be more connected their goals in them. I would say and this this is it's soft one because I'm not hammering And Mike the clients to do this but if I could make a suggestion to make their life easier Stop thinking Like I have so many clients that just That you could feel the engine start running as they get closer to the show and the mind just turn in and they're starting to think way too much You know, I get the week out of advance. What's what's gonna happen for next week? What's the plan? You know, I'm thinking I'm a little flat and a lot of thinking and the thinking usually starts to happen when they're hungry Yeah, because they're worried and really they're hoping that they're gonna convince you of something I try my best just tell them If you can just trust That I will get you away. I want to do all need to worry about is the process every day Excute the day leave all the Worrying to me which I don't worry at all and you'll be fine So that's I hate you to be pet pee because in the beginning I think everyone is that way Unless you're me and you hire Chris Sedel and you literally like fall asleep You know when I first hired Chris I did I just knew he knew so much more than me that I didn't even think it was just Okay, okay, you know I think every athlete would be better if they could take that stance and literally taking any emotion out Yeah, I guess that's the word emotion I think when you're tired you're emotional and There's really no room for emotion in getting ready for a show Yeah, or in life in general. Oh, sorry Most of what you think is happening is Is actually just happening in your brain like oh? I'm flattered. Oh, I'm losing muscle low. I'm this and that. I'm you know what I mean? I need to eat my metabolism is slow and down I can feel it. Yeah, I say I hear people say stuff like that. Oh, you know, I know like my metabolism getting slower I can feel it. I'm a what do you mean you can feel it? I just feel it like that Very deep The energy that the universe sends you Yeah, you're generally not You're on 25 micrograms of sight ML You're not slowing down. You're fine So yeah, stuff like there was there was there was one person Who actually said that they physiologically needed a cheat meal Right That's just a big words. I won't understand that's frustrating I have a client how's this dusty? I have a client He has to be 180 to make his class at cutoff He started he pulled me aside at 24 weeks out and said hey would you prep me and I said sure I'd love to prep you. I'm a chef the way and he has to be 180 and I go what do you know? And he goes 235 And I was like that's a little big for 180 Yeah, I wish fat was he was he was he was he was he was clean And he was pretty pretty chunky and smooth like he didn't have abs But he was big he'd like had a lot of muscle on him and big quads and stuff Great physique he's actually a classic pro and I was like man you got fucking like he's big and like pretty offseason He's just been on straight diet From 24 weeks out to I guess he's five weeks out now So you showed me yeah, and he hasn't had a single high day or a single cheat meal And he's just been losing like three pounds a week Bang bang bang bang bang bang bang bang bang bang bang bang bang bang bang bang bang like non-fuck and stop Just every single set of pictures get better and better and better and better and better and better Every he sends pictures like every second day and they're better Like He's fun You know But this hole I want you to hide day if I don't have like a pizza like my body's gonna come to a halt It's like this dude's been on like 20 weeks of deficit but his body's just flying because he had a lot of body fat to burn You know what I mean You know I mean he's getting close to needing a high day now after dropping like 40 fucking 45 times he's like finally needing probably getting close you know It's funny But yeah, you gotta be lean to have that stuff if you're if your glutes aren't coming in and you're not real lean Those high days don't I think that that's the promise people have all these high days And they're not anywhere near ready to have high days like all the years I worked with the cito where the first half of the diet was nothing Yeah, just worse just got worse You know and then next thing you know your eight weeks out and you look pretty damn good And all of a sudden the high days start coming back and then every time you have one so you can get leaner bang bang and this is just you got to be patient You got to dig yourself Into that big you know where you get all that weight off early, you know you got to run run for it Try to get ahead, you know and People have this sort of like There are a frayed to shrink afraid to lose muscle it just it's not as common as as you think Agreed yeah, I think you can you can definitely The only thing I have done and I've actually done this reverse. I don't know if you guys ever have I've given someone a day they didn't need because I knew it would be good for their brain and we had time Yeah, I can see that's a thing sometimes when you have time now you can like manage other things like their mental state Yeah, like sometimes like that no time No, yeah, no, lots of times There are times where I'm like you know what I literally look and I'm like Because I can feel you know it's like in sports, you know like you remember in football You get the footsteps and you know someone's coming to level you I can feel them about to get level them like oh here. We're just toss some a cheeseburger And it won't do shit to hurt us right but it'll help them mentally and I'll usually at that point Preface like hey, it's gonna be a minute. We got a ways to go but we could do this now your your body needed You know right like what I mean by body is your brain is attached to it Right yeah, yeah, managing the brain is a huge part of it. Yeah, that's uh there's definitely both sides of that So okay, I got another one Best tips for oh that could be two things on how you worded it. I'll skip that one and go back. Oh here's one for you If you have to give up one forever hats or chucks Persons and asshole is it all hats? All hats never wear a hat again or never wear chucks again you could switch to crox They're really comfortable. Oh I'm so mean I'm so mean I'm I'm I'm a shock some people I'm a shock some people I'm gonna keep my hat Because as much as I'm reluctant to say this Vans are very comfortable Yeah, there's always other like similar shoes, but it's not a shoe. I just as an old man and I know vans have been around But vans are like the or like the new school chucks for kids now like the cool kids are wearing vans And I'm not cool so I stick with chucks So there you go How about you one? Yeah, I can't I can't give up hats. I've always been a ball cap guy like since high school always work now cap Like all the time It's just uh, I don't know it's my little thing It wasn't like I started wearing one like when I got older and like my hairline started was Receiving or anything If anything I probably melted my closet You know what I mean? melted my fucking head here's one I have a couple of these. I don't know if you guys do Do you guys have any stories of meeting or interacting with any pro wrestlers? huh No Not like an interaction like I met the rock, but everybody's been a biobiles met the rock So that doesn't it's like hey, what's up to you? I need to take a picture I didn't care Yeah, go what are yours? Well, I have a few but I didn't know if you guys made it I thought do one for each of us. Yeah. I thought maybe I thought maybe Scott would because he's into Troy You know and like there's like a lot of wrestling around there for a time. Yeah, no I I never saw Hulk Hogan at powerhouse or anything. I wish man I loved Hulk Hogan when I was a kid. He was a badass. Yeah. I don't I don't have any stories like that My first well, I'm from Alberta and that's what he howdry is and Calgary is like the epicenter of You know wrestling in the 70s and 80s and even into the 90s for a lot of the world a lot of the the heart family came out of Calgary and their training facility was there the dungeon and the heart stew heart the dad trained all the heart brothers and all the heart Boys and all the other wrestlers that would come to Calgary to train at the dungeon and learn the craft and all that stuff So like Brett the hitman heart and you know Chris Ben Wah and like so many guys came out of that out of that area so like I have friends and went to high school with like Chris Ben Wah and like you know stuff like that crazy stories but The first pro real famous pro I met was roudy riety paper And that was like good yeah, that was that gold's things and I was there working out by myself when I was like 20 And I went to use a preacher curl I remember and He came over at the same time and I was like oh, you're gonna use this so he goes we could work in and but he had his hood up like and I couldn't see his face Yeah, and he was kind of limping he looked like a banged up old guy, right? And he goes oh can work in or whatever and I was like okay, and he did a set and then I did a set and then he said something to me and it was his voice I remember thinking like we didn't mean it and I was trying to look at his face because like it was like he was looking down and I'm like Find this size face I was like oh shit and then I was like after we were done to preacher curls I was like hey, you're like roudy riety paper and he's like oh hey man and then I said I was from Canada And he was like super cool took a photo with me and Talked me for a bunch so yeah, it was pretty cool. I was like I remember being like kind of like oh fuck How much he was limping? He was like a ramp on around the gym like he was banged up. Yeah, it was it was kind of as noticeable Yeah, those guys take a bean Yeah, I got to ask you Ron have you ever noticed how many great people you've met around a preacher bench? Yeah, it's funny, right? We took a couple of months and Make a lot of this Boy, maybe it's just it's like it's like it's in statistically Statistically a very popular piece for all the dudes, right? Everyone wants to preach a curl You're not gonna be much the adventure. So that's not a problem. They're not gonna be Yeah, you don't need a lot of famous people at the a doctor machine. It's not like oh yeah, you know I made friends with Montreal Man at the a doctor machine I'm gonna say that right like I met the ultimate warrior at the single hamstring curl Yeah, you just don't hear it's like non-ass you know you meet the ultimate warrior you meet them at the fact and you know the The bench press or the squat rack or something like that every time I think of like a standing leg girl I can actually I can I can actually hear Bennett talk about let's let's take a lying leg curl and make it a worse piece of equipment by putting a vertical Yeah, so Anytime so many matches that and I still use them because it's like at something else to do But it's not like I like the mechanics It's so true, but it's so fun. Well, my I'm gonna go on a little rant one of the leg pieces one of the leg pieces that I hate the most is the one that Joe Bennett calls the poopy press Which is that like well hammer hammer strength makes it and they call it a hack squat But it's not a good machine It's the hip one that you're sitting in and it's kind of at an angle and you hold on to the handles I fucking hate what a useless piece of shit that is It's a joke get rid of it if you're using it it's a huge ways to time you're limited by what your hands can hold You're so unstable Let's do an ass what you can do Caves on it but it's dangerous because there's no safety catch for cows Yeah, yeah, that's like I hate that beats it sucks. It's no yeah, it sucks. Yeah, just get a hacksquat get our belts or something but it must say it must say hacksquat on it because I have clients who send me that Yeah, hammer strength I think Oh That's a hack yeah That's a poopy press Yeah, they should actually label it that way now if you would like to get this used poopy press for 2795 poopy press for sale 2200 bucks coming get it Anyways, I just don't like that piece at this me it's terrible It's just it's essentially I mean essentially you're kind of leg pressing but you're just in a way weaker less stable spot that you could slide out of the seat Yeah, like a thousand pounds on you No, there's no way Yeah, not in a leg press leg presses far superior million times more more secure and stable and locked in Anyways, you know what I'm saying. It looks like a good PSA for the show. I like that. That's good Yeah, I feel like there was a rant though. There wasn't enough anger. Do you want to get angry about it? Are we good? Okay, well still well I don't leave the real angry rant to you. I try not to come across to angry You just send suit I'm a borderline loser every episode Second I've real back Yeah, but me and Scott just let him go we don't have to say anything or try to guide him Usually usually sort of reals it in itself. You know Okay Okay, okay Any old school Non-conventional exercises that you think are still worth doing Is there anything like old and weird that you still like Are you trying to people doing it more you do Jefferson's you ever done Jefferson's Great move really Bitch, you just alternate do you do like 10 one side 10 the other but I don't do it immediately same way I do any of my other Unilateral work. I do one Then I'll take a full break into the other So like like if I was trained with you Ron and we were doing like even even a heavy dumbbell row I do my right arm you would do yours and then I'd go to the other one. Yeah, that's a big deal Yeah, that's not what I do I just take like a 30 second break and then do the other arm that's why you're one side is so much Less stellar I also need And I alternate if I have if I'm equal Then I just alternate every set so this set I'll do left right next set I'll do right left But if I have one step in the last set Now you've given if you do left right and then the next set you do right left You've had even less rest for your right arm that went last yeah, but then the next time you do anything one arm You flip it it all comes out in the water you mean next time I thought you might like the very next set No, they all comes out in the wash you as long as you vary it you vary it all in time you're good But if I have like say a one by set that needed to be bigger I would always do that one first Yeah, I start with my left by step because it's stronger Hmm and then I try to keep myself on my right arm and this is this is interesting Probably stupid, but what I always did it was strong enough to be like three extra reps So I would say if I was doing like unilateral Hammer preacher curl I would do the left one and say I got 17 and I failed at 14 with a ride I'd put it down and take a second the pick it back up and do 30 yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, I do stuff like that all time Yes, I still did that team Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah Left arm on Instagram because I'm strong Yeah, no, I do that same sort of stuff all the time or you just go to like like The failure wrap on this on the strong arm and then you do the other arm and you force wraps all the way to the with the number Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, just like add just throw everything at it fucking kill I Thank you for tuning into another podcast here at Think Big Body Building Media if we've provided value to you today Then please consider contributing to our show you can help support the show through Patreon Every $5 helps to pay for the software in the hardware and everything else that goes into making a podcast You can also contribute by using our code at true nutrition true nutrition has been our title sponsor for several years now I'm super grateful for them and I've believed in true nutrition supplements long before they sponsored our programming You could use our code. Thank for health supplements and performance supplements Feel free to hit me up if you have any questions and if you're in Canada check out supplement source.ca They have free shipping over $99 huge discounts on over stock short dated and label change products plus they have all your normal supplements too Thank you guys for listening to the commercial. I hope you're having a great day and that your body building is going well Let's get back to the shelf I mean is it is it possible to add to truly add muscle while in a deficit Well, yeah, I bet there's yeah drugs, but if you don't do that Well, it depends on what you were doing so like if you just started training and you just dropped into a slight deficit Then yeah, you're going to be able to add muscle for a while. There's that like period of time. You know So there's all these other you know things that affect that like What have you been doing? You know, are you you know, have you been training hard the whole time? You know what we're eating before you all the sun went to this deficit So it depends on what you kind of how you set your body up for that of course drugs are You know first time someone does drugs ever if it's a contest prep so a lot of times are wait doesn't even change You know Guys were they like yeah, they're yeah, they're do their first cycle. You know and they'll start their prep at like 250 and fucking compete at 205 like barely drop weight, you know So it had I do that almost every prep or the other career, but it truthfully was because My off seasons were next to nothing You were getting lighter and then as I got closer to the show Then the drugs are going up So you know Chris used to I literally have texted me laughing because you'd say you're great at getting shredded you suck at losing weight Yeah, because I would hit a point like before I my best look I was 270 on stage, but I want to say seven weeks out. I was 260 Hmm, okay, and then it just started climbing But it was because again we just We didn't use a bunch that Aussies and Chris kind of I worked with him You around and he would just be like, oh, I'll do this and I remember that prep I want to say we're like 12 weeks out and I was like, hey I'm just on test and he was like oh First semester on and you know, you know, training there and we'll go from there like so it was literally like we just kind of added it and because I was like Still haven't started any cycle yet. He's like, oh, we're gonna switch to do that then But I just lost I'm both did that for me. I would you four I use and one one contest So I went up to eight by the end a day and the scale was definitely going up, but I will argue they were it was worth it. I was round and I'm the least round white dude you've ever seen your life And I was like oh they shit it's almost another dimension not quite but almost Right, right. I'm 2.2d Not three Oh, you you had some 3d buddy What else we got? Let's see I don't know if people you know you haven't posted a picture of your back for a while you got throw up a Throwback Thursday back from a bite set one of these days Actually look there. Yes, does it fucking still there. That's cool. Well, I'm sure it's not going anymore Oh, there we go. Oh, here's oh These are always interesting questions to me so I'd like you guys to answer Because they're different things EA or WPI postworkout is one better than the other Well, I mean If I could only pick one I'd have a shake postworkout as opposed to just having EA I'm gonna have a shake There's you know I like the thing with the A a is very very short in the bloodstream Wayne Poutine is longer than EA but not as long as steak you know like yeah, it was all these different releases so I would probably go with the way protein postworkout. It's closer to food But definitely gonna be more satisfying if you're gonna like Call it a meal or not eat for a while like I don't know exactly what they mean by what's the follow-up meal to that You know, are they running home to have a giant meal or is this considered their postworkout nutrition? You know, is this like a worst case scenario story where I'm being forced to pick one of the other with no other options So I'm wish her had it tick yeah, right? But this had one I would have way protein, you know, yeah, I was just saying the only thing that I do with that and we covered this Couple episodes ago was After big body parts I can't eat or drink much of anything like back or legs So I can knock down 20 grams of EA's and then in 30 minutes I'm ready to eat My stomach's kind of settled down so I'll do that like literally at the gym just drink that on the way home shower whatever and then eat a meal and good to go Sometimes I shake you know they're like fucking me up when I'm nauseous This is one question. It's best tips for flawless peaking Right, but When I first read it I thought it said flawless packing and I thought it was like a travel advice question I got you I was actually far more excited Yeah, absolutely Let's I want to hear now. So let's get some ever see those those those Instagram posts Where it's someone folding a shirt and the most flawless speedy way ever using like a Piece of cardboard yeah, I'm like I'm like I always wonder is that working my size because yeah You're like you ever roll your clothes up in the suitcase I've seen people do that I tried I tried working for me I didn't have the success as you did it work. Yeah, yeah, it works for me I've adopted the rolling method for my super least Interesting you take the T-shirt like I mean yeah, you roll it tight and before you know You've got like you know six T-shirts in what would have been like four like three or four folded Area what are you doing do you have drawers that you put your T-shirts under you hang your T-shirts at home Dors for T-shirts yeah, I hang them color coat. So that's the prime I don't have enough I don't have enough space we have two closets and I have a lot of hoodies So they're off it's like oh yeah, yeah, yeah, I've got a really nice West Coast iron hoodie That's like super nice and it's too fucking hot. I haven't got to wear it yet But anyways You went so little burnt about that I remember when I talked to Jay at the LA fit He said something about traveling and and and he goes there you travel a little you travel in a lot again A and I was like yeah, and he goes he goes it's funny how some people think it's so hard And I go yeah, I go I know what you mean like you know Like you know people say stuff to me like oh man, it's just be deal and he's like it's just nothing He's like it's so is like like you get I could pack in like five minutes Is like it just oh it's like so easy The more you travel to the more yeah easier gets you know Yeah, Jay is like I don't even Jay is like I don't even think when I pack it just happens just instant like it's nothing Do you see you see I put up on the last trip went to LA I'm going through Secured at the airport and I realized how stressful this process is to everyone but me Huh, like I'm watching I'm watching couples I'm like you guys must hate each other by the time you're done with this process They're yelling at each other take a fucking choose off You got other people that act like they've never done it before you know they I'm like a Slees I'm like walking through security at seven in the morning and every time I travel I'm just like so chill not a worry in the world Yeah, yeah, it's baffling I literally I put a comment I was like I can't believe that people who travel together Like I actually said I said what watching people go through the TSA makes me realize the competing against most people in this world is easy because they're so fucking dumb It was painful to watch It's like Everything out of your pockets and then they go through it at beeps on them and there's like oh do you have something you're talking? Yeah, I've $76 in change. I'm like Do you have a dreamy boy? I referred to that as a refreshment. I didn't realize it was the same it's fucking liquid So don't put away I don't wear of what they're doing or how slow they are yeah I actually did do that once so Ron I went through and I had forgotten I had used my carry on bag to like Usant the sound and I threw all my shit in my computer and stuff and I go through and Like it comes the guy pulls it and the guy goes you got a knife and I'm like Who that yes, yeah, nice. I'm like no, no, just hey, dude He pulls out a fucking steak knife. I'm like I guess now you got a knife. Yes, yeah, I do And that I guess that was pre current age it was a big deal Oh, I got a giant steak knife at my bag Shocked that happens it happens I mean sometimes he gets someone who's not an idiot, right? So they look at you and they're like oh This is a bodybuilder who left a steak knife in his bag like yeah Well, if you were a little like a weird little businessman like dressed as a businessman You're acting super strange and you also had a book called how to kill people with a steak knife Then it might have You might have thought a little little worse than that situation. Oh, Scott's reaching for a bag I got this this is just my travel backpacks So this is like my carry on. It's got the zipper pocket for your laptop My keyboard and here and stuff but before I got my range duffel bag This is what I would put my ammo and stuff in in my guns for like eight months And I'm afraid to go to the airport now with this thing because they're gonna they're gonna swap it They're gonna like it's gonna light up. I guarantee Thanks, then I've got residue on my hands and it's all over my clothes like I'm gonna I'm gonna get fucked next time I go to the airport You're gonna just put a swab on me and think I'm a you know a bomb I have you Yeah, I had a friend of mine who got pulled and swabbed and he had just shot that day Yeah, yeah, he got hold and swabbed but he had video was on his phone of him shooting He's like, I don't know look look like we were just shooting any like had videos and they like looked and they like yeah I remember him telling me about that I'm trying to remember if he was coming or going from somewhere But yeah, they get the odd person and then there's also like military guys that are flying home Like civilian yeah, and they'll set it off sometimes So that's interesting. I don't know yeah, or they're bad things I would ever have to that is back in the day some of my loathings I've heard Yeah, let's do that. You know that's just man shit. It's fine It's like a rock on pot. Oh, it's a gun powder in your loathings and maybe we have a listener that can further educate us on you There was actually a time it wasn't actually for guys but it wasn't issue I guess Victoria secret had some loathings that for whatever reason there was something in them That could be an issue when they were swapping hands. I've seen that so I a bunch of like Completely, you know my mom gets tapped at the airport and it's like no, it's cucumber delight. It's fine I do laugh at how like often I walk through the scanner And there's like a big yellow square on my junk Like I've had my nuts padded down like a bunch of times and I'm like what's the fuck is I mean, I always wear one of two pairs of track pads because he got lots of steel my friend balls a steel Implant in there something Bodybuilders do you know that it off the I mean I immediately walk out and just go like this like it arm straight out to the side I'm like it'll get me yeah, yeah, it always does I've never not gotten mad going through that thing was that like a humble break from run there No, no, I think You were seeing an artificial balls I think it's probably more of more of a case of like all of the maybe like the poisonous metals from the underground gear We've taken the kinds of Settles and Artisticles and they all go off on airport scans for some You know I just know It's the yellow radio I'm trying one mine is very Oh, the nuts Shit yeah, it is it is Oh, this is really Realistically how long can you continue to build mass naturally? I'm turning 30 soon well I hate to be the guy that says it depends But it does it depends on how hard he's been going and how much mass he's already built So I think that like a massive percentage of your foundation can be built naturally Like a lot of muscle can be put on naturally so you know it depends on how hard he's been eating if he's been going hard like Fuckin all out you know eating and training for 20 years and or 10 years or 15 years then he's You know maybe tapped out but if he's just like recreationally lifting and he wants to get serious. There's still lots of room lots of room You know, can I keep a muscle in your 30s fucking tons of muscle pro body builders add muscle in their 30s so a regular joke and fucking I don't think that most people realize You're by too much change if you load it how much gas is left in the tank Or tricks in the bag between their training the training intensity they're sleeping they're eating their organization of all of the above I mean we've talked about this before like my greatest gains of muscle tissue and I know wrongs was the same It wasn't when I got the heaviest it's when I was the most psychotically perfect And that's something that Dante pushes all the time with guys he's is You need to set your off season up in a way that you can grow clean or like on TRT Because if the moment you can see you are absolutely improving while on TRT or clean Then you know what's gonna happen when you add the gas But the problem is in reverse If you just throw drugs at it they hide mistakes So you might not be gaining at all they're somewhat you were doing but then you throw drugs in and you're you're growing so like all everything's perfect You know what I mean? So it's absolutely something I've pushed on people I've got a few new guys now and One of the first things I like to do with people is see them train and I am stunned when someone sends me training I go oh fuck that's perfect Very very rare that the first couple rounds are really really good so I got like that my first answer is I assume a lot because I could pretty much guess They were training is not perfect and I'm pretty much guessed your diet isn't perfect We fix those two things then give you time There's your muscle right right I agree Okay, how long should a cycle be and how long is too long She got you got to jump first for once you've been quiet today. I'll say I'm just trying to let you guys you know do your thing I mean the show was nothing before we brought you on we've been told this many times We're fucking hobbling along And then you came in like Superman and saved this shit. I felt like your Trump coming into save us That's your guns So okay, I got I got some thought wait what was like questioning I forgot the question I do you know I totally did How long should a cycle be? Yeah, and how long is too long too long? is When you're starting to get health issues or you're not making progress anymore But if you were to say you know like I think back in the day we used to say like 10 to 12 weeks But if you're at 12 weeks and you were to say hand get some lab work see where I'm at and you're still making progress Then it's not too long, you know I'm known guys to run cycles past 20 weeks and do well with them. I think it comes down to You know what what are the benefits you're getting from it versus what are the costs of it? You know early on that first we'll say first six weeks of a cycle first you equates of eight weeks of a cycle that Benefit is probably gonna be really high and over time maybe it's gonna start reducing but where is that line? It's probably gonna be different Depending on variables depending on you depending on your training depending on your nutrition depending on the cycle You know how how far along are you and yeah, I don't know there be a lot it be individual But I can say that anywhere from six weeks to 24 weeks It would be my length of a cycle Okay, that was a good answer You got a lot of podcasts I'm your belt discovery It's like I could even add to that because I agree my only Edition is what Chris Cito always said which is there's no rules and bodybuilding Yeah, so make your decisions based on what's working or what's not working because I've also had cycles where at ten weeks I'm like We're done here Yeah, yeah, yeah No nothing's really happening. I'm not seeing anything that tells me I need to keep going down this path What are your having problems of some kind like your shoulders really fucking button Yeah, and you're like because it's the waste of my fucking time You just yeah, you got to like sometimes the best move is to just terminate early You know You know how to guy start a cycle. He got like five weeks in everything's going good and then like massive huge in a life change Massive life change so he's like, hey, I got to what do I do and I was like just let's just go back to crews for a while Get your get it being sorted out, you know get the stress gone, you know So yeah, sometimes because there's no show looming so it's no big deal right he could just like be smart and not waste time Yeah, so yeah No, that's good. It says make a tarot for delivery. Oh, I'm hoping it shows up finally Just tried calling me Diddy I couldn't you tried telling me I didn't want to ambush him. Yeah, yeah, I can get that I get that you're on life We'll tell him he finds out later when he's watching the show because we know lots of women watch us now Yes, yes There you go if we could get a push that guy that would be it would be a long of a cycle I was used to say six to 16 weeks Yeah, it was just my rule Do you guys do you guys remember? The British guys are gonna fucking laugh at this do you guys remember that Paul Born born soon born soon yeah born for Paul or some Warson yeah, I didn't make Dave crosslin talks about him. He was crazy with the dosing was yeah Yeah, yeah, I remember that was like a phase around like the 2000 era like the new millennium phase It was like front loading the fuck out of you out of a cycle and then keeping it shorter Yeah, so you'd be like okay. Well, what's long acting? You know you think okay Sustanon yeah, right you know that one test tester has like you know so they're for like 28 days, you know So he would take like five thousand makes a sustanon in the first week. Yeah, yeah Right and then like just and then you'd be literally done the sustanon and that would just run to the Where and then whatever the half life x you know expiration of the sustanon is that's the end of the cycle and all the other stuff comes down as well That's how he would structure his stuff, but it was like huge front loaded Yeah, and then it might just be like a hundred makes a probe every third day for the rest of the cycle That's all the total taken and the However long the cycle was wasn't that absurd necessarily just seemed like it but like yeah I was still pretty high doses, but like the front load was crazy But I remember everyone was trying it for a while because I was like oh make sense You're all fresh and then you just slam in all this fucking gear Yeah, it's everyone's like it makes sense Makes fucking yeah, I think there always trying to find ways to make things Makes sense Typically yeah, he's hard to solve things right like really they just want to find a way to take five grams of test at once and be okay Yeah I remember I remember I think we all tried some front Lo yeah, like it's like hardcore front loading back in the day a lot of test flu in that face for me a lot of test flu Little rough It was weird and I still at this point I Never got into I just never really I guess the drugs didn't excite me Really I just didn't care how to take them or so even now like I get questions and people asked like oh when is the most important time And my true answer was always like well, I would just make sure I took them when I didn't forget Yeah, I was I was And it's here to grow through this and like I just get it in fuck it's fine I had a friend of mine I'd be over in his house and he'd be like a shot day shot day and he'd like sing a little song and he'd like open up his kit shot day He's like all happy what would be in shock day yeah, and I was like I barely remember shot day Make he's like usually you remember three days after like fuck Shot day was one day. It's Thursday. Yeah, yeah, yeah It's like I remember leave I remember leave priest talking about how him and Paul Dillett lived together Yeah, and like he said he would load up a syringe Like and then like Paul would load up a syringe and then like leave it on the table and it would sit there for like four days And Lee would be like are you gonna take this he's a huge pub to take the Right spin here's on psych third He loaded syringes because I guess he'd preload a few at a time, but then they'd just wind up laying around And he's like I don't know how he got so fucking big he fucking hardly took any shots We're just gonna try to be hard to didn't need cardio so there's where this Yeah, yeah, yeah Okay, no, I had one yeah, we got to finish it we need like a finisher one. I got solid we got a little ways You got another was okay, you Well here's one What's your proudest moment body building or not? Yikes It's God I expect a phenomenal answer to be a no pressure I can't go first. I got to think All right God I don't know I don't know It's a tricky word Yeah, yeah, it's like things that I think are really cool for me I think of proud I think of like Most people can pair that to like a public Yeah, yeah, yeah, it might be like awesome I know like like like like Personally proud By my mom's truck was that but the reason was actually because I was given all the money back I think that's one thing that's kind of a funny Process like a lot of people like oh so awesome and I'm kind of like yeah, I still a little bit of 150 k Right if you're talking about that but it was that was something I just thought was cool to do It definitely hit me more than that 20 cars I bought myself But yeah, so I guess that would be it. I mean there's not a lot of done that I feel is Everything is kind of stepping stone in my mind we were actually talking about that today like as soon as I hit something Already before I hit it you just I'm certain thing about the next step in that thing So it's hard to be like oh, so proud of that Yes, once you have it. I got that's done, you know, I mean you've done some cool ship is like yeah anyways Until I'm pulling Elon Musk's it's just not that impressive Hmm, yeah, it's interesting because like you don't want to like I don't know Like you said it is not any of the things that You know done really for myself Probably something to do with the gym. I don't know you better fucking cool gym like Yeah, I'm trying to get there probably something to do with that like you know What maybe has to do with like you know getting through COVID and all the stuff that came with that and all the turmoil and You know how crazy stressful it was for everybody including the members and and you know when members come up to you and thank you for not You know well, they're not just thanking you, but they're also like I'm so glad you survived the process because there's like lots of gyms it didn't Yeah, yeah, and there's also two there's a bunch of gyms that have closed lately It's like they made it through But there was no momentum left at all Yeah, they were like they made it through but they were stuck in the mud and it just So they were feeling you know how we're feeling the effects now. Yeah, big surprise who had seen that coming yeah, right So we're just lucky we're just really fortunate one two Yeah, that's pretty that's cool. I am I'm pretty because that survived as well. I mean you had a two year gap where you didn't do it Yeah, yeah, and as soon as it was time like think about all the thing about television shows that they disappeared for two years How people wouldn't give a shit if they ever came back. It's over Yeah, that's like that's interesting That's something I mean as an out like I should say outside of but someone who's not involved in it I think that's a pretty Success for things that was not a lot of people know scoffer that was a hundred percent Ronsideal all the way down to the name was it really? Yeah, so it's like I'm not gonna came together. That's I thought the biggest show we've had consistently Yeah, it's it's I'm really happy about that So yeah, I don't know and then just also to You know I always for some reason was proud that I never Like you know I left home when I was 19 and I never Took any money from my parents after that like I was I left home yeah, I left home and I was like see yeah And I was you know I always told my dad like you know I'll be fine, you know that's sort of things so I was always proud of that and now that my dad's you know 83 just had his 83rd birthday and You know he's you know he's obviously Happy everything's turned out good and all that stuff so I'm pretty proud of that You know So I can't think I mean I I could I could say a lot of stuff but I'm gonna share one moment And it was that McDonald's actually I was you know how they have at some McDonald's they have like the two drive-through My phone's There's a lot of stress in picking which one you're gonna go to sometimes at those I haven't been to McDonald's in a long time though like I stopped at the About the time of COVID like I just stopped because it's it's got it's all messed up and I don't need it anyway, but anyway, right I was at McDonald's and I pulled up to one of the microphones and there was somebody at the other microphone and I placed my order And I was done so I pulled forward and The lady was in the she was like an older lady older like 50 with her husband in the passenger seat and she got very upset because she Was their first but she didn't finish rotors so she finished a rotor and she wanted to get in and you know and so there's that like my worst nightmare Is this confrontation You who's gonna go first now and she's she starts honking her horn at me I'm already in position like ah, I'm going first because I was already here and She starts honking her horn at me and it becomes like this big thing so I rolled down my window This is amazing And I was like I was ready to yell something you know of scene But instead I looked at her husband and I said you know what sir? I'm really sorry that you have to go home with her Every day something like that and he busted out laugh the lady was like red in the face She has like she's like screaming at me at the top of her lungs I didn't even look at her. I looked at the husband. I was like you know what? I'm really sorry sir that you have to go home with her and He just Busted out laughing like it was It was the last My wife used the situation right then and I just pulled forward I thought I love this I thought I was like I was figured I thought you were gonna tell him when you said you looked at him. I thought you're gonna tell him Shut your bitch I Can't he did I think I was He just didn't hear it. It's been found a little bit Nice for me. He was a little more a hospitality way of saying it But yeah, he died like he just started laughing so hard and really sorry so if you go home with her And then she was really pissed because he was laughing by the way She got one more ride and how was the ride home I guarantee he did not get a sweet and sour sauce. Yeah, they eat him without Might not be the proudest moment, but it was one worth sharing you know That's the best story. That's for damn sure That was pretty good There's nothing like a good a good roast that like silence is everyone. Yeah. Yeah. No, I mean What do you say to that? Well, paned out too because he was on my side You know he was like yeah, I got to deal with this shit every fucking day. No idea. You'll like yeah That's amazing Oh, man Okay, we got to do one more All right, I don't have a great one Okay Here's here's one All right, we've talked about this in some form many times Okay, but what does it begin or need to know about competing in a bodybuilding contest Is there any philosophical nugget you can drop on them as a beginner Anything that they'll think wow It's got a costume More than you think Signs they forward and blood you're technically a criminal Yeah Oh, shit, let's thank everything for real Once you've had high-tech once you've had high-test You can never see the world through normal lenses again Be careful sevens become tens Yes Make sure you're make sure your judgment is very sound Before ask a friend that is not on if she's as hot as you think she is yes having non-bodybuilding friend to filter to help you out with any sex-driver-lated questionable situations Right you need a friend who has like a normal Situation going on in his brain to kind of help you through That's process for sure yeah, I think should I be in this check? No, that's terrible idea No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no Red flag red flag you go through the Instagram all the red flags Yeah, no, I mean the only I mean the the answer that we've given a million times it's actually accurate is You're not as big as you think you are and you're fat or than you think you are yeah, I think I think if I was gonna throw something at it It would be that I don't think that You should do this Unless you are absolutely in love with the training Hmm, I think that like I just see it all the time that people that go down this road and they don't really love the training It's like maybe something they do is a distraction from their you know other issues or they just use it for fitness or It's really good that they're training. I mean it's really good for you to train and do cardio and all that stuff So sometimes they're like hey my old life was way worse and this is the healthiest option that I can be obsessed with Yeah, that's cool There we get that like all sorts of things. I mean we we've all talked about like addiction issues and food issues and all types of backgrounds people come from So sometimes it is actually a much better option Right and you know, maybe the situation they were in or whatever But I think for like someone who's actually like hey like I think I want to like try to go pro or really take this seriously I think I can win shows, you know, I think I've got what it takes You might have what it takes genetically you might have what it takes mentally and all that stuff But I guarantee you you know Chris Bumsted loves to fucking train Yeah, right Phil he loves to fucking train like these guys are athlete minded You know if they're not doing one thing they're fucking doing another for sure if Chris wasn't another to buy people Any more you think he's gonna sit on the couch no, yeah fuck no, no way he's he's gonna be Nothing that's what we do. He'll be fucking doing something Doing something crazy and athletic you know physical Maybe that's how you do machine or something. I don't know Kate Zook put up a story this week. I was pretty funny. He said I'm Closed on it in backwards we said when I was coming up I wanted to train like the guys that used to watch The world that I utilized he said now when people want to be like Chris Bumsted They don't train like him. They dress like him. They go to the gym Right, well, it was super like he read it. I was a god. It's accurate because it's I feel like doing a show to bring this back in has become an image thing More than what you want to do like when I want to compete I didn't know I need like two people that had ever competed and And During the process when I realized I actually didn't like competing but I loved prepping for shows Right all the things that people complain about and I used to say this Ron knows this and and I'm gonna I'm gonna pull a scott and full name him When Gabe Mohn was with us with mutant and he would prep for a show. He used to bitch about the prep And how he couldn't wait for it to be over and I always thought to myself And why the fuck are you doing this? Yeah, because if you don't love the prep It ain't worth it like right I like doing the prep I like going to I liked all of those things that made prep hard is what I enjoyed the most and I think when you talk to most People who truly love bodybuilding they feel the same way You know I don't think Chris Bumsted gets more out of a prep than I do and I'm never went and shit He's gonna win everything he ever does until it decides to stop yeah So there's some guys that I've met that they love to train and they're and they look incredible big and They don't they don't love to compete and I think it's a it's great when they recognize that early and they don't waste all a lot of their time and energy And you know what I mean? And they just bodybuild and be big and you know There's training but the there's you know There's training and competing I guess you could you could separate the tube but if you're if the question is bodybuilding competing then You've got to love the grind, you know a great you know the athlete mindset I'd say on the small like the lower level the first show That one thing I think I've seen guys running into or like the light bulb that turns on once they actually get to the show That whatever muscle you have going into this is great But what we really need to do is get you lean You know because you'll see guys that are like hey, I don't want to lose too much size They want to compromise almost and once you get to the first show then you realize oh I just need to get this fucking peeled as I absolutely can and You know obviously the more muscle you have with that the better But if you're not peeled you don't have anything, you know yeah Yeah, just get lean Okay, is that it is another episode Oh yeah, that was at least an hour wasn't it that was good. It was good. That was good. That was good. Okay Remember everybody like share subscribe comment and ring the bell Hey That's right no guitar any fine still no guitar. No didn't get delivered yet But hopefully I get it today, but yeah, I'll send you the I'll send you some pictures Scott. Yeah, please do Okay, thanks everybody and remember it's just bodybuilding I do skies all right. I get a piss. See you guys

So I asked for a current list of bodybuilding trends that are hot now, but may not stand the test of time. Oh, huh. And it gave me an answer. And it said, it said, this is a list of things that are currently hot, but may fizzle out like many other trends have. I love how it talks. And it said, and the number one thing is optimal obsession. Huh. Wow. And it said, it said, chasing perfection with biomechanics, the length of the rep resistance profiles, altering machines, machine only training, strange exercises that isolate single muscles out of complex muscle groups. Yeah. All are already showing signs of fading. And it says, why they might fade. And it says, all of this is based on theory, not enough brute force. Many forget that progressive overload is still driven by maximum mental effort and high physical drive. Over analysis will lose steam once people hit platos despite being optimal. Hey, everybody. Welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding. I'm Big Brown part, little of course, I'm here with Dusty Handsha and the producer Scott McNally. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and bring the bell. Yes, remember, I am mutant.com. Go to I am mutant.com, use Dusty or Bigron, whichever one of us is less annoying to you. Use our code. You can try Scott. You can try Scott. I can't promise anything. Doesn't do anything. And you'll get a discount and we keep our jobs. I like the release of it. It's a good deal. When win, win, win. So yes, that's the deal. I'm you.com, get your all in, get your ISO surge and everyone should get on the gear. So get your so some gear. What's your favorite flavor, gear, Dusty? The, I like the, the bomb pop one. I don't know what they rock it pop. The rock it pop. Rock it pop. Don't say that on a play. I don't name. Yes, I remind of, you know, the listeners want to understand us, but they're used to be a a truck that drove around called an ice cream truck. Oh, yeah. Right. Right. Right. Long. You get your, you get your rocket pop off there. Oh, way more expensive than out of your freezer, but I swear they taste better, just like shitty coffee from Starbucks. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Hot word. You're on the roller blade. You're playing hockey in the street. Oh, wait. It's time for a break. Yeah. I was at this thing back in the day we used to pay with called cash, but anyone's no. Oh, yeah. Weird. Weird. But yeah, that's that. Um, yeah, you need the rock. Rock it pop. Do you like that? What do you like? Rock it pops. Good. I tend to go with like the fruit punchy flavors. I'm kind of like that. And then of course, I like iced tea. I like the iced tea. I'm a very big fan of iced tea. You know what I mean? So I tend to do that type of stuff. I've, I've boiled blue raspberry. I know that's like super popular flavor that everyone makes because it's like super popular. It's like a biggest seller. Like most brands will tell you that that's the number one seller, but I just, I'm not a big fan. Dusty has issues with it. Dusty's like some of the issues with it. Yeah. Yeah. Well, because it's, it's the most acidic option. So most acidic flavor. Yeah. Technically. Technically. They more. Yeah. And then on the, on the BCAs for those who are smart enough to still use those andtra are great. I've sold out on the rest. I don't even get the other ones. I'm a great guy. I'll I see what you're on my flavor with it with that. Well, that's the peach. I can already see the sour peach or the, the my. Yeah. It was FK. Yeah. It was good. You know what? So I only ever had like a couple samples of this stuff. And I loved it. And I actually tried to order some of the mutants. I and I was like, oh, I'm so excited. I'm going to get it. And then like a week later, I got my money returned to me. And they were like, oh, we're sorry. We're on a bad flavor. So I never really tried it. And then I got some at the Arnold that I've been using it basically nonstop. Since like I have, there's not been a day that's gone by. I've done like I could probably like if there was like a chart on how much work I've done, it's probably gone up like 20% across the board since the beginning of March. You know what I mean? Yeah. It turns out there is a little more than just training for that. Yeah. It's not available in Canada, but they're allowed to make it here and wear house it here and ship it out of the country. Yeah. What's there not allowed to sell it? That's how you know it's good, though. That's how you know it's good. Yeah, it's good. The Canadian government has a stack of paperwork that they just haven't gotten to. We'll get to it later. Oh, around it. Maybe they're going to somehow blame Trump. Yeah. It's legal. But I go down to the warehouse to visit George and I steal it. Yeah. So I need to let no sale. Legal. Yeah. And it's not there fault that I, but I'm just a thief. So I go in the back to the warehouse and say, oh, the guys, I'll ship and go in and then I steal it. So I manage to get my hands on it without muting. Can you do anything to do it with the transaction? I want to know one thing from each of us that we think is holding people back from me in the best body. Oh, right. Yes. Everyone genetics. What number number number two gear? Genics. Mark. Genetics. It's not the gear. Money all the gear. Drops. Yeah. Yeah. All right. Okay. Finer. Okay. I think one thing that is holding people back is they're crowding their brain with too much noise. They're trying to build a house by starting with the door knobs. Yeah. That's something. And like you, you have to lay a foundation to build a house. You have to have a frame to build a car. You have to, you know what I mean? And so I see people skipping that step to kind of copy what they see on Instagram. Like they'll see a 250 pound body builder who's got a bad shoulder talking about an advanced move that he's doing. And it's like first that kids got to learn how to press 100 pound dumbbells over his head. Yeah. And the value of that is massive. And also I had a very high level judge. Say to me this weekend. He goes, you know what I notice? None of these young guys have big forearms. Huh. And I went, oh, and he goes, yeah, they're not lifting weights. Huh. Not normal lifting weights. They have small forearms. And I thought that was funny. And that's just kind of like a symptom of not laying the foundation to the house. And you think if he doesn't have big forearms, what else on him isn't getting hit from all the fancy shit they're doing. And I'm not begging on the fancy shit. I do some fancy shit because I'm kind of busted up. I do wrist cuff cable side laterals laying back because they actually feel great the way we do them. But I didn't do them for the first 15 years of training 20 years of trained. And I have like elbow issues and a bit a little bit of chronic tennis elbow. So holding dumbbells sometimes bothers me when I do side laterals. And I mean, I used to do side laterals with like the 65 pound dumbbells, which doesn't happen anymore. But so I'm just saying like, you got to move some iron. And I'm not trying to sound old school or anything like that. But it is just the fact, without a putting a bar on your back, there's a lot of shit down through your core and through your back and into your hips and down through right to the floor. And I wasn't getting hit the way some of these guys are training. And so when a really high level judge who's a pro judge says to you that he thinks the new crop of young guys he seems at great physique, but they have small forums. And some of them are even training their forums. So that tells you that that's not enough. That's not the same as what we were doing. And I'm in grip and rip and like grabbing, I remember you'll grab in 120s and kick them up and row in and try not to use my straps until the last heavy sat and stuff like that. So yeah, that's I think people are just doing, they're thinking about the door knobs instead of the concrete floor. And build yourself a floor. I hate to fucking rant on this stuff. But I benched three plates and grade 12 and I scored a four plates and grade 12 drug free and I'm not genetically gifted. I'm too tall to be a bodybuilder. My arms are too long. You know, I wasn't a phenom. I had people thought I was good because I was the only bodybuilder in town. But like, get real here. A small town. Right. The only young bodybuilder. I mean, but you're good. Yeah. That was a good. I would argue you have genetic. I think that that doesn't take away from your point. I didn't have like, I didn't have like instant genetics. No, like, yeah. There was a lot of like really, really, really hard training. And I still had body parts that were really lacking that took a long time to come up and nothing came easy. And you know what I mean? So there's a lot of stuff you have to do to really get that foundation and it's important. So I'm not saying that a lot of the new school stuff isn't cool. It's great. I use some of it. And like, I love a lot of the stuff that we're doing now to make things more efficient, but you should be able to do a lot of the stuff that you're not doing. So that's my thing. We're about where are you Scott? I'll say self limiting beliefs. Now that I had a couple of minutes to think, I had longer than Ron. So I got to have the answer. Yeah, I'm not saying. It's self limiting beliefs. And I'll use myself as an example that I didn't feel like I was strong on as a chest presser. I just wasn't a strong presser. And I lived like the majority of my bodybuilding like that. And it wasn't until I was hit my early 40s. So I decided I'm like, you know what? No matter, like this might be my last chance to actually get legit strong as a chest presser. And I had to find some humility to literally strip back my technique and relearn how to chest press. And through that process, I became legit strong. And that's like the other half of it is get freaking strong. That is strong. Because that's what I said. It was like, you know what? I want to try to gain as much muscle as I can. And I've done everything I possibly could. But I've never been the one thing I haven't been is the strongest guy in the room. I've been strong. And I'm definitely like have grit and I'll keep up with you. But I hadn't been the strongest guy in the room. And I said, I need to become that guy in order to grow. And that's what I did. And I literally made the best progress in my freaking life in my 40s. Like on low gear, it's not like in the past, I'd been hitting all sorts of hard stuff. And at this point, I was like 500, 600 tests. I was eating like five meals a day and not even paying attention to it. I was like, take a tortilla, put some taco meat, you know, put some ground turkey and it rolled it up. You need it. That was meal. That was a meal. You know, I got like 40 grams of protein, 30 grams of carbs. And I'm like, oh, do that again in a couple hours. Like that wasn't literally my diet. And I got to the strongest at every bin. And I made better progress in my growth than I ever had. It's like, so don't have those self-limiting beliefs that, you know, we kind of put ourselves in a box, you know, that I can't do this or I'm not that, you know, what do you have to do to become that? That's kind of what bodybuilding is about is, you know, we have all of these obstacles, all these things that hold us back. And then we have to get creative to figure out, like, well, okay, how do I do it anyway, you know? Right. I always thought, yeah, I was one of my favorite things that Dante did was, obviously, anybody who knows him well knows he's very, very, very, very intelligent. But then he breaks things down to such a simple thing that it always clicked to me. Because like he told me when we first started, he said, my thought process is simple. If you can incline press 315 for 10 now, when you can do 405 for 10, you'll be bigger. Yeah. And I'm like, a lock thing. Hi. Yeah. You know, so it's like when you start breaking it down that simply, it's like, I don't think anyone would argue. And even some of it goes, well, some people are strong. Okay. Well, when he goes up a plate, he will be bigger. I mean, obviously, we're keeping in that everything else is in there. My thing is something I experienced with clients and people in general, which is consistency, but not in the lane way that everyone's so used to hearing consistency when life isn't cooperating. That's the thing I have a lot with people. I had a really good client that's moving. And he's like, look, I got to move. And so with that, I'm going to take a break on the coaching because I got to do this and this. And I said, okay, cool. I have to ask something. Are you going to go to the gym? Yeah. Are you planning on eating during the moving process? Yeah. Okay. I don't see why this would stop. Like if it's money, completely understand, but then keep doing what we were doing without me. Right. But that's the area where people mess up. It's like, I think that individuals think that like Jay Cutler was able to be so perfect because life never threw them a curveball. He never missed a flight. He never had any issues, life was just easy. It's like what separates the people that get to their maximum potential and those who don't is when they can succeed during adversity. And I think people don't realize that adversity is a privilege. It is absolutely something there to make you better. So yeah, when you look back, you start looking at your consistency. If when you're having problems with work or this or that, you're missing meals or you're not going to the gym or you're not getting sleep, that's on you. It doesn't take any talent. I drive it home all the time. Like you have to eat no matter what. If you've got a big job that has a lot of expectations, I think you should understand that if you die tomorrow before you're in the ground, your job will have you replaced. So don't put them before what you're doing. You can stop for 10 minutes and eat a meal. You can be prepared so that when you're busy, you've got stuff. I used to always leave my house and if I was going somewhere, this was my wife or whatever, how long are we going to be gone? She's say three hours. I'd go, okay, I'm going to bring two meals in case we're gone five hours. Yep. Yes, just ready all the time. And I can say that in my peak, I literally never missed a meal, never missed anything because it wasn't an option. And I think that's the area where people mess up. It's easy to be consistent whenever things rolling, but ask yourself, does that consistency waiver when things aren't good? And that right there could be enough to end your your ability to hit the top level because if you're successful in life, there's a diversity weekly. Yeah, there's a birthday party weekly. There's a trip weekly. There's something in your way and you decide what you do with that. So 100 pretty simple. I think one thing to add to that particular point is that you should always expect an hour delay with like as a body builder never expect everything to run to the minute and be perfect. You know what I mean? Like I think a lot of body builders want people. They just think like, you know, oh, it takes 11 minutes to get there. So I'll leave 11 minutes before I have to be there. And it's just a bad habit that that that that they get into and they're always stressed and they're always under the gun and they're always like, I'll eat after this and you have to give yourself that cushion because you're trying to accomplish a goal where you need to do these things. So you know, if it takes 11 minutes to be there, you should be leaving 22 minutes before you have to be there or whatever. Like, you know what I mean? You should always be prepared for something to happen. And that's where you would take two meals instead of one. You always have a shake in your car. Always they're just you have to you have to cover these things. It's very important. I used to when I had the scores because we was always based on customers. So you didn't really know him. I mean, you have a burst and be busy. So rather than have meals, I brought five meals with me all in one. I called it a trough just like a serving thing. And I just make sure where I left at the end of the day. It was empty because I didn't. I used to do that too. But I didn't want to be there. So you just you just leave it sitting in the back cold. And all right, I got time for six bites. Oh, customer walk forward. But I just always said as long as this is gone, I got the five meals down between getting here at 10 and leaving at eight. We're fine. Yeah, I used to do that the bar too. You know what I mean? I put my nights worth of food in a container. Yeah, and sometimes I'd have like 10 bites over the course of the whole night. And then I'd eat the rest of the trough, I was counting my money. Yeah. But it would all go down. You know, you're not leaving until it's gone. That's the rule. Yeah. Yeah. Make sure I always go home with an empty dish because they still to meal the eat when I got home. You know, there's a gem that actually the other day I was walking out and he had a bowl. And it was full. And I looked at him. I'm like, that's proper trough right there. And he just smiled. He knew exactly what I meant. I'm like, I see what you're doing. He's a knack, or can clown down. I'm like, there you go. That's how you eat right there. Yeah. I love it. So I got another one that was asked on my question box today. I thought this was good. They say stereotypes exist for a reason. What are some of the thoughts that go through your head when you see people wearing specific brands, gym shark, gas, young L.A. Dark Sport, etc. And I'm going to take a way for the NES, but go ahead. Skip where's T-Michael's sweatshirt still to this day. Oh, I love it. And he's bringing him back. He's got the net cut out of him. He's doing these videos. He's doing it. He's like trying to get more into being like YouTube and Instagram and stuff. So he's doing videos about like, do you go to sleep and have carpal tunnel issues from your G.A. juice? And he's like standing on his deck in Miami with the T-Michael's shirt on. I almost bought a T-Michael off eBay. A little bit. Oh, yeah. Like an OG T-Michael. It was like, I had this tie-dye green T-Michael. And I saw that sweater. And I was like, oh, do I get this? It's you in a triple X. Man, you should. Is it kind of the bat wing sweatshirt? Oh, yeah. Oh, yeah. It's like really big under the armpits. I was like, oh, man, I look so skinny in that now. I think, good to hang out. I mean, shit. I mean, I don't really. I always never. I mean, I was sponsored by gas seven years. So I wore a lot of gas, but you know, that was that was back when I was, you know, 300 plus, right? Yeah. I don't really, I don't really look at that stuff as much, I guess. I do wonder why people I was never a gallon jug guy. Right. The gallon jug to me was always like, that's a like, do you know what? That just looks so good. That just whole workout. Yeah. And it just, I don't know the gallon jug thing. I thought was like, that was one of the bodybuilding things that I thought was really, really meat-headish and like, I did that. I did it. But part of the two was like, practicality, because I needed to have water with me at all times. And I just wanted to fill a thing up. You know, so I just like fill a thing up and take it with me. Yeah. And then also how much water did I drink? I just look at my hand. You know what I mean? Right. That was just had a lot of energy. I was just drinking. I was just drinking. I was had a water bottle with. I've always had a water bottle with me. But I never did the gallon jug. I just thought that was this so much. I remember. I remember. One of my friends who later became a client, and he did a men's physique show. He worked for a competing soda company, competing pop company. And believe it or not, we were actually friends. And we still are to this day. He had to go to a target to merchandise. And this, I'll tell you what. So sometimes there's a person in the store in all the grocery stores and all these stores called the receiver. And that person works in the back room. And they're the one who, well, the merchandise that comes in or all the product that comes in, they are the ones who's responsible for checking it all in. And anything that goes out there, the receiver. And I'll tell you what, the lottery severs have a little bit of a power trip going on. You know what I mean? Because like they're in charge of this is their back room. That cart goes over there. You can't use it unless I tell you. This lady at this particular target told them that he couldn't have food and beverages in the back room. And he's like getting ready for a show and he's got to keep drinking water. I think we were like even loading water. I was like, well Matt, we're going to be loading water eventually. This is 15, 10 years ago. Like Matt, we're going to be loading water eventually. So you can't be there for two hours, three hours without drinking something. He went to his doctor. And he got a note that said, Matt must be available to drink water all time. He's kind of like mama. And he human being. Right. Like many person with human rights. Matt must have water available to him at all times. So he ended up with the receiver. Yeah. I talked to the receiver. That lady, because I had my portable cooler and any story went into, I just walked in the store and parked it in the back and with my stuff and she was like, you can't have that. So I had to walk it back out front. Matt got a doctor's note for his water. I think one thing that I would be conscious of is, I mean, I mean, I was loved. You know, when I was really big, I wore a light gas, but I loved it. I still think they make awesome clothing. Really good quality stuff. But I, I never wanted to look like everybody else. I was always like, you know, like I stopped by in Jordan's because everybody else, like, Jordan's got super popular. So I kind of switched to like a different shoe. You know what I mean? Just like things like that. And I would always be like, if I had like a gas putty on, I would wear like a different t-shirt because I didn't want to be too branded. Yeah. You know what I mean? I was always kind of conscious of not being like overwhelmingly always kind of like the same as I do. No, I was just, yeah, yeah. I just that sort of thing. So that was kind of a, I sort of don't. And then I was at myard like, cutler didn't do anybody building brands. He was just Nike. Remember like cutler will always wear Nike stuff. He never had bodybuilding clothes on. You'd see cutler, they'd have Nike pants, Nike, they drive it. We did the Max, he was kind of like that. One point. He did, you know, had the meek. But that was his friend. I mean, I was just friend. Yeah. Yeah. So I mean, it's important as buddy. But yeah, I don't know. I just had like that kind of awareness. I kind of wanted to like change it up enough. And I think that the thing that the older generation, that it's funny to me that it bothers them. Because when I read that question, I'm like, it bothers you. I don't know why. Because fads and clothing and all, like I'm sure that flat landers have a style, particularly the beginners. There's things that people do or motorcross, whatever. And I don't think there's anything wrong with wanting to identify with what you do because I always laugh because the big thing is like, don't let people put you in a box, put yourself in one. Yeah. Right. You know what I mean? We're like, I'm a bodybuilder. So I gotta go down. I call it the douche-less. Like, do I have the right hat? Do I have the right shirt? But the thing is, is in the beginning, that's just how it is. There's nothing in it. Yeah. I don't care. To me, it's like, I could really give a shit what you wear. And it's not until you get older and cheap that you start going with target shirts or seven bucks. I wore that. I wore that. I wore that. I'd be fully Gators gymned right out when I was young. Like, yeah. You know, the big baggy hammer pants, Gators gym sweatshirt, Fanny pack, bandana. Like, I was... All the thing. Oh, that's very easy. Yeah, I look back at how I dressed. But I was, you know, I was just, I was like, carryin' the flag. I go to the mall to get something dressed like that. You know? Yeah. Yeah, that's why I think it's funny though, is that that's something that we hammer on. Because I'm like, you did the same thing, dude. You did the same thing. Yeah, I did that. I can't. You know, the man-faulty people. No. And the one thing I'll give them is at least they're like, when I look at it, not all of it, but the majority I'm like, it's good stuff. Like, if I wasn't 43 years old, I'd probably like, I'd wear that. I feel like I'm building clothing and fashion. His gotten a lot more advanced than it was. A weight of 20 years. We were. You know what I mean? I'd just terrible material three X t-shirts and just like one size fits all pants. You know, it just, it was awful. And now it's like everything's tailored. And oh my god, the material, like I have some young L.A. shorts. And like the material on them, you could tell it's like, yeah. You know what I was like, pre-in the material. Yeah. Yeah. I know that's what I'm gonna start is, I'm like, all that is from the old guys is jealousy that our shit was so horrific. Yeah. And we had a lot of purple and gray. No, it's to be by. I can't exactly. I can't point, I can't point a finger at anybody because we were wearing like neon pink. T-shirts underneath a purple rag top. With, you know, it's just crazy shit. And yeah, it's crazy. It's crazy. I switched my head. When I look at the young guys now in the gym, there's a couple in our gym that they dress it. And I watch them train like, oh, you're a real bodybuilder. You're gonna start with your real bodybuilder. And it's awesome, you know. Oh yeah. I would make sure to pull those ones aside. And I'm like, you look awesome. And I mean, because a couple of them do, they look really good. And I'm like, I was you just in uglier clothes. And that's another thing too is like, I don't like the bag and on people saying they don't train hard. I think a lot of these young guys are trained and really, really friggin hard. I might not, like I say, I might think they're focusing on door knobs instead of concrete floors. But they're going hard. The function really hard on those door knobs. Yeah, like they're great door logging. There's a lot of logging. That might just, yeah, a lot of logging. There's a lot of logging going on. A lot of like max effort, you know, I got to get six. I got five last week. I got to get six. Like I see a lot of it. So I'm not worried. I'm, you know, no matter what they're wearing, there's muscle happening. So that's all I care about. I think it's like, it all got more expensive though, to the fashion. Oh, but, you know, yeah. You paid for that ice material in the neighborhood. Yeah. But I also had, I also had a bit of like, I was one of those guys that I liked the vibe as a bodybuilding fashion guy, but I also had like the lumberjack shirt with the threads hanging off the, you know, and also had like the the dress down side of me, too, to like not be too fancy. Yeah. You know? Yeah. Yeah. All right. Okay. You want some extra stuff? Yeah. You got, I don't see. You got, man. All right. This one I thought was cool. Aside from genetics, what made Ronnie Colin J. color so successful as bodybuilders? There's a very different if you think about it, too. You don't know what I mean? That's why it was great. That's why I liked the comparison. They are very different. So Scott mentioned it earlier was self limiting beliefs. And Ronnie Coleman is so Ronnie and J. are different. Ronnie, it didn't even occur to Ronnie to doubt himself. Yeah. Yeah. Right. Like, it wasn't even like, I'll never forget I asked Chad Nichols when I worked with Chad. We have a lot of phone calls at year and a half. I worked with them. He's such a great guy. He's been on the show for those of you that haven't seen the Chad Nichols episode. It's way back. But you go back and watch it. It's great. Two of them. But I said, hey, you know, when Ronnie won that first Olympia, like, you expect him to win. Did you? Huh? You're voicing off for a minute. Go ahead. Oh, yeah. So I said, like, what was that like? I mean, he couldn't have been expecting to win. I mean, he was like, ninth place a year before, right? I mean, you knew what he looked like. And everyone else, some of the other guys saw his pictures and were like, ho, you know? And he said, yeah, we were sitting on the bed. And there's actually a photo of the moment. Ronnie's holding a pizza. And he's got a slice of pizza in his hand. They're sitting on the hotel bed. So there's a famous photo of the moment. And Chad said, in that photo, he's asking Ronnie, is there anything you did that I didn't tell you to do because I need to know. Yeah. Because, you know, we just won the O. Like, you guys blew everyone away. So if there's anything you did, if you ate something or skipped some cardio or did extra, you gotta tell me now because it's gonna matter. It's part of the formula. Basically. It's part of the formula. And Ronnie looked at me and he goes, huh, didn't even cross my mind. So do anything. And yeah. So like, it didn't occur to Ronnie to doubt Chad. Yeah. It didn't occur to Ronnie to question his coach. It didn't occur to Ronnie to look at the plan and go, hmm, well, you know, scientifically, I don't know if I should be doing that cardio in the morning or twice a day or if I should be eating my steak before bed or I don't know. Like, all that stuff was completely void from Ronnie's mind. He was like, plan from Chad, execute. Yeah. So extraordinarily coachable and no self doubt even present at all in his brain. And those are two major factors with Ronnie. And then with Jay, you just have very similar but like obviously extremely coachable. He just did exactly what Chris told him to do. But Jay was, I mean, are they say some people born winners or they're raise winners? I don't know. But Jay just, I mean, Jay set the goal. I'm gonna beat Ronnie and Chris told him you're gonna beat Ronnie. It might take a few years but we're gonna beat him. And so that self doubt is a huge thing and it was completely void in both of them in different ways and they're both extremely coachable. Yep, agree with that. What do you think Jay, you think? Are you doing with Chris? Yeah, never. Ha ha ha. What crosses your brain, Scott, I know you don't know them personally but. He's passing. What's he doing? Passing on this. You're muted. He's got no sound. We're gonna keep going. He's gonna figure it out. Okay. Okay. When I look at both of those two, I think that the biggest thing that I, from seeing them as a fan and then knowing them on a personal level later on, it was the fact that they understood the importance of each day. Neither of them were focused on the finish line. It was just one perfect day at a time. And I think that that's again, that's where some of the doubt comes in with athletes is they're looking at the finish line. They're trying to figure out why their coach is changing things. Oh, Chad just changes. I must be too fat. Am I too fat? Am I too lean? What's happening? They just knew to execute each day to the highest their ability. And I think that that guy that goes back to that laying the perfect brick thing. If every day you lay the perfect brick, eventually there's a perfect wall, I think that most people focus on the wall from the very first brick. And that gets lost. Those two were very, very focused on every single day. And it played out and from a young age, you know, they had that ability to just go in there. And I would say one more thing that really jumps if you know them personally is they both loved bodybuilding. Oh, and truly wanted to do. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, it's all they wanted to do was train hard, go in there and they both would have been doing it if it wasn't their career. You know, they just love to train. Neither one of them. I don't think neither Jay nor Ronnie ever said, how can I do less work? Right. Do you know what I mean? How can I do less work? I don't think that ever crossed Ronnie or Jay's mind. Yeah. And I mean, I think there's a lot of guys out there. Like if you're ignoring in Yates and you train 45 minutes four times a week and you have the physique to back it up, that's amazing. But my training partner, Braden, he put up a post the other day said, if you look like you hardly train, maybe it's because you hardly train. And we see a lot of that, you know, and I don't think like Jay was always finding ways to do more work. Jay was always, and I don't just mean more sets. I mean, more work within the sets and more training heavier and loading more and going harder and Ronnie was always trying to figure out a way to get the right to the barge uses. And they were never thinking of the limiting factors first. Yeah. They were thinking of possibilities first. Yes. Limiting factors. They only thought about limiting factors if they ran into a problem. Right. Like, oh, I'm not recovering. That would be when it's time to think of the limiting factors for a guy like Jay or Ronnie. But I mean, if everything was going good, they just kept working harder trying to outwork themselves. Jay was trying to find out, yeah, trying to find ways to make everything, you know, how can I get more in, how can I get more in, you know? That's the thing is you can't figure out where the line of two faras and tell you across it. And I think the most people, like you said, Ron, they're looking for that line in the beginning. Like the first thought went a lot of guys and I think a lot of the information age. They walk in the gym. It's like, why don't you want to do too much? And I'm thinking, I'd rather go too far than not far enough. Yeah. Because your body will tell you if you're going too far. If you, if you don't have to pay attention, your coach will catch it or if you're doing your own thing, you'll catch it. But too short, it's like, imagine you're seeing progress and you're like, see, I don't need more and it's like, but you don't know what you're leading on the table. So yeah, you're making progress, but could you be making more? Yeah. You know, I don't know. It was fun to me back in the day when you just went in the gym and tried to annihilate yourself. And then in time, you'd gain the experience to know that, okay. So those last nine sets weren't necessary. Got it. Well, hold those out. Right. Let's see here, bump, bump, bump, bump. I've got a bunch of people who want to hear too, just to throw it out there. Just let you know, guys, we had a bunch of good ones and there were some funny ones too. So when you're ready for those, let me know. Okay. I want to jump on this one real quick because I think it's a big one, especially currently. Trends and fitness and bodybuilding recent versus past. What are some of them? And then what will they all eventually have in common? So obviously, currents would be the the ice baths and the morning, too. I thought you're talking about like, training versus train ace. No, those are like fast-acting. So, training has a really long half-life. But yeah, you don't need to take it nearly as many times. I was just going to reminisce about how I once had an amps of parabolic. Yeah. I was going to tell my 90s. I'm not going to get better. I have taken. No, no, no, just I can't. I can't hear where we were just in the start. It was in my hands. I had 10 of them. Oh, the box and gold come. Yeah. I took the briefcase on pulp fiction just. Oh, yeah. I just came back to the point of the time. Yeah. I once too had a brush with greatness. So, trends with a D. With a D, trends with a D. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, trend-dipropenate. Yeah, trend-dipropenate. Yeah. I'm trying. I'm trying. Well, trends now. So, I've never been. I think some people think Ron's old and jaded. And they're absolutely right. I'm old and jaded because I have seen so many things that were said to be the holy grail. Oh, yeah. Come and go. And I'm talking from Vanityl sulfate and Waron, which may still have like a value. But, yeah. They were like the next thing. Like you're going to gain 15 pounds of muscle. And then they just slightly increase insulin sensitivity. Yeah. Right. Which can also be done by eating a certain way or just training really hard. Or, you know, like all these things that, you know, study shows, fanitals sulfating, increase insulin sensitivity. But, in a bodybuilder who trains like a maniac, his insin sensitivity is like, super high. So it's like, doesn't make a difference, right? So all this supplement stuff that came along, you know, also too like the ice bass. I was never on board with the ice bass. I was like, this seems like a whole lot. Like, are these guys going to all become the biggest guys that we've ever seen? Like, people say, oh, it made a difference. But I'm like, did it? Did it make a difference? Like, do you know what I mean? Yeah. I think that's, and now there's new studies out. Now saying not to do them, right? We've all seen this latest study, right? So studies show, drops inflammation. And then a couple years later after they sell, you know, five million ice bath tanks and people open ice bath businesses. There's now studies saying, actually, her type of hypertrophy. So it's like, geez, guys. Like, that's why that's why I'm, that's why I'm jaded when people make these big promises. I mean, I remember when the peptides first came out like the original peptides, the CJC and the epimoral and stuff. Oh, this is going to replace growth hormone completely. No one's going to take GH anymore. What's everybody doing now? They're taking growth. Taking GH. Yeah. Yeah. You know what a good one is? I thought of this the other day talking to someone else about this topic. And not saying they don't work, but everyone wants to know. Oh, no. Okay, got it. You remember, so here's one that I think you wouldn't have to be around for super long to get it is CBD. Do you remember it wasn't that long ago that like you took CBD for everything? Oh, I have anxiety. Oh, you take CBD for that. I, you see, be, for my inflammation. I, I, you see, be, do this. I do CBD to bring down my cholesterol. Like literally CBD was like everybody was like tearing. You're going to, yeah, 100. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It was finally the secret in it was like in everything, every store headed. Our gas stations were like CBD sold here. You know what I mean? It's like a gas station. And look at it today. Like, I never bought it for a single second. It is what what people, so people have been smoking weed. Their whole lives should have all these incredible markers of CBD consumption. They should have like no cancer. And they should have like no. Yeah. Yeah. And it's just not the way things work. And of course, that all went by. I don't have and heard a single person mentioned CBD to me for like a couple years now. Is anyone even talk about it? But I feel like a lot of our listeners even if you hadn't been around for that long. You remember the CBD fad. Yeah. Yeah. It was like, I think methylene blue is the new thing. Is it everybody is like, oh, you put methylene blue on that. I think there are some benefits, but Victoria showed me an article the other day that there may be some situations where it could be really harmful. So it's interesting. I'm going to have, I'm going to talk to Scott about that on an episode of muscle mind. So we can kind of deep dive further into that. But yeah, anything too where it's like everybody's taking this thing for everything. You question that, you know? Yeah. When I started, you guys, the big thing was your postwork out nutrition. It had to be like, you get done with your set and hopefully your training partners shaking the drink for you and then throwing it in your face because you can't miss your antibiotic window. You won't look as you're doing your last negative. You're going to see. You're going to see. You're going to see. But that was, that was the thing in the early 2000s. It was like, I mean, I, it was a fact. I had the stores. We would tell people like, no listen, bring it in as soon as you're done training, shake it up, drink it in your, like it was this whole thing. And I remember it, come to the point where people are like, well, what if I have to drive home in its 50 minutes away? I'm like, ah, I don't know. No, no, no. No, no. No, no. And then now is more information has come out. I have to thank the, the macro community for doing the homework on all this and they're like, yeah as long as you eat all your food today, you're good. Yeah. Yeah. And there is benefit, you know, there is benefit, but it's highly overblown, you know, the, you're thinking that if I do that, I'm going to put on 10 pounds I wouldn't put on. Yeah. And then it's also completely contextual as to what your pre workout meal was. Sure. Sure. You had two cups of rice and 10 ounces of steak an hour before you train shoulders. That food is dripping into your system for like five hours, 60 grams of intra. Yeah. And you're drinking, you know, 20 grams of EAA as well. You're training. You're fine to drive home. You can even stop at the mall and pick up like some new headphones. You're going to be okay. Like I think it like, so it happens in reverse, so too, right? So we used to do branch chains during training. That was the thing. And then a couple of studies came out this that O EAA is a better than branch chains. And the funny thing is if you actually do a deep dive into them branch trains, why you train the reason that Syvation came out of the product called Extend was because it extended your ability to train during the workout. So literally I laugh because I'm the only person that gym that dreams branch chains during training. That is when they're meant to work. And I used, I laughed when all the studies came out because I'm like, All the old guys should be shaken their heads because we could remember when we started using it, you could tell. Like you're workout. You're last set and your first set looked the same. You were like, okay, this shit works. And then a study comes out and it goes, oh throw it away and I'm like, What? And also, too, what's the difference between, I currently drink the gear just because I like to say gear. But what's the difference between drinking branch chains while you train? Yeah. And when you've eaten 10 ounces of steak an hour before, which is full of all the other EAAs. Yeah. Or drinking EAAs while you train. Like those, your bloodstream, if you're eating properly is loaded with the menos, you're getting some extra density, like extra high concentration of menos into your bloodstream. But in the EAAs are all three of the branch chains. And the blue scene is still the more dominant of all of them. So I don't like, yeah, my clients, what should I do? I'm like, what do you like? Yeah. It's hard because much is my high-p on it during legs. I can only drink water because anything has like the coach's my throat in any way. Makes me nauseous. So I drink water when I train legs. That's it. And sometimes I don't like to be sipping on the branch chains. I'm like, oh, this isn't going to work today. Put it down, grab your water. I'm drinking that now. So I'm one of the other jokes. I'm good. Do you remember the trend of drinking a hydrolyzed casing with cyclic branch? I do. Yeah. While you train, I did it with hauling's head one day for legs. And I puked my gut. Did you? Oh, yeah. It's on video. It's a mute. Not a mission we did. I mean, we had a hell of a workout. But that was the first time I ever tried to drink hydrolyzed casing. Was it like, you know, bro? A whole bunch. Yeah, something like that. Hold this head mix it up for me. He's like, here have this. And I remember I started drinking at what we were doing pendulum squats. Yeah. And I was like, oh, I don't know about this. I'm a water on leg day with maybe like 10 grams of amino's in like a liter and a half of the liter. Yeah. Like it's like very see through super diluted, you know. And I remember drinking that and we did some heavy ass banded leg press with added weight. It was crazy work. I was a mute non-emission episode from Kings gym years ago. And then at the end of the episode, I go on the alley. And I just projectile vomit all over the place. And obviously it was a hard workout. And I am the type of guy that has thrown up on leg day. But it was that crazy drink, man. It was the worst. And I know that Metos was doing it. It was experimenting on himself because he was trying to maximize recovery. Yeah. And so and that goes back to something on paper being great. Like the science says on paper. It should be awesome. And then you do it and you're like fuck no. Do I'm looking everywhere. At that time, so John was talking a lot to Shelby. And so I'm hearing what Shelby's doing, what John's doing. They were doing like 200 grams of carbs in your workout. You know like we're talking like, oh, it's drugs. That's what I was doing too. You had to build up to it and man, that was expensive number one. That's a lot of freaking carbs. You just hammer that insulin with it too. You know. Oh, I think the thing is that's back to what you were saying around in the beginning. When I'm a new lifter and I'm trying to figure out how to squat properly. Yeah. Just do it correctly. But I'm making sure I've got that perfect intro drink. And so it's even if it's even if it is a great door knob. We haven't put the walls up on the house yet. So let's not worry about it. Let's just yeah. Or that concrete. Make sure it's sturdy and flat. Quite often my clients will message me. I'll get them fired up on their plan. Yeah. And the message me, go, you haven't sent me anything about supplements. And I'm like, well, yeah. Like, I mean, you're 165 pounds. And you've never eaten properly. So get the steak like Costco and a ball of test. I had a guy come up to me in Germany. My hand goes Costco and a bottle of test. Nice. And I just laughed. And yeah, because, you know, just like, let's just get you going properly. You've never done a proper split. You've never done a proper diet. Let's get you eating. I don't want you worrying about a whole bunch of shit. I think that's overly important. We'll get that in later. Just take some fish oil. Get a multi. Get some good protein. Get some creatine. That's all you need. Let's go. You know. So another trender that. So I asked chat GPT because I've been talking to chat GPT a lot. I'm on this kick. Ron, Ron now has three friends. Yeah. I have a new doctor, everyone. I have a new doctor. So I asked for a current list of bodybuilding trends that are hot now, but may not stand the test of time. Oh, huh. And it gave me an insight. It said, this is a list of things that are currently hot. But may fizzle out like many other trends have. I love how it talks. And it said, and the number one thing is optimal obsession. Ha. Wow. And it said, it said, chasing perfection with biomechanics. The length of the rep resistance profiles, altering machines, machine only training. Strange exercises that isolate single muscles out of complex muscle groups. Yeah. All are already showing signs of fading. And it says, why they might fade. And it says, all of this is based on theory, not enough brute force. Many forget that progressive overload is still driven by maximum mental effort and high physical drive. Over analysis will lose steam once people hit platos despite being optimal. I think I have a new friend too. I like this guy. This chat. Yeah. Some sounds. Yeah. And then it said, influencer driven high-perchier-fee programs. And it says, genetically elite influencers who have already built fantastic physics using bread and butter bodybuilding techniques. Now selling optimal, overly complex workout routines to unsuspecting newbies. That's amazing. And that's a good thing. As buyers become more educated, they made demand better science and less BS and require more transparency. And I had a dinner with my brother this weekend. And my brother is an infectious disease specialist with three medical degrees. Rons of disappointment. And go ahead. Yeah. I'm absolutely disappointed with my family. And I have also met doctors that have said, part low. Do you have a relative Eric Partlum? And I go, that's my brother. And I've had doctors look at me and say, he's the best doctor I've ever met. So my brother is very smart. And I had this conversation with my brother. I mentioned some studies. And he goes, oh man, the thing with studies is everything is constantly changing. Studies are done on different groups of people, different numbers of people, different parts of the population. There's all these variables in all these studies. I deal with this stuff with studies on medications. And you have to take this all with the grain of salt. Nothing beats experience. That's why people come to me who have seen five other doctors. And I look at their chart and I go cancel all this. It's none of these things. I've seen this five times. It's this and I'm right. Victorian. I just similar stuff. You know, this is literally a study is just one thing. It's just one thing with one great. It's the back great. Yeah. Put it in a put it in the pile. Interesting information that is that could be useful. Absolutely. And yeah, yeah. And I said, wow, I said, bodybuilding is going through a lot of that right now. And he goes, oh, really. Like he doesn't know anything about bodybuilding, right? And he said, yeah, that's that's always the battle in the medical community is the studies versus the practical, actual experience of seeing things. And they just don't always line up. Yeah. And you know, if to take it with a grain of salt and it's interesting. So I give you a funny, I'll doctor story, Ron. So I was, I was prepping a guy that's a cancer doctor. So, so he gets done with his show, wins. He's nasty. About a week later, I did a text. He says, dusty. My, the adema in my legs is out of control. He's like, I don't know what to do. I talked to a couple doctors. He said, we've done some lay six. And I just won't go away. And I said, oh, Frank, you're dehydrated. Drink three gallons of water for two days. It takes me two days later, because doctors are idiots. I go, because you guys didn't walk backwards. Well, you almost died because of that. Yeah, you're not, yeah, exactly. And doctors almost killed me because I didn't realize I was dehydrated. And that's why I was holding a water Scott. Yeah. So they started pumping me with dioratics. And it took an outside source that knew I was a bodybuilder go, he needs more fluids. I remember that. I remember that better than you actually. I don't remember that. That's boring. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I think it's not going to be easy. I'll move with fluids and then all the water went away. Yeah. And then they just knew, oh, he needs more fluids every day than anyone else. Yeah. Do you guys want to hear the, the final one that it gave us? Yes. Absolutely. It said excessive data tracking. Okay. Tracking your sets and reps is one thing. But trying to track RIR sleep cycles, recovery scores, HRV and many more small details daily. For many, the juice is simply not worth the squeeze. Simple logging of your big core movements is going to make a comeback because burnout from tracking those tiny little variables doesn't make any sense in the scope of a person living a normal day-to-day life. We should just stop this podcast with just chat, GBT because I finally have a lot of things. We've been seeing. Yeah. Yeah. Great. We know you know what's funny guys. This is when when 2020 happened, I had five gym memberships because I went to one gym for legs. I went one gym for backs. I like their equipment, all these things. Well, then I went to muscle factor and he just bought it. So he had like very little equipment. And I was stuck there for like seven, eight months just training on barbells, pull-up bars, all this. And so we went in and he was kind of like assessed what we had and figured out the workouts. And seven months later, I looked at my physique and was like, how did I ever get away from this? I was bigger, stronger, everything looked better because I had any options. Yeah. We have a back leg. Well, there's a bar right there. Yeah. Let's do that. Hey, that's when Bumstead grew a back in a basement that year, you know? Yep. Yeah. It's just funny. We do the overwhelming options. Make you think. Get away from it. And I pressed people all the time if they're doing their own training. Like whatever thing is in can mean you don't want to do is probably the most valuable. I used to say that all the time. Yeah. You know, rolling off the floor is a pain in the ass. I mean, you got to lift the plates up to slide one more on, do all this shit. It's a pain in the ass. So why not just put on this machine over here and do a row. It's the same. No, it's not. I can't count the number of leg workouts where I said, what do I not want to do the most? And I'd be like, I really don't want to do heavy. I really don't want to do heavy hacksquats today. But I'd better do them first and get them out of the way. Yep. We had a question that's literally just about this. He said, do you guys think that an exercise that you tend to be weaker on versus a stronger exercise could possibly be of greater benefit? Example 15 plus plate leg presses for 10 to 12 versus just two to three plates for a squat for 10. So you're comparing apples and oranges when you're comparing two different exercises because everybody's body is going to be biomechanically slightly different from exercise exercise. So you might be really strong on the leg press because of the length of your femur and the length of your shin. But it doesn't necessarily mean that your quads are doing more than if you squat three plates. Do you know what I mean? Like you can like and and it's the level of effort that matters. Like if you're going really hard, then they're both valuable exercises. So and you will get stronger on your squat if you start prioritizing it and trying to progress on it. Maybe one of the reasons why you're squat is so far behind your leg press is because you avoid squatting or you don't, you know, progressively think if you're squat like that. Also anyone who's leg pressing 15 plates, I'd say chances are you're not going to fold up and you should probably take some plates off and reassess where your feet are on the platform and all that stuff, but that's a whole other conversation. So, yeah, you know, I think you know that is you're you shouldn't avoid things just because you're weak at them, but you also shouldn't avoid things because you're strong at them either. Yeah, um, there's there's a value to things and then I think the big thing is to pay attention to how do you feel when you do a movement. Because yeah, as much as I just told you that I think you should be doing rows off the ground. If you're not feeling your back the next day. And someone watches your form and it looks good. Then maybe it's not for you. You know what I mean? So it's definitely not one size fits all. I just had a conversation with a client that was like, I'm following your training, but you know, I kind of want to do these other things and he's just a hard lifter and I'm like, throw my training away. Train hard. I don't care if you do none of it. Like there's nothing I wrote that's magical. Now as you're progress, if I see a weakness starting to show, I'm going to ask you about the training you're doing and I might pop something in that you have to do. But I don't need you to follow this like a like you're on a mission you have no other options. Yeah, it's just trying to help you structure a workout. Yeah. Yeah. So if you don't like something toss it like I don't have a romantic involvement with any of these things like bounce it out. So what else you got Scott? Yeah. We got a bunch. What is something that competitors do on stage that you wish they didn't? Oh, go. Lip sync. You don't like the lip sync thing? No, we're trying to talk like they'll have a V-sover in their routine. No, like point to the crowd and they'll be like, I'll be like, I'll be like, mumbling the words or to be a quote from a movie, you know what I mean? And though that but the sound systems always it always sounds so shitty. You can't really hear what the person's saying and I might recognize a movie quote. But if you don't know the movie quote, you don't know what he's doing. Yeah. And a lot of times the timing isn't right and just a waste of time just got different things. And it never works. It never works. Stop doing it. Stop doing it. Please. One thing that I laugh about is when people prep their front lot spread the same way they do the rear Lot spread. So like they do the row and I can only see your front and then they grab their hips and then they do the last Spread them like that's actually part of the rear post. There's a reason you're doing that on the rear shot and on the front it's not necessary. Good point. You know so taking weight just one thing for your like that doesn't do anything. You know. Yeah. Yeah. I'll rush my clients when I work with them on the phone or somebody who's in person, especially the earlier guys who don't know as well. Well you say taking too long ground and they're trying to like set things up. And like the second they if I try to rush them like I don't tell them I'm going to do it, but we're running through the poses and I'll say front double bicep and they take their time and they set it up and they get those arms hit and the second they said okay, let's spread. And the second they hit last spread side chest. You know, either now they're starting to move quicker. They start snapping. You know what I mean? Yeah. Yeah. I also hate it. I hate it. When people do their when people do their rear lot spread. Yeah. So they're standing with their back to the crowd and they bend way over forward. Oh yeah. You like kind of the spread like it's completely unnecessary and you're sticking your butt out at me which stop. And it just takes longer and it's annoying and it doesn't have to be done. Just watch Dorian do a lat spread and just do that. It's not hard. Yeah. Just go Christmas tree. That's it. Let's spread. You know, I have to bend over and do this big production and then stand up with your eyes. Drives me crazy. A simple one that is primarily beginners is looking at their feet. Oh yeah. I'm like you don't know where your feet are. They're on the ground. Like it's like they have to look down to see where they're at and I'm like you should know that just by being there. If we're going to that level dusty, I'm going to add the bounce. You know, where you get into the side chest and then you have to bounce it a couple times to kind of feel it. Yeah. Don't get rid of the bounce. Get rid of the bounce. All right. Let's wrap it fire a few of these. I've got an important question here. I actually Victoria thought this is hilarious. Ron has to drive cross country with one of the following people. Who does he pick? Victoria, who just took a triple dose of all in and is excited to explain her research. And Dusty, who just got banned from the NHL center eyes and has ravenous hunger, a pseudo whose client just finished second at the Olympia or branch warrant. These are amazing. So, this is very important. Dusty just got banned from what? The NHL center eyes and has ravenous hunger. What's NHL center eyes? Is that like a membership club or something? You tell us basically just assume I got banned from sending it pisses me off. Yeah, I'm starving. That maybe it was like you were in like you were got like the good channels or something. I didn't know. And let me tell you I've been with Victoria when she's like I hear talk about her research all the time. Oh, I can't really say it. I've been with five days of estrogen, progesterone, radio. Here's the thing is, can't wait. I can't wait. I'm passionate about it. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, yeah. I listen though. And sometimes I have told her too. I was like you realize we just did that whole dog walk. And I just listened to you. But something she has to get it out though. You know what I mean? So I also have a lot of research. She's in a way. You know, I don't need to be reminded of how stupid I am for five days. So she's out. I see those client just finished setting it up. It's going to be a life. It's going to be a life. I think I'd want that right. Could we record that? Yeah, I just hit like live stream on the Instagram. Right. Right. Going on the dash. Yeah. Oh, I get like a million hits. That's funny or branch. So branch would just branch would just want to have a lot of beef jerky. Yeah. And water on hand, I think. And you might want to stop at a shooting range along the way. That'd be cool. And he probably wouldn't talk a lot. Yeah, I don't know. No. Pull over. Maybe they can just wonder if you'd want to listen to country music. You might want country music. Oh yeah. I think I probably picked Dusty. Our periods are already synced up. Yeah. We'll film that out earlier. Oh, man. All right. Underrated or overrated. Body weight exercises. Overrated. Yeah. Overrated. Oh, my. Underrated. Although, although. And I got to spin back a little bit. I'm. I might actually lean. I mean, I like a prison. You depends on how our ride went. Yeah. No, you know what? I think you're our right Scott because there's not a lot to talk about him, which makes him underrated. Because like the other day at the end of my chest, we're got just for fun. I did close grip pushups off the ground. I got like this. That was like. Yes. So, you know what? You're right Scott. I'm changing my vote and they're underrated. So I did it. I did it. I did it. Oh, yeah. I've been doing plank. Right. And so I decided I was like, well, what if I started just like doing pushups too? I was like, all right. Because like, you know, yeah, I'm much weaker than I used to be. And so I do three chest exercises. Third one is just body weight pushups. Three sets as many as I can get. I just didn't today before the show. And I got like 20. And then 15. And then 12. And I'm like, oh my god, it's a nice way to just finish my chest day off for where I'm at. It's freaking great, you know? I think that's too much fatigue. Yeah. Much fatigue. You're definitely not recovering too far. Not gonna grow. All right. How about this one? Um, Oh, this could be like a whole topic. But craziest off season. Crazy off season. You ever have loved the stories from back to the day getting insight to the experience with different coaches. Like for our lives. Could be either. Why no runs or run? Let's talk about your time with Chad Nichols. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I know my knees easily. The year I worked with Chad. I hit 330 pounds. And I mean, what do you say about being 330 other than wow. It was a lot. And it, uh, it, uh, I mean, I can't, I can't even imagine being that body weight again. You know what I mean? It was, uh, but I was, I was like, Huge. Like, I saw a picture of me with my family. Yeah. And how it just didn't even make sense. I was just like, And it's how big my head was. I was gonna say where you smiling. You got the green thing. I just thought, yeah. I just shot. I just got, just got. Same for Nardron. Yeah. They pumped, yeah. They jumped in head. Yeah. It was, it was a lot. And, um, you know, it was fun to do. And like, like we said earlier in the podcast, you don't know what too far is until you've gone too far. And, um, I mean, people are like, Oh, wow, you must have been really fat. And I was like, well, I was definitely fat or like, I had body fat on me for sure. I was bulked up. But like I said in the first 10 days of my diet, I lost 21 pounds. No. So I went from like 330 to like 208 and like 10, 3 to 8 and like, in like, in like, 10 days. You know what I mean? Or 318, I mean. Is it 318? No. 308. Yeah. Thank you. I'm sorry. Oh, yeah. And then Chad, oh yeah, that's just all that water. But, you know, being full of water like that, that's pretty anabolic. Like he, he just, he's like, he is like, you were in like a grow environment. I remember what he remember he would talk about like, creating a maximum amount of ballic environment inside my body. He was like, you know, that's why we did it. And I was just like, oh, Lee shit. Um, I was heavy. And I was really strong to, I mean, ratio wise. I mean, you know, you see kids on Instagram now that are moving like crazy weights because everyone's just, you know, while there's a drug faster there too. Yeah. Yes, it does. But, um, I mean, I was on like a decent cycle, but it wasn't insane. I was doing like 1200 test 500 EQ with like some good growth. I had some mom to trope pens. I was using a bit of good growth, but not like a ton of things like five a day. And I was taking an anodrol. And I was just fucking huge. Like, and you know, I remember I had my legs were over 33 inches. And I, and you know, I mean, I was squatting five plates, like, you know, like routinely and doing stuff like that. Barbell squatting five plates, you know. Um, so yeah, is this heavy a shit. And uh, uh, what a ride that was. Yeah, big giant face. What's funny is when I look back at those periods where in hindsight we say, it was bigger than it needed to be. But I still think that at the end of the day when you're, when you're beginning. And if you're, if you're not somebody who easily puts on body fat, I would rather the client gets too heavy than not heavy enough. Because they're, they're again, like, what do you leave it on the table by being too lean? Yeah, you know, your diet was, you still got shredded. Yes, you didn't need to do it again. But I think there's certain things that in hindsight, like, I'll move like that earlier in your career. I think would have been very well worth it. And then later in your career, it's not as necessity. And that's where things got, I've kind of gotten ruined with social media. You're watching Kion in his offseason and saying, well, that's what he's doing to be the best. It's like, well, that's what he's doing now to be the best. Yeah, you know what I mean? And he's just genetic free, so it doesn't even apply. But I do think that those times were good because mine was the same. I mean, when I look back, I remember dreading eating after my second meal, the next four. It would be time to eat and you're not, you're not, you're not hungry. And you're looking at an entire meal and it's like, it's got to go down. You know, it's almost always nauseous. Yeah, you spend your, and it's funny because you spend that your whole offseason uncomfortable. That's why I have a client that keeps telling me he's bloated. He's like, I'm bloated. What do you mean by bloated? And then he answers, I go, you're full. That's not, it's not, it's not gas in your stomach. You're full of food. Yeah. You're uncomfortable and that's the goal. You're good. You know what I mean? But I think when you look at those, more people should lean into the eat more. You know, I mean, I always go back to Dante and that was he had a big push with Kevin Jordan. He got huge one year. I mean, enormous huge when he was working on Chad and everyone was like, he's so fat. He looks terrible. Then he came down to one of his junior nastier wupp. He was nasty. He'd put on like 20 pounds of tissue in a year and he won the overall. And it's like, my data says that this worked really, really well. My data, my last piece. Dusty's study says he put on 20 pound of tissue in one year and was an experienced bodybuilder already. So I don't think he needed to do that every year after that. But for that year, I think it was really valuable. So I think more people that are serious about bodybuilding should consider getting really big and getting really strong and then diving down. And like you said, finally, yeah, yeah, the younger you are, the more valuable it is to push your weight up. Yeah, you know what I mean? Yeah, so yeah, man, greed, that was a lot. Hey, if you guys are good with that, I feel like that's a great place. We kind of came full circle, you know, on the show here at the day. Agreed for being out of practice and having all this time away. We didn't seem running two weeks on the show. I didn't even know if he was still on the show. Well, we do have to take a minute, Dusty. We haven't been on since we got back from Feebo. So we just recommend it to say hi to everybody that came by to say like, we watched this podcast. And like, you know, Lucas came by like, of course, guys like Lucas at like, re-post our video all the time. So show to Lucas and guys like that that we only get to see if we go to Feebo. And you know, and these guys come by and they say, hey, last five minute crew. And you're like, oh, what's his wild? You know what I mean? So definitely want to get to the world to everybody. And hammer. Yeah, the girls can buy their several several amazing amazing interactions with the female list. And they got accents from different countries. And you're just like, it makes, you know, I tell people all the time like we see the number on the YouTube video going. But it's just the number. And then when we go to those places and we actually meet the people, you realize that that's like, you know, it's actual real human beings watching the show. And you know, you meet a girl with a girl with a French accent who watches the show. And then I grow from Spain. You watch as a show. And then I German female listener comes by and like it's just, it's crazy. People from Sweden and you know, it's just nuts. So thanks to everyone who came by and talked to Dustin and I much appreciate it. I do have to share two scoggly and tell you this yet. But Ron and I went down to the equipment hall. Yeah, we did just like a gorilla mutin on a mission of the equipment hall. So we're going to the hall. Oh, it's almost done. And okay, cool. So we're going through and we're just finding pieces and I'm filming Ron, trying them, you know, maybe talking to the reps might come over and talk to us. Yeah. And I assume the whole time, you know what I mean, this is what they're doing. So they're just walking up to everybody. And we we we dropped by the the Jim like, both and we're trying some different stuff. And then what was the booth we went to next with the had the, the equipment that I like the row and all that. What was that the was that the new tech booth. Yeah, we would go by the new tech booth next. And so I'm sitting there and I'm kind of like filming and everything. And then the guy from across the way walks over. Yeah, to tell the guys at the new tech booth. They're like, you can't have whispers by over here and go because it was he's talking about Ron and he goes, he's famous. Make sure you cover anything he needs to know. That's amazing. That's amazing. I'm like, this is so classic and they were showing me some of the new tech stuff. And the guy was like, oh, come check this out. And I had, so I'm just doing it. I'm like, oh, yeah, like that like that. Then the owner comes over and he immediately had to do some of my first name. And I'm like. I just had no idea that anyone knew who we were. We were just kind of like doing our thing. And they gave us like in depth breakdowns of all their machines. It was awesome. Yeah, I'm actually excited. Even though this very guerrilla style, I think people are going to love the videos because I'm excited. I want to try some really cool stuff. And I sold a bunch of it on the show. Yeah, we're good. Yeah, yeah, it was cool because like the the one guy from New Tech. He was from Hong Kong. He's like a distributor from Hong Kong and he's got some gems. Yeah. And and and and and I think his name was Brian. And and I said, oh, I'm I'm Ron and he goes, oh, I know he goes, you're welcome to come to my gyms anytime. That's so cool man. I was like, oh, that's awesome. And like it was it was pretty cool. Yeah. Well, this is it was pretty cool. And I've got something to add here. Check this number out. So this is not including the audio podcast listeners. But in the last 28 days at the YouTube channel in total. We are almost cracking 200,000 views in the last month alone for the entire channel. So that's the whole thing. But yeah, so figure that on top of the audio lessons, we get maybe between 10 to 15,000 a week there. I mean, it's pretty freaking incredible, man. The the amount of people that were reaching. I'm trying to push this up. I want to see. I want to see 200,000 views in 28 days. You know, it's a it's exciting, man. It's exciting, man. It's exciting because you know what to it's not just 2,000, 200,000 likes of an Instagram post or you know, somebody scrolled past a picture or a real and hit like these other people that are spending anywhere from 22 to 30 minutes. If not an entire hour with us, you know, and that's a freaking lot of people. I don't know how many minutes that is. That's a lot. Just the night went by one booth where we tried out a bunch of equipment and it was a brand that I had always considered kind of a fitness brand. Okay. And we went by their booth. It was where we did the Lake extension and that was my favorite extension. And, and I saw their upgrades. I was like, your strength stuff is different. And he goes, yeah, because we are stepping up the strength like and I was like, I would put this in my gym like so some of these fitness brands are realizing like. The demand for real. A bodybuilding equipment is is come up like they're making a pendulum now and they're making we try we try to try to depend on them and and then he said it's very heavy and I said yeah, dusty, you know he's like a six seven plate pendulum guy and they he looks him goes, no way like you just move on right. And then and he had no idea who we were, but he quickly caught on like when he was showing us the extension I started talking but they have a thing where you can flip a lever and the backdrops flat. Oh wow. So you could lay back and do extensions right no one else has that. Wow. And I was like I was like I really like this extension like this is not the fitness brand I thought it was. Yeah. And anyways, we left he goes, oh you guys really seem to know your stuff obviously, you know he was just talking to us. We leave and the next day I didn't tell that to this but I got a message from him and my Instagram he goes, oh damn. I had no idea who you guys were. He goes let me know if you need anything he goes I can have like and I said oh we already have a great wrap with your brand and he's like yeah I'm very good to meet you guys like he was just kind of funny. That's cool. No idea who you guys were like if you want to net you know next year come and see me like he was he was cool so he was great when he didn't know us so that's me. Yeah, he was great anyways right but but yeah it was funny you know because that at that hall is so huge and you think like. They care about the guys is it like guys are showing up here like guys are coming from China and they're like I'm opening 100 gyms. Right right. Yeah those are the 900 people that. Yeah, those are the guys that they really want to meet right so it's like they're gonna give a shit about to meet heads with cutoff teacher to walk through that right. But it's cool to you guys. Yeah, yeah. That's all anyways great time at people and Scott we've petitioned for you to be there the next year and the people also spoke we made sure that George. We made sure that George heard heard some of the people say where's Scott. Yeah, let's go. That's going on the less of a hanging appointment. I was holding it down in the background over here. I'll tell you what I would be as cool as Fibo is. I'm hoping something happens with the UK. I would like to be there because that's where I feel like my you know our our channel is kind of split. Yes, US UK. I don't know who you know percentage wise. I we might even have more people percentage of human beings like per capita that listen to show and the UK then in the US because there are so many more people in the US. I was our numbers are bigger. Are they okay? I'm going to be the Arnold again next year so we will be there. That's it's like on I've only been to the UK once for expo they brought me out to do the podcast there a couple of few years ago now but I I already I feel like that's like my second home so hopefully we will bring me out for that. My my first trip there. I showed up to the booth and this was I mean I don't think I was a pro yet. I mean I had my YouTube and everything going and I got there I show up on an hour and a half after everybody else and I put my stuff down the back and the owner of I force goes, hey you got. You got you got some people and that's like an area for me so I'm thinking there's going to be like two guys standing there. Yeah, I turn around there's a line. Holy crap and that's what I realized was like the UK's a different thing. Yeah, I mean there were there were 30 people standing there and I was like, oh. Are they waiting for like I was so thrown off because I'd never had that before and I'm like you're like where's Jose. That was before he was even there. I was like oh different place. I mean bodybuilding is so hardcore there. Yeah and it was was a very immediate eye opener that it was a different planet. Like that's why they connect to our shows you know. Yes. Yeah, so that was a great trip. That's cool. That's guys had a good time. I missed being there but it was cool to see your pictures and stuff. I can't wait to see that mutin on a kind of mutin on a mission that'll be good. Yeah, so it's it's you know there's not a whole lot of content but it gives a good view like the people who don't know with the equipment haul will look like we tried to get some good pan and then I tried out some machines and dusty tried out some machines. We just I'm just I'm slapping it together on eye movie right now but I'm kind of amateur but I'll you're doing all right cool when I when I'm done I'll I'll I don't know what we're going to do with it dusty intended something but I will send it over and throw it on the channel and hey that'd be awesome. You know this is cool. It was an hour and a half Scott and we were hurting. Yeah, that's how big of it. Yeah, we saw like 10% walk it and we were rushing. Oh, yeah, we need to get back. I mean we could have been there for four hours easily. I'm sure easily. But just to give people an idea right like you know people have been to the art in the Olympia and they think they know what the supplement expo looks like but the equipment haul is like a car show these booster worth millions of dollars. Yeah, they're dropping 10 or gems. They're dropping 4,000 square foot gems on the floor. Yeah. Yeah. Like I mean there was easily but two and a half million dollars with equipment at the gym 80 booth. Oh yeah. Well then we like I was talking to somebody they were asking me how big it was and I said if you ever been in a Costco and they were like yeah I said okay three of those. Yeah, that's the equipment haul. Yeah. Wonderful. Yeah, there's an all-to-be. Yeah. Yeah, we only hit three of the halls of the equipment so it was obscene. Yeah. Okay. All right. Okay everyone remember like share subscribe comment and the bell. Okay. And remember I am mutant.com. Use the codes dusty and big run. Get on there and get your discount. We order through the website and use the codes. It really helps us out and you will be shocked at how fast you get your product. It'll arrive like immediately like someone will knock on your door in five minutes and face with it. It'll be right on the top. Yeah. And let's get in the US and dusty will deliver. Yeah. That's still deliver. Yes. Every time. And everyone should get on the gear so get to that. Okay. Thanks everybody. Remember it's just body building.

But made it, I get there, I go upstairs and I'm neurotic and cellulose, body, but I had three scales with me. If you want to check all three, so I'll take the average. I'm not going to be trusted one scale. So I get there, I check my weight into my 201.4. Cool point, right? But like at this point, I like, I'm di-reddit up, I haven't drink or eat anything. Nothing depleted. I'm just emissated, right? So on my crap, I'm going to go do the sauna, what's down the sauna and I told my mom, what I'm doing is not good for me at all. Okay, I'm going into the sauna, I'm coming in and out every 10 minutes. If you don't hear from me every 10 minutes, you can send somebody an after me. Okay, it's okay and she's looking at me like, she's like, like, who am I? I'm mom's daylight, my son's crazy. What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with coaches Skip Hill, Andrew Berry. I'm Scott McNally and we are joined by Chris Tuddle. Chris, thank you for joining us, man. Yeah, so I apologize to your my pleasure. Andrew and I go way way back. Oh yeah, we're excited for this one. Guys, all of our programming, it's brought to you by truenutrition.com. User code, thank for additional savings. High quality third party test and supplements from a company that you can trust, supplement source.ca for our Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week, check them out. And last but not least, thank you to everybody from Patreon. We're going to do another Q&A episode after this and we'll be sure to tackle all your Patreon questions. So from here, I'm going to turn things on over to Andrew and Andrew's going to run the show. I guess I'm running the show. You're you've got the wheel, man. I got the wheel. Yep. So Chris and I are both from the New England area. You know, obviously I'm the better known bodybuilder out of the pool of us way more successful. Yeah, right. But no, again, to the point of it, I wanted to hear because I've always thought it's been an I always thought it was interesting. Chris is a story. Chris comes from an nutritional background. He's a registered dietitian. He became an IFB pro, 212 pro. He's got a lot of fun stories from along the way. So I think we just want to start it off with like what got you into bodybuilding, what got you into it? Were you an athlete before all this? I know the answer to that. But I think our listeners would find it interesting. Yeah, I'll try to keep it very, a very shortened, it's not just a story, but it's a pretty long story. But I love dirt bikes as a kid, 545 years old, 40, or 5th birthday, I first started racing with 8. And I loved motorcross, I loved dirt bikes. And I was also younger, diagnosed with hypoglycemia. So this is quite a how nutrition ties in and how all of a sudden exercise is going to tie in. So I got diagnosed with hypoglycemia and I noticed the hearing age, the differences in how I felt with certain foods and others. My kids might be my friends, I'd be eating combos and like a you who and like I would eat that and how to feel terrible. But if I was to fight a sandwich and say some chips, I would feel way better. So I used to always say that I needed real food. So when I was a kid, but I always say my parents, I need real food and that met more food and substance. I was saying no like a more higher fat protein carbs and each solid meal. So I paid attention to food and how it made me feel and I would choose it based on that. So that's how my initial interest started having food. So fast forward to the first-dway racing motorcross, I got killed, crushed the first year of racing. And just like both people who started anything, they're not very good. And I hired a trainer, I parents harder trainer for me and my trainer just overhauled everything. He's like dude, if you want to be good like you got to act, you got to do what top guys do. And that's nutrition, that's training, that's riding, riding, doing bad conditions, do everything. So he revamped my diet and taught me education with what's approaching, what's a carb, what's a fat or an age of 11. And kind of transform my already diet that was better than most kids diets into more you would say just a balanced diet, right? Me protein carbs, fruits, vegetables, just balanced. And then I felt really good. He also put me in a weight training program that was more conducive you could say like a CrossFit where in motorcross you have to be very, it's very, even when a lot of it there, you came into muscular, you pop up fatigue. So it was like you know, set to 20 dead lifts and then do walking lunges and then you bunch of pushups and then you know, do bent over above our elbows, kind of a huge circuit and they just like really just push yourself cardiovascular wise but under resistant training. In my body, respond well very quickly and I didn't notice it, my friends noticed it. They're like dude, totally you're jacked. And six, three, they're like dude, you got abs bro, what's up with that? And then like, you're like, they're like, they're going to associate, wow, what I'm doing for training for motorcross is changing the way I look, I'm getting attention from it. I'm like this is kind of cool. So then I start like a lot of magazines, bodybuilding magazines, etc. And I'm like, oh that's really cool. Like I could change more training and maybe look more like that. But my motorcross training wasn't having it. He's like dude, you know, you can't do that. That's like turn with Sumo Restlord and run a fast marathon. Like it's not going to happen. I can't work. So I used to sneak in things here and there, but he would know because he would see me ride in my arms with pump up and I'll get to fire and even like do training arms stop. I'll get the track, you know, 13, 14 years old, fairly muscular. And people look at me like dude, he's come from the wind, they just make a joke. Or am I, I didn't. But like obviously I like the attention. I like how many feel. I like the muscles. I like how I have control of my body. So that's like the initial introduction to nutrition and training and what it could do for my body. But it was all for motorcross at the time. I raised motorcross all day from age 9, 10. I got really serious in in 2011, 12, and I turned professional 21. And then when I finished racing motorcross, I wanted to body build so bad because now that I'm done motorcross, I can actually bodybuild. I was going to school at the time for to be a strength coat. And then I really realized that I really wasn't interested in all this different philosophies of training because it was more geared towards sports. And I wanted to be more towards bodybuilding. And as you guys know, a lot of the following in the research while athleticism because that's what pays, right? Football, tracking field, Olympic sports. But not hypercognally. So I changed my major to nutrition. And that's why I became school's and be a dietitian. And I knew that was going to help my bodybuilding as well. And I'm also like, well, I love food. And I'm the only guy really in the whole nutrition field. So but better be around my degree, I'll talk about food, right? I can attest to that. Like I was the only guy in my graduating major that you're, because I, I have the same degrees. I had some guy with contract boss my ball just like, bro, you're, yeah, it's not like a female field. And I look at him like, oh, yeah. He knows what I thought about food. This is un-wonderful. But that's not the real reason females, but it's food. And I bodybuild and competed all through school. Left, what across behind? I was ready to leave. Just be just like, you know, you're living your mouth basement spending like 40k here on rape one, you know, breaking a bone every year, you know, going through all that. Like, do I got to grow up eventually? But I was like, oh, I'm really perfect for that. Like, I don't have to break bones. I can only have to train like an hour and a half a day. I love food and I learn about food and I can transform my body so I can dedicate all this time and effort to this. And of course, coincides with my career as well nutrition. And that's kind of like how bodybuilding started in 2005. I hired my sister's ex-boyfriend who you've bothered build and he helped me prep for my first show didn't do very well. We got fifth at a six people in the middle of late, probably was like five weeks out condition to today standards. And the following year, I was like, I'm going to do this myself, but I'm going to learn. I bought all of Chris Isido's books, read all his books, follow to the T. And then went from middleweight fifth place at a six people in my first show to winning the novice novice overall in second in the open and a staff like heavyweight division. It was like, I think there's 26 guys in my late heavyweight class. How old are you then? Great. That was 2021, 2022, 2022, when you're first overall, you say you won the, what, I'm sorry, I missed that place saying I just, I heard you moved up to late heavyweight. What was that placing in there? Yeah, this is the back in the day when novice divisions actually had every class because there's so many competitors. Oh yeah. Yeah. And I won the novice novice overall and then I got second in the open and the open had something like 24, 26 guys and the late heavyweight. Yeah. It's crazy. Gold gym classics and New Jersey. And it was great because you know when you're young, you don't know how bright we were in works. So I had no idea. So like I was out there and they're doing callouts. And then eventually I end up in whatever callout it was. I didn't know what it meant. And then I was like, what do you think? My dad's like, I don't know. Like it looks like you're up there, you know, who knows in night show comms. And this is where like bodybuilding, this is what I missed about it. I'm sure you guys call it test to it. It's like, you're new, you're fan, you love every minute, you're learning everything, everything's new. And they're like, hey Chris, so number whatever what was like, you're top five. I'm like, oh my god, I made tough five. You're late class. And this is a crazy division. And they start calling out and I thought I was like fifth. And they're like, fifth place goes to so and so on. Oh my god, not fifth. And they go down the line and there's me and one other dude. And he's like Chris told me, I was so excited. And then the following week, I got second again to Chris the comptay at the East Coast. And after that, you know, I did my prep again, didn't work out. Then I hired a factory movearak. And then he projected me significantly in a very short period of time. I went from I think 15th at Eastern USA's to six months later, winning Atlantic States heavyweight. So I jumped away class in six months and then one of the Atlantic states. She jumped a heavyweight. When he went on the 20th. Yeah, it was November. Like, what he was there. It was November that I did Eastern's. And then I hired Focker shortly after like two weeks after. I first asked him, he said, no. You got coaching wasn't a thing then, yet, right? You know, I was like, hey, can you help me? He's like, no, dude. Sorry. And then like two weeks later, he contacted my ex girlfriend at the time through my space. And goes, hey, I'm considering helping people with coaching. I will help Chris. And I'm like, great. I think it wasn't very much money. I think it was like 600 bucks for the year or something like that. Whatever it was back then. And then from that November, I weighed 190 one on stage. And then that very, that next June, I was 202 on stage peeled. Yeah. So it was a crazy rebound. Everything was better. He made me eat way more food than I ever thought that was possible. And that rebound. And a lot of new stimulus. So my body just responded. Great. But I never responded that extreme ever again. We all had those crazy, crazy growth sprues like once or twice, you know. And then kind of moved on from there to the next show to the next show. But you guys have any questions for our keep going? Because I'll just keep actually have two. And I've been waiting patiently and Scott and Andrew know that that's a very different thing. That's a big deal. It's a big deal. It's a big deal. It's a big deal. It's a big deal. And it erupted. It has a number one question. And well, it's not even a question. It's more of a statement. So you're not only a pro bodybuilder, but you're also a pro motorcross. Yes. It's okay. I'm not, I'm not pro anything. So you've already got to go in that number one. Number two is I'm, and this is the one I'm really curious about. And you gotta be honest. I don't know where your life is, but how much asks were you pulling in like June or high? He's been sitting on that one for 10 minutes. I've been sitting on this for a while. Because I mean none of the other kids had any muscle right. And I know it's young. I'm just, I'm making a joke about your life. I mean, I got like I won best physique, you know, in the senior year or whatever. But I mean, to be honest with you, like most women are into like, fun, the football player is the team sports. And I was like, cross guy, you know what I mean? I know, but that's pretty manly. Yeah. That's, you know, I mean, I get what I'm saying. It's not football. And you don't want to worry you jersey. You know, yeah. It's not common. I mean, like, I did my fair share of, but like, motorcross, like it consumes you. Like, people don't realize it like, it's, it's just like any sport at a high level. I mean, Sunday you're racing, Monday you're recovering, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, you're practicing training, you know, biking running by some, hitting the track, working on drills, Saturday's recovery, pack up, race Sunday, and you're doing that, you know, nine months out of the year. So it's like, it's cotton, then you break bones and then you're per, it's a lot at a high level. And even in the highest level, those guys are riding like 30 hours of the week on the bike, you know, so it gets to be a lot. And then it got that point like once I turn pros, like, I can't compete with these people, like, because these people are getting things paid for and like they're able to ride right 30 hours. I got to work. Yeah. And like level of speed they carry is ridiculous. So like, I remember my first professional race, I did okay locally at professional race. And then I did an invitation on which is basically qualifying for nationals, for a national professional race. I didn't qualify it. But the how fast they were going, I couldn't even believe it. Like I was going fifth as fast as I ever had been in my life. And there was pulling away from me like I'm sitting still. And I'm just like, this is where I branch off to do something else now. Like 17 years old just go, it's gone. Yeah. That's great. So moving forward, when did you connect with Evan sent to Pani? After Atlantic states, actually, I did the Atlantic states. He came over to me and he goes, dude, your Connecticut grown. I go, yeah. And I, and he goes, well, be too. He's like, I know who you are. I'm like, you're Evan. You're done. Hey, everyone's like, yeah, he's like, yeah, man, it was nice to meet you. He's like, I don't know many bodybuilders in your besides P.J. And I'm like, why are we? We, yeah. And then I met P.J. They're briefly at Atlantic states. Yeah. And then the following week after Atlantic states, I attend the Montenari show they put on New Haven. And Evan sees me and he's like, dude, promise, trunks, you're gasposing with me. And I'm like, bro, like, you know, Mara kids today would be like, yeah, man, I'm going to do that. But I was like, I've no place to do that. Like, I'm not a professional. I'm like, I just won, what, my, what, my class of Atlantic states, like, I'm in no body. And he's like, dude, I think he's great because this Connecticut show, you're still shredded, you know, and you're like 10 pound, 15 pounds heavier of waters. You look huge, what are on? And I did. And then I talked Evan backstage, he's like, bro, you ever in a, in New Haven, let's train. And I go, sure. And then year after, I went to college in New Haven and he sees me there. He's like, dude, total, what are you doing here? I'm like, well, I'm going to school at New University and he gave me a dietitian and I'm training here between classes. He's like, bro, let's fucking train. And I'm like, sure. Oh, let's go. And then we became good friends and training with him for the first time was such a high-opener. I mean, looking back at it, we know it wasn't a good idea, good practice. But so for example, the leg day, and obviously, you train with Evan, you, you, you just shut up, right? Like, I'm just falling in the dust. Oh, he says failure and do 10 more. I'm going to failure doing 10 more. Yeah. Yeah. And we're doing hacksquats. He's like, what do you like to do? I love hacksquats, squats. This is back when I don't, in the years, I could do everything. And he's like, I like traps. That's like, can't be too. So we're, we're doing our feeder sets and I get up to about six plates. And then I do a set of 12. And I stop. And he goes, doing. And I go, I'm working my way up to do our drops at he goes, no, no, every set is a drop set. And I go, I'm coming again. I plan on starting at eight. And then we'll do, I'll do eight plates for his mains like hand. And then you six plates is mains like hand. And four plates is mains like hand. And that's one set. And we're going to do four of those. Damn. I was, my hand, my, you know, like, yeah, we're, I'm still old school mentality in 41. Didn't say word. Sure, no. Let's go. Do the whole thing. I couldn't get out of my car. When I, my legs were in such spasm, I'm surprised that didn't give myself a rubbed out. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I was thinking the same thing. Yeah. I like, I call them over at the time. I go, I'm at the grocery store. And I physically can get out of my car. She said, what do you mean? Every single time I try to put weight on my leg, my whole entire leg ceases up. But for almost an hour and a half. And I kept trying to get out of the right, to navigate to my groceries and I couldn't. So we get a text from your kidneys and it just says, what the fuck? Yeah. What's going on out? Back then, text for 25 cents each time. So it's a very important tax. I don't think I did. We had the flip top phones right? Right. You know, yeah, you hit the seven five times. Yeah. Yeah. But I was great. I mean, I was funny because I go to school with my cooler. It was like I commuted from East Hartford to New Haven, which 45 minutes. So I'd bring my food to the entire day. And I would just go to classes 8 a.m. 8 a.m. in the 930 and then me, Evan after my second class and then go back for my other classes, all sweaty and workout pants, walking out of the cooler, smelling like fish. You know, like, I did whatever I needed to do to get it done. And I just remember all the teachers always crack and jokes. Oh, what's that? Yeah. Yeah. We're going to do it. You're carrying organs in that that's a good one. I like that. Yeah. It's so you bring your literally describing like my same college experience. Like the two a T-Cris. I'm actually injured. It's like, I eventually tried to do it to keep a low profile. Like I would keep a main cooler in my car and then maybe cooler with me one new week. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So the attention is okay. And then it becomes kind of like an I roll. You're like, just just like, you're me. Just nobody's seen me because I just want to, I don't want to be bothered with it. Oh, you would annoy the teachers when you break out of Tupperware in your eating during their class. Like they'd have to make a crack about it every single time. So I would go, you couldn't get lunch in today. So you had to eat and it was always something like that. So I go in the back and I try to be a little profile or like, or I step out, I had a lab for four hours. You can't bring food or drink into the lab. I'm like, okay. And you can't leave to eat either Chris. I go, okay. So like around two hour market, like, I have to use the bathroom. Yeah. Yeah. You're not throwing them. And I was just like, drink a shake of oatmeal. I'll macadamia nut oil and make protein and just get it down and then go back into the class. Yeah. You know your discipline when you can sit down and take a shit and eat a meal at the same time. Yeah. I know it's gross. But you gotta know that's sometimes the price you gotta pay. You know, you know, you know, you're clients like I'm traveling, not going to fall the diet. And there's never been a time my life with any job I've ever had anywhere, even working the ICU, where I couldn't figure it out. Right. It might not be perfect. But I figured it out. Yeah. Yes. And people are like, oh, I'm traveling for the day. I can't do my diet. Oh, you traveling in a airplane? Oh, no. Just a car. Oh, what? That's easy. Yeah. Yeah. Easy. It's very well-timed. Yeah. Yeah. Oh, you eat your food cold. I'm like 90% of why am I? One of the common questions we get asked by you guys is, what would you do differently with your body building? If you could go back in time. Given all the experience and education I have today, there's a number of things that I would have done differently. One of them is that I would have started using college and sooner. College it is one of the few supplements that will actually rebuild connective tissue. It took me tearing my super spinatus in 2021 to get with the program. I use true nutrition's hydrolyzed beef college and I get the unflaver version. I pay for it myself. Just like you guys do, I use 20 grams a day, mix it into my coffee. It's totally unflavered. You don't even taste it. Plus, I use 10 grams of their micronized creatin. Creatin has been shown to improve brain health, especially for the aging brain. I need that. And of course, you know, we've always know about the muscle building effects. So this is my morning routine every day and I'm encouraging you guys to do the same. Use our code, thank for savings plus. It's the only way for them to know that this advertising is being heard. Otherwise, they just think you're some random dude that clicked on an app. And I do it by the do it. I mean, actually, as far as getting the degree as a register dietation, I would assume that you found it. I don't want to say easy, but easier not only because of it was something that you're interested in because it fed, mad only, or motorcross, but your bodybuilding. But also just because you had a pretty good background going in, right? Honestly, being a dietation is completely different. So being the dietation is about nutritionally to disease. In the cases, you're an experience of people on dialysis, diabetes, gal, things like that. So it really doesn't almost doesn't apply at all. Other than really carnivore, it's more well-rounded and understanding what a good diet is in a bad diet. Because, you know, when you don't have the education, you could easily take information from somebody that's a bad diet and be like, oh, I think that's a good diet. You don't know. But go, oh, I can look at diets and make this things trash. Regardless, it's a good result. It's a trash, you know? So it didn't honestly apply to anything. In my master's nutrition, which was human nutrition, we did a lot of research. And that opened my eyes more to like, there's nothing that's installed. It's just, we've proven right now. And this is what the research states. And basically, it opened your mind. It's almost like being a dietation and undergrad closes your mind, puts you in a box. Well, this real state, this is the code of ethics. This is what we learn. They need to do your masters and your life. There is no box, you know? It's wide open. And if it works, it works, and you do what's sustainable for the client. And, you know, this is the current research with cancer and nutrition. This is the current research with alcohol and how it affects the body. Master, probably overall better education piece that helped me through body, within looking at plans, been like, this is returned. This is ridiculous. You know what I mean? But they did you with like advanced sports nutrition. They did small degree of electrolytes, but even all my rotations were all sick people. It's all very, very sick people. He's talking, you're talking about the dietetic internship and then your job as a registered doctor. I think there's an even as a job. I work on ecology for ICU. You want two feeds. It's new to like, yeah, new IV nutrition. You have to adjust their electrolytes every day. That's cool, you know? Like, I'm thinking back to like the actual, you know, registered dietitian degree, or sorry, the dietetics degree in nutrition food science and on the nutrition food science part, I thought that was way more interesting, especially classes like advanced nutrition, nutrition biochemistry. Like that for me had the application to bodybuilding, which was everything that I was about at that point. And a quick story was, I remember one of my professors, and you remember like the Chris, they have all these guidelines for like how to get people to lose weight or how to, you know, how to do this or that, right? And one of our final projects was to write a diet that would help someone lose 20 pounds. And I'm like, well, shit, I just did a bodybuilding contest prep. And I lost 32 pounds. I'm literally, and I documented everything to a T. I'm going to type it all up and I'm going to, you know, turn it in. I turned it into her and she gave me a zero. And I'm like, what do you mean a zero? Like, I literally documented the diet that I did. You didn't follow any of the guidelines. You're supposed to have, you know, 65% carbohydrates in 12% of my life. I was like, listen to me. I was already helping people out at that point, not like coaching or anything like that, but helping my friends lose body weight, put on muscle. And I was like, yeah, but in the real world, that just doesn't work. Like, like, just only works, you know, giving you real life experience of what exactly what I did to a T to lose all his body fat. And I, and I had pictures back then, I took polar roads and attached them before after, you know, and she's like, why you send to me these pictures, you know, it was, it was the weirdest experience, but I'm like, you won't, you don't want a real life case study. Yeah. Yeah. Well, that's the downfall. And I tell, I get a ton of inquiries about people want to fall in similar path as myself, go through dietitian, getting a job at the hospital, and then eventually work with themselves. And they asked me the pros and cons being the dietitian. I tell them exactly what you just said. I go, my teachers had no idea how to build muscle, how to manipulate body composition. Like, when I say no idea, I mean, if you follow what they recommended, you're not going to any results. You're going to get fat. Yeah. They don't talk about that about adaptation. We talked about metabolic adaptation within people who are like muscle wasting and people who are like severely non-nerished, but we don't talk about metabolic adaptation or carbcycling or anything of that nature. And if you tell them that, they look at you like you're ridiculous. So there's not a skip-loading chapter in the dietitian. There's one of the, there's so behind the times I can't. It's like 20 years ago. It really is the 20 years behind. I mean, think about, just like in medicine, there are doctors that are doing practices today that are working with certain treatments that will be written in medical literature at 10 years from now that will be taught at a school. Yeah. Absolutely. Mind, because you always have to have that research to back it before you could put it in publisher. Yeah. I'm sure. Yeah. Well, let's get back to your bodybuilding career. What was let's get back. I wanted to talk about the story, you know, that I've heard a couple of times about the North Americans where you just got completely overlooked. Tell us about that. Okay. All right. So after Lennox states, I did Lennox states, Steve Weinberger was like, dude, told Falker that I should do junior nationals a week later. I didn't have any money. Didn't have any gear. Had nothing left. I got a school. I got to worry about what I got to worry about. That's fine. We'll do, do nationals a year after. Did the year after? We got flu two weeks out. Got ninth. Did total. And then had a bad breakup decided to put bodybuilding a hold for a while. Really focused on school. And then in 2012, I returned to bodybuilding. And it just for fun. And then I was like, you know what? There's a, the Vermont is 13 weeks away. I'm going to jump on cycle and start talking for that. And then just do for fun. And I did it one the overall map. And then the J-Color class the week after. And then I said to myself, well, let's just do one pro qualifier than quit because at this point in time, I can't keep bodybuilding. I got to move on because the girl I was with at the time, she hates bodybuilding. Thought I was a selfish SOB. Didn't want to be. I ended up doing. You date my wife? God damn, I didn't even know this. I ended up doing the gear when she wasn't looking. I had to do a carring for she got out of the carring. I tried to tread as lightly as I could just like we're in school, right? Yeah. So I did, you know, did the color. And then I was planning to use a parcerate to my pack delayed to North Americans. And this is my last show, North Americans. Fockery helped me. Because I helped Fockery a lot. So I helped me. Fockery really helped me for this prep. Used became good friend of mine. Prep did great. And I had no idea what I'm walking into. I just know that like this is the best I ever looked. I'm happy what's going on. This is my last show. No pressure. Excited. Maybe I'll get top 10. Maybe not who knows. Four weeks out of decided that I didn't want to be a heavyweight on be light heavyweight. And there's like that's fine. But it might be tough. So a week out, I think I was 213 or 213. And so Fockery recommended some things that are a little, I'm not a media. And Fockery is an idiot either in this regard. But this is what he knew to do. And I checked it at that and I'm like, I think this is a little green. I think maybe we should try to do a gradual drying out process. So like I modified it, you know, stop growth hormone, shop from jetables, reduced my sodium just a little bit, make sure my water was consistent. Carbs were at zero. Then I started 25 milligrams of all deck down in a day. Just a little bit. Just to see what happened. In my body weight starts to trend down and I'm like, okay, we're trending down a little bit every day. Maybe we'll do 50 migs of all deck tones. You'd happen. So I'll give you a note of that down. Trend down a little bit more. I think I was around like 209 or 208 Wednesday morning. And then I'm like, man, weigh in your Thursday. Now this is the story. This is the story. I'll start to go with my buddy, my wife who hates bodybuilding and his wife. They're going to drive me down. So I was going to dedicate this Pennsylvania six hour drive. And you know this, we can't rely on anybody when you're preparing. No, yeah. So I'm like, I'm starting to get nervous. So I'm like, I don't know if this is a good idea. It's called a mama Wednesday. Like, Ma, what are you doing tomorrow? And she's working. And I'm like, um, do you take the day off? And she's like, for what? I'm like, well, this is the thing, Ma, I don't trust my friends being out on time. I have to make weigh in immediately upon opening. So I can make weight and start to fill up. I have to do drastic crap mom to get my to make weight. She's like, where is it? And I go, well, it's Pittsburgh. She goes, oh, I like Pittsburgh. Oh, my God. Wait, you can go shopping. You go, do what you got to do. But we're going to go. But this is the other catch. She's like, what? We're leaving it three o'clock in the morning. Oh, and she's like, what? I'm like, I'll be, it's not a big deal. But I why the house to be a clock in my mom's mom's the same. She agrees. She gets in the car and I go, mom, this is the deal. I go, I'm going to be driving in a rate of speed that you're probably not going to like. Okay. Now, if you need anything or drinking anything, it's like yesterday. Okay. And I go, just please don't pay attention. And she looks at me and she's like, pulls her newspaper. That's right. And like, you know, when you're deprived and depleted things tweak you, right? Oh, yeah. I was playing country music on the way down there. I hate country music. But country music doesn't make you angry, right? Right. Some great music. I got, I got the heat blasting from trying to sweat. Of course you are. I got like, you sweat shirts on too, right? I got it up still. Great. And sweating in a cup. Yeah. Yeah. My mom's, my mom's just like, it's really hot in here. It's really hot in here. Like my bro put on the window. We'll take breaks intermittently. Yeah. And then we will, we like pulled to a gas station and my mom is the deal. I go, I'm going to check my weight and tend to defogery. And I go, I'm going to run in and check the weight. You start pumping gas. And by the time I'm going to come out, finish pumping gas, you go to bathroom. I'll turn around and pick you up with a fly. Like like right when very systematic. And she's like, okay. So we do the whole thing. We get down there. We got down there really quick. I think I'm I don't know. I think I made it in like four hours and 45 minutes. What's the normal drive time for that drive for you guys? It was fine. It might be five and a half or five. That was like six. That was like six from Connecticut. Yeah. Okay. She threw minutes off. The normal time. Yeah. Yeah. But made it. I get there. I go upstairs and I'm erotic as hell. I was bodybuilding. I had three scales with me. I want to check all three. So I'll take the average. I'm not going to be trusted one scale. So I get there. I checked my weight into my 201.4. Cool point. Right. But like at this point I like, I'm di-redded up. I haven't drink or eat anything. Nothing depleted. I'm just emissated. Right. So my crap. I'm going to go do the sauna. They had a sauna there. I already called to make sure they had a sauna. What done the sauna? I told my mom, oh mom, what I'm doing is not good for me at all. Okay. I'm going into the sauna. I'm coming in and out every 10 minutes. If you don't hear from me every 10 minutes you can send somebody an after me. Okay. It's me. It was okay. And she's looking at me like, what's up? She's like, look at my mom. I'm staying away. My mom's crazy. Yeah. I'm inside the man's locker room. And I'm in there texting my friends trying to keep my mind occupied. You just had to plead and that dehydrated. Like your brain is just like, you know, you're trying to like cope with how uncomfortable we are. So I go in there five minutes come out, assess because I know how dangerous this is, right? Like I don't want to die in the sauna. Idiot. Oh yeah. Going five minutes come out, cool off, pat dry, go in there eight minutes, cool off, pat dry, go in there 10 minutes, cool off, pat dry. Now I'm starting to feel a little woozy. My blood pressure, when we get into a low. So I come out and I just sit there. And then some guy comes in and he's like, you Chris? And I go, yeah. And he goes, oh, your mom sent me in here. Are you okay? I'm like, yeah, I'm like, in the 10 minutes. As it's been like 16. So my mom finds a worm due to come and check me. I was fine. So then I wear him for five more minutes. Because at that point I'm like, I'm at the point where I'm like, okay. This is not good. Not if it's good. But this is really good. Yeah. Come out. And I go upstairs and I check my skill and it says, 197. Yes. And I would like, ooh, but what if your skills heavy? So I get on all my skills. It was like, one ninety seven, one I was like, one ninety five point eight and one I was like one ninety nine point two. So I go down there and it was actually an hour before way and started. And I'm just like looking around in the guys that can I help you? And I'm like, hey, uh, do you mind if I just jump on that skill right there just to see how close I'm actually to making way? Well, we don't start wins for an hour. But yeah, sure, not yourself out. Like sweet. So I run over there, take on my stuff off down opposing trunks get on there and I'm like 196.2. And I'm like, yes, any goes, you know what, I'll just register you now. I know. And he's like, yeah, we'll class you and I'm like, well, I was registered for a heavyweight. It's Chris Tuddle. And then you're I'm watching the dude. I'm watching. Take my paper out. Cross off heavyweight. Right, light heavyweight. Right, my weight watching and put in the correct pile. And I'm like, okay, and then like, is that the right pile? He's like, yeah, double. And then I go, okay, turn around. I go, fuckery. All right, how do we undo this? Here. Yeah, yeah. Well, that was just like dude drink a leader water right now. Um, I think it was like two cups of rice, five ounces of chicken, a little bit of olive oil. And saying pictures every two hours and every meal have, I think it was at the time, 400 ml of water, 300 ml of water for the first night. Um, I mean, arguably North American night show was probably my best look on stage of all time, not the pre-dogging because I have tan on us to flat, but you know, ended up working out. And then, uh, so this gets great. So I haven't, remember, I haven't competed in a while. And I did my own tan. So my buddy helped me with my tan and I did Jan Tanna. And this is a professional show, you know, we've just teach us show. So who knew I did my, we just write him. So, uh, Foxy is like, all right, dude, this is the deal, man, you got light, you got the anti-weight, you got lightweight, well, lightweight, middleweight, and then you got some time. I need you to get at least two saw meals in before you go on pre-dogging. So head down there at 8 o'clock. I'm like, okay, well, apparently there are like, wasn't any vantam weights, there's like two like, oh, or welters, okay? So eight o'clock rolls around. I'm eating 8, 11, 8, 12. My friend's wife, text, my buddy, he goes, hey, Chris is going to head away, right? And they go, she goes, my buddy goes, yeah, he goes, middle weights are just finishing up. Oh god. So I'm start going, elevator stacked. I'm depleted. I can't walk down stairs fast. My legs are going to fucking f***hole. So my side stepping down stairs all depleted. I'm putting my number on as I'm in my trunk, going down the stairs. And my buddy's like leading ahead of me. And then I'm like, kind of grab my, like, my oil, or whatever I had. And I run down there and the guy's like, all right, light, have you wait, my buddy's like, light, have you wait here? Light, have you wait here? And the lady goes, like, have you wait? You're done. You missed it. Go home. Forget it. You did pay attention. It's already done. What? I don't know. I'm one of those people that like, I accept the mistakes I made. So I was just like, this sucks. I'm going back to my room. And Jay's like, fight my buddy, my best friend to have Jay's in these like fighting for me. He's like, no, fuck that. Let him go, let him have you wait to the least. Let him go, let him have you wait. They go up. And some guy comes flying back stage. And goes, Chris, Donald, like, yeah, he goes, we need you. The, the, you guys are on stage right now. Yes, as I'm rolling up. Oh, they've already done the first comparisons. They've already got into routines. Now they're doing the call outs. So I missed the whole half of it. I had no way or no pump up and a tan that was too light. So I get out there and I'm like, you know, do my thing and they first call outs finishing second calls finishing third calls finishing and then the last group and then Steve goes 101, switch, put to me, right in the middle. Yeah. We go through the poses and he goes, number 101, stay on stage, please. And then he calls back out like 11 other guys, but including the top three. Yep. And then I can, they get compared. And then they put me in the center again. And then they file off. And I'm like, well, whatever, it's, you know, I'm, I listen, I wasn't unhappy. I was like, I made him steak. It was like, it's whatever, water into the bridge, moving on. It's my last show. At least, you know, I look great and that's it. So I get all these messages. Bro, why don't you have tan on? Bro, why don't you have oil on? Why don't you have a pump up? And then it's like, oh, it's my knee hurt. Oh, you know, yeah. But the David Bay texted Evan to get my number from Evan and David Bay sent to me. He's like, dude, he goes, you belong in the top three, arguably maybe even top two or winning. He goes, you need to come back and you need to fix your tan. You need to fill up a little bit more. You need to pump up, put oil on. And then my, I don't know, and then fuckery calls me as like dude Steve said, you never pump on. You had no this. What's the deal? I'm like, oh, she's Christ. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, I greeted the tan. We went to liquid sunrares, Evan knew some liquid sunrares. Call of it sunrares and then like, dude, my buddy needs a tan. Can you help him out? He'll pay whatever. It's makes sure it's perfect. So I went to liquid sunrares. They told me to rinse off what I had. They sprayed me. I filled up a little bit more. I ended up having like steak and fries a little more fluid. But the downfall is I had also of cladus during flaps during the reaction on. And I just started to get a flare up after pre-dudging. So my stomach started to be a little distended and think a little stressed. You a little stressed that day. Maybe. Yeah. Yeah. Like, you notice, you know, as a bodybuilder in like, we tend to push that aside and our body kind of ends up looking paying the toll on that stress. Right. No. I would say just getting that message of like, yo, your class is on like in five minutes and still being upstairs in the hotel room. Like that alone would turn my insides into this whole thing has sounded like, everybody who's competed at some point or another has like a bad dream of like forgetting something. Yeah. For getting to shade that whole thing is like one of those dreams is what I'm hearing right now. Yeah. Well, I took it. Well, like I wasn't stressing. It was more like how do we get down stairs between point eight the as fast as I can is efficient as I like playing. I wasn't worried about like the emotion with it. I was emotionless. It's like don't tear a quad going on the stairs. Don't tear a quad. Okay, got down the stairs, make it through the crowd. Anybody messing up my tan. You know, like, so that was like one thing at a time until I got to where I needed to be. But anyway, filled that up, go to the night show. Now I look way different. And people backstage like, yo, dude, you look sick. Oh, you look awesome. You look full and they tell man, make top five. It feels like no shit. And the people back friends keep telling me to like, I've never seen Steve Weinberger in history ever pulled somebody of the last call out and pulled into the first top five, ever. And he goes, I don't know what that's about. He goes, you know him. He goes, oh, he must have been an impression. So that happened. I ended up getting fifth and I was going to quit and David Bayes, I got an interview for Post Show Wrap Up. I think we're going to talk about what happened and all that. And then in the interview, I was like, oh, this is my last show. I'm done. And he finished the interview and he gets off the interview and he's like, dude, you're not done. He's like, you know, who nationals in 12 weeks? I'm like, no, no, dude, I'm done. This is it. Like, I spent my money. I spent, oh, I don't have any gear left. I didn't plan for it. I'm a dietitian job. Like, I'm done. It's over. And he's like, I could highly to consider that and then sure enough, fuck, I raise a like Steve Weinberger says, you nationals. And then Evans been a really good close friend of mine and always a very wise person. So I told Evan my situation, I might do this is how I feel this is what happened. I don't have any gear. I don't have any money to buy gear. I start my new job in like two weeks. What do you honestly think I should do? And he's like, dude, you're lean. All you got to do is hold out. You probably need very little gear anyway. You're the whole way to have. And then just go do it. And if you don't make you don't make it. But if you do, you won't have any regrets, then you can quit. Okay, deal. So I ended up doing nationals. And this time, I was even more neurotic, right? Get there with a woofer, you know, knocked out exactly on its time it took to get from the venue to where I was staying to the place I stayed with the tanning was, made sure to look at sun rays. Everything this fell into place perfectly. And then at ultimately given my pro card. But again, as well as the one walls, perfect sweet moments where you don't think you're going to win one. And I'll just cap it at this. It's kind of like that second show I did where I had no clue. I was in the top five, let alone the top two. I said, the hot worked. And nationals, I had a better idea. But the way they called it was, they I was in the first call immediately. And then they put me in this dude in the center. They made us do like three poses. And they go, you two step off, but don't go anywhere. So they already knew that we're top two, right away. But don't go anywhere. So we go backstage and this dude starts cramping. And I'm like, dude, this dude's fucking cramping. And I'm like, I'm going to crush this dude. Like, I can pose a tanning for like an hour and a half after that. You know what I mean? We go back out, nail the pose perfectly. But he was thicker, bigger, more dense. I was taller, more streamlined, on and better posing, better presentation. So we file off. And obviously the worst thing you can ever do is look at the comments on Musco development. Oh, dude. So I don't know why Chris is, Chris, you get third. Oh, be like, no, Chris should win. Well, it's an X frame, it's apples and oranges. I'm trying to shut off. Yeah. Turn that off. Put that away. Focus. You know, fuckers, like, dude, let's fill you up more. Let's get you better. And then we'll come back. We come back. We do it. Judging was over at that point. Because fuck retool me, they it was close. It was very close. So he goes, there's a chance they might re-judge it again. What they didn't. But I came back better. I rinse all my tan off. Got a brand new tan and I got the tan applied like 30 minutes before stage time. So it like, it looked good. We go back and then we're going through the routines and then they go through 5, 4, 3, 2 and they get to the top two. You know, sometimes they say the winner is or then sometimes they say second place is. Yeah. They will run her up is or they will say in the winner is, we have they say they worded it in a way where I thought I got second. And for what's clapping, I was clapping and I go to shake the guys hand and he looks at me because I don't know where you want. And I was like, that's what I walked out and I was a cool shit because sometimes they call it second place. First place guy remains or sometimes they call it first place, right? Yeah. And that was like the better sweet moment of all time. But that's the that's the Nashville saga. And even then I was going to quit. And then when then like a month later, you know, Evan contacted me and he's like, dude, universal asked me about you. They're interested in giving you sponsorship. Is that something that you need to be interested in? I don't know. Evan might about to like be done bodybuilding, just move on to something else. He's like, I don't know, Broly, you don't have to compete if you want to be sponsored by universal. You just kind of like look the part and kind of why don't you just have the conversation with them to see what they want. So I had a conversation with them that was like, dude, we're really interested in your well spoken, your luck. You'd like to talk about supplements and, you know, education with nutrition. Is that something that you could do? And like, I could do that. And then okay, then I'll continue to buy to go for a little bit longer. And that's kind of how it ended up, you know, all of it's been. Everything's been as well as you know, some of those people getting to buy building. You guys are all coaches, you know, this where people are like, coach, how long before I could turn pro coach, when can I get a sponsor here? Yeah. I never want to be pro. I never want to be sponsored. I never intended to have a coaching business. It just happened organically over time. It was just like, you want a local show with tripro qualifier. Oh, you place pro qualifier? Let's try another pro. Oh, I'm gonna pro card. Great. Great. Moving on. Oh, I guess sponsor. Okay. That's great. And people like, hey, can you help me prep? I'm like, dude, I don't know what I'm doing. But he's a pops. He made me hunt a box and I'm going to help you. And that's how it started. And then I help them. And then he does better. And then his friends like, what did you do? And he goes, oh, this guy at my gym helped me. And he's like, what do you think he could put in a word for me? And then over years and years, it just built. And then it turned into what it is now. Like everything happened organically. So it's hard. Same. You would like, what happens organically? It's real. And it's not all anywhere. And people tend to try to force it. And you force it. You create pressure. Great pressure. You just reduce your quality of life in this whole shit. You know what do you think the percentages? This is for all you guys. What do you think the percentages of the giant sea of turds that is online trainers? Those trainers came to training organically. The people sought them out versus the trainer, you know, marketing and going, I say it's a really, really small percentage. Especially now. Yeah. Like five, 10 years ago, I'd say it'd be like 20%. Yeah. Now it's like, I'd say now it's more like 10%. That grew the business organically, walked the walk themselves. Like we got a guy's today that are coaching these massive teams that have done either one show or zero shows. And that just blows my mind because for me, experience is everything. Like how are you going to tell someone to do two hours of cardio on next to no food if you don't know what that feels like? What do you think people to come to you like? You had to go after them. But how did you convince them? How did you get them on the page to understand? I can get you to where you want to go. It's just an odd. It's something that I struggled to comprehend. It's actually easy to comprehend considering how many people got duped by liver can. That's a good point. That's a very important point. People actually like to be they want to believe lies because it sounds easy. There you go. Lying. I'm all for it. And you guys all know the stories of some top coaches being like, hey, I'll do free coaching. I'll give you free growth for my feed drugs that you print me because the honest, the how to fake a coach 101 and not saying all top coaches to this. But like or somehow is that one or two good genetically gifted people. And well with them and you hold them projected look what I did. But do you know, could I go choose two weeks out and you want to show? You don't even do much. Do you know what I mean? Like I work here with Baja. His first show. I know he took nothing. And I know the adherence to his diet. Nothing. Like very poor. And he's still one. But like you know and then obviously now he's got a shit together and some and look how fast he is approving. But there are people like that and a lot of coaches do that. I've had coaches try to coach try to coach some of my clients. And they're like, do you don't give me free growth hormone? I've had that one. You know, switching for entire year and I'll make sure that you're introduced to certain people. So you could potentially give the sponsorship deal happens all the time. And that's too grimy for me. And I tell them I go flat out, bro, if you want to do that, you can do that. Like I got no ill feelings. If you want to try to do to skip the process and you want to buy into some bullshit, go for it. Man, like that's not me. I'm out of part of that world. I want nothing to do with that fake world. And again, or Genic. Yeah. And back to you guys saying about like people inquiring like to get clients, get a ton of nutrition consults from coaches that want to talk to me about how to sound as coaching business, insides of billing, etc. And they get it off from from what I have to say about like mistakes I made. But they would say first question is Chris, how do you get clients? Dude, I don't know. It's just happened. I'm like, I don't want things. Don't want your Instagram. You're like five spots left. Yeah. That's the quickest way to show that you have desperation and you clearly have weight within five spots. Yeah. You know, like I've never had your time life ever. That's so weird. Oh, when you also say this, Chris, you didn't quit your day job until you were making a ton on the side from your coaching business at the top of that. And your sponsorship and like bodybuilding was over here, but you still had your day job that was paying the bills. And once it came to that point where a weight of minute, this chunk over here is getting bigger than my day job. Yeah. Now it's time to really focus on this. Yeah, which was honestly, I'm sure all of us have been there. It's a little hard to walk away from. It's like job security health insurance. Kids. I put on my phone. Yeah. You might come home from work. I'm home from work. It's done. Yeah. Right. So 2014, I decided like I was making one and a whole of times the amount of money I'd make as a dietitian working full times. I was working like 15 hours a week, 20 hours a week as a coach. Yeah. Oh, Lexi was like, you probably could just, you know, you can't do this yourself. I don't know. I'll scare. Absolutely. And then ultimately, I'm like, maybe what I'll do is I'll just step down to Purdue and just be like, work shifts that way. I'm still in the door. Yeah. When if something happened because, you know, there are seven dietitians. They all have sick days. They all take vacations. They need fillings. I can still be able to do that for a little bit. And then I realized coaching business kept accelerating, accelerating, accelerating to the point where I was like, oh my god, I'm working every second of my life. And I don't think I can quit. And then when I quit, you know, when you first quit, you're like super hungry. You're like, I can't fuck around. You know, I'm like, I always have to fix it. Morning coffee. Emails go. You know, live on that computer. And that's the hard part too is the balance. My wife came to me in 2012. She goes like, oh, all you do, like, we have a family. We have a lot of fun. And we don't have any time. All you're doing is living on the computer and then going to the gym to train. And it's, I don't want to say it becomes addicted or dick. And I'm sure that they can be for a lot of people because the more you work, sometimes the more you're making, especially when you're in demand. But what happens is if you don't have, you have to find that balance. But the reason I say, I don't think it's an always an addiction to the money part of it. It's that that fear of maybe it'll stop at a month. Maybe it'll stop in six months. Once you build that ability to be able to go, okay, I can rely on this now. It's consistent. It's not this huge peak in valley. It's it's pretty stable throughout the year because if you're only doing competition, I know when I got into it early, I'd have huge months or a huge season. And then it would taper off after the summer. Then it would jump up a little bit. Then when it got closer to the end of the year, it'd start to jump real high. But I had these real big peaks and valleys. It takes a long time to get comfortable with, okay, this is going to work. I go low for two or three months and I may not take on 10 clients. I'm like, oh my god, I'm going to go get a regular job to solve. Just pan it. You throw pids into it. And things like that. And you start to get old and you go, I don't know. I feel like I'm a bouncer at trying to make a career like roadhouse out of being a bouncer at a bar. It doesn't, it's difficult to to kind of grasp. It takes a long time to get comfortable. Once you do, then you kind of see, okay, now I can sit back a little bit. I can find that balance so that I can have a life outside of the business. But there's always that pull. There's always that constant, you know, I need to shift a little bit. Great thing to touch on, go to Andrea. We can say, I was kind of going to echo where I was just kind of say there's so many times when me and we'd be at shows together, Chris. And we both took over and like you'd be on your computer while we're watching our athletes on stage. And I'd be on my computer. We'd have guys in the same place or guys are out there now with the computer down for like five seconds. Yeah, okay. We're on the top. I were good. You know, and then we'd get right back to doing our emails just because it was a 24, seven type thing during one stretch. In terms of insurance was the big one for me. That was the scary thing because I was like, and when I quit my day job that I would. And I think the way we at least the way I was raised was you get a good job. Then you have good health care and that's going to be just as important as the money you're making, you know, the blah, blah, blah, and then you realize, well wait, you can afford to do this yourself. And when you're not working an hourly job like just your ability, like you said skip the longer you sit at your desk the more you can make. So that was the scariest thing. I could relate to you, Chris, saying that those fears, man, that was the big one for me that was like, what about paying for my own health care? Now paying for my way self care. And it's like, yeah, you just do it, right? Yeah. I will say though, like, we're all been through this. The balance thing took a very long time. And honestly, even now, like, do I have balance? I don't know. Right? Because we came from a time where we're probably working 70 hours a week and I'd be working 50 hours a week, but do I technically have balance? I'm definitely not able to work like, like, maybe we won't work like people, oh, on the weekend, I'm going to sleep in on Saturday and then I think I'm going to go for a hike and then maybe go for the movies and dinner and then Sunday, Sunday, night, drink and then Sunday, sleep all day long. I'm like, I'm like, don't that sense? It's like 19 years old. Like, everything's tied for, we have your own business, just like that. But I was like that for a long time, but I kept looking at the books in my account. My accountants, I do you're making significantly increases every year. And this is four years in a row now. And I go, he goes, dude, you can chill out. And I understand what you're saying because I was working so much. And I'm like, you're right. And he goes, if you continue to do what you're doing and you provide the same service, you don't change anything. This trajectory is not going to stop. Right? So he goes, at this point, just put a cap as in, like, you look at your monthly income and your stable and you have X-Menoclions. Great. Keep it. But if five fall off, maybe pick up two or three more. But like, how you do it, it goes, you don't need to keep trying to climb and climb and climb and then work 13, 14 hour days. You don't need to do that. It goes, this, your reputation is not going anywhere. So I'll, I kept saying that to myself to break that paranoia of having to go back to the hospital is if I continue to do what I've always done, I'm going to get with always got. I'm not going to change it. I'm not going to change my, like, response time, I'm not going to change my clientele, etc. And that ended up working. But the, the money aspect is interesting too. And we all have to touch on that as, you know, you start making really good money. But the bottom line, without telling my wife actually two years ago, and I go, you know, remember when we were said to ourselves, oh, be so great if we make this amount of money each year, it's going to be amazing. And then we're there. I don't feel any different. Yeah. I'm not, I'm not happy to be here. I'm actually, I'm actually more unhappy. Yeah, we do. We don't have time. I want time to do things. I'm starting to long for like, yeah, my wife wants to go do something on the weekend, go mountain biking, they're like, dude, I'm going to do that too. You know what I mean? Like, I think that's an age thing, no, too. And I'd ask you guys if you feel the same way. As I started to get into my 40s and the kid started to get into their teenage years and think, I started to see an understand that very cliche time as money statement, because you really, I started, even I ordered groceries because I'm lazy. I can look down and I can see the store down there. But I look at it as I have the money and I would rather pay the money than to take the time and the stress of elbow to elbow with people to get my groceries. So I focus so much more as I get older on the time component. Even if I'm sitting dead on my ass watching a movie with, you know, with with my wife, that's still time that I consider valuable that if I can pay someone else to work on my car or do those things that I don't want to fuck with. I find the time is so much more valuable versus when I was younger because on the younger I thought I had plenty of it. Do you guys, you just want to know that as you get older? I would assume. Absolutely. Do you taught me how to not be so cheap when do you stay to the main, he was like, dude, you, you can grow shopping and then go, yeah. And he goes, dude. And he calculates like, it goes, where's your grocery store? And then I go, it's about 20 minutes away. He was how many times you go store a week? I go twice. He was okay. So that's 40, it's 160 minutes, you're spending driving, how long are you're shopping for? And I calculate the time, he goes, this is how much you're spending per month per year. He goes, you're going to spend an extra what, 20, 30 bucks having somebody deliver for you. You save all that time to do other things. Exactly. And then that bad point. I outsource everything. Oh my god, guys, you've won a lot, great, look, move along. You're going to put those pallets in there. You, I'll pay you to put pallets in there. You know, that way I had more time to do other stuff. I'd do it with a couple friends who think I'm pretty anxious or I don't give a shit. I don't like it's just time. I just don't care. I'm with you 100% I want more time, especially now, like with with the business. I will say what thing I got, I got banned from Instagram for impersonating myself apparently. And look, like I was permanently kicked off. So I got paranoid. This was two years ago now. Like, just got to Texas three years ago. And I was trying to everything that kid at back, talked a lot of my daughter, IT friends, he's like, dude, it looks like you really got banned. Like, like, you might not get your account back. And I'm like, oh my god, like, I want to lose business. I didn't lose a send of business. My rent. Three months. And my income didn't change. Inquiries didn't change. It did nothing change. So it goes to show how much Instagram is actually helping me. It wasn't. That's wild. And it was reassuring, too, to know that, you know? Yeah. And then I was like, I was parent first. And then I was like, it's not changing. And then I'm like, I felt the calm over me. I don't have to look just together. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's like, what's amazing? I can like go outside and not bring my phone. And then just go, do whatever. We had a bunch of listener questions. We won't have time for them. I don't even think we needed them anyway. This is this is such an awesome conversation. But before we went, we did want to talk to you a little bit about like life after bodybuilding. And I feel like we're already kind of talking about that now. Finding more time to do things that you enjoy. But I'd be curious to hear just your question of my own is how did you deal with the idea of stepping away from looking like a bodybuilder being the biggest guy in the room? Because I think that as a coach, part of what we do is the look we carry is our advertisement. You know what I mean? Being that guy, I think as part of the advertisement as being a coach, was that a struggle for you to step away from to an extent sizing down? I mean, you're not a small guy now by any means. But stepping away from that and moving into the next phases of life. How have you dealt with that? Yeah. I'll break that down and come to a short sequence. The idea of retiring was much more desirable than actuality of. When you first like, oh, I'm going to be done. Sweet, no more drugs. I'd have to eat all this food. This is amazing. And then, you know, a reality starts to set in. People would be like, oh, dude, you okay? You lost a lot of weight. Is that becomes your identity, right? Yeah, yeah. I never had a problem being smaller. I never bought a bill for anybody but myself. Like, and you know, all of us actually started bodybuilding before social media. So we were doing it really for us. We weren't doing it for Instagram. So it's probably easier for us to transition than say current day and age people. But I've always been very hyper-focused on one thing. I race motorcross and I was obsessed. Then when from motorcross, right to bodybuilding, leaving bodybuilding, I really didn't have an obsession to jump onto, which at time was a little concerning for myself. So I just kind of said to myself, I got to try new things to try to find something fun to do. I'd box him right away. And I liked boxing. It just didn't capture that same passion. It was fun. But it just didn't drive me the same way. And honestly, like, it was difficult, but it wasn't. It was more difficult in the sense for me because I had nothing to strive for. All of us sort of competitors. Yeah. I understand competitive mindset. I don't have children. So like, I'm like, man, like, when my whole life shooting to be better or the best, I could be at something. Now knowing I'm 37 years old at the age where I can't, I'm past my physical performance peak. Like, I'm not going to ever exceed it. I'm not going to pick up something else and be like, I'm going to reach my potential. No, I can't. I'm old, right? So knowing that age, knowing that like my body's not going to be able to do the same things that could have recovered if I tried to do any other sport was very difficult to accept. I still felt and then did the boxing downsized. There was a little weird. It didn't bother me so much in regards to like, I guess, downsizing for the sense of like a billboard. It was more or less people's comments. It's like, dude, I'm not bodybuilding anymore. I'm not still making huge. You know, these people gym looked at me like there's something wrong. Yeah. I just don't want to be diggin anymore. You have to explain it to 101 people. You know? So from boxing, it was up and down and then try to wait train a little bit because you still want to look good. You want to be like just a dad bod floating around boxing when you used to be. So then I was started to lift a little bit, lift three days a week and box and mountain bike, try to do a little bit everything. Still struggling to find that like, same happiness and passion that I had those two because me personally, I need that. I've always had that my entire life. So I ended up getting real crazy shape for my 40th birthday just to say that I did it, they're the posing module and that was fun getting in shape. But I started to realize that like maybe I should compete one more time. But my body, I got too many restrictions with training to be able to optimally train properly to be the best I can be and to go back on stage with all these ailments all the time with elbows and knees, I'm like, what am I doing? I'm not going to do it. So I decided not to be, I was actually going to compete this fall and I decided not to based on how I felt heading out of my cut for my 40th birthday. So this is really a story and they'll come and there will do some questions. One of my neighbors, I'd street bikes, she came with a street bike one day and she said, Chris, you've you've stunned, I used to do stunt on street bikes and I was young young. So you should get a bike and I'm like, now I'm not doing that too old for that. I'm going to fall in a die. I can't do it. Can't be hunting my probably leaves and it's more in the highway. That was not, you know, I can't do that. And she's like, oh you never know. So we were after that, she comes over the dirt bike, she bought a little play by Kalex 140 and I'm like, let me see that thing. I get on my bike and I start ripping on the neighborhood and my, I know this is fun. I go, I haven't been at a bike in over 21 years. I go, this is amazing. Maybe I'll get a small bike just to toy around with. I could ride with you. What, what, out like a week later, bought that same bike, got some gear and heard I ripped around the neighborhood and the woods going at night. I had night vision on ripping through the woods. You're kidding me. Yeah, this is a blast. I'm like, this is so much fun. But my competitive mentality or just me racing with a grass professional, I'm not a play bike. And I'm like, this bike's not doing it for me. We ended up going to like, it's like, tracked through the woods in my house and I'm like, riding it around and like, start putting in modifications to this bike. Right. Still not. And then I'm like, you know what, I go to call, I think I'm going to buy a big bike. And she's like, you totally should. I brought her on my wife's school supported, whatever makes me happy. So I brought her down to the KTM dealer. And like now that you're a kid with adult money, I was like, I'm going to buy myself not just expensive dirt bike of all time. Yeah. And I'm buying a brand new KTM 350 XCA factory edition. And I had at the time, I had no business buying a bike like that, that powerful. And so especially having a ridden for so long. But I get it, get the gear, and now I'm 40 hours riding back. And I'm like, going to motorcross tracks twice a week. Now I'm cutting weight down. I'm doing old motorcross drills, riding with her constantly, buying all this new gear about it by a second dirt bike in a week and a month. And like now I'm like, I feel like fulfilled again. I go, maybe so much damn fun. Like that. It's nice to meet you guys. You know the aspects of your life were you're doing a hobby and you're thinking about nothing but that hobby when you're doing it for hours. Yeah. And all this is a huge block of time that goes by and all this anywhere. It's like, get in here. You're going to do this. Oh shit. I have no idea what time I'm going to start up. Yeah. And then you go, how much that twice per week? It's like, I ride all this entire day. And all of a sudden reality hits me. And I check my phone and like, 71 messages and I shit. I got to go back to work. Actuality. Yeah. Yeah. And then back reality. So now I'm riding. I took a real bad spill this last. It's fun day. And I'm muscle relaxers and stuff now. But I'm keeping my self grounded. I just I see older guys at the track. And I always talk to them. I go, do how do your body feel? They're like, my body feels fine. But I got to keep myself grounded. I'm not 20 years old anymore. I'm like, I got to get that mentality a little more than that. Yeah. But ultimately, my dad is actually the one that helped pull the trigger on this fully. I said to him, I go, dad, how bad of an idea is if it's for me, start riding dirt bikes again. And he had the best answer ever. He's a doctor. It's not like my dad condones dangerous sports. But he says to me, you love dirt bikes more than anybody ever known. You've raised the majority of your life. He goes, you're 40 years old. There might be a time in your life where you're not going to be physically able to ride a motorcycle. That's not going to happen. We go out and you need to buy a dirt bike as soon as you can and have as much fun as much as you can while you can because everything that you have now, I know you're worried about getting hurt. He goes, but you might get in the car in a month now. When you're 50 years old, you might have full new replacement, not build a ride a dirt bike at all. So he goes, go riding. And I'm like, well, shit, dad, never heard support like that for me before. No rigor. That's amazing. Yeah, that's that's the progression. So now I haven't been boxing. I still wait trained three days a week. I got to keep a little bit of that body building training in there. But I do a ton of like athletic stuff, you know. That's good. Well, I said, let's wrap this thing up here. I don't think we could get any better than this. We appreciate your time, man. And I know you've got your own podcast. If people want to check that out, how do they how do they find that? It's IFB AMA. You can find the Instagram page and follow the links through there. It's a it's me and me, Lose. We have everybody on there. We talk about everything. But it's a good podcast. We don't censor anything. So we're kind of on lighting stream off the website. So we don't have to use YouTube. Yes. I have BB AMA. Like that. That's yeah. That's it. It's hard with like asking me anything and then we just didn't chew an age and we're like, then the AMA is an upturn into like interviews. It's an interview. It's an interview. It's a good one. Yeah. Yeah. And guys, of course, go to bodybrake.com. You reach out to Andrew there. You can go to teamskip.com, reach out to skip over there. McNally diets at gmail.com, reach out to myself there. And Chris, what's the best way to reach out to you for coaching? Well, for coaching, go best. It's go through my website. DMs. As you guys, we all get to me DMs a day. I can't keep track of them. It's best to go to website.tulantrition.com. If you're interested in the product that I developed, it's behind me drink more dot com. It's basically a water enhancer with a mineral component. Just like what I think it tastes better and it's got a little bit of minerals in it. So it helps hydration. But not to the point where you're going to overconsumate and become fat and you're to water buffalo. You know? Nice. Nice. Guys, we appreciate everybody tuning in. And once again, check out Trinutrition.com. Use our code, think over there. SupplementSource.ca for Canadians. And of course, thank you to all of our Patreon people. We'll be doing a Q&A next episode. And we'll be tackling all your questions, guys. For another episode of Blood Sweat and Gear, we will see you soon. Thanks Black Chris. Awesome. Thank you.

You know, when people talk about all these pre-workout products, all these expensive pre-workout drinks and stuff that they take, I would rather do 10 milligrams of Seattle's over any of the different Aminos and whatnot. That some water and some sodium to me is much more important than any of the pre-workout products on the mix. Because I mean, everyone knows when you get a great pump and you've been taking Seattle and you're in conteshape, it's like your shoulders are just 20% bigger. Everything is bursting, you know? I mean, because it does what it does. It's a PD-5 inhibitor, it increases cyclic GMP and it causes it basically makes nitrogen oxide easier and relaxes smooth muscle tissue. What's going on guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Coach Skip Hill, Andrew Barry myself, Scott McNeely and all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys for your support over at Patreon. We try to take as many questions as we can from over there and we've got a bunch of those today. We have questions from the YouTube page. If you guys want to take part in the next show, then definitely comment below, plus comments like all that stuff. It helps to boost our programming and hey, if you're new here, let me encourage you to subscribe and ring the bell. We have several bodybuilding podcasts that come out each week. Guys, I wanted to get this thing rolling. We've got a bunch of listener questions to handle. I wanted to Andrew and I are going head to head. I don't think it's going to be that dramatic about continuous glucose monitors. I just got one this past week. I think I'm like four days in now. But Andrew, you said you said in text, you don't, you're not a fan. Why? I didn't want to ask you in text. I was like, I'm just going to wait. I want to know, I want to hear it when we talk. Well, what is it telling you right now for your blood number? Well, right now, my phone is upstairs. I forgot it upstairs so I can't tell you. So you have a continuous glucose monitor, but your phone isn't at the ready, so I don't know. Let me go tracking. I procrastinated. Yeah. I prefer blood sugar monitors. The old fashioned fingers, you know, finger prick. Get a little drop of blood and test it. Why? Because it tells you what your blood sugar is right now. Whereas the CGMs or continuous glucose monitors for skip here, they tell you what your blood sugar would have been like 15 to 20 minutes ago. So there's a lag there because the CGMs, they're not testing your blood. They're testing the interstitial space. They're basically testing the glucose content, your fat cells, right? So let's say you got a client who's like, you know, man, I'm feeling really high-bore right now. Because you enter their prep and maybe their blood sugar is falling to 60, but their monitor might be telling them to their still at 80. So they're like, oh, I'm not so bad. I don't need to eat something, right? Yeah. But then they continue to get deeper and deeper in the hole. Their blood sugar finally gets down to 40. Then their monitor starts beeping and saying, oh, shoot, you're at 60 now. It's that lag time that I don't like personally. Other reasons, you know, they're irritating for a lot of people to have to wear them, especially those that exercise and sweat a lot, which is our population. I feel it. I feel it. In fact, I'll bust it out here. So I was kind of nervous. This is the device here. So you just take this little thing. It's got the little screw cap on it. Pop that off, stick it, you know, here and then bang. Pop it in and then there's like a little sticker. This is the backing to the sticker here. And now, this is continually, see, look, my microphone. This is continually monitoring my blood glucose. Okay, so I'm not going to blow it down. Not your blood glucose. Not your blood glucose though. That's the thing. What do you mean? It's not going to tell me. It's not going to give me my BG reading. No, I just told you. So it's testing the sugar content in an interstitial space. It's because it doesn't actually go into your bloodstream. Whereas a blood sugar monitor, you're actually squeezing a drop of blood out. It's testing the sugar content in your blood. But you're getting the reading, though. You're getting a reading, yes. So here's my thought. Number one, I hate pricking my finger. But number two, you can get, like, I think it's amazing, man. You can get a continual reading. So here's why I got it. I noticed that mid-Aft, so first of all, I've gone hypon all my life. You guys both know that Andrew, you've called it. You've been like dean of sweating. You know, you want to hypon aren't you? And I'm like, yeah, it starts stuffing a protein bar in my mouth or, you know, crackers or something. So I figured after all this time, my doctor, I went to my doctor. And I talked to her about it. And she was like, yeah, I give you this one for free. So I paid nothing for it. If you go to Amazon, they're like a couple hundred bucks now. And it's going to work anywhere from seven days to 14 days. And it's going to give me a nonstop reading all through that time. Every time I eat, I'm logging what I'm eating along with it. It's measuring my blood sugar while I'm asleep. Like constantly, all this is going on. If anything gets weird, I can look back at that. And I'm getting just so much data. It's not something that I would say like, oh, because I grew to you, Andrew, I wouldn't say like, hey, this is what we want to do nonstop, but moving forward. But to be able to see how is my body responding? It's, it's amazing, man. I don't know why somebody wouldn't want that much information. You know, I've been experimenting like, okay, I'll have oatmeal for breakfast. Okay, I'll have creamer ice for breakfast. I'll have bread for breakfast. And then my protein, then the car, or excuse me, a protein's in faster or the same. And so each day, I'm watching how does this change, how does different carbs affect me. So it's been pretty cool when I go hypoman, I'm actually seeing, yeah, I'm actually going hypoman. I'm seeing, I'm dropping down to like 60, 50. I'll get it, I'll start, you'll get like a warning that, you know, this is in 25 minutes. You're going to be in like a danger zone or whatever. So anyway, I find it fascinating. And now moving forward, like whatever, you know, a week from now or a month from now when I don't have it, I don't anymore. I'm going to have had all that information to be able to look back at this and see like what my body does, you know, in like, I have a better understanding of like the moment to moment. Now, sure, you could like prick your finger every 10 minutes through the day, but that'd be a pain in the butt to get this much information. You know what I mean? Let me, can I interject? Cause I don't understand, well, I'm going to be honest, completely transparent. I don't know much about CGMs. I didn't even know what the acronym was. And that's why I asked you guys what it was. I'm like, oh, okay, that's what it is. How is it that you can prick your finger and get an accurate read of your blood sugar level? Maybe I just don't understand the CGM and how it's working, but if there's a constant, there's a needle in your arm. So it doesn't go into your bloodstream though. It goes into the inner-stitial space, like basically your fat cells, right? So it's like 20, it's a 20, it's a 20-y over. It's a 20-y over. Cause eventually, a certain amount of blood sugar is going to get into the peripheral and inner-stitial space. So that's why I mentioned there's like a 15 to 20 minute lag in terms of the data that it's given you. That's what I'm saying. So I'll give you another reason. I often try to, or I use this CGM with the hell's the difference, but okay, I get what you're saying now. And it's not in this question, cause I legit just don't know that much about it. And for the reasons that Andrew said, because to me, I just like, when you showed me your arm, I'm just got him like, how are you doing overhead try some extensions? I train, I train darms yesterday. It's a tiny, it's a tiny little needle. You don't even feel it. Like I did it first the first day, it was weird. And I talked to a couple diabetics that use them. And so I felt kind of weirded out by it. And I even felt like a little bit nervous. I'm like, I think I'm thinking gear shots. Like with big old, you know, one and a half inch surges, you know, for decades, 15 years, probably longer than 20 years. But why am I feeling this way? But then once you pop it on, like you don't feel it, there's nothing to it. The first day, like I said, it was, yeah, you get used to it. The first day, it was kind of weird. But there's nothing to it. You wouldn't even know it's there now. Okay, there's one more thing though that you guys wouldn't consider, but I would. Tim, mine. Tannin. Not, not, not, not, not, not, not. I knew you were going to go with a tin. Oh my god, you're not going to happen. Yeah, my thought is just that, like, to have all this information to know, you know, how is my body, like what's really been cool is to see what happens when I sleep. You know, because you can wake up and get your fasted levels and sometimes then you get like that Donphanam and things start climbing the longer you've been fasted. And we know that like one reading isn't, you know, it, one reading is just a picture. It one picture in time. But the more information we have, the more that fills that out. So being able to just kind of go back, I'm going to look at like two weeks of what my body's done, what I've eaten, I can track your activity too between like, like cardio. You know, I'll do cardio. And I'll be like, okay, let's see what happens here. I'm going to do just 20 minutes of walking, you know, and see what happens or half hour walk outside. And it's just, it's cool. It's really cool. And I wish, honestly, if I could have had this 20 year sooner, I think that it would have fasted track to me with knowing how to get into shape. I'll be completely, I'll be that, I'll say it's that, it's that great, honestly. I think in behind 110%. There's a rabbit hole here. I just don't know if you guys want to go down it. What's that? Which one? Incelin and getting lean, what? Incelin levels and getting lean, what about using exogenous insulin every day? Using it for high carb days or anything else and getting lean. And I just, if you want to go down the rabbit hole, go for it. But I mean, checking the effects, check checking effects of the addition of exogenous insulin, say, one to two days a week, that kind of thing. I'm just saying, I think what happens is, we're on this, you guys may not be, but I don't know exactly where you stand on it. But there's a lot of people who think that Incelin is this giant obstacle in hurdle that, and not get lean. And I'm taking a lot of Incelin. And I'm getting lean as, oh, you know, my stance, I mean, I've used Incelin straight through every single prep. Like I just start going on, and it usually until I start prep, you know, and I just, I am blown away by how many people. And this isn't a shot in anybody because clearly we all have different approaches. We have different methods. But I'm really, like this to me is a very antiquated approach. And it's what it is surprising to basically say or think that in use of Incelin, especially during a prep, or any cut face, or that matter, dramatic cut face, like you want to get peeled. So we'll call it a prep phase. It's just this giant hurdle that is going to get in the way if you're doing that, it's kind of, kind of mind blowing. I have a hard time wrapping my brain around it. Which because people look at the definition or the actions of Incelin when they look it up, Incelin storage form. And they see like it negates the effects of say hormone sensitive lipase in that instant. Or it's the same thing as saying, well, you can't grow muscle during a cut. They're during any type of deficit whatsoever. Well, we all know you can because if you structure things properly, you can have times of fat loss during a day and you can have times of anaballism during the day. So yeah, I think, yeah, you're right. It's an antiquated thing that any use in any type of Incelin, during a contest prep, or during a cut phase, it's not going to work. But I think there's a lot more coaches today. Actually, I'll credit younger coaches with having more of the mindset to experiment with Incelin. And I think it's a lot of it comes from, I'll actually I'll give credit to John Meadows for putting stuff out about it and for talking about his use with it, as well as a lot of his clients, using it during their contest prep. So I think the attitude is changed, or the dogmatic, oh, Incelin fat gain. That's out the window now. You know what? It changed my blood sugar the most. And I was surprised by this was an apple. I would, I mean, apple, like you're thinking, okay, yeah, there's some carbs in there. But like I was surprised, it took me up. And it's weird, because I'm finding that I'm not I'm not super responsive to Incelin, it seems. I might actually have some health stuff going on, and that's one of the reasons I wanted to get this checked out. I'm not gonna like read into it too much more because after this, then we're gonna get some, I'm gonna get blood worked on. I wanna check like my fasted Incelin stuff like that. And I haven't seen my A1C in a while either. But I was surprised to see what an apple does. And then I was surprised to see like what happens through the night, like you can just kind of track it all along. So I think that, no, Andrew, I'm with you that I wouldn't say it's a replacement, but there's so much information to have. For like 200 bucks, if you can get one for 200 bucks, man, it's like moving forward. It's just, it's cool to have data. The opposite of that is, too much data. Yeah, yeah, the opposite of that is that like, you can really figure out a lot without knowing anything if that makes sense. You know, that's fine because I was thinking the same thing. If you're really new to, especially taking your blood sugar levels and you see it as this huge inconvenience, and I gotta do this, I, it is a pretty easy fix. There are pretty easy way to gain a lot of information early in try to learn relatively quickly. But it motivates you good point, too. It's not really in the moment, but I think you can give you a lot of information. I'm torn on this one. I can't really, you know how I love to pick sides, but I can't on this one. I see the pros and the cons on both sides. Well, you can absolutely use both. I'm not going to go in it. Yeah. And that's what they encourage you to do. Like diabetes don't just rely on one, you know? Right. Well, I'm just thinking, okay, so I have a client and we're checking blood sugar, particularly over the final week, where we're loaded on them, right? Because I don't want to add another meal, or car content to the next meal, until I see that their blood sugar has cleared, right? You can't have a wanna compound. So I'm not gonna rely on a continuous glucose monitor. I wanna find out what's happening in that moment, because if we wanted to eat two and a half hours after that last meal, okay, let's test it now, or you're still a little high, let's give it a few more minutes, or let's shoot a little insulin, and we'll go from there and test again in 25 minutes and see if it works. That's kind of where I'm coming from from the application thing. I don't think getting more information, especially in an off-season setting is a bad idea. And seeing how different carbohydrates react, I was gonna say the apple being more of a fructose content sugar that you might have an issue with fructose versus sucrose. So that's something to look at. Yeah, that's something for you to pay attention to. And I would experiment with other high fructose content, and maybe I can't remember what fruit has a higher fructose content than apples. I think apples is up there on like 35, 36%. Okay, by carbohydrate content. But I think there's some that are like in that 45, 45, 50. So maybe play with those and see if you also have issues. Yeah, it'd be interesting. I still hopefully I'll have another, at least hopefully another week. You can get like supposedly up to 20 days, more like 10 to 14 is usually what works before it stops working. With them, yeah, why is it stopped working? Does it change? Does it change? I think that the needle eventually stops sending data. It just like it. You could get another one over there. Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. But then it would be like, you know, basically our goal here is just to see as much information as we can while I have it, you know. Oh, okay. Take that information and apply it moving forward. Yeah. So that's why I said there were about $2,000 a year. And you were like, no, they're $200. Because people to have diabetes and that are being prescribed these things to wear, they're costing somewhere around $2,000 all in for them, even with insurance. So I'm thinking, well, why wouldn't you just keep pricking yourself for seven, you know, six, seven, eight times a day for a 25 cent strip or whatever, that's where I was going but the cost thing. I see what you're saying. Yeah. But one more thing about what Skip said about, you know, the insulin, using insulin, during perhaps I think people get confused about stuff. The most important thing is to be insulin sensitive throughout your product, right? Like you don't want to start someone in prep without insulin sensitivity because you're spending the first four weeks fixing that, you can go in. So I think that's where we could definitely use these CGMs. We can use, you know, the home IR calculation. We can use your A1C, those types of things. I think you need to be in a good state in terms of your insulin sensitivity to burn fat. But you can absolutely use insulin on top of that. It's cool, though. I'm having fun. Like it's exciting because I like in and I've been watching to like I'm just paying super close attention how I feel. And then if I'm not feeling great, then I'll be like, well, hey, what's going on right now with the blood sugar? Let's see what's going on with that. You know what I mean? It's one more piece of information. Before that, I'd look at my watch and I'd be like, okay, well, what's my heart rate right now? Then what's my go take my blood pressure? See, my blood pressure is I'm just trying to get to the root of some stuff here, you know? And really try to understand my body. So I'm freaking pumped to man. And if any of my clients wanted to get one, I'm all for it if it's not going to be overly cost-burdening. Some people I know, man, they what I've heard is that the biohecker crew there about like running at 24, 7, 365. That's what I was thinking now. And that I think all three of us would be against. I wouldn't necessarily be against it if you're doing, like I remember skip used to do tons of experiments back in the intense muscle days with different foods or different diets. And you'd have like test groups, you take on, I think like 10 clients and I don't know if you did like a reduced rate with them and you're like, you gotta do exactly what I say. We're doing a very, I'm not coaching you the same way. I would normally go to other people and I'm trying experiments out on you. And they would sign up for it, which I thought was freaking awesome. So what I was thinking was, okay, doing experiments up, okay, now we're gonna try these types of fatty acids with these meals. We're gonna manipulate fat content. With keep carbohydrates and proteins the same and see what that does. And then maybe manipulate proteins, right? And those are the things that I'm trying to do. But on a shorter period, when I say the 365 thing, I'm thinking more like, okay, so I'm gonna do fitness that means I have to have my gym and I have to have my watcher. And then I also need to get a ring in case my watch isn't accurate. And then I gotta get my glucose monitor. You know what I mean? These are not pretty requisites, I think is what my point is. Can I ask you guys about C. Ellis, C. Ellis in bodybuilding? I wanted to get your takes. We've talked about it before. I feel like there's been like 2010. We talked about it back then a lot and there's been a resurgence. I think a David, I talked about this earlier in the week. There's been a resurgence with the T or T companies. They put you on the T or T. The next thing you know, they wanna optimize your growth hormone levels with the secretive gag. And then the next thing they know is, like you could use a little C. Ellis too on top of that. And it's just one after the next day after the next of the drugs, they're prescribing to you all for profit, by the way. Notice we're buying a get an T or T sponsor. Me talking more. But we're not necessarily saying that the stuff doesn't work. We're just saying they're trying to find every avenue they can to improve your physical, sexual and mental functioning. And so we're in the bathroom. There's a third margin depending on how you look at it. Yeah, and there's different, yeah, the other reasons too. So besides the obvious, the sexual side was C. Ellis. Can you guys talk a little bit about your experience as personally or with people that you've known? And maybe even like going to like historically what we've done with it in bodybuilding? Well, I'll start with the fact that the main reason I take it is because that's not my phone. That was my cock. I'm just kidding. That's what I'm saying. I think I need to get everybody's attention. The real reason that I took it or started taking it was because I had heard about the blood pressure issues. And again, it looked using it. And I'm a little higher than most, and I'll tell you why, because it was about the joke earlier. I want the blood pressure change or effect. And I get about 10 points between like 9 and 11. I am lower blood pressure on science. But I take 10 milligrams a day. That's a high dose for the average person. Usually there are 5 milligrams. Sometimes there's even a little bit lower. But I'll be honest. I rather enjoy the other side effect of it. And I didn't have an issue to begin with. I'm not trying to give too much information. But if you make something good, even good, then there's nothing wrong with that either. So I have been taking a counseling since daily, since, man, I don't even know, two, probably 2010. I'm guessing it's in there somewhere. And if I run out, I notice that my blood pressure will start to jump up a little bit. It's not huge, but it's enough to matter. I actually see a better, and I don't know that a lot of people do. I see a better impact from silence than I do tell them a certain. How is that? It's, I don't even know. And I take, tell them to start now. I said, do you guys before? I take it for the left ventricular benefits. Much more so than I take it for blood pressure. And I don't have blood pressure issues. I mean, I run high when I'm, the typical predictable stuff when my weight is higher in the off season, and I'm eating more. And I know when that happens without even taking the blood pressure, because my life would be like, yeah, you were sore in a little bit more like, I snore under two situations. I'm drunk, and I have a drink since 2010, before I snore when my weight is up. And I take a lot of growth hormone, and I still don't snore from added tissue growth. Yeah, at least yet. So I'm one of the few in the industry because it's been training for a long time and doing gear for a long time, who has never used a CPAP machine because I've never needed to. Now, in part, I admit, I'll be the first to say, for when you, when do you guys do? I'm also not as big as everybody else, because, you know, I mean, I don't go usually over 220 very often in the off season. If I do it's 230, and it's only four, five months, six months, and then I'm back down under two. I'm almost always under 220, and I'm like, five, nine. So you're very lean. You're lean by bodybuilding standards. Yeah, I'm under a little bit under 210 right now. I'm starting to feel like it gets a little crazy under 210. So my face will start sucking in and kind of like the luck. I don't like the feel, but I like the luck. I always loved it, too. You know, people like, oh, your face, you must hate that. It's like, now, this is like, it's my battle arm right here. It shows you that I do the things that you can't. When you're older, I know I've noticed this. Maybe I can't speak for other people, but I look back on pictures of when I was bulking back in, you know, the 2000s and 2010, I'm like, how did, how was I good with having that round fat face? I just look horrible. And I liked when I started to get pulled in. I feel like I look younger. Maybe I don't, but I feel like I do. I feel like my own face is bonely. I like that. I have bones in my face instead of this. I call it the feel of heat face. That's not a slam to him. But he could be shredded. And he still has that round moon face. They would jail most of the time. Yeah, they still have a lot of face. There's some guys that like that no matter how condition they get, they still just have this. Yep. You know, but yeah. It's just not appealing to me. It's not a slam to them, but no, I just, I don't like, I like the end look. I'm one of those guys who would rather be starving than stuffed. I could say stuffed from a meal after I've been hungry. But I don't like that feeling. It's very, that little targic blood pressure, you know, stomach full, no. Let my stomach be small, which is an interesting too. You'll get the smaller and tighter I want my stomach. I want, I don't want my stomach out like where my chest is. I don't want that. That's all guy stuff. You probably also feel like I do like, I feel way more alert when I'm hungry. Like hunger keeps me very clear. Abled to just crank, whereas eating large meals, all I want to do is sit and stare at the wall for like, you know, or I, or I not often I fall asleep for business. We're talking about the sort of push the bun. I am incredibly productive in life when I am leaner or inappropriate phase until the end. And till like that last like after like five weeks out, then I'm like, then I go from like really good to zero. You know? And I think it's like, personality trait too. It's like the pedal is either to the floor or the car is in movement. I'm an all or none 100% or F it type of type of person personality. Just as what it is. One of the common questions we get asked by you guys is, what would you do differently with your body building? If you could go back in time, given all the experience and education I have today, there's a number of things that I would have done differently. One of them is that I would have started using college and sooner. College is one of the few supplements that will actually rebuild connective tissue. It took me tearing my super spinatus in 2021 to get with the program. I use true nutrition's hydrolyzed beef college in. I get the unflavered version. I pay for it myself. Just like you guys do, I use 20 grams a day, makes it into my coffee. It's totally unflavered. You don't even taste it. Plus I use 10 grams of their micronized creatin. Creatin has been shown to improve brain health, especially for the aging brain. I need that. And of course, you know, we've always known about the muscle building effects. So this is my morning routine every day. And I'm encouraging you guys to do the same. Use our code, thank for savings. Plus it's the only way for them to know that this advertising is being heard. Otherwise, they just think you're some random dude that clicked on an app. And not do it by the do it. Mm-hmm. Absolutely. Yep, my I agree with you. 100% skip. 10 milligrams a day probably from the same right around the same time period. 2010 primarily for the blood pressure. I found some research on it years ago. I believe most people will see somewhere between an 18.0 point drop in their systolic. Usually that's about 3 to 7% somewhere around there. And that's what I see. I did do a little experiment. Was it December January? I stopped aching it completely because I was running 25 milligrams of testosterone every other day. I wasn't training for two months. I just wanted to see what my blood pressure would do. And it did climb up from like 132 over 90 that kind of thing. So I added it right back in. But yeah, no, I think, you know, it also has a slightly positive effect on HDL cholesterol. How long ago was this? Excuse me. How long ago was this at your gym this? When you were doing this? When you stopped taking the silence. December like mid-December through February 2nd. Just this is the end of last year. I'm going back to my text right now. Yeah. I got a message, a text bizarre too from Rachel. She said, talk to Andrew. And I just hit a back for the question mark and I didn't get here back then. I don't know. That explains it. The way you said that, like it was 100% serious. That was good. What blind and sinker? Good blind and sinker. I thought you got to admit that your cycles are synced up. Yeah. That's when I stopped taking it too. I thought you're going to say. Obviously, when people talk about all these pre-workout products, all these expensive pre-workout drinks and stuff that they take, I would rather do 10 milligrams of Cialis over any of the different aminos and whatnot. That some water and some sodium to me is much more important than any of the pre-workout products on the mix. Everyone knows when you get a great pump and you've been taking Cialis and you're in a contest shape. It's like your shoulders are just 20% bigger. Everything is bursting. I mean, because it does what it does. It's a PD-5 inhibitor. It increases cyclic GMP and it causes it basically makes nitrogen oxide easier and relaxes smooth muscle tissue in all parts of the body. Exactly. Pre-cancest? What about, you don't get in on stage with it? But, she's the thing though. She's not like you're walking around, like, carrying a third leg. Oh, no, I wasn't even saying that. I just figured I'm trying to segue into, because I've used some pre-cancest to great advantage. Definitely, Jason, you used to be Viagra, Viagra. Look, my opinion, let's compare it to Viagra is antiquated because you got about a four-hour five hour window and it's the same with the shows and everything. Viagra is just so much, I mean, they have to be just killing it over Viagra because take it and if you don't take it for a day, it's not like you're going to lose your edge. Exactly. I'm going to bless your standpoint, you may, but it's long lasting. You don't have to, I'm not going to imagine that, oh, guy, who's like pissed because his wife is side track because she's doing something else. He's looking at the clock like, but it's like, I like, 30 minutes. Like, we got a, it's 20 seconds. It's a pill. It's a pill. I did see a flyer one time about the different products, the vitro, Cialis. Is it a vitro? Is it a vitro even around anymore? I don't think it's prescribed, prime minister. Cialis is completely taken over the market for the reasons we're talking about. But the, the flyer had a picture of a guy who was literally looking at his clock and like, you know, the wife is over here and he's like, it was like, you know, one of those things like, hey, I got 20 more minutes or this magic isn't going to happen, you know. So it's funny you describe that same scenario. But yeah, no, I think it's superior to, you know, any of the other PD, five inhibitors out there. And the other thing is the safety profile, right? Like, I think that's an important component. It's one of those drugs you can take that sure. If you took too much of it, yeah, you could have a rapid drop in blood pressure, especially if you use a nitrates, which people who are, you know, who do have heart disease and are taken nitrates for chest pain and whatnot do need to watch that stuff. But it has a pretty high safety profile in terms of a wide range of people men, women, all, you know, ages can take it and they're not going to have an adverse effect. And can I pick you back off that? Because I think this is important. Where you, you've scot you touch on it about the show. Clearly, you know, it works for vascularity going to show too. What you want to be careful of is if you use, and I say, if because I thought everybody used it, because I used this since 2002, if you use AMP, Adonison, Adonos, Adonos, Donos of Montefaz rate is basically simulator before the show, a couple hours before the show, for vascularity and you have a bunch of silice in you. You're going to need to be careful because, simulator will drop your blood pressure very quickly. And that's why people pass out, if they hit too much of it, or they hit it twice that you used to be back in the day they had, you didn't get it for pre-judgmented or hit it for finals and you'd literally a lot of them would pass out because of the dosing before finals it's just overkill you don't need to do that only once that day and you're fine. But you need to be careful with things like that for that same reason because the blood pressure will bottom out if you're not careful. Mm-hmm. A little bottom up anyway. That's a pretty point. No. Well, that's a great point because a lot of people, I don't know if you've talked a lot about scintillator. I know we've done it a few times on the show but you may have talked about it with using it with clients privately and that is a good reminder to say hey we should probably not be taking the siallows for two days prior or we should at least really be cognizant of what's going on you know with both things that can cause blood pressure decreases. The scintillator being the more rapid one. There you go. That's a good point. So skip. Actually got a bunch of listener questions for us. And like I said we got some Patreon ones too but I'm going to jump in with this one's Gip grab. He says analyze this scenario. A friend did 900 test 300 deca. It was every week with one milligram of a RIMITX. This was last year. Estrogen levels not recorded. This year he does 900 test in 450 premo no RIMITX. Estrogen was 38. So he bumps the test up to 1200 in the premo down to 300. So he wasn't 900 in 450. Now he's at 1200 in 300 no 8x. Estrogen levels unknown after the test increase. He said his strength was much better on the 900 test and 300 deca which he had done the previous year. Do you think that this could be Estrogen level related or compound related? Well here's the problem. Why do you think do as Estrogen? I mean it this became a huge guessing game now. So off top my head I'm thinking I could it store but there are a myriad of other variables in there. I mean is he training under the same factors or variables that he was between the two cycles and everything the same. Let me paint a scenario. Let me paint a scenario. Let's say the 900 test 300 deca is Estredile somewhere like 52 or 48 or something like that. Let's just guess right? And then on the second cycles with test premo you said is Estredile I'm sorry I was a 38. Let's make a scenario up like that that that was what happened right? So I'm given it back to you now. Yeah fair enough. It's I mean look again I think we can all agree that higher Estrogen typically helps 99% of the time with progression recovery and strength. So assuming that all the other variables were the same yeah it would help is a 38 to a 52 a huge change probably not but could it factor into it sure. I think there's a bigger picture here in the bit at a bigger point I guess and that is I think a lot of people naturally assume and I know I have probably all done it. Well I increase my dose of the jess should be a little stronger I should look a little that's just not always the case it's not just a connection between oh I'm taking more gear there's there's obviously the ratios and the balance of the hormones but there's just so many other factors in there too and one of them being typically will take more gear I don't know we tend to train a little harder. Yeah there's that. There is that you know that point too I always said that people always bitch back in the day they're like well you know not come off cycle I lose all my gains well maybe it's because you come off cycle you're not as motivated you're not training is hard or you haven't made the adjustments to your training so your recovery now is horrible because when you come off a cycle and go to TRT or even come off completely if you make the correct and most efficient optimal changes that you can to your training you should still be progressing and recovery can just fine not at the level that you were on cycle yeah but you should still be progressing if you're a grassy you got to look closer at your training and your nutrition and your recovery versus oh I'm just not I'm here and accepted and walk away. One other factor to that because I can think of a client client slash friend that I had and I say client because it was more like we want to show and then you kind of just did his own thing and the off season we're supposed to get him ready for a national show but that just never materialized 10 years ago now and pre-contest or you know when he's geared up six meals a day meals on time, supplements take in cardio done the training obviously and he just blows up and grows like like a good pro right he was probably should have been a pro soon he goes off training falls to like two days a week to eventually no training at all meals go from six meals a day down to four maybe three if he has time definitely no health supplements in the mid so you get what I'm saying so it's not just the training it's also all those other little things that you were doing when you were being successful start to fall by the wayside you know. How about this one? Oh good. Oh good. Yeah as I said take it further and I probably don't need to let me just be I'll be quick and say this I think that 20 years ago if we go back to the early 2000s it was a different game in the off season it was more like I don't want to say it was a free for all but if you compare the off seasons now to 20 years ago the off seasons now for people who are committed and who are on their game and want to be really good a really good body builder they're basically prepping in the off season they're just taking in more calories. Oh yeah. So it's a constant prep it's a 24 7365 year after year versus what it was back then and you know we saw those pictures of you know Jay Cutler you know just slam and food and and Lee Priest eating buckets and Kentucky Fried Chicken so it seemed he did that you know every single day it was more of a just eat everything that isn't nailed down and I am really happy to see of all the things I complain about and I complain about a lot of it's industry. I'm glad to see even though it took time that that has changed for the better not only health but the gains are cleaner it's just it's just better health better. All right Derek says a harm reduction approach to PED use for over 40s. Deka versus Primo as a secondary compound old school versus new school what's the pros and cons. I think it's a pretty good question and I'm not a big fan of Primo because I don't respond to it well myself but I have seen so many clients. It's almost like I wish I did. I'd be lining up for Bear Primo just to know that I had the best Primo out there even though there's you know good Primo but it just it just doesn't work well for me. I like that that we're going more the Primo route and that Deka is becoming a bit of an antiquated I'm still an MPP fan and I know that's you know essentially same thing but not in big doses and not to rely on. I use it as one of maybe three or four compounds and it's typically more of an offseason or beginning of a cut phase type of compound that I phase out. I am becoming a much bigger fan of Primo based on how so many of my clients have responded to it especially with estrogen control because anytime you can minimize AI usage it's it's a big deal. I mean anytime you can get another drug out of there that's that's pretty into see the estrogen. The impact that it has an estrogen. I'll admit six seven years ago I didn't know that I didn't see it. I didn't directly I didn't connect the two so I like it and I think it's a rally I don't want to say it's an innocuous compound sure but it's certainly the safer route versus a lot of the and what is it a compound that's going to put a lot of weight on you like definitely no so blood pressure is going to be in better shape don't have to take an AI they're just so many pros I think to using it if you respond well to it. Yeah that was a big thing if you respond well to it. Yeah right like you said what do you think Ginger? I really don't know much about that I just think like what we've finished up with is you know I would go with the one you feel and you train better on and as long as you're controlling your health variables then if it ends up being Deca go with Deca but I'm more in the camp of what skip the sky described with the prebleable use so yeah and I think we've all we because we all kind of came to that conclusion we all realized that on the podcast one day that we really like the combo of test EQ and P.P and I think that that N.P.P in that cycle is it is very helpful but it's in it's it's in perspective it's not like just let's just crank it you know what I mean it's like for me it was like I think I probably ran it lower than you guys did because mine would be like around like 1200 test it maybe 800 EQ and then honestly I felt great with like we'll say like 50 N.P.P every other day something like that when you guys did that kind of cycle did you keep it lower end or did you push that higher than I did like using the right device I'm using it right now very similar that cycle testing EQ yeah about N.P.P is the 75 milligrams three days a week okay yeah I have an ad ratio that I just came to I don't like set up my cycles this way but I'm running testing Q and N.P.P the test is typically 50% in the EQ and the N.P.P or 25% that's usage so like for numbers 20 if it arbitrary numbers but if it's 1200 test then it might be you know 36.13 well 12 3 and 3.12 yeah it'd be 50 that makes sense. Yeah so yeah arbitrary numbers yeah again there's no formula there's no exact formula that we could get it. I said 3 and 3 my math is horrible 6 and 6 I'm there must have been more you know there's that anymore that people are like it's math is not mathing yeah 6 and 6 again there are arbitrary numbers so yeah if it could be you know 500 500 which you know typically if it's an offseason cycle I'm around 2 grams I don't yeah 1800 1600 in there somewhere I don't usually go too big in the offseason I leave my larger dosages to cutting and prep all right so we got one from YouTube why use protein powder when you can drink egg whites for almost the same cost. I know my friend this is going back to the egg whites again huh. You know the fan of egg whites? drinking them no I mean I mean I mean I'm not talking about the what's that company muscle egg right like I am not talking about that product because they have done complete the natureine and complete you know they've they've done nature the avidine and it's a very digestible protein drink I've had it it's just a little too expensive for me to drink you know two times a day or whatever but um no like the in I and I remember I think it was a Craig Titus video one of the mock videos from like 98 Olympia or sometime before he went to prison and he's sitting there and his kitchen and he's just pounding liquid egg whites and he's like he says something like why would I waste money on protein shakes like these sponsors just give these to me you know okay I'll do your digestive system but yeah I mean if you the issue is is you're not absorbing all that protein so I don't know the exact numbers but there's a there's a thing called avidine which binds the amino acids and you need to do nature that now yeah you could say okay well they're pasteurized which might do some partial denature and right it's not there's a reason why we cook an egg right to make it absorbable and just drinking right and plus I mean I wouldn't want to be around you if you're drinking two drinks two two of those curtains today oh do you know sorry but I had that man I did it's more I did when I was trying to like really push food up and I realized so I was like okay I'm getting creative working for the the pop company and I was like what else can I get from the grocery store here that's protein I'm on the clock right and I'm like walking around looking and I was like I'll get two of these bagels that'd be good it's about like 120 carbs I already ate meal one you know I'm just gonna kind of read I was bridging my meal one with meal two and I was like I'll get one of these curtains of egg whites shove that thing down go with the bathroom take a little insulin I'm good you know and and then later I was like what if I work in another one while I found that two cups of liquid egg whites even though they were pasturized that was my limit if I tried to do that again later in the day oh my god it went straight through me like liquid and I and you know what I noticed too is that people who use them a lot they end up even if they tolerated at first the more you use and the longer you used it the more you start to get like some sort of weird allergy response to it yes 100% that rings up there with my orange ruffy story oh really good until you have too much and there's a line what how much was too much for you skip do you remember I could I could eat it twice a day and I never had any problems but if I went to three and I'm not kidding I'm not I'm it would just it would just run out is it is it is it must be a low mercury fish well it would be a low mercury fish well it was protected 10 12 years ago you couldn't even get it that was shortly after the J maybe it was cousin J cutler I'm not sure because the bodybuilding community grabbed and it tasted really good I mean it it was one of those fish's fishes one of those fish today it tasted oily and fatty but it wasn't it wasn't it was just it was a it was a fish I don't even know I mean I assume you can get it now I just don't go anywhere near yeah I'm only asking because I just found out I have some mercury poisoning going on oh you're always that right yeah dude like I've just I was feeling worse and worse and I was in Somia like every day and I could train right but then my muscles would cramp like or just squeeze up like my adductors my my lower back like everything would just squeeze as soon as I try to get up off the couch so I thought okay is it a am I just needing to stretch more you know or I check my electrolyte content and I started adding a bunch of this and a bunch of that and it just got worse and worse and then I'm like hmm I've done all these lab tests over the last month and I'm not getting any better I'm not seeing anything in the labs and I'm like let me check my heavy metals let me just see if I've got lead or arsenic or mercury and sure enough the results came back last Saturday my mercury was through the roof and you know what it's my own fault I usually uh sushi grade ahituna twice a week or twice a day twice a day okay I was gonna see yeah yeah I'm trying to get an idea because I have four five people's every Sunday to load and I've every time I start to you know I'm like what about um what about uh yeah well I was gonna actually call Dom to figure out I got on I started shooting emails all the places around here the due relation therapy so I want to get this taken care of yeah I'm gonna do the relation therapy the infusions I think you got to do like 12 to 15 of them uh to find the mercury so you excrete it out um I looked into this guys method uh Dr. Cutler's method but you literally have to take like ALA and some other supplement every three hours on the dot around the clock set in your alarm yeah so I'm like you know what I think I'll just go sit in the chair and have someone put a needle in and and and chill it at but yeah so obviously no more fish for me at all for a while it's you know I get down here I wanted to do that like when you were so I'm doing like I've been doing it all since uh well we moved down here last February right and I wouldn't say every single day but there'd be at least I'd have one of those meals a day and then some time you can entase good as hell yeah I'm not gonna have to worry about mercury poisoning I have never eaten it I've watched people eat it I couldn't do it it does not it's my favorite meal I don't try it but it doesn't okay it doesn't go to me oh do you put you you don't know what you're missing right yeah it's really well you know I'm missing mercury poisoning that's yeah you listen what you're doing it's well played actually but it is it's deconstructed sushi in a sense but it's cleaner because it's not cleaner but there's so many different types of sushi that even have to be careful with my clients when I tell them you know you can load them sushi and then they they're telling me how they had tempera covered you know everything you know green cheese and yeah yeah yeah yeah one roll is the California roll okay cool but if you have 12 of them and half of them are tempera it's just come on now yeah so I just want to I would like to um scallops you know about three or four years ago and and they were expensive it's hell but you really good and they were easy to get down plus remember I have that choking thing or the asshole before so something like a scallop that's in a little bit of like a little bit of water like that you would cook them in it's very moist and I don't get it stuck in my throat so I you know I he's same thing it's very wet it's not you don't cook it right yeah just cut it meat it with some soy sauce and ground zealors do they they cut it for me it comes all sliced up and literally it would just do because there's this fresh fresh fish marked right down the road and I'd go to you know every day or every other day and I would do 240 grams and then I'd do my 200 grams of rice half an avocado and then I throw if I have blueberries or pineapple I usually have a fruit that I throw on there too and then either some carrot shavings or some other veggies whatever we got line around it's just honestly Scott it's it's I know sounds weird to make it done in just insane blueberries and I'm like I'm trying to I'll try it one day I will I want to yeah yeah yeah but it goes down make sure it well and again as I get older I like I just have a hard time eating and I I'm so sick of eating chicken breasts I'm so sick of eating beef I'm so sick of so it's like man I need this and like literally I feel like we're talking earlier about flat stomach like I get done eating it I feel like I have a nice flat stomach I can eat again in two hours it doesn't bog you down I felt great energy off of it fish doesn't have to be more general like I get you know I'll eat fish in it like it helps me to spike my appetite and eat more really you know exactly you can get the other fallen three hours later you can eat again that's what I'm low down it yeah yeah let me see what else we got here all right so we've got a you know we'll save that one for the next show pretty good question but that's not to say these other questions are not good questions we covered that one how about this is it even possible to truly lose slash slow down your metabolism in prep while supplementing with T3 and T4 I mean depends on how much if you're really only using 12.5 mics and you're eating no food for a long stretch of time without spiking your metabolism with refeeds and whatnot then yeah your metabolism can still slow down like like T3 isn't just a straight magic portal to increasing your metabolism necessarily plus if you're missing co-factors and vitamins and minerals that contribute to you know metabolism then yeah you can absolutely still have a slow metabolism well think of it this way how many times do you get a client who goes to a doctor and they're prescribed T3 or um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um um free and they have to go back and adjust the dose and increase it because it's not doing it off all right because they're because their labs are showing hey you know we're still in a hypoithyrittle state or the offsets true too I mean how many times they go back in and the and the doctor lowers the dose yeah you know so yeah there's absolutely it's not like just magic because you're adding T3 and it's automatically going to work it has dose dependent and everyone's dose is a little bit different I think two is that T3 those comes up and I don't want to over complicate the question, but as that T3 those comes up, the T4 has more of a likelihood that that's going to convert to reverse T3 or the T4. Thank you. I just want to make sure I'm saying it correctly. So I know myself and I don't rely, I don't know if I rely on it. I don't take T3 as high as I used to back in the day. It used to be that you'd run them in increments of 25 microamines. It was not uncommon to be up around 100 microamines. It took me a while to figure out this is really eating up muscle tissue. You can drive yourself flat as hell and really not start to look good with those higher dosages. So as my teacher, here's an example. Just so that in case anybody who's listening is wondering, if I'm on 25 microamps, T3 and I'm going to take it up to 40, I will definitely start to cut down or cut out a small T4 dose because I feel like anything over 25 microgram. I don't know that that T4 is really doing much of anything anyway. It could be argued that it's converted to reverse T3, so you're not using it anyway. But I don't want to take something if I'm not going to benefit from it. So I'd rather just eliminate it and rely on the extra 10 or 50 microgram of T3. But I can tell you, it's 40 microgram. I already don't like it. Just jumping from 25 even with dropping the T4 because in three days, I'm below baseline and I was at the same weight all last week and was tighter. So I'm already seeing, I'm like, oh man, I might have to back off on this because it's only Wednesday and I'm already under base in my abound. And feeling it, like this is where I, yes, remember thinking, it's only Tuesday. It feels like Friday. When the jam I was just like, oh, so, and it's the only thing I changed. Only thing. I related note is it even possible to OD on T4 and risk muscle loss as it first needs to be converted to T3 by the body. Same guy. Is it possible to go on T4? Well, because I believe, much, right? I mean, it's not because you're not going to have to go over those and have to go, I don't think have to go to the hospital or like that. No, but I think, I think, like, as you started to lute to, it's just going to convert to T, reverse T3 at that point. So yeah, I think, I think you're going to get a lot of conversion to T3 if the scenario's right, but I think you're going to get a lot more conversion to reverse T3. All right. I mean, here's the thing, a lot of people don't check their reverse T3 when they do their thyroid labs. And I always ask people to do, you know, free T3, free T4, TSH, reverse T3, thyroid antibodies. Like, for me, that gives the complete picture. You can't tell me, like, oh, yeah, you can't get, like, actual read of what's going on with like one or two things. Yeah, well, that's the basic panel. I mean, we could do a whole topic on the next show on that. I think that it's basic, CMP and CBC, I don't want to say useless, but it is step one and step 10 of blood work. If you do basic rudimentary blood work and you get back, oh, I'm great. Man, I don't know if that's doing what we do there. So even just the regular EGFR related to honey creatinine, I mean, we're bodybuilders come on. Yeah. That's the same thing. You're cholesterol numbers versus what the LDL actually, what those particles look like. Night and day different. You could come back with normal numbers and you could be F. Because you, there's just, I'm to the point now, or I'm to tell clients, look, do your basic, do your basic number, but you need to step another two or three steps into this to look a little bit closer, especially with my demographic because my demographic tends to be older like myself. Yeah. You can miss some shit in there. Well, I'm just going to be more surprised. I'm sorry. I mean, more surprised at some of the labs that doctors order for a thyroid panel, like T4 index or, you know, total T3, like none of those numbers don't really tell us much of anything. We need to get into TSH. Sometimes just a TSH, right? But even like, like, it's just good. But just some of these other tests, and I've tried to ask doctors thyroid specialists, you know, through YouTube, like doctors that put out stuff on about thyroid, like, why is it that doctors ask for, say, these panels, which we know just don't really do anything. Like, what are they doing with those numbers that maybe I don't understand? So I could learn and they never go back to me. But if you know the answer that, it's the same reason that you have to get a basic scan before an MRI, it's the procedural stuff that they have to do. It's science. And it has the Dorian looking further. TSH is fine. And then we can't dig any deeper. You're good. Well, that's like saying, you know, do you feel like you had a heart attack today? Well, yeah. I mean, I think I'm okay. But meanwhile, you know, your HDL cholesterol might be 3, and your LDL might be 250, and you definitely won't, the calcium score might be through the roof, like it marks some real reinvestigation, you know? Yeah. I've often wondered, why do we even bother, why does anybody, or a blood test or a doctor or a panel, why do they care what total testosterone is? Why not just do the free testosterone? Because no one gives a shit if it's not usable, if it's not, I don't know. But that's a, if I'm listening to something. And I may be missing something, but it doesn't matter from a bodybuilding standpoint, what it is. So I'm thinking if it's not available to be used, you know, and it's bound, then I don't know. Now, maybe I'm missing a step that even bound testosterone can increase cholesterol, you know, or something like that. And that may be, I'm not a doctor, and I don't play when I'm a podcast or the internet. But that has always been a question of my, and especially related to the bodybuilding industry, because I have a lot of clients who are new to TRT, and like, what am I total? Like total, total, and small, like your free testosterone's in the toilet, your SHBG's through the roof. So let's, you know, let's take a closer look. Maybe because it's a fun number to brag to your buddies about, I got mine to 16,000, or, you know, if you're, if you're a McAver, RIP, I got mine to 52,000, or whatever that number was. Remember, it was something absurd. I was just not looking at this. I was going to like 50,000. Something like that. I can't remember if it was just going to say, and then it's like, my job dropped when I saw him. I put it that way. Like, I was like, I've never seen anything remote like that before. Hmm. Again, RIP. Yes. All right. Got a good, a good closer here for Matt Bladvin's. He says, best phrase for a straight single man to have on his gym shirt or tank. He says, my personal favorite is, I know I'm your gym crush. Is it PC or not PC? I was gonna say, because like, I mean, you're the guy wearing it. You're the one wearing it. I mean, we got to actually Rachel's got a great shirt that she wears at the gym. And it's Donald Trump. And as, you know, you've seen the one where he's in his boxing, you know, he's got a, he's got, he's got, not his physique at someone else's physique. And he's got the boxing gloves. I don't know. I think I've seen that when we were up in Vermont, she'd always get like stairs, like this girl's fucking wearing a Donald Trump shirt, whereas like down here, everyone's like, yo, I love your fucking shirt. Like that's all. Oh, yeah. This is Ryan. This is Ryan. This is from public in country down here. Yeah. I won't forget it. The Arnold, I saw one of the T shirt booth. So I didn't even get a chance to really walk around too much. When I went down a couple aisles and there was a T shirt booth that had all sorts of like silly slogan T shirts. And they had a shirt that said, I heart milks. And I was like, okay, but then I saw like a nine year old kid wearing it. And that's when it was really fun. It was like, he was literally like walking around with his parents. Eight nine year old kid with an eye-hurt milks shirt on. My buddy lets his young daughters. She wore a, um, an F.J.B. shirt to school. And they may or take it off and turn it around. Oh, no kidding. Yeah. Or maybe it was a let's go brand-in-one or something like that. But that was kind of funny. I mean, I guess there's all sorts of funny ones. But I can't think of the cuff, you know, like, like trend hard or something, you know? Like I see a lot of the kids wearing it. Actually, it's always hilarious when you see a 17 year old kid wearing a shirt with references to trend or I don't know how you test or that one always like gets a double take out of me. I mean, I think that's why they wear it. I mean, they're looking for that connection, that kind of that bond like, yeah, I'm young, but I know what. I know what's up. I had one of their Tokyo Labs t-shirts. I don't know. You'd have to know to know. You don't even skip. You saw the t-shirts? Oh yeah. Well, I don't know if I saw the t-shirts. I remember by the suit said Tokyo Labs. Of course. You knew, you know, a brand. Two lines or two canes. Yeah, it was weird spell. But yeah, what did they make? That was big. I'm just saying. They were a vash lab out of Mexico. Like back there when all the Mexico was popular Mexico's for Operation Gear Grinder and all the things. Well, but everybody. No, that was like 2000 late, late 90s early 2000s. That's what I was thinking. Yeah, 2000s. Wasn't Gear Grinder like in 2003 or two. That was 2000. I think Gear Grinder. I want to say it was like 2000. I thought Gear Grinder came after Operation Roddiel. Let's find out for the whole, you know what, maybe you're right. I might be getting a mixed up. I was here. I wasn't wearing any of these shirts to be out. I'm not. I'm not. I like to be funny. But I don't. I can't do things like that. But I saw a shirt that said. You said I could not be a proberate. So I'm going to. I put like a fat kiddies chocolate cake. That's right. It made me think of that fat kid in Matilda. Right. You guys. Yeah. We don't have kids. So you may not have seen Matilda. I've seen a principal. Any de Vito, right? Yeah. Yeah. Made him. But that fat that that. What's your name, Miss. Miss. Oh, that's terrible. Rumble. I don't know how I just, that just came to me. But like it did. Yeah, that wasn't the principal though. That was okay. Yeah, it was 2005. So it was before Rod deal. Okay. But he made, she made him eat that entire cake. And that's what it was. That's right. It made me vlog up. So I mean, I think that's a little bit of a bit of a little bit of a small thing. Smash your past. But it those are things that I, you know, You know, a shirt was always great back in the day was Milfoner. Yeah. The old is in the co-ed naked. Co-ed naked shirts were the bomb. That's funny. Do you guys remember this? I don't know. What? Yeah. Co-ed naked. Every single sport. There was some sexual into window. It was like a big deal. You remember like the college hats, the white hats with like, like UVM or U of M. It was like on that kind of trend. But it was, um, Oh, man, I'm going back to like, When I was in grade school because kids with where I'm in grade school, like, there'd be a funny rhyme. Like let's say co-ed naked volleyball. Yeah, be like, you know, try to put sand in your, I don't know, something like not in your hand or, I don't know, something stupid. I can't rhyme with it. But yeah. Something, something clever that the kids always had to take their shirts off and turn them around when the teacher saw them. So I just thought of one that's kind of embarrassing to admit that I had. Do you guys remember that, uh, Big Johnson company? Let's get. Oh, yeah. You know, I don't know if I do. Okay. I'm surprised to Andrew. You're a little bit of a reference. I do. Yeah. I had like the Big Johnson t-shirt company or something. And there was like, uh, uh, this character, this guy that would be on the front of it. And, uh, he was like on a riverboat. And he was like, welcoming you into this riverboat and his hands are like this. I got this shirt and it lasted in my house. I was probably like, 14. It lasted in my house for like a week. And my mom washed it. And she was like, I know what that means. It said welcome to a big Johnson's riverboat. Licker up front poker in the river in the water. I can't blow that. I wore it one time in my mouth. It was a good guy. My arms were on every day. They really do. I'm embarrassed. I remember that. All right, guys. We appreciate you tuning in. If you're hanging out with us this long and you haven't subscribed, you can get a lot of information on the internet. And you're pretty much, you know, you already made the decision. So hit the button and hit the bell too so that you can get notified that are content. Otherwise, you may never see us again. We made disappear in the algorithm. Check out true nutrition.com. Use our code think over there for additional savings. Supplement source.ca for Canadians. Guys, if you want to get some coaching, you can reach out to Andrew at bodybarry.com. You can reach out to me at AgmevignallyDiatsets. You mail.com. Everybody from Patreon. You guys are helping to make this thing happen. And for another episode of Blood Sweat and Gear, we will see you soon. Can't remember. I can't believe I remembered that T-shirt. Oh, skip. Oh, no. She'll order it. I tell you, I was so, you know, here's the funny thing. What was on my brain was my daughter. My youngest daughter got me a real life show. Yeah, that's cool. That's cool. That's a teacher for Christmas in. And it's one of those two sisters that fits really well. Like it's flattering. So I really want to wear it, but it says, with a body like this. Oh, no. Something about being bald. Who needs hair when you have a body like this? And there is no way. Because I know what I would think if I saw somebody wearing it. Ooh, bag. Yeah. We're fucking two. Like that guy drives a truck with rubber balls hanging off the hitch. Like, I'm not that. That's not my thing. It'd be funnier if you're like way out of shape. Like save it. Yeah. Save it for one. Like do your offices. It's always come off your way. Someone's way out of shape. And they're wearing shirts like that. Yeah. I see these memes all the time online. I wish I would have thought of one. You know, like this big fat dude beard down to here. And it's like, I'm going to find one incentive to you. I did just send you a couple of code naked t-shirts. These are remakes. They're not as nearly as good as the originals. But we're still rolling guys. So skip, can you give us a pull those up? And skip, can you give us your word of the day? Yes. Now, I do understand that you have a new Matt rule, but recommendation. Yeah. It was just a thought. Yeah. I agree with you. But I still want to use the one that I didn't get to use last night. You're going to do it right now. Yeah. Let's hear one. Okay. Everybody knows Murphy's law. It's whatever can go wrong, well, the wrong, right? Yeah. You know what? I mean, it's a law. Muffries law. The R comes after the PH. Oh, you, that's cool. You know what this one is. All right. But the R comes after the PH. No, it's just funny. It's Muffries law. And the definition or what it means is you never Correct someone's grammar without making damn sure that you're not going to make a mistake. While you're correcting them because that would be Muffries law. And here's the cool thing. You catch people because if this is, and I do this because it's just so awesome. You'll be on a viral video or something. Somebody will correct someone's grammar. Yeah. And they'll spell something wrong. And I'll write textbook Muffries law or something to that effect. And they come back and say that I spelled it wrong. And I came back and said, spelled it wrong. And then I tell them that they might want to Google Muffries law. But they didn't spell it incorrectly. And you know they're just like, oh, I just, I just got on. You just sit around on the internet waiting. It got to us. Yeah. Waiting to be like, Gotcha. When I have extra time, I'm telling you, I am that guy who goes on viral. Because there is no lower class people than on viral reels. The things that are said are so low-brow and so like a class of the population that is just so not intelligent and so so minor and so it's just bizarre. It's like, where do these people come from? And I'm entertained by it. And it just, it just blows my mind sometimes to see how people read. But the reels, the reels are, to the point where sometimes I'll be like, I'm not even, I can't even go to the comments actually because something is just going to get me fired at it. That's what, like, all the, like whenever we have something that gets blowing up in our YouTube shorts, that's always like people come out of the woodwork that aren't even related to bodybuilding. Yeah. And they're like, you know, just like the dumbest things. And they're like, you guys, we don't even think you guys look cool. You know, once you get to a certain point, we just think Roy had to move on with our lives. We don't care about you people. Yeah. I was crucial to get that opinion out of you. Yeah. I posted one of those and then our people started coming back at them. Like I posted the comments and the people from the Facebook group, like, Tony Miller started going after him. And it was great because like, she's just like, she was owning everybody like that. It's a subclass though, people, there's trolls. And then there's like, there's just the subclass of trolls that that is, in their life, the only, well, here's the thing though. I think attention they're going to get it and they, they thrive at it. You realize a lot of those aren't real people. That's really thing. Yeah. There's a lot of that. That's the troll farms from from like Russia and even our own, like our own government does these troll farms that they're trying to divide us. Like for instance, I was on one yesterday where I was just seeing what was going on on this island of the coast of Georgia, where I guess all these historically black college students congregate. Now they are very, very, very bunched. They break into people's houses. They fight and there's a lot of just riff or aff going on. But then you see all the comments, there's people trying to insight racism with horrible comments that like, no one would ever say to someone's face. And then you look on these profiles and you're like, okay, this person has like 13 followers. They've posted two pictures like, they're not real. They don't exist. It's a bot that did this. I think that's happening with the Caitlin Clark and Angel Reist stuff prior to the NCAA championship. Everything was race-bated between those two and it was horrible to watch. And then I started thinking they're planting a lot of this shit and it's just horrible. And even though I thought it was horrible, I'm like, I'm falling for it just like the dumbass that, you know, that's in their throwing racial comments around. Just horribly agree, just saying, and I understand that, you know, that's how the internet is. But like I said, there's just still a sub-fet. Now if you go into like police stuff with people, you can see, you know, right away, who go the low-brow criminals' arc is they're always going to stay at it. No matter what the criminal did, they're rocked. I got a date. I know we're live, but I got it with the bathroom. All right.

What's up guys, welcome back to the podcast. With Dave Crosslin, I'm Scott McNeil and all of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys for your support. If you're new to our content, then let me encourage you to subscribe and hit the bell. We have several bodybuilding podcasts that come out each week. This one features an educator to the police and the military of the UK. He teaches him all about antibiotics plus you expert witness of the court system. Dave Crosslin! Hi, what's up? Hey, David, he's got this whole thing going on. Actually guys, Dave is sick. I'm going to be completely honest with you. He pulled his hood over his head. To me, he looks a little bit more like some sort of wrapper. We just need to get like a gold chain form. He looks kind of like a key-a-boy, honestly. If I were to see him walking on the street, I'd be like, 100% that's a key-a-boy right there. How much did I die? Okay, okay, Jedi Dave. I wanted to open up today talking about Cialis. We got a lot of questions about Cialis. Well, it's become more and more popular as an insillary, the bodybuilding. People are using a low dose for blood pressure. There are pluses that's got that added benefit of, hey, if it's time for action, you're ready, like you're ready with some serious performance enhancing, enhancing, you know, bedroom time, P-E-B-T. Also, it is great with nitric oxide. It's a great vacuode dilator. Would you call it? Yeah, I mean, I think originally it was popularized more as a pump agent. In bodybuilding. But I think since it's remained in use for blood pressure and fast-pour, and also, obviously, it's original intention when manufactured, which was woody's. Yeah. Is that what it was originally made for? Oh, very originally, I don't know, I don't know. I believe it was Biagra, because I think Biagra, they were, believe they're trying to do a blood pressure medication. And then they found out all their participants. Yeah, all the participants were getting this very unique side effect. Yeah, it could well be definitely. I mean, I think probably now it's maintained. I never got on with it as a pump agent. I never really got anything out of it, if it was honest. I didn't find much from it at all. I didn't find much from it from the other department either. But I think a lot now it's popular for blood pressure and support with that. And it's effective there. I mean, it's just plenty of evidence and proper study and academic evidence to support. It is very effective that low in blood pressure and support in the relaxation of blood vessels. Yeah. And the dosic can be pretty low. My personal experience in that department had been five milligrams a day. I found that to be effective for blood pressure, while on cycle. And I did notice the pump effect. I'd used it in two situations, one being just for the gym. Like I just noticed the effect in the gym. And then two being I started experimenting with it getting ready for contest day. And there's no question in my mind, man, like increased masculinity. Just increased pump effect that it definitely worked. In fact, I'm considering adding it back in for that reason just to kind of get more oxygen to the tissue. Yeah, so I've got no personal experience about benefit, but that's what the science says. Definitely. Okay. And it's remain. I mean, we get a lot of drugs that come into the market and they have a moment of fame and then they tend to disappear, but this is definitely state. Yeah. Maybe not as buzz as it was, but it's definitely become a staple in a lot of people's supplementation. And yeah, it seems to be well tolerated, long-term use doesn't seem to have anything particularly negative effects. That's what was like anything because we still tend to buy a lot of market. It's really the issue is down to quality of product and getting what you actually wanted. So here's where I'm seeing is in the research space. See, Alice is like widely available on every research chemist site, including that amino site that we don't talk about anymore. They, those places all have it. And if it's generally dosed at around, I think like 10 to 20 milligrams, then if you were only taking small dose, like say 5 milligrams, then it's 20 milligrams per milliter. That's going to last you. One bottle is going to last you a long time, too. So it cost a benefit, even if the benefit isn't huge, the cost isn't really that huge, either. You know, a bottle might last a few months. They're trying to tip the cheap anyway. It's not a particularly expensive product. We've got it in a tablet form anyway. I mean, the oral, the liquid oral might be a little bit more, but the tablets are cheap. Yeah. Yeah. Very cheap. Yeah. I mean, you're talking supplementation of less than 50 cents a day. Okay. And then Kyle Becker just mentioned that he's getting it through his TRT doctor. I was going to say, that's the other place I'm seeing it. All the TRT companies, they all are providing add-ons. They get you in the door for the test, right? And then they say, oh, well, you're going to need this IPAM in the CJC to your going to need to optimize your GH levels. And that's going to cost you 300. And we'll get you on CLS. It's going to help with this. So it is one of the add-ons. So I mean, cost-wise, I don't know what they're charging relative to research sites. But it is getting, I think I almost feel like because of the more popularity of TRT clinics. Now, it's almost had a resurgence. Because it was something we talked about back in 2008, 2010. And now I'm hearing more and more young people saying, hey, my TRT doctor said that I could get on this. What do you think? Oh, Kyle's just said he's $9 for $90, so he's $10,000. At Costco. So that's worth, by the way, guys, we're talking prices here for a legit medication prescribed by your doctor. That's what Kyle's discussing from the pharmacy. Just to be clear for anybody from the YouTube-higher powers that are watching this. I just want to be on a recent clear about that. He says it's a real doctor, too. Not a long-javity clinic in quiz. The reason I thought about that, though, was I saw this list, Victoria showed it to me, from a professional cyclist. He just had a slew, I don't know that. He was going to put the list on the screen, but he had a slew, how many items do you think were on that list of different PETDs that he was using both over the counter prescription and possibly otherwise? So, what was it about the eighth, eight, eight, five? Yeah. And some of them are like beetroot and stuff like that. But then some of them are a lot of like bronchio dilators and stuff. No, I think it was about 20 actual medications, wasn't it? 20 or 25 actual medications. But yeah, I said, a lot of bronchool stuff. Some blood relax in dyes still flight, but pressure type meds. C.L.S. and VIA, growth of those. Thank you. Thank you, Liz. Pinkillers as in IV-profer and Paris C-demol, which is a UK term. So that's what leads me to believe he's from the UK or Europe. We would just say Tylenol or C-demodifin and aspirin. Interesting, 500 aspirin, 500 pair C-demol in 400, three times a day of ib-profer. Like that's a quite a concoction of insights. It seems a lot does it. Yeah. Yeah. It seems a lot. Unless that specific to an endurance race, for example, something like the Tour de France or where you're on the bike every day, day in, day out. You will be struggling with paying at something of that event. I bet you that's what it is, day if I bet you this is kind of like his peak dozing at that time. Yeah, I can see an event like that where your cycling sort of 20, 30 days on the truck. I can see an event like that requiring regular pay medication. I don't see a, I'm struggling to see a benefit for it in a training scenario, even with cycling and the endurance where they do. I'm still struggling to see a benefit of that. Good thing. Yeah. That's sort of long to expose you to paying killers over years. He's definitely going to have a very big negative impact on kidney function. Yeah, yeah, and I don't have the background. I know, but that would be my guess. Yeah, back to the C. Ellis, he had, what is it? 20 C. Ellis in 10 Viagra per day every day, which I'd consider like that's, for us in general, not only like guys at the competitive level, but you know, a lot of guys are just recreational body builders that I think are in the gym. That's the vast majority of people that are kind of looking into the PED space, right? Because it's just a lot more of those people that that would be overkill. And if I were to pick one or the other for Pups, I would pick the C. Ellis. It has a much longer half life than the Viagra too. Like it's what do they call it? I got it. I was just thinking that's a dangerous concoction when you were like, if a little bit. Yeah. That's a mistake, though, because I remember people, you should say back in the day. Oh, so you take C. Ellis before a contest. Aren't you going to be afraid that something's going to move down there when you get on stage? You know, and it's all, I know you're joking, but I'm sure there is somebody out there wondering that right now. It's not going to, it's not going to like increase your arousal. Yeah, so it's not going to increase your arousal. It's just going to make sure that you are quite capable of getting the job done if the moment were to arise. Yes. You like that, Tire? You like I did that. All right. Well, we have a lot of list of questions. There is so many of them, Dave. Hey, guys, I want to personally think Dave Stanley for joining us today, because he's not feeling well. He's under the weather. We got a cold or something. What's going on? Is this allergies? I don't know. Youngest is had, tonsliders, and glandular fever. They're very fever. And then both me and my good lady are a bit like snorkeling coffee and there is very sainacee. So I first thought it was a fever, but I'm now thinking it's more of a cold and a bogus well. You ever do like a nitty-pot? Oh, wow. Look at nasal rents. A flush. No. Oh, dude. They've been showing to help to clear that stuff up. It's basically like a doosh for your nose. It's crazy. I have one in the other room, or I'll show it to you. It's a bottle, right? And you get these little saline packets with it. You fill it up with warm water. Go over the sink. You stick one side up your nose. Squeeze the bottle. It goes through your sinuses and comes out the other nostril. And it flushes your sinuses. And it helps to remove the bacteria in the irritants. And it helps to dramatically cut the time down of illnesses and stuff. I'm currently putting oil on the old bus oil in my CPAP on a night. That's helping. Albus, where are you? That's all. I don't know what's in. It's like a mental vapor. Ah. OK. Guys. Well, we had a question here. And like I said before, guys, I've always said, if you want to take part in the show, then comment below all your comments and questions, all that stuff. It helps to boost our programming. And that's what we do here. We just tackle your list of questions. A lot of people love the last show. They enjoyed seeing Dave hanging out with Jesse James West. So this is a female from the UK. She's posted this question a couple times. She says, I'm competing in the US later this year. I would like to follow my normal AAS protocol coming into the show. But unsure if I would be able to take the small amount of tablets in my suitcase. This would be a few tablets of Winnie in Clan. I take 20 Clan per day, 10 Winnie per day leading into the show. And I also have a few caps of Andadraw, the night before in the morning of the show. I'm most likely going to arrive three days before the show. Can you please give me advice? I'm worried that if I drop my Clan before, it will interfere with my carb loading, et cetera, going into the show. Thank you. If you are discovered at the airport with Winstrel or Arniver or Oxford, sorry, OX's, they will take them off you. It's as simple as that. I doubt they would prosecute you. You do the risk of potentially being refused entry and being turned back. It is possible. I've known people fly with small amounts for pre-comp and get through and have known and get stopped and had it taken off them and have known them. They refuse. So it is a risk. The Clan, I actually think you're fairly safe with. I think Clan over here is actually a classy drug. This is the same classification as steroids. Oh, really? Wow. Yeah. So you can actually be a cross-accurate as selling steroids for some. So in Clan, it's a mistake why a few people make because they don't think it is. It's a brass pier, because I later. Yeah, but it's regarded as a drug of abuse, which is why it's regulated. That's sort of the reason he got for on the list. I got you. So I think states I don't plan fine. I don't think there's any issues around Clan. It's completely illegal. So there's, there's, yeah, it's not prescribed. It's not used in any way in a medical sense for humans. I believe even for animals. It's not used here. So it is not a drug that we are allowed to have. That said, the regulations on it, it's not considered to be scheduled in the same way that antibiotics would be. So antibiotics would have a fiercer penalty. But I'm with you. I would imagine getting prosecuted for that. Here's the thing, how jacked is this girl? Like if she's walking through the airport looking like she's about to do a bodybuilding show, I think the likelihood of them get raising an eyebrow at her is going to be a lot higher than if she's just, you know, like a meek little girl in some loose baggie clothing. You know what I'm saying? I would recommend you source some way of getting them when you enter the country rather than trying to take them in yourself. And I'm sure you might take a little bit of that work in, but I'm sure you'll be able to arrange it one way or another because you're not asking for even unusual compounds or large amounts of compounds. So I'm sure there'll be a way of communicating with somebody who's competing in that show of some nature of somehow where you could erase something once you arrive. I would not take the risk of bringing them with you. Yeah, I think likelihood with orals you may be okay with how many tablets are we talking? Are we talking three tablets, five tablets? Could you have mixed them in with some vitamins and take the risk? It's possible. I mean, if you only have like a few tablets, that's good. I'm not saying to do it, but that's going to be a different scenario than if you need a 60 of each. You know what I'm saying? Yeah, I get that. The problem is if you do the consequences are quite severe. That's the downside. Yeah. Being a non-American citizen entering the country, you could quite literally be refused. And then from there, you would never be allowed back here. So that would not only cause problems in because you're not doing your show, but it, like you say, it would also cause problems moving forward for future trips. I'm like, if she could, but I just play it safe. For what is probably going to be a couple of messages on social media and a little bit of sniffing around. I think that would be far safer than trying to carry them in. And I'm with her. I wouldn't want to discontinue the clan right before the show. You know, clan is not a diuretic, but there is a diuretic, like a fact that happens with clan. And for that reason, I found it to be really helpful in contests, prop scenarios to get somebody just that much drier, that much harder, especially in the last several years, I've used much less diuretics. And if we can get somebody looking their absolute best and then get that clan in there to get them just a little drier, just a little harder, it makes a difference. It really does make a difference. But if you take it out, you do risk a rebound from that afterwards. So another option, which I wouldn't necessarily suggest, or I have never done in my life, is male a package to yourself. I never did that. I never did it internationally, at least, so that's where things get tricky, I think. All right, how about this one? And we'll try to power through these. Get Dave out of here. Faster for the next episode, big Dave said he conceived while on full cycle. And there are plenty of other examples of body builders also achieving this. I wondered if he was on Novodex at the time from the small and I repeat small amount of research I've done. It seems like Novodex and Cloman have a positive effect on fertility. So could it be the case that a male, heavy cycle with these supplementations would help to keep the boys swimming? Thanks an advance, Massafana, the podcast, and it's a highlight of my Monday. In my personal scenario, no, not at all, wasn't on anything like that. Novodex and Cloman obviously block ERs at the high perthamas in the maturity to try and stimulate signal production, which is why they're used in PC2. However, there is a localized restriction process that I inhibits within the testies. The react to total testosterone levels and as a result, can locally restrict any sort of production. Is it possible to maintain some form of signaling? Yes, I would suspect to a small extent there is, but you're always going to have this depression going on. A compound, another thing is, if Novodex and Cloman are not totality in their shutt in off of the ER at the high perthamas or the majority either. So they don't shut it off completely. So you're still going to get some suppression. But the main mechanism for fertility, wild, stone cycle is the elevated levels of testosterone directly stimulating the cytosol cells in in in a testies and causing sperm production directly. Follow up question from our listeners. If you were to conceive, while on cycle, is that going to have any damaging effects to your baby? Okay, that is how jack is trend is your trend baby going to be? This is actually now I summarise this probably 10 years ago. And from a little bit of an adult or research, and it was rough research, it was just basically questionnaires and things like that and just generally talking to people. They seem to be a trend to what children that were born of either a paternal or an, I did actually speak to a maternal who was on other Balex at the point they conceived. So their children did seem to be developing quicker intellectually wise. Really? Now when you look at the effects of testosterone in fetal development, it does show positive impacts in cognitive ability and anti-wicoordination and a few over aspects. But it also shows an increase in the willingness to take risk. Now the argument at the point where I left looking at was that is a child born of an abolic using parents or at least a paternal, an abolic user more likely to take risks because it's genetically coded through a change in RNA expression, through the use of an abolic's in conception or was it a learn or genetic coding from the parent because the parent had already played a willingness to take more risk on a bioplasm. So I got very poo poo at the time when I suggested that they could potentially be not a change in DNA but a change in the strength of the expression. So basically two words, super babies. Well, now it's a positive and negative because what I had found was that there is the risk of children, and this was based on the children that were born of an abolic parents did seem to have a rapid progression intellectually. They also tended to have disruptive behavior. Super babies that you can't stop. Well, they seem to be based around the fact of they required more stimulus than an average kid. So if they weren't focused, they would be a term disruptive, pretty much out of order because they just life just wasn't stimulating enough for it. So there's no real factual stuff. Anyway, I expressed this one day in a conversation on social media and got ripped apart for it. And one of the people that was ripping me apart, I won't mention any names, tagged somebody else into it. It was a researcher, I believe, to do a cancer or had knowledge around cancer research anyway. Okay. So no research and super babies. And he then messaged me privately, having looked into it a little bit more and said that he felt there was actually potentially some merit to it. There was some studies on cells around cancer use and such like that had suggested that they could be these expression changes. And that there was not evidence. It wasn't that strong, but there was potential for the theory to have some merit and warrant some further investigation. All right. Well, listen, I'll find the next question here. Well, Dave sorts things out. You got to call over there or something. You got somebody pulling up. I guess a fucking thick, like I work a gate and walks through it when he's trying to open and cuts the safety sensors off. Also, when he cuts the safety sensors off, what happens? The gate stops and then he's trying to squeeze through the gap that isn't there. Can we get the video in there? Honestly, make no matter. People that struggle with my electric gauges and real. Okay. But yes, so in short, I still personally, there is the potential. And I'm not saying it's necessarily negative or positive, but there is a potential. Not to change the child's DNA, but to potentially increase or reduce certain levels of DNA expression on genetic drakes already exist. If you look at anything on the Dutch famines, you'll see the science behind why that can happen. I won't go into it now because it's got some already bored and wanted to move on. Well, I want to listen, but you're talking and you're like, and then I think it's possible there. Sorry, I had to do that. I had to deal with a window licker of a frigging delivery driver. Oh, is a delivery driver? Yeah, it should be such a bucket short, boss. What if he watches this listen to the show? What if that's what he does on every Monday? He's going to be really up to you. You're not getting any more packages at your house. Well, then look at your dumb retail. Wait to the gate open, then try walking through them. All right. Guys, we can't stop Dave from saying things like the artwork. The British, they're different people over there. Can I get my estrogen tested at Evel? I'm on Metro, mast, and Primo, and I feel like my guy knows getting worse. I just don't understand why I romanticize so much. I would have thought a romanticization would be frigging impossible of a... You smashed. Yeah, that's, you know what? This is... I have this with a client. Well, thanks, client at a moment, but I'll... No, don't let me back. Eastern levels below mid-range. Rampant Gino, even though he's had surgery. Yeah, and you've looked at... I'm sure you've looked at things like ProLact and ProGestor on. Yeah, everything. It's just like how... Astronaut. How's that? Yeah, but that, the problem is we don't have that testing facility. They do it one way easily. But it's like... You know, it's like... ...which slamming E2, such an extent that he's not going to grow. Right. So then it's like, well, then what's the point of doing the cycle? Yeah. But even mildly elevated testosterone seemed to be instigating this massive flare-up. And, I mean, from that individual, if what he's taking... I mean, the first thing I would ask in that scenario is drug legitimacy, because if those drugs are legit, he should have literally no hydrogen at all. If they aren't legit, then that could be where his problems come in from, because he's taking pre-memorals, actually tests, or something of that nature, and that could be wise having an issue. Yeah. But yes, we do estrogen 55 quid. Eestrogen-application is 80 quid. I'd get a pro-alactin check to if I were him. Just to see what's going on there. Because I have a feeling his estrogen is going to be in like low single digits if that, you know? Which could have forced progesterone through the roof, but even that should be because many problems, because progesterone should be kind of in pro-alactin and keep him to watch him down. Scott, if you are natural, and you use test suspension pre-workout. Well, first of all, you're no longer natural if you do that. Maybe like two or three times a week, added dose that you can feel, never two days back to back, like say Monday and then Thursday and then Sunday, would it blow up your estrogen and DHT and give you crazy side effects? Greg Valentino raves about it pre-workout and it adds muscle fast. Said his boy looked like a track runner. Then two weeks later on suspension, he was super jacked and thick. Don't want to try it, just interested in what you boys think. Thank you for everything. Scott, he specifically said, thank you to me. Just a little cheating. I want to point that out. I would take that statement from Mr. Ballumbo with a pinch of salt. That was Valentino. Rob Valentino with the arms. Sorry, very much with a pinch of salt. Mac truck Dave. Are you going to get estrogen-massive region spikes of tests suspension? Probably not, actually. Is in and out within a matter of hours. It will get a romantic. It'll romanticize us. You do, it does like, there's a, there's a massive, just, sorry. Sorry. She's having a shot up. Yes, I did. I've got some, shoot up. No, no. Yes, let's shoot up. I've got, where's my sound things at? Shut up. I've got this, I brought this sound at, I just hanged. Listen to this one, listen to this one, let's say this one. Ready? Oh, God, we've got. Remember that one? Right, so it's, it's, very, very fast acting. It's got a ridiculously low half life of a few hours. It's going to cause an estrogen spike, but the estrogen is going to be a very rapid up and a relatively rapid down. I'm not sure if you're doing it three times a week, whether you're going to end up with sustained, high estrogen levels are not, or it's just going to be one of them fucking jobs. It's what I was going to say. Oh, okay. Yeah, I think it's going to throw things off. He's definitely going to throw things a bit weird. I don't, for one, instant think it's going to make somebody jacked for one of a very shit, could it help with the muscle mass increase? Yeah, definitely. Is he going to do something in the lines of a decent cycle? No, is it balanced? Yeah, I would want to stay on it consistently. Personally, the best spot I found. And I don't like test suspension. I'm being honest with you. Now, that's even faster. I am a fan of T and E. Test no Esther. It's oil based, but there's no Esther. And ideally, you want to take it a little bit earlier, like two hours, where you work out. Test space in it. I mean, yeah, you can call it what you want. Yeah, yeah, this suspension is in water. And it's going to be faster because of it, because it's ACU-S, right? Mm-hmm. But you're also going to get more pain from your shots. It's potentially even going to clog the pin. Like that stuff can be, even if it's micro nice, it's stuff can be a mess. So my thought would be my place where I found it to be best, where I thought it shine was as a pre-workout with an existing cycle. Yep. It's also very nice for strength performance on the day. Oh, yeah. But yeah, regardless, it being a good compound builder. No, no, I wouldn't argue that, so. Mm-hmm. Yes, you can get estrogen and e-val. Let's see, that was a pregnant sequestration. Interested in this PGF2A stuff that Dave's talking about. I live in the UK. What's he, yes, we're to get his hands on it. But it all asks a different question. What's the reality of PGF2A in the UK? They start available. It's a fat and redrogue. It is illegal. It's used for cattle to abort. They, it's, unless you have a friendly value, you're going to struggle to get older, but it's not a popular drug in bodybuilding terms because it side effects can be quite uncomfortable. Um, where, where there's some thought that because it is a growth factor, and it is, it is, it is, it is, it's like it is that it can help with side growth. Um, I've never seen it trialled by anyone long enough to see if it would actually amount to anything because like I said, you did feel like grappling. Um, as an acuous, um, the sides are much much less pronounced, and it's much more tolerable. But dosing is a bit all over the place because there isn't really any established dosedote protocols that stood the test of time or had a lot of people use. It's weird exotic that you don't find very commonly. I've known a few people use it with success. And most people give up very quickly with the stuff. But it's, it's, it's, it's not expensive, and it comes in 100 mil bottles. Yeah, it doesn't sound like something that I would want to take part in. No, I tried it for a couple of weeks. Um, a lot of posting injections swelling, a general flu like feeling off it. Um, whether it had any help with sighting and sight development, I can't say, because I said, it wasn't a sustained enough control. All right, Morgan King, he says, Hey, Scott, as a follow up, you and Dave couldn't answer my question because you wanted to know my current test level. My astro dial on cycle was 350 p.m. Test was two 13 enamel. I dropped my astro dial to 150 p.m. in test 21.3 enamel. As you can see, both are mid range. However, I'm curious how out of range test will have an impact. It sounded that as if Dave was to advise something differently. The question asked was, I finished my 18 week cycle of 650 tested HCG, 1000 IU per week with AI. My astro dial was around 350 p.m. and I managed to drop it. Last bloods were mid range. Apart from FSH and LH, I plan to jump on tier T. I struggle to maintain erection sometimes. I feel like loss of sensitivity. I don't have the same libido as pre or during cycle. What could be wrong now considering the bloods look perfect? Thanks for education. Your bloods don't look perfect. Your eastern skin is shit. So what's p.m. so he's 150? 150 is not mid range. He's nowhere near mid range. All right, so when he was on cycle, it was 350 p.m. which is super dly eye. Okay, and n.m. was two 13. Or 10. Open range of each unit's 159. I just double checked to make sure I thought it was 14. If somebody's in his 159. Okay. So with a test level of 21, an ancient level of 155, it's his test to each generation ratio. That's way out. What's your test level average range for UK numbers? So you'll be able to read. Operange will be 29. 21 is good. It's quite high. However, if his SSH and LH are still tanked, then that's his artificial testosterone, still not left his system. He's not producing that. Is he on? No, I think he's on tier T. I'm guessing. I've obviously was starting to RT. Now, just when you when you finish a cycle, as levels come down, test will drop first. East Asian will drop after. Right. It is very common to have a couple of weeks post cycle where LeBee do drops and things are a bit out of what because your test is coming down quicker and earlier than your East Asian is. So your test to Eastern ratio goes out of window. And you will be Eastern-June High and Tesslow in the relativity towards each other, not necessarily in the ranges. But the upper limit of Eastern is 159. So an Eastern level of 150 is high. And it's disproportionately high to his ways to testosterone is. So his testosterone is bottom of upper third. His East Asian is upper of upper third. So that's what's going to be affecting his LeBee though, is the difference between those two markers, not particularly where they're arranged, but where they are in relation to each other. If FSA is an LH is still suppressed, which I, that's what I took from what he said, then that's the remnants of his cycle that still haven't left his body. A week from that result should see him being in a position, a week to tend to a week to two weeks from that result, should see him in a very good position to start his TRT. But there will be a week or two of overlap with the East-June isn't quite settled. And then within two weeks of doing his TRT is East-June should then drop back in line of where it is of that test level and everything should combat his some sort of normanality. You can mess around with some anti-East-June's if you want. I personally don't think the juice is worth the squeeze in that scenario and I think it's better just to ride it out because you're only talking a couple of weeks and things should sell. If they haven't at that point then by all means doing other tests and see if you need to run a little bit of AI on your TRT or you need to adjust your TRT dose to bring things more in balance. Yeah, but yeah, so 150 is not my range though any. Okay, that makes sense to me. Thank you guys for the information and fun podcast question for the next episode. Would I be TRT dependent in time if I do one cycle per year? Say 500 milligrams a test for four months. The start show six to eight cycles usually results and someone become anti-RT dependent. But it is very much person-based. I've seen people that don't shut down on 250 milligrams a week and it's legit and the test levels reflect it but they're still producing episodes in their age. Normally I've seen people shut down on 10 megavar. So, you know, personal sensitive to this can vary quite a bit. The only thing I can suggest you do is test your hormone levels prior to your cycle. Do your cycle if you want to, do your PCT, test your hormones post PCT and use those two of a comparative. If you have returned to normal, great, if you haven't, then I'd wait until you did before you considered doing a next cycle. If you get to the point where you're not returning to your pre-use-age levels, then you know you're starting to create damage and then you can make it decision at that point. Do I want to continue or do I want to stop now until the damage is at such a point in the IMT out to be dependent? I'll go with that. I'd say though this, I mean, my thought would be if he is to run one cycle and that's going to be for four months. That means he's going to be off for eight months. It sounds like he hasn't done anything yet so he's just considering this, right? He's just thinking about, okay, I want to do gear but to me it's not worth it. I wonder how his perspective will change after he's seen what four months of being on 500 test will do? Is he really going to take eight months off? Because a lot of times I have guys that are like, okay, I'm getting ready to do this cycle next. I want to plan out and I'm going to use this compound. I'm going to do this. I'm going to do that and I say to him, I say, hey, hold on a minute. We're only four weeks into this cycle. You know what I mean? Oh yeah, I get guys. One and then next cycle, the week after the finish, the one they've just done, it's like, whoa, hold your horses here. We need time. It is addictive. It is hard. You're going to experience progress related to your workload that you've never experienced before and it's difficult to work away from that. Some people can do it and I do know some people that do successfully do it a lot count. So just bad that in mind before you make this decision that our factors of influence here that you've not considered and they can be strong temptations. It depends where you're coming from, you know? It depends on what you go as well. True. It sounds like right at this point at least. His goals are pretty modest. He'd probably be happy to get what he could out of the one cycle. But after you get that, then you start getting, we get greedy and our perspective's changed. And we say, oh, you know what? I'd actually like to be 30 pounds heavier than I am right now. What do I need to do? If I could gain eight pounds and ten pounds in this cycle, man, I could just do this two more times. I don't have to be 30 pounds up. This is going to be freaking, and early. I don't know, do whatever it takes. We, Dave and I both know a guy, unfortunately, resting piece just passed away recently who he really struggled with the notion of coming off. Even when he knew that his labs were absolutely atrocious, terrible, it didn't change his perspective on what he wanted to do, right, Dave? No, I worst I've ever seen. I've ever seen by a mile. To be honest, based on his labs, I'm actually surprised he hadn't passed sooner. It's not what he wanted. It's not where that wasn't what he thought was going to happen. You know, he, he just, he could not walk away. You know, I mean, he was a deeply troubled individual in that sense and bodybuilding meant everything to him and physical development everything to him to the point where so consciously, if not consciously, he was willing to lose his life for it. It wasn't that he hadn't had one in science. It wasn't that he hadn't had information. There he needed to stop. He was aware of this two years ago. I need to be entalled by it would appear several people he was speaking to that it was a done deal. In darkness yet, too, a couple backs, skipped all the same thing. You know, you need to stop, you know, you're going to end your life here if you don't and you continue to continue and unfortunately it came to that. I mean, the only thing I can say is, you know, apart from his resting piece, is that he is hopefully outpiece now because he wasn't, I mean, or he wouldn't have been doing what he was doing in the same way. It is sad, but it is the reality of what can happen and it's not, you know, the drugs have an impact here, but the culture has an impact here as well. The lifestyle has an impact here. You know, we're all massively influenced by by our peer exposure and unfortunately our peer exposure now is 24, 7 all around the world through social media. Yeah. All right, how about this one? So we've really gotten people on this spot reduction fat loss kick Dave. We really have like they are. They're really thinking about it hard. So the next one, question for the next episode, as you guys made me curious talking about spot reduction. If I would go in for life ohsuction and they removed fat tissue from my love handles can regrowth happen in the same area. Would my body create new fat tissue there in the first place or would it distribute fat elsewhere? Yes, I can rebuild. You will get new fat tissue new fat cells eventually fat cells replicate and there still will be some fat there and in those fat cells, they although it might not be like it was before, you can still get fat there eventually. You'll my personal experience of having light bow on my chest, as I mentioned a few episodes ago. But a while I guess since I talked about it because I didn't think a lot of people knew about it, but yeah, I had that done in like 2006 from Sudo, Gina, Camassia, I didn't have gland growth. I had fat deposits from being a teenager and having fluctuating hormones. Once I had that removed, my chest was always the first thing that would get into shape. And it's still to this day, I don't hold any additional fat in my chest like I had before. Hormonally I also changed. There was a hormonal state that caused that fat to deposit there. I'm no longer in that state. If you get a pulled out of your love handles, your love handles are probably going to stay leaner than they would before. Can it regrow? Yes, it will, but probably if you're careful, you're probably probably be alright. Yeah, I mean, you've got to put this in context at the reason you have fat is because your expenditure and your intake are in a negative situation. You eat too much, or you don't move you north. If you stay in that state post-life, you're going to put you're going to lay fat cells back down again. If you use that as a springboard to a new lifestyle there's a lot of people struggle with fat loss, not because they're not willing to die, but because they lose motivation through a lack of result. If you can get instantaneous results with lipo and that then gives you the motivation to maintain the advantage of what if that level is then there's no reason for them to come back and yeah, I think most people that have lipo find that area less likely to heavily deposit fat again. But at the same time, if you stick in a calorie access, it's going to come back and you're going to be back in a positioning web before. I've heard of women getting fat from their hips and butt transplanted to their chest. Have you heard of that? I've then if fat being moves around, but I've not heard of it going to the chest, I've usually heard of it going to the boat. I forget what they call it, but it's a form of like breast augmentation that's more natural. All right, how about this one? Guys, thanks for the education that you share with us. Can you please share more about meant eighties? All the all from dosage to length of cycle. Is it better to run solo or stacked? I mean personal experience from you and your clients. Got no post length experience with it. Got virtually no client experience with it. We've got a few. Powerlift is definitely popular within those realms. Good strength, drug. Mover, effort, for a romanticization and even worse in the acetate form. I found the opposite. I found the other McGon. I found that with, so I ran meant Ace years back, man. Like before, this was there was one company that had it. They brought it out in about 2009. And we knew so little about it. The only thing there was was like the, remember the like the big cat steroid profiles. That was like the only information that it was, it was like a drug of lore that if it were to become available, it would be the mother of all compounds and that it was better than trend and better than everything else. And blah, blah, blah. They didn't really talk a lot about aromatization. But I remember using it in a contest prep and I struggled to dry out. That said, it was substantially, and I was using 50 every other day. I was going to increase it to 75 every other day, but I dropped my vial and it broke on the bathroom or kitchen tile floor. So I didn't have enough. I had to stretch the the other vial out in only use 50 every other day. Going in, which was probably to my benefit. That said, so that was 50 every other day. We'll, we'll say ballpark 200 a week, right? It's close 200 every eight days. I ended up running 100 the trust alone a net 8 and 100 milligrams was substantially harder to control. I believe now looking back it was estrone. I was using 600 tests with it, which would have been about the same amount of tests I used previously with the ace. And I was getting gyno symptoms and like real dark mode. Like I was lifting with nasty aggression and hate. Like here, like I felt like I was channeling Satan in the gym. It was not good. And after about four or five weeks, I quit it. And then I struggled too for like the next two months. I felt like my libido was like still kind of like it wasn't what it was before for a good chunk of time. So there's that. I would argue that the end version would actually really, it wouldn't result it in higher total plasma levels than the acetate would have. And that's why you had the problem. Yeah, right. But I would say from a chemistry point of view that the acetate is going to produce more resurgence. Would test probe produce more estrogen and cycle than what I've seen blood work. Yes, well, yes. Okay. I also see what I see in blood work with test properties, guy high test levels. The peak weirdly that you don't get in and are saying with each of genoph of the back of that. But yeah, I mean either way, it's a powerful drug. It's not the easiest to manage. I've heard various reports from like you said about aggression and dark mode and that's sort of stuff through to just massive levels of information and stress and feeling like crap on it. Fruit over people absolutely love it. So it just seemed and I find this with all the underlums. There's just seem to be a wide range of so-and-one. It does seem to be a wide range of responses to those three main drugs that are sitting in that family. Yeah, they're really yes. You know, they all seem to be wild cards in what they can do to people. Yeah. Yeah, I don't have like you said as far as clients go, I the only times I've ever used to disobey a client really wanted to, you know. You seem to be some power. I've used it with some power, if some clients to go to effect. Yeah, I remember telling you having the dinner with the the championship bench press guys and they were all about meant like they were either trained or meant one of the two those were their two go to. Yeah, it doesn't seem to have the psychological issues as strong as trendals. And I found the opposite man. I found that for me it was like trying I could handle it, but meant man it just like and it was that astronaut. It was just that. I think it was astronaut. It was just nasty man. Oh, yeah, I mean from the client base that I were, it most find meant more tolerable than trend. So if you're looking for that that strength through and and trend is not for you then a meant would be possibly worth having a look at. But I suppose it's down to our well-utilized origins. Yeah. That seems to be the deciding fact to with some people a more sensitive to each other from a mood point of view that I was. Yeah, I try and ace. I could handle and I had taken up to a pretty decent dose in my day competing. But the in meant ace was okay, but meant and that's a was long acting meant man. That was even at that lower dose. It was not it was not for me. That's for sure. I'd never want to do that again. I think that it's set me back in a way. I got stronger's hell, but all right. Well, we're wrapping up here guys, but I do have one more thing. We kind of let's talk about this a little bit last week or in the week before. I got something special here for you guys. I wanted to talk about and and Dave actually did some some homework too. So we'll cover that, but check this out. Let's see here. Guys, I got a little something for you here. It was a little TV commercial. Love a readly good read. Enjoy magazines. Then download readly and try it free with over 1,500 magazines for 7.99 a month. Have your favorite magazines on your screens. Anywhere, anytime, anyone. Readly for everyone. Use readly across five devices. What? Who is that? Guys for the audio listeners. It's Dave crossing with a full head of hair in a bar of a chair. Share it. We'll keep it to yourself. Now the pussy can't teach you. I'm gonna write it down. Dave, did you bring that t-shirt? No, they gave it to me. It was fun. My costume. Did you get to keep it afterward? No, they took it off me. Did they really, they showed it giving you the shirt at least? It was so tight. It was cutting a second. I can see that. It looks like it must have been like a double-ax or something. It was so tight. It was always painful to wear. The hair thing. What was going on there? What is that? My head was completely shaved and I had a wig on. The vis-a-vis spover's, supposedly reading the app over my shoulder and as a result, shaved a big chunk of hair out. I had to go to this wig shop in London and the guy to own it was as gay as you can be. So camp, so flamboyant. He took match in this wig to me. Very, very serious. I mean, I would believe that was your real hair just by looking at this. So he literally styled, he had me for probably an hour and a half different wigs trying to match the tone. So it matched my eyebrows. Obviously he knew my beard's a different colour. Then he styled it. Oh, yeah, just went on and on and on. It was just so flamboyant. It was a lovely guy. It was so flamboyant. It was hilarious because it was just, it's like it somehow felt. I mean, you go to the wig guide. He just happens to be an absolute screaming queen in every aspect of how he acts. Yeah, it was just so fun. I mean, we're absolutely brilliant guy. We're absolutely lovely, fellow. How long did this whole thing take to shoot? Probably a few hours. Where you there for the whole thing or they just deleted this piece on its own? How did that work? So we did the wig, yeah, we did the wig the day before and then I was in a hotel which was just down the road from the barbers they were using for the shoot. And then we were probably at the barbers too, maybe three hours max. That include makeup costume. Obviously there weren't a lot of takes because there was only a couple of wigs and you could only shave it so many times. So he actually did shave the wig. Yeah, he did shave the wig. Yeah. Oh my god. That's amazing. He even got some other commercials. Your beard was longer than, too. Yeah, I saw some pictures just to have me when I had the full beard Jesus Christ. So listen, this is 2018 the person who uploaded this is that one that came off. Could have been, yeah, it could have been, yeah, it would have been after you see. Okay, after the first one. I don't know. So I think we're doing the podcast at this time. Possibly. Yeah, I was down sizing. I believe at the time. Okay. Yeah, that's funny man. That's funny. The audience they were they were waiting for us to get back to that. So Dave, I know you had a little book with you. You got a little, uh, look at guys, Dave's been doing his homework. He's got a little book and he scratches little notes in that little book. He's going to share a little note with us today. Dave, do you have anything for Uncle Uncle Dave's advice for us, baby? I actually have a few things and I had a really good one which I forgot to write down. Yeah, yeah, it pissed me off because it was a good one. So I think I'll probably save the other ones for Dick, he is not writing. No, I can't, you're right. So, yes, I know what I was going to say now. I just had to come in to try and get what I was actually on about when I know it. Okay. Life changes. The problem is usually a case of that we don't get set in a mind set. If you're the, you meet someone who lives in your town but you've never met and before. Okay, so you meet them, you find out their name, you get no little bit about them. Now you're living the same town, you have done for 10 years, never seen this person before in your life. Okay. And then then you see them again two days later. Then you see them again a week later. Then you see them again a couple of days later. It's not that you've never seen them before. It's that you've never paid attention to them before. Yeah. You didn't know them, you hadn't met them. They weren't on your radar so you weren't looking for them. Yeah. They just blended into the background. And he said, life, life is very similar in a lot of ways with the circumstances that we find ourselves in the opportunities that we find ourselves in. If we are negative and we feel negative and we expect negativity, that's all we're going to see. All we're going to see is problems, all we're going to see is roadblocks, all we're going to see is speedblocks. We're not going to see opportunity. Life isn't giving you a bad deal. You're looking for it because you're expecting it. If you start to look for the positives, you will see them. You will see the opportunities. You will see the chances to improve. You'll see opportunity to further yourself to make good on thing. Doesn't mean you're not going to get shit. Doesn't mean crap's not going to happen. Doesn't mean your loved ones are going to get hurt all past away. But it means that you will seize opportunities when they arise instead of missing them because you're too busy looking at your feet feeling sorry for yourself. Yeah. And life can do that to us. You know, it can hit us hard. And once we're on a downward spiral, it is difficult to look up. It is difficult to see the goodness. But it is still there. And it's there. It's just a mindset. How we go through life. How we perceive things in life is very much down to our state of mind. Life doesn't change. The world's not changing. The world's not going it up on you. It's just how you're choosing to perceive the events around you. And you know, and you just, if you start looking at things with an appetite for opportunity, with positivity, you'll see much more opportunity than you are the full possible. Yeah. How do you agree with all that? Look at that. When you actually put your mind to it and you write something down, you can come up with some good stuff, Dave. I've got a couple of nuances. Well, next time. Did you write down Keep Swimming? No. I wrote down Ferrari. Ferrari? Like you just have like one word. And then when you think about that word, you remember what it was about? Generally, it was most things. Yeah. But yeah, I completely should say. I confused myself for this one because I wrote more than one word. That was like hell of my other book. If I just point two words, I don't know what I was other about. Get guys, Dave wrote Ferrari down like a week from now when we do the next one. He's going to look at it. I wrote Ferrari. I don't even know what I was thinking about. Oh, I know what I'm thinking about. Okay. No, I don't know. I'll save it. Save it. Save it. But we appreciate the track suit. We like it. It's a this smoking jacket. So this is my lounge suit. This is from Monster Curving Monster Fyter. Do these parts of it? No, but Amy and Mickie good make some out. And it's like it's quite thin and it's like a square cooked top, zipped. You know what? And it's all over size. This would be really good sort of as a cover up for shows and stuff like that. It just suits that sort of environment. Okay. And it's just it's really comfy. Yeah, I look aside to that because I've got a matching top and bottoms on. Yeah, the bottom's down too. Yeah. Can we get you a grill? Oh, it looks like a very comfortable outfit, actually. It is. It's I can't get in camera. We get the idea. Oh, he's breaking his microphone now. David, it's a guy. We can't take. We can't take Dave anywhere. Nice. It's lovely. I genuinely really like it. Guys, okay. Anybody who supports the Patreon. I'm going to take all that money. We're going to invest in a diamond-studded grill for Dave for the next episode. Don't lie. He's already spending your own drugs. Yeah, you got me. You got me. All right, guys. We appreciate everybody tuning in. I didn't mention it at the beginning. But you can go to Strom Sports Nutrition and you can get some really awesome supplements if you're in the UK. Check them out over there and they don't have a code. But you can write something really lovely in the notes. Like when it says add notes to order, you can say something really nice. What should they say to Rich over there? Dear Rick. I'm trying to think of something offensive. Oh, you're not your Mike. I'm trying to think of something offensive, but subtle. A offensive but subtle. Yeah, so he's not very direct. You know, Robin and just say Rick, you know, which is a bit direct. Right on the head. Yeah, so I'm trying to think of something subtle. Something like, I'm really surprised that you put you in all caps have such great supplements. How about something like that? That would be, that would be kind of a little more subtle, right? I've got a few, but I don't think they would go down very well. So I tried to tempt myself here a little bit. Okay. I'll actually leave that for next week. Let me think. Okay. Okay. Guys, it's supplement source.ca for Canadianstrutantrition.com. Use our code to think over there. I've been trying to get more consistent with protein. Easy way to get more protein is use some protein powder. So I've been adding two shakes a day. I'm using the team skip blend from true nutrition. The toasted marshmallow. I think it's the flavor name. It's pretty good. And of course, Patreon, like I mentioned, take it goes for your support. Guys, go to evalblut analysis.com. Get your lab worked done by Dave. Any of your lucky, you could even get your lab worked done laterally by Dave. You can't set that up. Can you do it like a special button where you click it on the website? Really? You don't, you don't want me doing your vlogs. I am qualified, but I'm not the best. No, come on. Dave's being critical of himself. You do a good job. I've been there first hand seeing you take care of the community. As does your wife and family, Dave's got the whole family trained to fortify too. And you've got people all over the UK so they can stop in at one of your facilities. And the best way to do it is to go to the website. I get people all the time saying, like, how do I go to eval? Go to the website, right? Yeah, I appreciate the people sometimes want to ring us, but it is much easier around if you go to the website. If you ring and you're relying on me booking you in, there's a strong chance I'll forget to do it. Yeah, website, way to go. All right, guys. Leave us questions for the next show and for another episode of Drugs and Stuff with Dave Crosslin. We will see you soon. Thanks, Dave.

Well, there's two things you can do to speed up. Take your foot off the brake or put your foot on the accelerator. So you'll him being, take your foot off the brake. It blocks the alpha receptors, particularly the alpha tubes. Clean butter all activates the beta receptors, particularly the beta tubes. What's up guys? Welcome back to Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McNeilly. All of our programming is brought to you by TrueNutrition.com. You could use our code, thank for some additional savings. Like I mentioned last time, you get some awesome college in there. I just finished mine. I put it right in my coffee cup. We're also brought to you by Scott's book. Be your own bodybuilding coach. I picked this up over at Amazon. This is the hardcover edition. You can also order the e-file book, the ebook over at b-y-o-b-cote.com. For those of you in Canada, check out our sponsor supplementsource.ca. They have great blowout deals on close-out products, stuff like that. Check them out. Today, we got something for you. Oh, I should also mention our Patreon people. We do have a question from Patreon today. But today, we're going to talk about a little bit of science regarding fat burners in bodybuilding. We always know that we have climbbuter rail. I think a mainstay in our sport for fat loss. We know that yo-him-bine tends to work in great synergy with it. They work in different ways. What I understand is a beta 2 and beta 3 agonist. I want to know more of what that means. How is it that these things burn fat in different ways? How is it that they work together to get a better effect? It's really, I was digging into this last night. I think I should probably write an article or something about this. There are some new interesting things that are coming out. Finally, this is an issue with research, just in general. I sort of preempt all this to say. When you look at the literature, you have to be careful because a lot of stuff was done in the area of adrenal sectors or adrenal receptors, which you mentioned, alpha, adrenal receptors, the beta-reconceptors with rodents. Rodents are different than humans. A man is not a rat. I think I did write an article for John Meadowsite at one point where that was the title. There are different populations in the different cells. Here's the big picture. When we are excited to rise when our sympathetic nervous system's up and running, that is telling your body to mobilize fuel. So you go out and look at this new facet cardio. Your sympathetic nervous system that turns on that light policies. So then you oxidize the fatty acids that go into your bloodstream, burn fat, from your white adipose tissue, from your fat stores, which is almost all of it and most of it in most people. Not everybody that's where it's kind of gets interesting. When your body is, when you're in a caloric deficit, the main aspect of your nervous system, your autonomic nervous system, that is mediating this fat loss, is the sympathetic nervous system. So you activate the sympathetic nervous system, you activate light policies. So that is where it gets complicated and fun because you've got two basic catacolymes that are involved here. Catacolymes are dopamine, nor adrenaline or no epinephrine and adrenaline or epinephrine. So those are synonymous. Dopings may lead in your brain and adrenaline comes from your adrenal glands. And nor adrenaline or no epinephrine comes from the sympathetic nerves that go to the fat cells or to your heart or to your eye or to your skin. And they release nor epinephrine. So when you're exercising, you get both adrenaline and nor adrenaline. Both of them are elevated. You've got it coming from the nerves. You got it in bloodstream. So it's basically the adrenaline's the hormone. And here's where it gets kind of crazy. So you know like you try to exercise in the heat, you try to do a monster into workout. It's not going to go well. Because your body does a lot of adjust food. That's mediated by your sympathetic nervous system. It's shutting down the person pathetic is not active. So you're not able to digest things very well. And it's basically staying up here and everyone priority is so we can have fuel around. We want to, one of those things is going to be glycogen of course. So epinephrine stimulates glycogen use in muscle and in skeletal. Sorry in the liver. So that's like if you're spinning or doing lifting weights, that happens. But also it turns on lipoluses. So this is where the body building hack comes in is that we want to use drugs. Now we're doing good stuff. Drugs that mimic these sympathetic nervous system actions. And they're called some patho mimetics is kind of like the fancy words for them. So the way you're thinking like, this is like body, the body is pretty complex. Because you've got a lot of shit going on like you want more blood flow to skin, but you don't want to let a blood flow to your gut because it's all the blood there than it can't go to your skin. You want more blood flow to your muscle. The way and but you only have neurodrenently, a really just one sympathetic neurotransmitter. And then the adrenaline that's mediating all of this stuff. And the way that it is manipulated and controlled more specifically are by the populations of these receptors. So the signal is nor adrenaline, let's say, nor happen effort. I use those synonymous the same thing. But what it does to a fat cell versus a heart cell versus a muscle cell versus a skin cell, versus a cell with a smooth muscle, your gastrointestinal, all the pens on what of those adrenal receptors you have on those cells. So like for some people it's kind of like we got one type of music and it's hard rock. And whether someone likes hard rock is going to be a matter of how they what receptors they have for hard rock. So one person might like hard rock, they ready to rock and roll. Other person is hard rock, makes them want to go extreme and dance and be happy. Someone else might be like, I'm fucking irritated held by this hard rock. I hate this music, they should just scream you at us. The different cells respond to that same signal because of the different receptor populations. So if we look at the fat cells and narrowing things down, this is where it's complicated and cool. This is where I look was digging in last night a little bit. There's actually a lot more going on here and a lot more that's unknown. I used to be used to think I'll kind of treat this all this out. From a practical standpoint we have, but you've got two kinds of adrenal receptors. Alpha is in bed as it makes sense to start with the beginning of the Greek alphabet, Alpha is in bed, alpha is in bed again, it's not a big deal. So Alpha is in bed as there are some subtypes in there. There's Alpha ones and there's Alpha 2's and there's beta 1's, beta 2's and there's beta 3's. Actually in Alpha 1's there's Alpha 1, A and Alpha 1, B. Oh god, there's Alpha 2, A, B, C and D now I've seen. So this is what's sort of interesting. When you're exploring shit, imagine someone's going out, they're exploring the woods for their first time. Who? What's that tree I've never seen that before? I'm going to call that the scots, scots, Santa-Mum tree. They name it that. No actually, that's just a crescent-Mum that's a genetic variant of the makes it a little bit colored a little bit differently. So it's really the same thing. People name things based on historical bases. Sometimes they fuck up. And not today one's fucked up here necessarily, but this is where it gets kind of interesting and very cool I think. In that you've got all these subtypes that have come about and we just named on this way. But among that you've also got genetic variations. So people will have different genes for what you might call the beta or the Alpha 2 A versus Alpha 2 B. And that's important because one of the things you see studied the most is obesity. So people who or obese, there's various, there's all the things that are happening in their environment. You know the food that they eat obviously plays a role. But there's also stuff that's related to their set point. And some of that's a function of what genes they have for these receptors. So going back to the office will break it out and make it simple. Basically in the simple looking at the out when you activate the analpha receptor, Alpha 1 or Alpha 2 especially the Alpha 2's, that inhibits lipoluses. Really? So that's like a break on lipoluses. So you think sympathetic nervous system is lipoluses, though that's not actually the case. But so these cells, fat cells, the population, those adrenal sectors can be varied. So they'll have a different response to neuropinephrine. If you activate the beta receptors in general, this means lipoluses. And it can also mean untapling to in a different kind of fat cell. I'll cover that in a second. So for instance one thing that's been known for a long time now is that variations in those beta receptors. Those are the ones when the sympathetic nervous system is on. And neuropinephrine does its job. And it's released from those sympathetic nerves that go to the fat cells. And then the neuropinephrine binds to those beta receptors. And then the binding would tell the fat cells. Okay, time to break down the fat lipoluses. Let's read this fat up so we can oxidize it and burn it and use fat as a fuel. If you're someone who doesn't have the best gene for that, your beta receptor doesn't work too well. You call it even defective. So you have poor sensitivity. So that's the thing that is people are just trying to sort of figuring out. Is that you've got alpha ones and all these all the very subtypes of the subtypes. And then you've got genetic variants. So this goes back. This old theme is that you read like, okay, the alpha, this is what this drug does. This is what this drug does. It binds to this receptor, binds to that receptor. It's black and white, right? Nope, it shades a gray. Yeah, it's like all the time. So some people, for instance, will get, that was like a more practical example. And I imagine this had something to do with these adrener receptors. You've probably had clients who have used something that you can buy in Canada at one of our showspots, which I believe, a fedron. Right. And then some people use clendideral and some people use both. Some people get along really well with clendideral. Some people don't so much. Some people don't feel horrible on it. Yeah, I think clients that can't even tolerate 10 micrograms. Like we will start lower, you know, and then if they can't handle that, we go even lower. And it's like 10 micrograms. Some people are very rare. But yeah, there's some people that just can't handle it at all. Yeah, right. So there's variations there. And some of that, I mean, some of that's psychological. It may be the interaction. If they get the LDAT heart rate, heart rate, that change your perception. Like we were going on here. Yeah. That's a function of their beta, in part, at least their beta receptor, and alpha receptor, their drenoseptropopulations on their cells. So when it comes down to it, we can talk it with, we're going to talk it with the drugs do and how they can synergize. But for some people, it's not like, well, you know, Scott said that this is a beta to egg and this, and that's really good for a fat, for lipoluses. So I should use that. It's like, no, you shouldn't. If you feel like shit, and you're so stressed that maybe your cortisol levels are sky high, because you just don't tolerate it, very well. Yeah. So here's the easiest way to look at these, your hand-been and commuter all, which do synergize really well for many, many people, is. So if you activate the alphas, that puts the break on that loss. If you activate the beta receptors, that puts the accelerator on lipoluses, fat loss. We're assuming you're in a cloric deficit, so you're actually going to lose fat. You can just turn on lipoluses, and if you don't oxidize the fat, it doesn't matter. You have to have the cloric deficit to make the whole thing happen. So you're driving along, and basically, if you've gotten more up and effort in activating both of those receptors, you've got a little bit pressure on the break, and you've got a little pressure on the accelerator. So your lipoluses is occurring in some speed. Well, there's two things you can do to speed up. Take your foot off the break, or put your foot on the accelerator. So your him-been takes your foot off the break. It blocks the alphas, or receptors, particularly the alphas, too. Clean butter all activates the beta receptors, and particularly the beta, too. And that's how those work together. So you've got a nice compliment. It's like if you take, let's say you took two beta two active, isopraterin all, which is a really powerful one, and clean butter all, two beta two, dream receptor agonist. Let's like then you're just just like, it's the same thing. You're kind of doubling up. But why, like, if you got your foot on the break, to some degree, why not take your foot off the break, so then when you're pushing on the accelerator, you can go faster than what you don't have the break resistance. So you remove the resistance to lipoluses by blocking the alphas choose, and you activate lipoluses by turning on the beta two's in this case. So other ingredients to do this for instance, without wolf skiing? You know that one? Not that. So that's an alphas two adrenergic antagonist, just like you him-been. That's something I had clients, some of them do well with your him-been, and Raul-Welskine, not a chance, but sometimes it's the other way around. Yeah, I remember you, that's, I first learned about that from you, also known as like alpha-yo-him-been, right? Yes. So yeah, I first learned about that from you, and I remember Dave Smith was talking about it, I believe, that he had a difficult time processing regular yo-him-been, but I found the same. If I take regular yo-him-been, I have really bad reactions, like I get the very very strong side effects, very like cold and flu feeling, like clammy, fever, cold, and it chills, and it lasts, like, I'll take a small dose of that stuff, and it will last for hours and hours through the day, I don't get that same thing with alpha-yo-him-been. So there is, this is something I'm doing to talk on, actually next week for anyone German speakers who are who want to tune in, check my Instagram, you can see I'm doing a, I'm doing a why you don't look at a pro, but I'm doing it in German. Oh, D, that's me cool. So one of the slides in there that is pretty sweet is that there are people that have a lack of 11 hydroxyhydrolase, which is the enzyme that breaks down your him-been. And in those individuals, you look at what happens to their blood levels of you him-been, and you take it, normally it's back and down, it's like half life of something like, you've ever seen four, six, eight hours somewhere around there, you know, you can take it, you take your last dose, maybe two or three, and you're probably having no problem sleeping, it's like an average person. If you're one of these outliers, your blood levels are elevated for like two days. It was your lacking in it, and actually the end product of that enzyme also is an alpha-2 adenerated antagonist. So that is the same action. So you're not out of the woods yet. Once you've actually broken down the you him-been, but you've broken it down to also has the same effect. So if you're lacking in that enzyme, you're kind of screwed for a you him-been, it's not going to work. It's not going to happen. The same thing is true. There's one particular study on blanking on the name of it. Oh, it's the stuff called T-Cree. Sorry. Oh yeah, yeah, I had a pet in front of me. So the cream doesn't really have a terribly strong lipolytic effect, but it makes you feel pretty good. This is what's interesting. You look at these compounds, look at their molecular structures, you see what they're binding to. You know what they're kind of doing. And T-Cree doesn't turn on lipolids, but you feel really good. You're energized. And that's important when you're dieting so that your meat stays up. So you keep moving around. I took T-Cree and so I was writing this is a way back when I was writing the supplement descriptions for granite supplements, for John's company, John Meadows Company. And I got some 100 milligrams of T-Cree and took one at one o'clock, and I was before I was going to train, like figure this, be fine. And I was up. I think I've told this story. I was up until like six in the morning. I remember you telling me that was awful. We're a lot of people do. I'm so grateful. You felt good that little time? I felt good the whole time. I'm like, but I'm like a four clock up. Like this is going to suck because I got to do some stuff tomorrow. I'm going to be really tired. Yeah. I found in one study, looking to pharmacode dynamics that there was an individual subject number eight in this particular study who had prolonged elevation of, so he was lacking in the enzyme. Probably P450 enzyme, he was lacking in some aspect of the metabolism. Yeah. So it didn't work for him. And you got these tests tested too. You know, like they have testing now. And some of this I believe was covered by your doctor. Like you can get this. I've tried in the lab that my doctor used was kind of screwy and the first sample didn't go through. The second sample we've never heard anything back from. But I know that you can get testing to find out like how well you process these different things. Oh, you mean like genetic testing? Yeah. He's at least 40. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. And that's like the interesting thing is sometimes we don't even know exactly which P450 enzyme is. Oh, this is like it was it was understood that the same P450 enzyme that's involved with T a cream is also involved with caffeine. Okay. But this individual with the T cream issue did not have a caffeine issue in this particular. And I'll have a caffeine issue. I did. Drank some coffee or like a caffeine I'm tabloids that normally as far as I can tell. It acts the way it's supposed to. So you've got different options. You're him being and we're all skin. So if someone's like they have issue with that alpha hydroxy hydrolyce enzyme, with who comes to a him being, where I will skin or alpha you can be, might be an option for them because you're going to able use that to block the alpha to adrenal sectors. Okay. Can can you restate then in just the simplest fashion possible? Because I feel like we're going in deep here and and I felt like I was getting an understanding of it. But now I'm feeling like I'm just buried in in the science. Just to restate my initial question, what is different about a clan from your himbine and why do they work so well together? If you were to restate it now in like the simplest way possible. You'll him being takes the break off of lipoluses and clean-buter all pushes on the accelerator of lipoluses. So they complement themselves. If you're driving down the road, you got, let's say you're driving with two feet. One on the break, one on the accelerator. Add those together. You're pulling off the break and you're hitting on the accelerator at the same time. As opposed to just doing one at a time. I like it. That's good. Yeah. Yeah. But there's the point is that there's different ways to do those have those effects. Those are the, that's basically what you want. Obviously you also want the activity. Yes. So you can have a cloric deficit and once you've got lipoluses in this in place, you want to have oxidation of those fatty acids. That's what creates the fat loss. There's some other, so there's other, for instance, another interesting thing is that a Fedron, although it does bind to the beta one and the beta two receptors, it's main action. I believe by binding to an alpha. So this is where there's, there's all, there's so many complexities here. But this nice, because it gives you options from a practical standpoint, as long as you just don't go ballistic and start dropping in huge amounts of some of these drugs without being very, very careful. You've got, if I say, my hands of fat cell and my finger is the nerve, the sympathetic nerve on the ghost of that fat cell. So the, the North, the North Benefit is released here in the synapse between those. So imagine the water dripping off my finger, that's the North, an F-ring, does it's job on the fat cell and turns on like polices, which is generally going to do. When you take Ephidron, it actually can bind up here on the, on the nerve. Okay, also binds on the fat cell, but it binds on the nerve. And the action there on the nerve is to promote more North, North, North, an F-ring in the synapse. So you have more water in my little analogy dripping off. So you have more North and Ephidron. North and Ephidron, that stimulates more lipoluses. Yeah. So that's how Ephidron works. Okay. Another mechanism. Interesting thing about Ephidron, some really nice studies that were done by, um, uh, and I get it, got any, Astrope and the Loo, where those are the two big authors, DU, L-L-O-O or ASTRU-P-U-P, Astrope, um, with O-B's individuals. You get it all day to heart rate and then that kind of comes down. They measured the center or the thermogenic effect of Ephidron, like after like a 12 week diet period and it was not reduced. So you don't have an adaptation there. You don't have tackyphylaxis that the fancy term for that when you have a reduced responsiveness, in terms of which you're looking for, which is the elevation of metabolism. So these things turn on metabolic rate as well. We haven't even talked about that yet. That's what's interesting. Two. So you've got your him being, alpha, alpha, alpha you him being a whole scheme, clenbuter all, outbuter all on paper doesn't seem like it does much, but I've heard people say they think outbuter all's just the shit compared to clan, like you didn't do anything like, and I haven't seen that. I haven't seen that. Both in my own life and with clients, I haven't seen it. But hey, you know, somebody else does more power to them. They sell it. You can still buy it, um, you know, on some of the chemical research chemical site. And I've seen, I think I've maybe saw it in the form, the thing big form. Someone mentioned that. I'm like, okay, you know, that's possible, you know, it could be for some for some individuals. Um, we got three of green, which, which makes you feel good, but doesn't have this great like a litic effect necessarily. And there's also cinephrine. Oh, yeah, it's an effort. It's an effort or cinephrine? Yeah. Um, um, potato potato. So that's an interesting one, but because that is thought, that doesn't have hardly any cardiovascular effects. It doesn't have the central nervous system stimulatory effects. And that's thought to bind the beta three, except for it. So there's beta one, beta two, and beta three. Okay. And now we're getting into, and this is, this is even controversial, because I found some stuff last night suggesting that the beta three is don't do what humans necessarily, what we think they may do for what they do and want. So this is sort of like, take us with the grain of salt, but this is just to give people an idea of the system. The science exactly knowing like what the truth is doesn't matter what sort of matter from a practical standpoint is what you can use it for from a bodybuilding standpoint. And obviously science is helpful so you don't hurt yourself. So cinephrine has a thermogenic effect that elevates metabolism. And one of the things, and I have these pulled out because I was asked this on an Instagram live story. These two little dudes, disparate in and origin. It just so happened with I'm moving and I have a box of supplements. I haven't put in my kitchen yet. I had these sitting like, they've been hoarding these. I don't know these probably expired like in last century. I don't know how old they are. Okay. But those inhibits P450 enzymes. Oh, no kidding. So the P450 enzymes would help to break stuff down. And that's my issue I think with Yohimvine is that it's not working properly. But maybe you're saying that you might want to delay the breakdown. Keep something active for longer. That's what a particular study it was. Sinephrine has demonstrated. I think there's 178 calorie from a single dose of Sinephrine. I think it might have been 16 milligrams. I can go look it up real quick. Yeah. I can post this study if someone wants just tag me in the in the group and I'll post it or let me know if it comes up on YouTube. I'll tell you too if it's in my book. If Lucas is still watching, he has a supplement podcast. And him and his buddies are going to absolutely love this episode. He's he's turning in some day morning from Poland or Sunday afternoon Poland, doing his cardio. So I'm just going to throw that up there. We just the supplement engineer. We just. Yes. We just posted our we did a podcast earlier this week. So I just posted yesterday. Very nice. That's up. Yeah. I don't know about this compounds. What are those called again? The spirit in and there's no ringen and no ringen. I think I have both. No ringen. No that's a syringe and there's no ringen. And these are found in grapefruit juice. The same thing then where we hear about grapefruit juice and debol. Yes. That's where that comes from. You look at look up at the the drug interactions grapefruit juice with drugs and it it hibits at least one. I think maybe even several p450 ends on it interacts with tons of drugs. So it increases the area into the curve. It it slows the metabolism those drugs. So your your 50 milligrams dose or whatever it might be is now much more potent because your body doesn't clear it is is easily. Yeah. The liver can't handle it. So that's where this is where you got to be careful because that could be a good thing but you could also end up kind of screwing yourself if you've got something else in there and you have like an effect like you get with your him being. Like you're taking your taken the sin of friend and you him being and now you you know you can't sleep because the him being because you wanted to get an extra little oomph out of your sin of friend. Yeah. That could be a problem. So that's because like it's it's a really to go and just block one of the major p450 enzymes for drug metabolism. Yeah. It's a pretty big hammer to be hidden. You know. Yeah and especially too you have to think if you're taking other medications like a blood pressure medication for instance and I've had weird responses to a whole plethora of different pharmaceuticals that I've been prescribed. Dr. Mike Dr. is told me I don't know why you're having this response to Norvask that it just keeps building up and building up and your bloodstream until you get these weird side effects from it. Same things with like a re-up taking inhibitor. Just a tiny, minuscule dose is enough to get me moving when it is like a baby dose when people have to load it for a month, for a month at 10 times that dose, I'm feeling at day one. So yeah yeah. It could really, it would be something you really need to be careful with if you were attempting to get more out of your sin of your you know because it got affected by a lot of other stuff. Oh yeah, yeah, that's the thing where it's just like I think I was I had a pretty strong caveat in the book when I noted that it's like yeah, you don't know what other effects you're having. It's not like it's just working on with on sinifrin because that's your intention. Yeah, the body it's blocking though and I don't I haven't even looked to see the probably figured out more p450 enzymes that may be blocked but like here's the effect though it's pretty powerful. Yeah. The group receiving uh, 50 milligrams of p-synifrin so there's p and there's m i believe and those are different compounds. 65 calorie increase in resting metabolic rate per decubo. When they in the group receiving a hundred milligrams of spirit in in addition to 50 milligrams of sinifrin plus 600 milligrams of naringin, the resting metabolic rate increased 183 calories. Okay. So imagine that that this would be the idea as long as you know they're not having interactions that are just kind of you're shooting yourself in a foot with hundred eighty three calories times three doses assuming that is persistent. That's the thing we don't know. Is there a tackle of access there? Does all of a sudden you get that the first time and maybe for a few days or a few weeks which just seems to be the case with computer all it loses the effectiveness pretty quickly. Then that's not so great but if you can get up let's say 150 calories and you do three doses a day and that's your average that's four 50 calories a day that's your whole color deficit right there keeping everything else the same if you could do that that's the thing. So that's so we've got some pretty cool we got lots there's lots of some patho mimetics those are all these drugs we told them are so patho mimetics. The other thing about sinifrin is it probably is interacting with this other type of fat cell that at one point in time years ago we thought humans didn't have which just thought rodents had them so they're white fat cells and that's because they look they're pure white under a microscope and there's also brown fat you've probably found fat brown fat thermogenesis and it's the phrase that was called the epistoms and there's also beige fat which is sort of an in between it's kind of a hybrid and it can kind of go different directions so for instance cold exposure if you get someone and this is not this was the thing like way back when I I even tried to do this when I was a kid there was something I got from like I got it in like it's a pan for the came in some weater product that I bought you know back when I was reading musselin fitness and it was suggesting like you go and like get in the ocean so to where you've got you get shivering thermogenesis you're just so so cold if you get really cold your sympathetic nervous system turns on and this happens in individuals especially individuals who are lean because they tend to have more of these these fat cells and activation of the adrenal sepvers on those brown or the beige fat cells which are like around the midline of the body and the neck between a scapulae on the spine that turns on thermogenesis and it's it was always thought that that's via the beta three receptors but I found a study just earlier today that suggests the beta ones may be involved too okay so as it turns out one thing that differentiates obese people just in a sort of cross-sectional studies versus lean people is that lean people tend to have this brown adipose tissue or the beige and that that was the thing is that people were probably though that's brown it's like well no it's actually kind of a different subtitle we haven't really differentiated this well enough because the beige and the brown are a little bit different in terms of the the the size the fat globules that are in them and the amount of mitochondria those beige and brown cells have lots of mitochondria in them which means they can be highly oxidative your white fat cells literally I mean they're also it's an indecrungalian so you've got leptin and adiponectin that come from the white adipose cushions the body but mainly it's a it's a other than being an indecrungalian which is very important it's a source of fat a source of fuel whereas the brown and the beige and those individuals have that when that's activated that's a way to adjust your metabolic rate and sort of the survival this is really kind of survival mode holy shit we're freezing we need body heat that can be turned on in those individuals is when you activate the central nervous the sympathetic nervous system and you activate the brown adipose tissue you you get thermogenesis you produce massive amounts of heat which is that comes from I'm good sorry I want there's another drug this this is kind of like involved with this that comes from up regulating what's called uncoupling protein so there's various uncoupling proteins that do the same thing that people try to do with DNP okay so uncoupling oxidative phosphorylation basically means that your body oxidative oxidizes fuel and the end product would be ATP so that's good that's you know it's about a 40% efficient process to get from fuel to the ATP but if you'll uncouple that and like all means you just keep on breaking down fuel or breaking down fat using up energy you're not getting any ATP out of the at the deal DNP does that by getting in the mitochondria and literally letting the the energy potential that you worked all the way to build up by breaking down this fuel it just sort of lets it loose it's like putting a giant crack in a dam so the water can't flow through the turbines of the dam and produce energy the water just flows out it's a gosh shit we have all this water damed up that's our potential energy we want a harness in the dam and if we don't if we can't harness that well we don't get the energy we're not can't create the electricity that you're trying to dam that's what DNP does and those brown adipose cells and the beige ones too and that gets activated which cinephane probably does the beta ones or the beta freeze don't know um who just could be the beta 2's too it turns on an uncoupling process and creates a lot of heat so that's another sort of strategy that comes from the cinephane is you're targeting those other probably to some degree hundred eighty three calories is a lot and white adipose cells or they don't have the mitochondria I'm just sort of ball parking this but they don't have the mitochondria to do that these people are just at rest they're not like running around or doing anything this is just sitting there watching their metabolic rate be elevated after a dose compared to a control period so that's I mean that and I have to see I have to go look and see what the duration of that is but let's say it was six hours so average person might box that I just resting let's say a hundred calories during an hour okay right they would do 600 calories and now they do 800 calories over that six hour period or roughly 183 it's roughly 200 calories that's substantial yeah I don't feel like it translates into the real world though does it people haven't been using cinephane but a people aren't you also trying to couple it up with these uh this is very good yeah it was only like 60 it was like 60 calories see what's that 55 calorie increase and resting metabolic rate so that's the thing I haven't I don't know anyone who's taken that along period of time to see you know and add that in as a novel thing yeah and that's the thing attack of relaxus maybe you get that on the first dose and then it's gone okay and I think about a federans you don't have that attack of the lack of fact yeah and actually one thing a federan does is it promotes the conversion of T4 to T3 really yeah so it it helps it helps with more active thyroid at least in one study with obese women okay did that yeah so yeah so yeah so that's kind of the story we've got you release the break with your him being or out for rolls king alpha you him being the rule is king you can turn on and step on the accelerator for fat loss with clenbuter all maybe with albuter all you can indirectly turn on the break it's kind of like you know the the um backseat driver with a fedron it tells more epinephrine or epinephrine to be released and then you can you know activate the catalytic converter with sinifrin and turn on the other adipose cells the brown and the beige which is a whole other deal so I'm not suggesting I say look alright let's do all right right really and upscrewing yourself here's the thing with your him being is it's funny some people when they take a fedron they're fine and maybe you're you him being alone they're okay but when they take them both it's a no go that's where they have the issues yeah they some people they've I've had people I've known of people that have freaked out and gone to the to the ER really they're lying that was never that bad but you know what I can't say that I've done much you'll him buying on its own it's usually the way that I've always worked is that we start with clen and then later my and it makes sense later than we add the yo him buying in and you you explaining science behind it that makes sense why we're initially getting you know a decent effect out of a really small amount of clen the call start people at 20 micrograms and then we may in two weeks go up or we might add in a small amount of yo him buying and try to get more out of that same dose because then I feel like we can stretch out another week of effectiveness out of that clen having added that yo him buying in before we we jump it up because I feel like the longer we can get more out of lesser dose the more we can down the road have room to go up we don't paint ourselves into a corner you know eight weeks down the road we're at a hundred micrograms and we still have ten weeks to get to the contest where we're going to go from there you know yeah and the thing that's interesting too and this is the other feature this so the ifedron doesn't seem to although you'll have a tacky philactic effect yeah so reduction in how your heart rate is elevated in the stimulatory effect that happens from this one particular study the thermogenic effect doesn't seem to go away okay with yo him being at least from I have to find this study but at least the early studies didn't suggest that you have any um down or up regulation in those alpha adrenal sectors I could see this so if you can take long term but clenbuter all especially from the road instead he's is renowned for rapid beta two receptor down regulation yeah but not in everybody in the same way so some people like they can keep taking and they feel it just the same and other people it's like I felt like I didn't like couldn't study in fileneking I was taking 200 micrograms you know and I was like yeah it was nothing and for that reason like like people I don't have a formula what's not like you know I usually tell people we may go up every couple weeks but it might be three weeks or four weeks or it might be ten days you know depending on on how somebody's responding and in a way to what to do that depending on the person like at least something to consider someone wants to use these these pharmaceuticals is that use one and get the most released so maximize your sensitivity with a smaller dose and then with that one starts not stop what this starts stops working then use something else so you can do it you can have a scenario for instance where you use alpha you him being or you him being and then then go to clen for two or three days and then go back or alternate between a fedron and clen in a way if that seems work for you and but don't always don't try to just take everything because then you're probably going to end up you know in your head of descents and it ties in yourself and that's that's kind of the key is the is the main change in the sensitivity yes as much as you possibly can by coming on and off the things using them with some breaks when it comes to like a fedron caffeine and aspirin it seems like from my experience with clients myself is literally just having one day I always have any clients you're taking any fat burners I always tell them like the non-training day it's a Sunday usually works out best don't do your triple eca stack whatever it is that you're taking okay in this have screen tea something so you're not like just a slug yeah so and go something act is something fun you know so maintain some meat you don't want to just like end up being a couch potato you know and just like mapping you need to shrug your sleep cycle and everything else so maintain some regularity but come off of that and you don't end up in this in this place where people stay on the fat lost drugs some pathometrics drugs every day for weeks on end then they're just dragging yeah it could be a adrenal insufficiency you know because you are stimulating neuropinephrine release like a fedron is doing that it's stimulating neuropinephrine release from the sympathetic nerve terminals and neuropinephrine release stimulates a adrenaline production in the adrenal glands so you're stimulating adrenaline release as well with these things so you can end up sort of run yourself pretty ragged but it's just like one good day off that seems to work at least for like just a pure ECA staff yeah that makes sense to me yeah hey can we get it we have time do you mind if we switch gears a little bit and went to that question about that show alright cool cool if we hit this question and it was from patreon I've got a screen cap of it I know I can pull that up here thank you for tuning into another podcast here I think big bodybuilding media if we've provided value to you today then please consider contributing to our show you can help support the show through patreon every five dollars helps to pay for the software in the hardware and everything else that goes into making a podcast you can also contribute by using our code at true nutrition true nutrition has been our title sponsor for several years now I'm super grateful for them and I've believed in true nutrition supplements long before they sponsored our programming you could use our code thank for health supplements and performance supplements feel free to hit me up if you have any questions and if you're check out supplementsourst.ca they have free shipping over 99 dollars huge discounts on over stock short dated and label change products plus they have all your normal supplements too thank you guys for listening to the commercial I hope you're having a great day and that your bodybuilding is going well let's get back to the show my TRT clinic is willing to add nanger loan to my protocol for quote joint pain relief well adding that compound potentially give me that benefit yeah and nanderlones known for for that like the people have been doing that for years yeah that for that purpose and I'm I'm going to look at this more of sort of a practitioner and a scientist and I'll direct him to there's a there's a I think it's free to read it's all it was online I believe an article like a panel submission article on nanderlone that is in muskware development so Rick the steroid lawyer her college yeah recolons directed that he kind of gathered I think he actually submitted his own portion too but there's like a doctor sarano's on there Victor blacks on there Victor prisk is on there couple other people like him are all the names has been a little while but we we sort of submitted our thoughts on basically this very same idea and me nanderlone is relatively benign like there's worse things you could take as far as side of x-book and stuff but from a TRT perspective from a medical perspective my take on it was that doesn't necessarily make sense to use it for that reason and it's a lot of it's because of some of the cardio toxic effects can have testosterone it's just for multiple reasons safer and then if how much is he going to get and is the nanderlone then going to cause decadict so to speak are they're going to end up with other issues that come along with adding that to the mix whereas if he has joint pain my first thought is from a coach's perspective a trainer's perspective practitioners preserve why your joint search like what's what's going on with your joints is it the way you're training is it what you're doing is it that you got just too much inflammation in your body maybe maybe a curcumin would be something that would work for just general joint inflammation yeah so I was in Chinese medicine you know and this is sort of my perspective is rooted there this is someone a question someone wanted me to dig into someone posted this on Think Big and the in the form there that look at the the root of the issue so why is the joint pain there and like there's number they could just take aspirin you know just continue to take aspirin and do that for you know years that'd be cheaper why use nanderlone you know necessarily unless you know that there's a several other reasons to do that and make sense given your T.R.T. protocol you know heck I don't know what else he's he's maybe has in his in his arsenal there for the T.R.T. maybe they've gone among on aromotates inhibitor maybe that's causing the joint pain those can cause my pain maybe his estrogen levels you know are aren't where they should be maybe a little bit higher in estrogen would help with a little bit more water in a system and that would lubricate the joints in this way people will use growth hormone for that reason there's even there's I mean growth hormone there's that's a whole different topic too but but that might be something that would help with his joints too and that would be more complimentary I think than adding nanderlone to the testosterone be thinking about like anti-aging effects generally in general um I mean so there are actually clinics that are prescribing the research almost like BPC 157 15500 those kinds of things yeah so this place where he's at it's kind of cool sounds like they're progressive that might be a better a better option there you know do that alphlutop is something that um we're really really well that you can still buy I think on eBay you can actually they're selling on amazon so I think it's totally legal to get in the US that phenomenally for many people um is he taking an undenatured type 2 collagen yeah is he using collagen peptides like you had in your coffee yeah you know it's been a huge game changer for me personally and I feel like anybody who's lifting now that I better understand collagen and what it does anybody who's lifting and you're aging you know like anybody over 35 I would say it would be an it would be a I wish I had started it sooner let's put it that way I wish I had started it 10 years ago and just been consistent I feel like it could have been you know very helpful to have brought that in plus you know it is it is a protein source might not be the best protein source but you're getting like 29 grams of protein if you use a serving a day yeah and you're I think you said before you you'd have breakfast before you take it in so you got all the amino acids floating on your system yeah so it is next your protein source but we know with the collagen from the radio labeled amino acids studies that when you take in collagen based protein source that those amino acids do actually sort of preferentially end up in collagen begin up in the joints and the tenants the place where you find collagen yeah so I would just like mandalone would be the last of um like it's a very bottom of your priority list if you try to everything but there's got to cut your reason why the joints hurt I'm not how old he is but you can figure out you can do with arthritis in so many different ways other than just adding mandalone on there you know I mean so here's a thing too I'll say it this way because I get it you know it's like so if you're guy like who's pushing the limits right like you're you're like trying to get your pro card or trying to win your state show or whatever and you're you're gearing up it's like 10 to have joint problem because I'm pushing everything you know I'm red lining it's like and mandalone makes me grow really well and I'm already like I'm already in for the wind so to speak right then then okay yeah I keep mandalone in because I grow really well on it and it helps my joints that's a different story yeah but it's a totally different story so the thing is and maybe like they don't because they have to be careful like this is I'm now I think about this so imagine you're running a clinic like some clinics are run where they prescribe things that you know are on the high end let's say of what we considered traditional TRT and they're adding it's like mandalone which isn't traditionally added in by many physicians as TRT because you don't really have mandalone it's like it's found as a minor metabolite but it's not an active hormone in the body although people call those hormones no it's a drug it's a it's just off-strengthening drug like most of the steroids are so they may have guys coming in who are like getting their TRT there just so they can you know they can have bottles that are labeled as tests that they fill with you know the mix of stuff that they're using when they travel or what have you so they want to be legal that makes sense and they want to have something they can bridge with in between cycles and all that good stuff so they come in and those guys they're not like they're not going to be able to they can't say to those guys and with clear conscious because it's a liability say okay so well yeah we might as well just won't just prescribe you the full cycle let's get you on you know 600 tests and 400 mandalone but they want to accommodate those guys if they want the mandalone and you know there's physicians do use mandalone that's why we wrote this article because it's something that some physicians do do employ so he comes in and they don't know because he may look like wow this guy's this guy's I don't know how big he is who asked the question who was that's the question sorry Frank Sullivan Frank I don't know how like but if someone comes in they're not going to say so like what else are you taking if someone asked your mandalone they want to accommodate that person so if he asked your mandalone they want to accommodate him and they're they want to make sure if he's that person who's pushing the limits that okay they did that they they prescribed him in the mandalone and so they can't they can't necessarily fish those things I was like well hold actually for TRT we can probably do you a better service medically speaking if you really want to stay chest on a TRT level you're not trying to let go for broke by working on the joint pain in this way shape reform yeah and that's to some degree that's an issue with the hormone replacement clinics because they specialize chest in that and they tend to sort of miss a bit of the holistic nature of things I can see that sort of yeah like it's like you're here for the your testosterone and not necessarily lifestyle management and what have you some of them are similar like okay let I tell you what you got joint pain let's like refer you to Dr. Stephenson or whatever and like he'll he'll he'll talk to you about that he'll he'll give you a holistic traditional Chinese medical based approach and talk about your exercise selection maybe there's a way we can treat your joint pain without having to up your the toxic toxicity load that would come with more energy above which you know where you're if he adds an endolone to a TRT protocol especially if it's sort of a on a high-end one then he's then he's maybe three or four times above terms of total energy and input what his body would typically have absolutely yeah we had a couple of them yeah we had a couple more here yeah yeah let's see these are from the live feed John had one John Boxer he says a question I recently heard on another podcast about uh over still what's still talking about natural and I guess about test and NPP cycle they suggested taking low test 150 milligrams and running higher NPP 300 plus milligrams they seem to think that NPP is basically test so no need to run test the same as NPP because you just increase the side effects um this was the first I had heard of this and I was curious and your thoughts not sure about my key and of course comment on the other podcast because I'm you know it's still no matter what it's gonna be a little out of context uh hearing what he's saying about it but uh I mean you've talked before about uh didn't didn't Jordan run a really could you explain that again because I couldn't quite grasp it Jordan ran a high-decker cycle with low-townly oh deca only it was deca only yeah some people a lot a few people had done that more than a few yeah absolutely and he said that like libido everything was fine you had an idea of a thought on that why would that have been first of all my guess was if you look at nanolones binding affinity to the alpha to the dream or so the adrenergic receptor not the alpha receptor not the dream receptor the the adenergic receptor um it actually binds more strongly than dht or testosterone but normally so it's at the at the far end of binding affinity so it's gonna activate the adenergic receptor really really strongly okay and when it's five alpha reduced to die hydronandulum that has very poor um it doesn't activate the adenergic receptor very strongly at all okay so at a sort of a moderate or low dose you're gonna get a lot of five alpha reduction okay and the nanolone is never gonna end up being around for very long so it's not gonna be binding the adenergic receptor because it's getting five alpha reduced to a um a less problematic compound as far as I care loss but if you take in like two thousand milligrams then I mean you can think of like a hundred milligrams you know being like a trt or like a the endogenous androgen level now you twenty times that there's a possibility this is where I was sort of you know wow it's guessing it yeah possibility and now you're overloading the five alpha reductase enzyme and it just can't it just doesn't it just doesn't it doesn't regulate maybe in some people maybe in Jordan's case or in those individuals where to the point where you you're just you have so much nandolone around that it just you just have nandolone which is even more adener um uh uh uh uh uh since the anabolic as well as androgenic then so drive sex drive um so that's my guess as the why that would be that's the thing is like you know you you combine the two and you have the decadict possibility yeah um but it just used nandolone only then maybe there may be it's so much nandolone at the receptor that wasn't maybe able to break down so interesting so you're telling me that that during your standards a 600 test 400 decosycle somebody experiences the quote unquote decadict that that's the dihydro nandolone which is binded bound to the receptor and it's not nearly as effective well typically that would be people are treating that with um um they're trying to deal with um colactin um or progestogenic effects because the the nandolone's progestogenic so that's probably where the decadict is coming from but you still gonna get that with the nandolone okay um the genic effect because nandolone does that but if you have so much nandolone in there now you got you've got an overwhelming activation of the anisory receptor break um yeah break but got the diacatimata um yeah but what's the diacatimata and do you know what's the diacatimata doing that's nothing that's what you want like that's good yeah okay that's that that's that's not gonna cause hair loss and the kind of stuff that's a that's a good one um so Jordan doesn't have any hair issues at all his hair line is like solid so he doesn't have the genes for hair loss when from um anrogenic alopecia or you know funtable balding or what have you okay so yeah if you have someone in that scenario you got you've got the progestogenic effects and the progesterone effects on pro-lactin that are going to give you the decadict that you can get from nandolone um and if you have test and nandolone in the mix and the serenandolone's pretty high depending on the person some people don't get it so it's a matter of how much of the enzyme they have and the relative sensitivity like all the interplay of all these various factors that are there then they've got probably a progestogenic effect and pro-lactin effect pro-lactin can be released when progestogenic um progestogenic compound comes in that's potentially why the decadict is happening okay but if you take all the um and I don't know even how well uh this again this is ultra-spitballing but I don't even know how how good of a substrate nandolone is for that five-alph of reductase enzyme compared to testosterone um testosterone when it's five-alph of reduced to dihydrochastastron that's more anrogenic and when it happens in the prostate or the scalp so you get you know inflamed in large prostate that's where you get hair loss and you get the anrogenic effects so that happens like at the in the level of the tissue okay um yeah but if you uh if that happens um that's why nandolone is better for hair for many people or they like that because if it gets out five-alph of reduced then you get dihydrochastron which isn't anrogenic it's not an issue and this is where people can kind of and I've mentioned before but it's still kind of confusing I get why it is so we're like well I want to take care of my hair so I use nandolone and then I'll use finasteride or du test ride because that's good well that's good for testosterone because that prevents that testosterone to dihydrochastastron dihydrochastron is going to hurt your hair but if you take nandolone and you block the five-alph of reductase with finasteride and test ride now you've got more nandolone around which is even more endogenic than dhds so for individuals who have that positive effect of chest and nandolone only they're basically going just we're going all in on the nandolone yeah I think probably overwhelming the activity and the ability of the five-alph of reductase to convert that to dihydrochastron so now they just got lots of nandolone having this strong anoboc and anrogenic effects so they get good growth and they get good really good sex drive like some of you're saying their sex drive is just crazy high it's the opposite of dihydrochastron yeah yeah for that too yeah so that's sort of the reason why um and you know that's where if someone is there's playing that game then they would figure out what works for them you know what what ratios how much how high can they go on the nandolone and still get a positive anoboc effect maybe a joint effect um and not get the dihydrochastron and how much testosterone they have to have relative to that yeah so interesting yeah it is I found a table on nandolone that I put together um comparing to the testosterone and anandolone this is for this is what I submitted for that article and it looks at um dislippidemia so poor lipids effects on metabolic syndrome strength and muscle mass rectal dysfunction and joint health so nandolone can be there's some studies showing a higher level higher amounts can reduce your HDL you got the decadict rectal dysfunction issue generally testosterone is going to help there both can be anobolic both can improve joint health so there's no if you look you kind of compare these major health outcomes of testosterone and anandolone in terms of lipid profile um metabolic syndrome muscle mass rectal dysfunction and joint health nandolone isn't any better in terms of any of those necessarily than um testosterone except maybe the joint health for some people um but testosterone if you go from a hypogonatal position to being you gonaddle it's going to help with joint health too so yeah you can people folks can read that um looking at uh there's people who use vitamin E and um a black seed extract just sort of as antioxidants to kind of combat the reactive oxygen species the the free radical effects of nandolone um that's one of the one of the issues with nandolone it seems to have um you have these negative effects on cardity on the heart if your cardia toxic effect yeah so if your testosterone is off your lipid profile and it has a radio toxic effect it's not necessarily good thing for the long haul so yeah that ought to be really cool it's really it's all those tons of great input from all those guys i see we had a couple of things uh Liam hunter who by the way Liam uh i just message you back he just joined patreon yesterday so i wanted to say thank you to you and i i message you to on patreon feel free to get back to me one of the questions i had is where he was from and he did mention that he is from Yorkshire Yorkshire as i think it's technically pronounced he says after noon from hot as balls Yorkshire i heard that there have any heat wave over there uh and i just missed it like it was so beautiful scott it was like i saw 65 degrees rolling clouds you know occasional sun it didn't start raining until the day i left um which Dave told me this was like yeah Dave told me like it was raining and gray just like this impenetrable gray he's like this is how it usually is uh but he'd asked about chromium he said what would the effect of chromium uh during an off-cycle bulk and he's using 600 test 400 decka 400 mast he said i found a lot of anecdotal stuff about chromium but not willst on cycle well it's on cycle um it's probably a drop in the bucket some people you know chromium's an interesting one because i'd always tell the story about the uh the study that never got published that of master degree student did it was at university text as well so they gave chromium to a beast women okay and chromium group she once they finally broke the double blind placebo code the chromium group cut the game body fat oh he's really got that oh yeah probably help with the insulin sense they went on a diet they just gave chromium okay yeah so it may have helped with insulin sense daily but it helped with the fat sounds right wasn't good so that didn't get published um uh yeah because they me they it was they i think it was just sort of the pilot work to see you know okay do we have some promise here i'm not sure where they went with the study after that but yeah um some people if you happen to be deficient in chromium then you know it may work but i chromium is um sir one that hasn't listed the test the time people throw it in there it's like hey why not make sure you have it um but i wouldn't expect anything crazy with chromium but i haven't looked in the chromium for a long i remember chromium was like i'm was a big deal like 25 years ago i do two oh man that in a man it was so fake yes yes everyone was using those like on the ketogenic diet boards um or people who do in ckds you know like chromium and alpha like polic acid is actually something that i think still works pretty well i'm still fan of using that the carb ups and sort of from all the way yeah yeah we talked about that but it's been a long time and you explained the difference between a.l.a and r.l.a.a.a.a.a. yeah so but chromium is like you know some people i've heard some people say it's a greatest thing ever for people saying to take massive amounts of doses but i've never i don't know no one i can remember like oh yeah i i clearly saw this client the chromium like was a was a game changer and yeah so i would but you know as long as you're not paying out an arm and a leg for it the supplement engineer podcast we did is she's just related to this we were looking at comparing a multi ingredient pre workout supplement with um which is probably c4 especially could tell okay pre workout they had all the ingredients it just wasn't didn't say that explicitly in the study yeah and and then the equivalent amount of caffeine and they actually compared to the caffeine the c4 had a little bit of an urgo lidic effect so performance wasn't as good really um yeah like just they lost a rep they did five sets with like 75% of the one rep max and there was what the third set was significantly less and there was a little bit less on each of the sets so they were living up getting like there's like 36 versus 35 reps over the course of five set test protocol huh no kidding it's kind of a cool podcast because i like went in and like looked at the fine details of the study in a way that um like that i do when i look at at studies and it's the people may not know and it's like i thought i was just ripping apart the authors but there were lots of issues with the but they did do something cool like a second part of their sort of analysis they added in was okay taken there taking their results caffeine seems to be if you take if you if you assume the caffeine is the active ingredient given that the multi ingredient with beta alanine um what else they have in there citraline right a couple other things corey um did it wasn't a more effective so it seems like caffeine was just a fact they didn't have a placebo control so they don't even know if they got an organic effect from either of those okay but it's looking caffeine was what was doing the good stuff and then they can go to the price of caffeine versus which you pay for those so it's incredible yeah it was like just you're just paying like if you're just if you're actually just getting caffeine as an effective ingredient which is what the perspective they took then you're paying like 25 times which you need to for your caffeine yeah something like that we were done radius so I didn't even chop and it was crazy to see that some of the pre-workouts are like $50 now for like just the little one single you know the small scoop uh it's dim based pre-workouts it don't have really much going on and I was shocked yeah i think i think some of that too is you look at something it's like the which's the most expensive car like that one it must be the best yeah yeah and what has the most the kitchen sink list of ingredients like that's that kind of a track she like so that's the thing that's why i brought this up exactly that reason is like so look at all this stuff and if you have subclinical doses like how much is in there right so would you be better off this is my old i'm back in my soapbox here but you're going to take beta alanine it's a better to buy beta if you beta alanine seems to work for you need you know x number of grams in order to load up six day grams what have you um benefit by beta alanine from true nutrition for instance and caffeine from true nutrition and save yourself 80 percent right as opposed to low g and c and buying something with other ingredients that really don't help necessarily or that you could just buy for cheaper and then then you've got the kitchen full of you know bags and powders and stuff and looks like you're like your drug dealer you know brewing method home but you save yourself a lot of money and then you know what works right um oh if it comes to like chromium and it's like you know i i got something on you know it's on on sale like they marked the down 80 percent off it just bought it it's like i bought this because it was a good tasting caffeine source and it has some chromium in it great you know take it but it would be like you know what this one's got chromium and this one doesn't this one's 80 bucks and this one's 40 bucks i definitely want the chromium right like now it wouldn't go there so yeah you're you think of how much bang you're getting for your buck with with those I think those ingredients i'll have to grab that link then from the supplement engineer podcast with Lucas and Robert they're smart guys and they they definitely what they're talking about i want to check that out myself and i will post it in the description uh for this podcast uh you know a little late in the show do we tell you guys that but it's there anybody who's still hanging with us at the end you're welcome to go check that out see what you think yeah they'll they'll see it probably they'll look at the retu that when i look at the time stamps yes that's what i'm sure about and it's true so all right well it's we got it but that was it that was it okay something there yeah it is here i didn't see kc comment i don't see kc comment gh oh you're looking at the post from the previous show i'm looking at the live feed here yeah i had my live feed to tell okay i had responded to him on that he had asked about how beneficial is it is gh for muscle growth you could probably see my response there i said i i was speaking on your behalf but we had talked about that a bunch of times that you know for some people you would said that they're going to have a you know some people they may have a game changing effect but if you've taken growth hormone and you haven't seen a game changing effect from it there's a good chance that you're not going to be that guy like Andrew you know Andrew Barry says that he loves growth like that to him it has been a game changer and that when he runs it up higher he gets better effect i've heard other people i don't know if it's been said publicly so i don't want to say names but i i know other like really good high high level Olympian level pros who have said at least off the air that like yeah they'd rather take 10 units and then keep the the antibiotics like under a gram and they'd great with you we're talking like best in the world guys oh yeah yeah there's some people who just just it's it is a game changer just ridiculous how well it works the interesting things no problem with this um the interesting things by the way i posted it on instagram i think you probably heard that i i couldn't tag those guys i couldn't find their instagram handles but i don't think that Robert does social media and all okay and maybe why that was it but but the thing that that seems to happen is if you're a growth hormone responder let's just kind of use that term yeah growth hormone strongly we talked about last time strongly turns on connected tissue protein synthesis collagen protein synthesis so people use it for joints too just to prepare the joints helps for some people but that's the thing i've noticed in people who have said that like this is over like 20 years of kind of paying attention looking at patterns you're also going to get those like when the connected tissue grows and you get a nose growth for instance people's hands will grow feet will grow they have to get where bigger shoes like people going from a size to end of a size 12 or size 13 year in a matter of like four or five years ears yes some people i've noticed a couple guys even get pointed ears if they get like bolking elf style ears it's really kind of interesting that and i've gone back and like they didn't have those ears 10 years ago they have those ears now yeah this isn't like you just really it's just really fascinating so it's almost like you do have that like has a you know change in your your facial features your bone and your cartilage structure is going to come along with with the also you get that tremendous fat loss effect and probably uh approaching synthet is come guys feel like they grow on growth hormone they get they get one muscle mass on it yeah and then you have guys that have that opposite you know Dave Prustlin invested a huge ton of money into farm grade growth and 27 units a day and he said that when he was done with that he was like I don't feel like it really made any difference he feels that way about growth in insulin he's one of the first people that I know who has said he feels like insulin doesn't pan out you know that you you get a lot of a lot of you know a lot of bulk from it but then when he come off of it it's not necessarily worth what you don't end up with what you think you're getting I guess is what his take was at least from personal experience and I can see that I don't know somebody was listening to me about a coach with a super high insulin protocol and that guys look like they're getting 50 pounds of muscle in the off season and then when they actually hit the stage they're like one pound heavier interesting yeah with Dave like he was how many calories was he putting down when he was you know the 400 pound mark dude it was like 10 ounces of meat with two cups of rice every hour he was awake that's crazy you got so much insulin you know already yeah and potentially he's pushed himself this is you know this is just sort of this like this could have known man's like how good was his insulin sensitivity at that point when he's that high you know because it's an awesome pull-out size right you have lots of body fat so it might make sense you know you take someone who who does an insulin protocol for instance where they only use small amounts they're using it intermittently they're increasing their protein like men carbs enough to cover the glucose issues with insulin and you know you apply it if they do only around workouts very very things and not that I'm saying people choose insulin but there's there's a totally different situation for instance and this isn't criticizing Dave either right where you got someone who's like 8% and they're using insulin you know at like 10-15 I use three times a week in association with a big peri workout meal so they're taking advantage of the nutrient timing and insulin timing is potentially versus someone who's at Dave's level size who has a continuous constant influx of calories all the time there's no time there's no nothing and he's already lost insulin sensitivity because he's pushed so far up with his body weight and everything that's totally different so you can you can maybe grow and see an impact when you're that former person and say this is making friends compared to not doing it and then there's a course the end between is like when you use it it's the way that we talk about this for on the show is you add insulin to sort of supports what you're already doing but I think some people if they do add insulin this would make sense as to why I might work better for them is that they recognize okay I'm going to use insulin I'm only going to use it intermittently and we use it with a nutrient timing approach and then they take on a nutrient timing approach and they take in more food they actually are adjusting their eating schedule and the way that they're manipulating their carbohydrates in a way that would help them anyway and then they got insulin sensitive sort of synergizing with that new approach so now now they're they're they're not just the insulin that's changed it's the way they're eating and the way they're they're matching their their core turnover and their needs with their training stimulus so that that that a nutrient timing issue you know which is the whole other all wax but that can be the they could be getting a nutrient timing effect on top of the insulin effect and then the two synergizing for even a better effect so yeah you I will less thing you wouldn't ever like say okay we pushed you up to 8,000 calories a day you're at full max GI like you and your as fat as you ever been now let's use insulin yeah that's a good point yeah you're going to do that and they might have been like it's a kind of you know approaching that sort of place like it's no wonder it would more that's a good thing listen let's wrap this thing up man it's great to catch back up the last episode just came up but we actually recorded it like before I even had left for England so it's been a couple of weeks for you weeks now guys if you want to take part in the next show comment with questions you know we might be able to get to them if you have a good topic you know something that would be worth digging into I you know I would I would ask you to post it and you know it's gotten out we'll get back together here and we'll knock out another one how's everything going for you man who's training and all that good good I've been training the barn I'm just like we talked about you know got some dog talk about some of the supplementary nearby kids I guess some dog issues kind of keep me close to home medication schedules that I have to stick on so I've been training in the in the barn actually this is we talked about this on the stuff in here by kids but it's so fucking hot on there it's just fucking awesome you love I mean it's just like I have to be careful because it just wipes me out so bad like I've been just it's like an outing to take an app and it's like I could like you know like you're in that it's like I'm gonna nap actually falsely but it's just brutal because I don't know there's no air flow in there I don't have any fans I had two fans I brought from a previous place and they're both were broken no to sell when I come to visit Scott I will bring the guns number one because you have plenty of yard to shoot in every two of them and bring my own air conditioning unit for your gym we'll get it all sealed up get your HFAC going before I get my first workout in with you I have one out gyms too big though man you need like a bunch of them yeah and it's kind of it's it's it's it was a it was actually was a barn you know so it's they had horses in there here so yeah but there's just no like I guess I could open there's another door I could but we're I've got everything set up there's just not gonna be great airflow and it just like literally like yesterday there was not a not a dry spot on any of my clothes I bet I know that feeling man in your house my place self florida in the Everglades basically now this is what country live and here's what I do like train when I get done and I don't even let the dogs out because blitz you will come out and she'll come and in the gym and she'll like yeah just paint you with the duck so I literally came out I'm like okay I've done training I just take all my clothes off on my porch I think because just don't want to be like I'm in the like there's this totally no like the run and I just hang them on something I got hanging on my barbecue grill yeah and on the side of a trash can because I don't if I walk inside of which is gonna sweat all over the world I got the ring the mountain first so that's like my dream home then almost my minus the humidity because I had always said like for my whole life I was like I want the kind of house where you could step out your back porch and shoot your guns naked and nobody would have anything to say I feel like you've got my dream home minus humidity now not that I would really want to do that just to know I could tell me like yeah that's that's the privacy I'm looking for at that level it's cool yeah yeah I mean if I if I were a hunter like I could probably get like a maybe a beady gun with a with a nice some scope on it and I could just shoot rabbits from my porch and yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah next one's a rabbit like the next like gator hunter that'd be you could do that too all right well I appreciate your time Scott for coming to on to hang out with us with muscle minds guys once again as I mentioned at the beginning of the show check out Scott's book this is the hardcover edition of B-Rome Bodybuilding Coach and you can get this if you go to Amazon or Barnes and Noble I'll have a link for that and go to b-y-o-b-b-coach.com you can get the ebook there you know it's not a cheap book but here's the reality you can literally be your own bodybuilding coach and take yourself through your whole offseason plan your season go through your prep go through your peak week all for the the cost of this one purchase he's got it all in there and you know a lot cheaper to if you get the ebook but I like having something tactile that you can hold when I'm reading it go to our sponsors true nutrition as we mentioned earlier true nutrition dot com user code think for some additional savings plus that definitely helps to support our programming and you're supporting good high quality supplement company that you can believe in supplement source dot c a for you guys in Canada you can get your effigure in there plus you can get a lot of other stuff blow out deals and thank you again to Liam and everybody else uh Frank and everybody else from patreon I appreciate you guys helping to support the show Scott as a pleasure is always right and it's been a pleasure my friend definitely likewise see you guys

It was 500 millionths of testosterone. It was 3 amps of problem, which was around 210, maybe the milligrams. Wait, are we talking per day? No, just let me continue. Okay, okay. 5,5 millionths of test. Y