this year, or 6 season. Jesus Christ, Shelby, Tommy Shelby. Work with me. Picky, Picky. Yeah. There you go. I didn't know Tom, Tom Hardy comes into that show, doesn't he? Yeah, he's the best actor and the best character I've ever seen in any show ever. Wow. Okay. I've always known he was good. He might be one of the greatest actors ever. Did you see, did you see the movie that Tom Hardy did? Fuck, I can't remember the name, but he played both of the Cray twins legends legends. Yeah, legend. Yeah. Awesome. Oh, Jesus. What a fucking, I had no idea what that movie was about when I watched it on the plane and I had no idea Tom Hardy played both twins. I just turned it on like, oh, I heard this was good and I was just like, you were, you were flying overseas and it was one of the choices. Yeah. Exactly. Yeah. Yeah. So he's he's fantastic. So I started watching a show that was suggested by a viewer, which was, and it was exactly what we wanted. We wanted something that was fast pace, right? Because we just kind of watched a slow moving documentary series for like eight hours. So we kind of wanted like a fun show that was gonna, that was gonna like move quickly. There you go. Dusty talking, Dusty talking to his dogs or his crew. You got question, Stancer. I was, I was, I was, Don, Don, I need to get out the door. So I asked to have he get open the door for. Oh, yeah, he just stand in there. She's like, I had a pest dude. So we, we wanted a fast pace show that gave you kind of, you know how some shows don't give any reward for like eight episodes and you're just like, fuck, I need a reward. Right. This, this shows kind of fast pace. So there's like, you know, every episode something big is happening. So it's fun to watch. It moves pretty quick. They did a good job with the cast. And it's actually filmed in Vancouver. So we're like recognizing all the scenery and shit. It's kind of funny. But it's, um, they're recommended by actually two of our viewers and it's called Travelers. Okay. I'm saying it's a, if the Netflix show and, um, it's a kind of about time travelers. Right. I'm kind of about time cops. So people come back from the future and they have to like steal a body. So they have to overwrite someone's consciousness. Oh. So, you know, they just kind of take the person's body. So the, the protocol is as they choose people that we're going to die anyways because they don't want to fuck up the timeline. Right. Okay. Yeah. So they'll have someone who's about to die and they'll jump into their body from the future and then like, you know, you know, you know, avoid the death. Right. And now at least they haven't killed another person. They took someone who was going to die anyways. And, and so they're trying to not disrupt the timeline too much because they have other things they have to do. Right. And they're trying to save the world in the future essentially the world becomes a terrible dystopian place. And they haven't really told us how bad it is. But yeah, we're just for already starting to say we're going to show but go ahead. So it's kind of cool. And, you know, they cast it. It's kind of fun. They got, you know, every team and there's a whole bunch of traveler teams all around the world and sometimes they run into each other. Right. And there's like every team has a medic and a scientist and a hacker and, you know, a leader and, you know, a security specialist. Right. So it's like these, so they operate on little missions to try to change the future for the better. But then sometimes they fuck up, you know, and then so it's, it's interesting. And then they throw in this little like, I like it when they throw in little things like this like one of the travelers takes the body of this woman and they think the woman is a librarian. Right. Turns out the woman's actually mentally handicapped. She was born congenitally with a brain defect. Right. So the traveler is having a very hard time in that body and she's going to die because the consciousness can't really work well on the brain that is in the, in the body. Right. So how do you know these emergency problems with this traveler? And they realize that they pick that person because the AI that's doing it in the future is using their social media and that person at a fake social media that they created for themselves. Ah. So it's a little slow to home. Right. Right. That's exactly it. A little like slide that in. So that because this girl who was essentially like a four year old in her brain had created this librarian persona on her social media, they, the AI made a mistake and used her. So, you know, that's right. So many real life things in my head. Now I'm just going to not say them but then and then the hacker, the hacker, he, he, he comes to in this body and he realizes he's in the body of a junkie. So he's like fighting heroin if draws and he's using heroin and he's trying to do and he's trying to like keep his dose stable so he can operate and keep his body functional. The function. Yeah. He's like a functional heroin addict for like the whole first season and a half so far because he has to be because that's the body's got and that's because the heroin addiction wasn't on that guy's social media. They didn't know that's fucking awesome. But that's so the thought process of the back of this show is already has maybe because that's half the people you watch. Right. So just I liked when they throw that stuff and you're like, oh, I see what they did there. Well, Jeff and all of us. Yeah. What would the future think I was? Which is actually funny because if you're in the I'm helping the guys on condemn that something we're talking about is that they need to make sure that people who are following them know them. Right. Actually, who they are. So we would be good bodies. This is my point. Right. I just, it's one of my favour concepts and they they constantly reintroduce it subtly because there's new travelers arriving. Right. To give them like sometimes they're in the middle of something but they've kind of fucked it up. You know what I mean? So maybe they kind of fucked something up but they're still trying to and then another traveler will just show up and go travel at 3487 aboard your mission your off mission. Right. And they're like, oh fuck, we got to stop what we're doing because it's not it didn't work. Right. It's not leading to where they needed to go. Yeah. So and but so there's new travelers arriving all the time and there's always something kind of wrong. How many how deep are you in this? We're season and a half. Now it's one of the reasons we picked it is because it's only three seasons and we know it's over with. Right. So they did I guess so-time did two seasons and then canceled it and then Netflix got so many angry people because they loved to show that Netflix bought it and finished a proper third season. That's awesome. They've done it with a handful of things. Right. There's a bunch of shows they did that for. You know when the real fans and you know how the networks and stuff they don't fucking know what they're doing. And then the real fans are like, no fucking you can't fucking cancel that Netflix is done that with a bunch of shows. Like, hey, hey, we're gonna buy it. Finish it properly. You know? That's kind of what what I even though I think it's the same channel. What's happening with Dexter. Hmm. There coming out with another season now. And I didn't think. What's that? Yeah, I don't know what season it was but I feel like it's the same thing because I remember when it ended I was like, I literally was like, this doesn't have to be over. No, and it's actually fine like when did it end 2011? Yeah, yeah, there's a bit of go. So Dexter has been up in Canada working at a logging camp out of that way. Off the map off the grid, no, you know, let's see what's going on. Let's see what's been going. That was it's fun. Because you know, you said, uh, when you said that the shows will drag on and not give in your reward, that's what I loved about that show was there was the issue with the episode, every single episode that tied in with the full season issue that had to be solved by the end of the year. You know what I mean? I always felt like they did a good with that because like you said, they would tie off this issue today. But we still have the one that's 12 episodes long. You know what I mean? They did, I thought whoever wrote that show was a genius. Yeah, yeah, it was awesome. To this day, I still think that season four of Dexter, which was that. That was the season that had the family theme where they bring in and see actors name to play the other killer. Oh, yes. Yes. The dad from third rock. Yep. Yeah. There's rock from the song. What's that actor's name? I can't believe I can't remember it. John. Yeah. You said that I almost have a and you have the dogs. I know you're talking about, but yeah, that was a crazy season. No, John, let's go. Yeah. Let's go. John, let's go. There you go. Crushes the show. And then how that show ended. How that season ended. That was a cycle. Oh, man. That was the peak of the show for me. Yeah. Yeah. But when I'm done, I'm going to go back to Peaky Blinders because I only watched two episodes. And it was like, oh, yeah. I think it's the only show I've seen where I do tell people if you're unsure. Give it three episodes because that show also every season gets better all the way to season five season one is shit compared to season five. Right. Right. For like you're just kept getting better and better and better. Yeah. Yeah. And then writers start realizing how far they can push the violence and the horribleness and the, oh, God. Fantastic. We will exchange clips sometimes like my training partners will will just send me a random clip from Peaky and you're like, I remember that. I remember that. Yeah. Just yeah, there's there's a million that you'll be like, oh, that's really fucked up. Yeah. So what's your, what's your view on this, your dusty? Do you think we're going to have? When do you think the bodybuilding shows will actually start? I think I think well, I mean, I'm talking to every single floor every single show to Florida. That's exactly what I hope they do. Right. Literally. I, um, because I got guys. I've got multiple people getting ready for junior essays, junior nationals, USA, North Americans. And I wish that the promoters would just say it now and we could be done with it. And I know what they're doing. Obviously with the presidential shit down here. They're kind of trying to see it through. But because of, okay. So if we didn't have 2020, that would be a big, oh, why are they doing that? Everybody just wants to know that the show's going to happen. Right. If we know they're going to go and I don't want to sit in a fucking mask and watch a show, like I don't wear masks anywhere anymore. I've just stopped. Um, and it's, uh, it's that's kind of the vibe. Like I think people want to be able to go do it normal or we think they'll have like every single state showing Florida, like a Missouri state in Florida. But I think I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I think now they won't because at least most of the states minus the two stupid ones of New York and California, we're kind of open. But then the other thing, it sucks as he promoters can't make as much money. Right. Because of all the stipulations and the rules. So I hope that it all starts to change because at some point people have to realize it doesn't make sense, right? Because, you know, Toss going to get on a completely full airplane tonight after standing six feet away from someone waiting and lying to get on that plane. Yeah. I know. You know, so every single seat's going to be full once you're in it in the capsule that I like to call a Petri dish. Um, you know, so it's, it doesn't make sense, but I really do. I hope that all the big shows just say, fuck it, let's make it Florida and we're good. And that's not convenient for me at all. So it's not like I'm saying, I like, oh, I live in Miami. So why not? It's fucking far and I have to go to every single one. But I want to know what's going to happen. You know, I got, I got to me, especially after last year. I got guys that needed to be on stage last year. And I was like, I don't think we do it. You know, yeah, and we all had great offices. But now like, like guys like Cole and Tommy are fucking dying to get on stage. I haven't competed in years. Yeah. I got a couple people that purposely took like 1920 to grow. Yeah, like, holy fuck, what a fool that I dodged. You know, there. Why have you that took 19 to grow? Because 20 was the year. Right. There's a few. Yeah. Yeah. And you're like, so at least you're taking two years to grow kid. Yeah. Yeah, definitely. Okay. Well, is that it, Dusty? We almost went two hours. We did and you, uh, you killed it with the million questions, man. Good morning. I, I, and then I got to do the rest of my story. You know, because I got, I got asked like, I got asked to Star Wars question. I'm not going to burden you with that Dusty. I, I, I, I, it's just I have such an opinion of it, you know. I got, I, I got asked, I got asked to rate in order three Beastie Boy albums. I mean, I can't wait to answer these fucking questions, Dusty, but you're going to have to watch the Instagram for it. I will because I am at least that's like when you asked what was it? The AC, the AC, the question that you answered and you were like, I hope it didn't go too long. I was like, fuck, no, I was like, just sitting there taking it in. I had no idea about an issue. It was like the greatest moment for me. I, I watch, I watch most of your questions. I'll skip the odd one if it's, if you know most of a lot of me, I'm going to know exactly anyone else. Yeah. So like, sometimes it's like, how much should I eat? I'm like, I'm going to skip this one. Yeah. But then there'll be like a question, you know, I'm like, oh, I'm wanting here with Dusty. I have to say to this guy, because this is clearly a great question, or this is clearly a stupid question. So Dusty's going to have to take care of business on this one. One way or the other, this might be a sarcastic answer. Well, let's see if Dusty laughs at this one or gives a serious answer. No, no, it's good. But yeah, man, it's, it's going to be, it's, you know, it's going to be good. Oh, and we got some guests coming up. We got a few people waiting in the wings, but we just got a book. We just got to give them some Mondays. So let's start line and those guys out. Gentlemen, I know Zane Watson wants to come on the show. I love to have Zane on. So I already talked to him. He's whenever we want to do it. So he's got to give him some notice. So that would be great. Zane's one of the guys I missed this year. Right. He was, I mean, he was an Ontario. Right. So I mean, it's like Jim's, he's guys own Jim obviously, but it's, you know, locked down City for like most of the year. Right. So I, I see why he just hunkered down in his own Jim. He's pulled up the hoodie and just fucking went to work. It might be, I think it's not. Well, it might be Zane Watson surprised time 2021, right? It's 2.0 now. Yeah. I think a lot of guys, it's going to be cool to see because they did take that approach. Yeah. Some of the guys excited. Yeah. Exactly. You know, who knows what? We might have some surprises in 2021 because there's some guys that were like, okay, I'm just going to sit my basement for the year and eat. I think I think Hollings had kind of opened that up too because not that we all knew that James was good, but I think he kind of gave everyone the realization like, but what if he went all in? Because he went all in. You know, a year ago, I wouldn't have been like, oh, he's definitely going to win both shows he does next year. Right. I mean, like, he's not five for sure. First call up. Yeah. You know, but it would not have been what he's going to win, you know, so I think I think that's a game changing. You know, who else I really like to get back on because I just can't get enough is JP. I'm a call. Yeah. I want to get him back in because every single time the only thing is we're going to do this show a little earlier because I have to go to the gym after we talk. I have to. I see him here. It's been possible. We'll be on the end of the day. I mean, you really have to that conversation. You know what, this next time what we'll do is send him a message, give him a little heads up this time so he comes his hair and we'll get him on the air. Actually, I want the crazy scientists look. Yes. I want to look like straight from the lately he's been doing them in the dark. I want him right off the hacks. Let's talk to them all. I love it. Okay. Thanks, Dusty. Appreciate it. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, ring the bell. Scott can take that. Put it at the front of the show where I was supposed to say it and then leave it where it is. So I say it twice. Put the graph go we're both there. From salt. Look at that. Just helping him out. You're helping his skills on the editing. Okay. Thanks everybody. And remember, it's just bodybuilding.

What's up guys, welcome back to Think Big Bodybuilding Media. I'm Scott McNaley. I'm back with Tommy Styles. We're going to continue our case study in training today. We're going to talk about chest. You know, I have a couple notes before we get started Tommy. Anybody who is catching this on video. We also have our audio podcast. It's been moved. New RSS feed is Think Big Bodybuilding. So you can find that at iTunes, Soundcloud, Spotify, Google, Play, Store, or whatever. I don't know. Also, we are presented by True Nutrition. All of our programming is. You can check us out and support our show by using our coded devices. A lot of great health supplements, performance supplements, bulk supplements, all sorts of formulas. Enough of that. Tommy Styles, man, it's been a minute. How you been? I'm good, brother. I'm going to go back to see your back moving around. Yeah, tell me about it, man. We got a lot of really good feedback on our first installment of this mini series. If you guys haven't seen it, it's been a couple months now. Tommy and I broke down. And basically, the anatomy of a back workout. We talked about everything from start to finish and what's going through our minds while we're doing it. Both of us have been training for a long time and neither of us have had, I would say, the best genetics. But we've been able to make some decent progress. Now, Tommy is out in Arizona training with Dusty. So he's been getting some cool insights out there. I've had the opportunity to train with a lot of really well-known people that I've respected through the years. And we're going to try to share that with you guys here today. Like I said, Tommy, we got some good feedback on that one, man. And I got sick. And everything fell apart. I couldn't really think about training for a while. But I'm glad to be back, man. How's your training going? It's gone good. Still strong, haven't really lost much. Pulled back the volume a little bit as we move on in this prep. So I'm eight weeks out tomorrow, eight and ten weeks out. So Spood's still pretty high. Cardio's daily now. But I still believe the best way to burn body fat is with your training intensity. So that's my performance is something I constantly audit, constantly make sure I'm able to push it. And then obviously listen to your body. But we'll be able to touch on some things that have helped me. Still keep training intensity high in prep. Because you and I are the same. You don't really, you don't lower the training. You don't change the training up just because you're in prep and calories get lower. Claw expenditure is higher. You still try to do what you did that got you the muscle in the first place. Sure. So we'll be able to touch on some of that. But yeah, I also got a lot of good feedback on that. The first episode we put out. So somebody likes what we're saying. We'll try to keep this going now. Now that we're back, we'll bring the next installment. Well, let's shoot for maybe every couple of weeks. We'll put these out. If you guys have any suggestions, anything that you would like us to cover next, let us know. So we did back today. We're going to do chest. Chest is something that Tommy and I both have had to really think about. This isn't an excellent, this isn't a muscle group that just came naturally for me. And I believe that's the same for you, isn't it? Very much. Yeah, when I learned how to press, I didn't learn how to press with my chest. I learned how to press just to move the weight. Yeah, like anybody who got into the gym, I might have just wanted to have a really good flat bench press. Yeah. Like we were all chasing at one point. So I never learned how to engage my chest in a press. I was very delt dominant. So I grew big front belts and had no chest. And the presentation that I had, if you look at my physique from front relax is almost like one of those big salad bowls. You got your two ends out here and then it caves in. Okay, so that's I had to fill in the gaps and really break everything down. Toss the movements that don't work with me. I'm five, ten pretty long limbs. So I've had to play with Rangers emotion. I've had to work on mobility as I have with every muscle group I've had to increase my mobility. Just really get analytical with my training and with my performance, the cadence to the reps down to all the details. I mean, we were talking off the air, but you and I are blessed with the ability just to pick up weights and grow. We have to really have a stubborn approach that we're not going to quit because it's harder for us. Yeah. I think that's a blessing because it allows us to talk and bounce ideas off of each other and even have the opportunity to put episodes like we're putting out right now. Sure, absolutely. Yeah, it's through that experience that, you know, and here's what I'm hoping. You know, I know both of us get asked by other people, people who are newer to lifting weights, that they want to know, like, well, what do you do for this? How do you train that muscle and having had to think about it a lot? You've had the ability to then learn how to articulate what you're doing too. So I definitely think that having to go through the hard work is helpful. Let's just dive into it, man. Where does your chest training start? It starts with mobility and potentiation, which we covered in the first episode. So I really got to get my shoulders moving. I've got some, I don't have any major shoulder injuries, but I've just got, you know, they've taken a beating just from pressing and I was a baseball player before I got into bodybuilding so that takes a toll. So I spent 10 minutes with bands just doing different warm-up stuff. I'm actually making sure the rotator cup, the different spinators, all of those little muscles that are in the shoulder are ready and warm before I even touch a bar or dumbbells. From there, I'll do some some light flies on the packed deck. Just to get some blood flowing in my chest, that's kind of where I just really squeeze the reps out. I'm not even trying to accumulate any fatigue. I just want to make a connection with my mind and my chest. We talked about it before, but everything we're talking about in these episodes is from the perspective of bodybuilding. I could move something with ease from point A to point B, but if I want to move it with my chest, I have to engage it in the stretch and then contract it to the maximum contraction. Yeah. So that's what I'm trying to build that mental connection. It's kind of like starting a fire. When you first get the fire going, it takes a while to really get burning, but as it rises and the fire builds up, then it starts to stoke. That's kind of the mentality I try to take when I'm getting into it. Then from there, I'll do a cover workout that I did Tuesday for chest because it's really fresh in my mind and I'll be able to, like everything at short and sweet, I don't do ton of volume, I don't have a ton of movements, but I try to maximize the effort that I give to each movement. I started with incline barbell and I haven't done incline barbell in weeks because Dusty was dealing with a peck tear. Our chest training was kind of abbreviated around that, which is fine with me. Otherwise, when I get deeper into a prep, the first thing that will start to take a hit for me is pressing strength. I don't have as much fluid around the joint in the shoulder and it's just a long arms. I've never been a strong pressure to begin with. I'll practice that right now. I do not have any amazing numbers. I don't put 405 on the bar and rip it out. Every five pounds that I've been able to add to each side, I've had to grind for. If you struggle with pressing, I'm here for you. I hear you. I started with the bar, just 15 reps. The peck deck is really trying to feel the chest open and then contract at the top of each rep. I think that's a big thing to really make sure you're doing when you're getting into your pressing, whether it's your first exercise or any exercise, is make sure the chest is opening because it's easy to take the bar to the bottom but not open your chest. You still be shoulders rolled forward and closed. It's moving but you're not moving it with your chest. I think making sure that that chest muscles opened up or both pecks are opened up is key. I don't think a lot of people get themselves to a point where they have a full active range of motion before they start training. What do a lot of people do? They probably go in the gym, maybe they go to the flat bar belt or if they're bodybuilders and they've listened to all the podcasts you put out, maybe they have a different program. But a lot of people are going to go in and they're going to put 1.45 on each side and they're going to start wrapping, right? That's the traditional approach. My thinking is maybe taking a step back and take a slower approach to getting up to that 135. Make sure that when you get to 135 you're already primed and then we go from there. I did 45 15 reps. I did 25 on each side for 10 reps and then I put a 45 on each side, 8 reps. As I increase weight to get to my work and set, I decrease the reps. It's a sending weight, descending reps. It's kind of how I would describe it. I had a gold my scheme for the workout was I wanted 2 sets with the incline bar belt. First set 6 to 8. Second set I wanted it to be anywhere from 8 to 12. From 135 I go to 185, get that for 405, from there, go to 225, get that for 3, from there at a 10 to each side and get that for 2. I had another 10 to each side so now we're at 265. I didn't know what my working weight was going to be because I haven't done this movement weeks. I'd rather play it. I don't want to say I'm the side of caution but what I don't want to do is put away down the bar especially just even perhaps I'm only going to get for 3 reps. Sure. That's a risk, man. I've done that in prep before where it's like you think the strength is there and it's just not and it's not a negative. You're not going to be putting up record numbers when you're at some point of your prep. You have to just accept that. I don't think I'm at that point of my prep yet but I just knew on this movement that I needed to air on the side of caution. I wanted to still keep the mindset that I'm a bodybuilder. I'm not trying to have a 3 rep press. So 265, that went for 6 reps on my own and then a 4.7 which I was okay with. For the second set I backed it down to 225 and got that for 9 and then another 4. So 9 plus 1. That's how my first exercise went and then by then the whole, I had a full pump from right underneath my clavicle all the way down to where the pectise in and the pectminer. So when I think I had that because I did all that warm up work, it took me about 30 minutes to get through that first exercise. While I'm doing that I was drinking my intra hydrating, you know I have EAA's, I'll the same stuff everybody else is drinking but you're getting all that, that intra workout in you, blood's flowing, the pump is starting and then from there and I'll still touch on the rest of the workout but I felt that the rest of my session went really well and I had a good mind muscle connection because of the warm up I took with that first exercise. So I took you know 6 warm upsets, 6 or 7 warm upsets before I did a working set. Yeah, yeah I do a lot of warm ups too to get where I want to be because I'm doing something similar. Like a lot of people are doing a heavy set and then a back offset that's been kind of my common theme. I'm not going by my workout from Tuesday because I'm still just coming back but I can tell you this that learning to be strong on the pressing movements has been a goal that I set at the end of 2019 and I've told this story a couple times on the podcast but it was David Smith who saw my dumbbell press and he pointed out to me he was like hey that's really good I shot a video and it was like the 100 pound dumbbells and it was like all I had and it was when I was out at Ron's gym I was at West Coast Iron and I was going pumped up and I got this set up and I shot a video and I posted it and I'm like yeah and I did say now I'm going to try to stay at this weight and keep working with it you know and try to get more efficient and more effective be safer with it all that but his comment was that's really nice it looks like you're working on your lockout. It's like that was like you know other fucker this is a full set you know but it wasn't the thing was is I wasn't using a full range of motions so I've I had to back off at the beginning of the quarantine I was training from home with light dumbbells that allowed me to actually start working on that full range of motion well we can add video to this so I'll show some video to demonstrate on the range of motion I use but I had learned a lot from from David Smith on making sure I get that full range of motion in with that came really an understanding of as you said the importance of having like good mobility you know good flexibility in my body and that went beyond just the packs like all the supporting stuff that goes to that like into the ribs and to the lats my shoulders everything so I've worked on a lot of stretches between training just to just to try to be as strong as I can I think that I think that chest training is one of the more dangerous exercises for a bodybuilder I know a lot of guys are torn a pack and especially as you start getting older if you want to continue to be strong and my goals bend to be as strong as I possibly can be I want to really make sure that I take my time and warm up I want to make sure that I've got all that mobility stuff so for me a lot of the mobility is before I train on other days a couple days a week where I'm actually doing like mobility stretches and you know and massage and stuff like that lately I've been starting with that big key lift you know we talked on chat or on back training that will do a pull down first and then we'll go to a row movement and the row movement is that like that big meat and potatoes exercise lately I've been going straight to that big meat and potatoes exercise on chest in the past I would pre-fatigue by going to one all-out set on the pack deck and then one back offset and I found that to work really well I'll get to that later because we we both have the common issue of being shoulder dominant and we did want to kind of touch on some of the common issues that people deal with so we'll get to those common issues later and I'll talk a little bit more about pre-fatigue and how that helped me to help grow the chest but now lately I just go straight into those double presses and like you I'll do the same thing where I really take my time trying to warm up and I'm watching my form I'm using incline dumbbell that's my favorite exercise and I make sure that I get that full range of motion I think what I've learned and you know like I said I've talked a day with Smith about this a lot for me it's important that I engage that muscle from the very start of the movement so I bring it to the bottom where I want to be and then I make sure you know it it sounds it sounds like common sense I don't think everybody thinks about it though is making sure that you're engaging you're pushing that with that pack muscle you know from the very beginning I have known a lot of people who end up having really good shoulders really good triceps and you know no chest and I think that that's from what I've analyzed working with some of my clients that have been in it position that's what I've seen where they aren't engaging from the pack first and I think that that's the number one thing you can do if you have weak chest is to to make sure that you are engaging from it so I'll start really light I've worked up to the 125 pound dumbbells that's been it's actually 130 pound dumbbells we've become the handle but that's been my my best up until I had gotten sick and that was a couple months ago so I'm rebuilding at this point but if I were to warm up with the say the 25s I'll go to the 40s for eight reps 10 reps and then I'll go to the 60s or 65s for you know four five reps and really take my time on those 85s for you know two reps the hundreds for two reps and then from there if I was going to like 115 I'd be good to go maybe I if I'm going to 125 I might need to pick up a little bit more and just do one or two reps with with a slightly lighter dumbbell just to make sure that I'm ready to go and for me I want to make sure this is what's critical for me I want to make sure that my form now is 100% on whatever I'm doing and I really control my negatives they're pretty slow I think they're pretty slow look I could go faster on them but I get a lot out of that and I feel like it keeps me safer you know I could move faster and use a heavier a heavier poundage but I would rather have that control and get as much as I can out of a slightly less heavy weight I feel that it's going to be just as effective for me then having gone heavier like I said I'll work up to one heavy set I try not to go lower than eight reps that's that's where I feel comfortable I do think that chest is a muscle group that you can go slightly lower reps and then some other body parts and get a good workout with it and get some good growth but for me if I start getting down into like the sixes and then that means maybe if I lifted something that was too heavy I might only get four or five for me that's a little bit too much of a risk now in my 40s so I want to make sure I can at least get six at all time and shoot for eight you know work to work 10 something like that but like you you know I'm I'm hitting a set for about eight and then after that I maybe will reduce it slightly and then try to get just as many reps as I can which you know if if I were to get the 125s for let's say seven to then I might drop to the 115s or even the 110s hell on some days maybe even the 105s and just really work on perfect form and get as many reps as I possibly can maybe I get 13 on that I don't know but that's where I met and I'll like I said sometimes I in the past I've used a pack deck actually sometimes I should say religiously used that but now I just go straight into that that big main exercise for me yeah I'm going to touch on that I'm the same because with back we both like that one that one movement before to really almost get us mentally ready yeah yeah you can take a movement and then with chest we both like to get into the meat and potato movement right away and just spend a good bit of time warming up I mean my whole session is probably an hour 15 and the first 30 minutes is on warmups for one exercise yeah now are you treating chest is trust chest uh I buy it self or you treating it with other body parts buy it self okay okay we've had it that way for a while so we split up chest of shoulders I've done push pull eggs I mean I did that for years yeah I've done DC so I've done chest in a bunch of different ways and actually the best progress I've made is when it's been by itself okay this five-day body part split we've been running for for months probably since we were doing two days so yeah that was one thing I wanted to touch on that you said and then where are you at with with hand not you're on dumbbells but for me hand placement I used to go wider and I think I have wider because it gave me the ability to move more weight okay now I've moved my hands in and I'm not I'm trying to get less elbow flare so I've moved my hands in to a point where I can almost my elbows earn at 90 they're almost they're not tucked completely obviously because I'm on a barbell but they are I am turning them downwards like when I'm pressing yeah that allows me because you touched on pressing with the pack out of the bottom yeah I think I didn't do that when I had for years that's why I pressed wrong because I used momentum from coming down and then I kind of used like an elastic recoil where you would just like let go of that last four inches and then use that re for that inertia to go back up sure I'm in a totally bypassed the pack and then went all to the shoulder so my front belt's got great you know in an or an innovation but the pecs were just being bypassed and now a key for me is just to try to feel at the bottom of my warmups not with that heavyweight obviously but the bottom of my warmups I might like hang there okay and really feel where my peck ties in I want to feel that activate and then press I'll probably do that with my you know my first three warm ups that's when the weights really light yeah I just want to feel that outer pack fully engage fully stretch and then drive it up real slow I don't even try to explode out of the hole on some of those reps I try to just move it up with you know a good pace but I'm not trying to explode that's for the the working set yeah and then you mentioned um the negatives I obviously I'm pretty big on negatives does the night count for each other but um with the warm upsets I try to be extra extra with the negatives like I'll take them really slow just to have us that mind muscle and that kind of gives me a little bit of leeway when I'm grinding out some reps on the working set that the negative may or may not speed up but if it does it's okay because I think I've established that mind muscle and everything's engaged yeah I'm connected so I don't feel like I'm cheating myself I think for anybody who is listening to this because they're genuinely trying to improve their chest training and I'm thinking of especially like a like a newer guy maybe somebody who hasn't even broken their chest training down the way we are right now I think that what I've noticed personally is when I first started analyzing my training like this my negatives had to be extra slow my pauses because I do a pause at the bottom my pause at the bottom had to be like an extra long pause in order to be like okay I'm engaged now go the longer I've done it the faster I've gotten and if you're to watch it the pause might not even look like like an actual long like it's not a long pause anymore but it's a long enough pause that I can get that engagement going I would say exaggerating those things in the beginning is okay you know you may sacrifice a way but it's okay to really take your time and be like come down to the bottom and then you know engage and be like okay did I engage? oh yeah I'm engaging and then begin to press on that negative really feeling that negative and you know really kind of like you said learning to make sure that you're getting what you want out of it is really what it comes down to and then with time you know if it does speed up you've you've put the foundational work in to make sure that you got what you need you still always have to check yourself and be like am I going too fast but you know it's it's it's that's something I've noticed is that my my speed has picked up some but the engagement is quicker yeah and I agree with that I think as it becomes you know repetition leads to well I guess you could say experience but you have more control the more repetitions you've done yeah so over time you're able to pick that speed up a little more each each time John Metallus is a great one I always reference because he doesn't you know he's not really brutally slow with his negatives but I think that's because he's he's got such an established mind muscle connection because he's been doing this for decades that he doesn't need to be a slow yeah whereas like I think I even touched on the first episode there's some exercise is still right half to go slow intentionally just to keep the mind muscle because it's just it's stronger than it was for me but it's not to that point where I can blast through reps yeah yeah hey one one thing I wanted to mention too uh when you talk about we're we're talking about making sure you're engaged you said you know and not really blasting up until you got to your working said one interesting thing that I learned I learned a bunch of interesting things from them that I learned from Dave was he explained it as that you want to come out of the whole cautiously in add momentum as you get the bar up or as you get the dumbbells up you know that we we are in our most vulnerable position you know if you're listening to this and you're like hey I'm going to retool my training and you don't bring the bar or the dumbbell you know all the way down and now you decide you're going to try to go a little bit deeper with it you don't want to just drop to the bottom and then just rip out of it because that is a vulnerable place you know like I said I think that in my opinion chest training is can be a very dangerous thing for body builders we can get hurt there you can tear a pack you would not be the first um so I think there is an amount of caution which I wanted to mention that I use coming out of the hole and then I add to it like step on the pedal you know and then floor it as as my shoulders engaging as that triceps engaging and then drive through you know with it that's a good point to make because I think you know we probably use the word explode multiple times already yeah and when we say explode we mean through the muscle we're generating all that force through the muscle we're trying to target if I wanted to just explode with my full body you know I could I could throw the barbell through the ceiling if that was my goal to explode you know what I mean like yeah we say explode we're saying generate all as you're lowering you're loading that muscle loading that muscle you're and then from the bottom you're going to hit that quick pause and then generate all the force from your pecs on up drive your back into the pad whatever you're on and then you know push it up we're not saying explode as and use everything underneath the bar to get that bar up right yeah yeah that would be eight eight a beat training and we're training as we're talking from the perspective of bodybuilding so what what happens next after you you're done with that mean you know heavy lift you're using the barbell press I'm using the dumbbell and client where you go from there so following Tuesday's workout I went to the incline hammer strength so to prep us I don't lock out on my barbell presses I lose the connection to my chest if I lock out and my front del or my shoulder will roll over yeah and it it just it's not beneficial for me so I go up I only my range of motion is as high as I can get the bar where I still feel tension on my chest when I don't feel that anymore is where it stops so from an outside or looking in it might be like oh he's not doing full reps but I'm just doing the reps that are keeping the tension on my chest I don't want to fully lock out and put my tries to lock my arms out and then have the weight down my front delts yeah that's one thing David does do I know because he's he's talked about like pressing through and I I don't do that either I still have been stopping shy for me that's what I feel most comfortable with and really I can say that with most exercises I do from the time that the weight is unrapped to the time I rack it there's tension on the muscle and there's no point where I'm actually like completely locked out anywhere I guess I feel the same thing I get a lot of I get a lot of bicep tendonitis and when I can't completely lock out I definitely I definitely feel that there yeah maybe it's because you know we both have pretty long arms maybe that that contributes leverage is contribute and you know Dave's he's a crazy strong presser right so yeah he's crazy strong on everything yeah he's he I mean he would know better than us of what's the right way or the wrong way I just try to do the way that where I keep tension on the muscle that I'm trying to work and you know the results are there that my chest finally started growing when I stopped doing the things I was doing so I just I followed that it's a very gross science approach but I'm not telling you don't lock out I'm just saying yeah if if you are maybe you know auto you're training but what I what I'm getting at is next up sing climb hammer strength on this one I will lock out okay I don't that thing that happens on the bar door or the shoulder rolls over it doesn't happen on the incline hammer strength I think because I'm at a more fixed position I don't have to worry about stability yeah all I have to do is you know come down I keep my elbows tucked so I set the seat real low almost as low as it can go yeah yeah because a lot of those machines especially hammer strength brand they can cause like a pinch in my shoulder for me so I'll drop to see all the way down the grip I take is one thumb length away from the MW handle that's exactly what I do everything you've explained so far when I'd use that machine I try to do the same low seat yeah hands right in there yeah the hand placement I have to get credit to Dante on because I I used to probably be wider again because I could I could move more weight and I was you know chasing the log but when I first got on DC I was very like focused on beating my numbers by any means possible even if I met shit form so Dante I think you put a video out or he sent something to do see I can't remember go since then I've been thumbs from the end of the the handles that's where my grip goes and to there I feel like I can really drive and I pushed my back and I put the pad and then I squeeze everything from here to here nice inward and I'm almost trying to make it touch my chin and I'm not when I lock out so my thinking is that I'm getting the overall load and gravity and a lot more stretch with the incline barbell and then when I go to incline hammer strength I'm still getting some stretch but my my main emphasis on that is is the lock out so I'll still take it as low as I can before you know my shoulders take over but I'm really trying to drive my back into the pad and I want to finish you know up here yeah yeah almost like I'm trying to squeeze my wrists and elbows together you know what I like doing that that type of movement on we talked about this machine before all around all the different metro Detroit powerhouse gyms have the Magnum brand incline press machines it's kind of like a slightly cheaper incline press machine and it's converging handles and yeah just the way that my hands come up it's like I could get this drive and the squeeze through the packs you know while completely locking it out at the top I've I've done a movement you're talking about with that machine and like did a lot. I love that machine my gym had one I would use that exclusively. Yeah anything that mimics that because what it's like a you know a 75 degree angle with the bench and it's almost like that little gap where it hits is like exactly what I'm missing in my chest that that fullness right here okay you know what I mean so like when I when I when I'm able to do one of those machines if I'm traveling I love it so yeah that I think it's called like a super high incline press I don't know the hammer hammer has one yeah Magnum has one I think Legend has one too with the converging handles yeah they're they're nice they're very especially I feel like but guys the long arms are still for us how many sets do you do with that exercise? two working so with with that one I wanted to get two working sets of eight to ten and the goal was to hold the same weight with the second set or go up weight if I felt that it was an easy ten it wasn't an easy ten so I kept the same weight and my goal was just to match the reps which I did and I got you know three plates on each side for ten and then three plates on each side for nine which I'm okay with warm up wise it was just one plate each side and the warmups already done for me at this point I just need to touch the weight so it's nothing to surprise to me yeah so it was just you know five reps of one plate on each side three reps of two people at each side end of three and I'm ready to go by this time like I you know I put down three quarters of my intra which is a leader and a half of fluid I'm mentally I'm checked in I just had my my meat and potato movements out of the way it's an hour everything else is just icing on the cake yeah and this is right just try to really you know push blood volume and and training as hard as I can with each rep yeah yeah that's cool man I feel like what we're doing isn't too dissimilar I have um it's a company called F-light it's a chest press with converging handles um when I bought it I actually looked at the guy had both the incline and the flat version I generally feel better on incline machines but for some reason the flat machine felt great and you can incline the bench slightly it goes it goes up moderately but the higher you go the less clearance you have to get under the pad under the handles so I have it on a slight incline and I keep my elbows in what I'm looking for on this second exercise now is more like to flush the blood full of muscle or excuse me flush the muscle full of blood is what I'm attempting to do um I'm you know I've gotten my my big scary lift out of the way where I really challenge myself and I've done something I've never done before and at this state I want to use a weight that I can get you know a ballpark 10 reps with now 10 to even 12 maybe I'll even go higher on a random occasion but at this point though I really like to just flush blood into the muscle and I'll do about two sets of that you know two failure both of them are two you know absolute failure but at this point it's not as much of a challenge for me like the the stress is off of me for the sexier size now I feel a lot more relaxed and I'm obviously pumped from having done the first exercise and from here now it's it's it's more about like I said getting to like finishing the muscle off I may use that occasionally I'll do now I also have a bar a kabuki strength a catalach bar which has neutral grip handles on it occasionally I'll use that instead but I'm thinking the same thing it's not like a heavy be all end all weight this is now a movement where I am just working on like trying to get more out of the muscle in that you know round top 10 reps yeah very similar to how we're we approach things very similar that's interesting I knew we didn't some ways but I didn't I didn't realize it was to that extent yeah I mean I followed your your progression with the incline dumbbell because I know you're a post and I want pretty heavily just the ability to get strong I think is key yeah for anyone listening like our end goal is still you know maximum strength with proper form all training like bodybuilders when we had you know I know I had to lighten the load and I think at the same I had to completely go back to square one and reinvent my press almost yeah to be it to press with you know with chest and my inverse is just overall weight on the bar or weight on the machine but then from there once we established it the goal became the same again as to get as strong as we can yeah push you for strength in every movement so that's still the mindset I carry you know I will not so much right now but even in the offices and like I'll use vibes out of an incline hammer I'll use tens I'll use those little ways just to progress anyway I can because those they add up that's what gets you to a 45 is 5 10's 25 right so absolutely keep in mind that anybody listening especially newer people like once you do standardize your form which you should just attempt to do from the beginning don't do it like we did and do it wrong for years and then have to go backwards and then go forward again right learn now yeah strength is a stronger muscles a bigger muscle yeah in a quest to admit do you do another exercise from here then yeah so I go from incline hammer right next door to it is the decline hammer that's awesome because I just take my weight right up the incline hammer start putting them on the decline hammer nice um that one is I still train for strength but with the way I position my body into that machine we're going so strong I'm gonna get because a lot of it kind of can be a stability one so I again I dropped the seat pretty low I go same same grip from away and then I'll slide my hands out ever so slightly a little bit more so I'm a little wider yeah just somewhere where I can feel that lower peck stretch as I'm at the bottom this one I put both my legs in front of the in front of the bottom of the seat and my legs the seats lower but it's not a little way down so my feet actually don't touch when I put my legs in front and then I'll cross my feet and then from there I try to scoot my butt forwards so I'm not all the way flush against the back of the pad I'm kind of my butts forward and I'm almost at like an angle now yeah my upper backs against the pad and then when I press so if I'm in the stretch here my heads forward slightly and then from here as I press forward again same thing as I did on the incline hammer I drive everything back and I try to lock out and squeeze those pecks together okay and this one I'm really trying to feel everything contract so on this one every rep has to have a two count contraction okay to the count pause with the contraction yeah so I can really emphasize finishing that that's where my mindset is with this machine in particular and I don't do anything else I don't do decline barbell I don't do a decline fly it's only decline hammer is the only thing I'll do and for some reason I think maybe because my whole chest is already activated by this point like I get a lot of activation in the upper peck too like I feel like everything's coming across and really squeezing up okay so I'm feeling everything from here I'm going to hear yeah and this one two worksets maybe the same way maybe different they're both a failure but tend to 12 so two plates aside usually will be my first set and then three plates aside will be my second set again I could go heavier but I wouldn't be able to do what I just mentioned I wouldn't be able to get full lock out and get that two count contraction on each route okay and that's my ultimate goal with this one is to really make sure I'm sticking that contraction and holding it and I'm holding it I'm not just holding it there I might chill and thinking about what I'm going to have for lunch yeah I'm actively thinking about squeezing the hell out of my pecks I'm going to have each fret and then come back down it's almost like you're loading up and then driving loading up and then driving so I think you touched it on the first step so like these sessions are very mentally stimulating so you know this would kind of differentiate between some of the ghosts of the gym just to work out for general health and then like what we're talking about is training yeah it's a mental stimulus just as much as it is physical and if your head's not in it if you're you know thinking about some other shit outside of the gym your session is going to suffer because of that so yeah that's a big thing too is to you know leave any external bullshit that you got going on in your own personal life at the door when you walk in I mean I'm only there an hour 15 I can whatever problems I have or whatever else I have to do is you're going to be there when I get when I get done you're going to have 23 other hours of drama just take yeah and you know what to you're right because I think to here's I think where an issue can come in with if you were training like me that second exercise that I'm getting into it would be easier to unplug when I say that the stress is gone I'm still very focused on what I'm doing you know and I'm still only doing a couple sets on this movement so I am making sure that I stay plugged in I've seen it where you know you get through the heavy stuff and now it's all fun and games you know and I do want to have fun with my workout I want to keep it enjoyable but you know it is important to continue staying you know plugged in for me that's all I do I only do two exercises because I'm training push pull legs and so far I'm going to two shoulder movements and then one try set movement so it works out a little bit different for for me at this stage that's generally what I do right now coming back from being L I am just training one body part but that workout's not even worth talking about out of podcast it's is not podcast where are these so when you're in your full push pull legs swing are you rotating chest exercises that you're doing session the session are you sticking with those same that same two depends on how I'm feeling there are going to be times where if I'm getting really strong and I'm like hey I'm gonna push this out so that I hit chest again in five days and I want to try to beat that number there may be a time that I may be able to do that otherwise I am rotating it you know I mentioned heaven the the computer I just got that but before that I'd use a barbell just standard barbell and I may do an incline press and work on getting stronger with that for me I'm not a very strong barbell incline or barbell presser in general I I feel like my shoulders have seen their better days I have to be careful with it so it's almost like my less hard workout you know I'll I'll do barbell movements more for like 12 reps to failure instead of 8 reps to failure with the dumbbells so it's it's not as hard of a workout though I am still working on getting just as much engagement on if it it's not the fun workout put it that you know the way it's not the one where I'm like really overloading it so so yeah there I would say there is a level of intuitiveness on how often I am pushing but I would say in general there's going to be like one more intense chest workout and then one less intense chest workout where I'm not going to like the absolute you know the absolute ends doing something I've never done before okay yeah I found you know what it is is that I found splitting it up helps me a lot I I was doing five day split for that last prep Uni both ended up at out in Grand Rapids for the the Western um that prep my shoulder was really bothering me on my on my presses so what I ended up doing was doing two chest exercises one day and then coming back on my shoulder day and doing two more chest exercises and I found that if I were to only limited to two exercises my shoulder didn't bother me so I could still hit my full chest workout which had been four exercises at the time but split it up through the week and then what I discovered was I continued doing that after the prep and I did everything else one body part of week and then I thought okay I'm looking in the mirror my chest grew like I changed nothing else nothing else was different the only variable I changed was how I trained my chest the frequency and volume and I saw the results from that so that's when I decided to myself well what if I were to do everything that way and slowly over the next two years I transitioned over to training push pull legs then my volume or my frequency started getting to be you know a little bit more spread out too I don't do two times a week that would crush me but I would say about every five days I trained a body part yeah I'm very I mean similar just I don't split it and there's one more movement I do which I'll get to oh you do yeah because I hit everything every body part gets hit every seven yeah we're on a fixed schedule right now so we have the same two all days every week okay so everything's getting touched every seven I mean obviously that you know other muscles come into play on different days but so I hit chest on Tuesdays I'm not gonna hit it again till next Tuesday right so for me that's when I because I did I found a push pull leg same as you like the frequency start once I got to a certain level of strength it almost the frequency was too short I needed even though the volume was low I still needed more time yeah and that might be my own recovery capabilities everyone's different but you know I can really hammer the muscle on one day and still keep still training the way I want with low volume high intensity and then it's almost like piece of mind knowing like all right even if I feel sore as hell for the next three days I still have ample time to feel good by by the time I have to do this again absolutely so yeah that fourth movement I run to is a flat fly dumbbell okay and this one's all about the stretch for me I like to finish with the movement in the stretch um I got that from um obviously in DC you finished chest training with a fourth stretch a fourth loaded stretch yeah so that's kind of what we incorporate into this movement so every rep has a five count stretch in the whole so for me that allows because I I probably couldn't connect with flies dumbbell flies for years I did them but I I had no I think they were not hitting my chest at all they were just you know right across that front del just really didn't feel good um and I'm not terrible strong on them so what I've done to make this movement work for me is it's I don't try to get real wide I keep it almost like a 90 and I just try to keep that chest up through I have to explain extended and let the elbows drop almost like it's almost like a fly press but it's not a full fly press okay um but that five count in the whole allows me to make sure like we talked about in the beginning where I'm engaging peck I'm not letting my shoulders hop up and I'm not holding the weight on my front del I'm still down here the chest is stretching the chest is stretching and then like you you mentioned I'm focused on driving up with my peck versus just moving the way out of the whole yeah so we'll do two sets of that to finish it off you know eight to ten reps but with a five count hold in each rep that's like that's a minute under tension that's a lot yeah and that's how you're finishing and then you're also finishing by you know getting the benefits of loaded stretching post training which is just going to help with her hypertrophy so after that one I mean my chest is fried I could do another movement if I wanted to so you know four movements as our caps sometimes three you know if we're really not even if we we tax it on the other ones but formal be the absolute max and then um so with shoulder training since I don't do that on this day we don't really do any shoulder presses so I'm kind of the same as you as I've got some spongy shoulders um and I'm trying to keep longevity in mind so we might throw in one shoulder press and if we do it's after we do a lot like it's after three movements so our strength is already going to be compromised and we're not training that movement to all out like we would you know I'm chest yeah we're only going to be as strong as we could be for being the fourth movement of that day so that's how I'm able to keep my shoulders intact or pressing is by putting 75 to 80 percent of my pressing work is only for chest because that's what I need over delts yeah um and then you know obviously everyone has different needs so I'm not telling everyone you have to do it this way this is what I customize to my you know little tweaks and injuries that I've had to work through and to my programming and scots done the same thing but the point is as we're trying to get you to look deeper into your training other than just thinking like oh yeah I train hard to check that box I'm all good yeah what's my next cycle right yeah I'm fascinated by the ability to dive into our training the fact that you and I can have a genuine conversation about our training sessions and and really you know get into the access and those of it like that's that's the stuff I love and if you're that hyper focused on on your training anything you take cycle wise is going to have a positive effect absolutely and you'll probably be able to handle taking less you know if you're if you're getting that much out of your training and look you know what we're talking about too I I did we did get one criticism on our last show somebody said look you don't need to do all this you don't need to think about it you just get in there you lift weights you lift heavy and you go eat food that's bodybuilding bodybuilding isn't analyzing everything and breaking it down but the reality is is that after you might not need to do what we're doing that may work for you it may work for you forever and if that's the case more power to you but if it doesn't then then this is the next route is thinking about well if I am pressing this and my chest isn't growing why is that and there's a lot of people out there that have that very issue so I thought before we wrapped this thing up we could maybe talk about what are some of the common issues that we see if somebody's listening to this they're 50 minutes in that means that I think they're they may need some help with their chest training hopefully they've picked a few things up you know what one of the common issues I think we've talked about is the the shoulder thing you know so the shoulder mobility 100% yeah and pressing from the shoulders you know not not using the packs I think that that's that's all I did from the start and like my first contest my delts had popped out but my chest was just non-existent still you know it's kept by comparison when you started out were you naturally a stronger presser on shoulder movements that's absolutely absolutely yeah and do you think that you gravitated towards that because you had a natural strength towards it so you might have wanted to go in on that more because I know I was the same way shoulder pressing came easier than anything with it you know I could probably military press as much as I could venture in kind you know back when I was first starting out so dude yeah I wanted I wanted to go in on that movement that was like all right yeah at least look semi-respectable on this so yeah let's blow these delts up I think that's the case of everyone you know you find something that you're good at and that's what you that's what you keep doing yeah man I I remember training shoulders as a middleweight with a guy who was a strong man and we were pressing the same dumbbells like because and I thought good about that you know but in reality though man my chest was way I think at the time I was in-clined pressing 90s and I was shoulder pressing the 130s a seated shoulder press but it's like that was the heaviest I got and I could do sets of you know four sets of that you know for for good reps too like we're not talking like five reps we're talking to eight reps but yeah my my chest was way behind I think you make a really good point man at the time though I didn't change that I was just happy I could press something that was 130 pounds you know yeah I remember 100 ton dumbbells were like that's almost like what it was like to get to 200 pounds for V was like if I could move if I could do something with a hundred pound dumbbells yeah I'm somebody I'm in the triple digit club yeah yeah I'm doing the hundreds that's because that's the end of the stat or that's closer to the end of the stat that's like the higher you get the gym I'm going to be respected because I'm using 100 so absolutely I think I fell into that trap I think that's interesting that you did too that's funny that we're both naturally strong with shoulders so we decided to go after that one of them just kind of chest was an after thought no when I ended up learning was to we talked about it a little bit before was um uh pre-fetiging my coach I started training with him after that first show and every day we did chest we would start with the pack deck and I could not do as much on the barbell bench press after that as I could if I had a gone in fresh but it made a difference uh I've talked to Scott Stevenson about it on some muscle minds episodes you do get more overall activation in your workout if you were to start with that so I found that to be my work around I didn't focus on better engagement like we're talking about I just focused on pack deck first and do you find that I guess if you had to pick one of the other which way would you say it's the better ways as I have to be a better way as either one option I think that learning the engagement was probably a smarter move you know I probably could have avoided some shoulder issues because I still was doing the same stuff I did before but I did I did I do think it helped because I did get more activation out of the pack and then when I went into those pressing movements they were already warmed up and I could already feel it you know so I do think that it did make a difference so it almost like you coached yourself in the ability to have the mind muscle down the road where you missed and I'm just in the way yeah yeah yeah yeah because I did some similar I had a strength block where I I did cable cross over just my opener yes for that very very purpose was to I I deemed it as like I was getting blood in the pack so I was getting activated all that yeah and now that I I don't think it was wrong but I just I think there's a better way to do it I agree and that's kind of the way we're talking about I think you shouldn't do a movement long-term you should be doing a movement first that's going to take away from your overall strength because what have we covered and this is that a stronger muscle is a bigger muscle and if I'm compromising my strength on my press because I mean we're if you have a press versus a fly I mean a press is how you build a chest look at it I mean success is clearly anybody with a big chest they have some impressive press in movements right so it's good that we were able to find a way to activate the chest and learn yeah but long long story short is that the best way to do it is to learn the overall movement learning the overall engagement of the packs and then start with your press I can't argue with that man if you could retrain yourself to get that activation out of the pack first I think that that that would be that would be huge I think another thing that I see with chest is overall tightness being an issue and I see that with a ton of people now I lean forward when we're sitting here you know and everything's kind of coming forward but in reality when I'm sitting natural I'm more like this and the thing that you want to see like I learned this from Dr. Kenkenack and he said like look at your hands if you're sitting there and your hand is turned forward if you could see the back of your hand then your chest is pulled you that way you get the you know the way you get the body builder knee and their fall ape will look you know and I mean you don't want that and we end up having a lot of issues I think in body building with with tight packs you know we're we're pulling forward that those muscles get tight and that they're pulling you this way that can cause those sorts of issues like the shoulder issue I've talked about that's impart responsible and I think that if you can keep that stuff loose you can you could definitely get stronger you can stay healthier while you're doing it and long term will have a bigger chest yeah I think that's a good point to touch on I definitely have to credit to a lot of the body work and the the maintenance I do on my body is my mobility has increased it's allowed my range of motion to increase yeah and that's allowed my muscle to have a bigger threshold to grow if I look at videos of me pressing four years ago versus today the range of motions probably half yeah and the chest development was probably half or less so I think the more we're talking about activation in order to get activation you have to have the ability to get to those points of activation so I know I see a PT I see I have a guy that does some body tempering on me I've worked with plenty of people and Michigan before I moved out here I look at that as like you know some of it was for pain and actually had injuries but other parts of it was like this is an investment in my training performance and I know you saw learning Becky yeah yeah yeah you saw her did you the back translate into you having better range of motion with your person so with my shoulder issues what yeah well here's the deal with my shoulder issues that I had I stopped doing a lot of pressing for a while and I could I got to the point where it's like if I went to this gym I can use that machine if I go to this gym I can use that machine and then I'll add a fly to that and that's what my chest workout is that's where it went for a while having see if I used a dumbbell even like 25 30 pounds like light I would feel it in that by September and it would scream at me and I just couldn't do it I saw Becky in the very next day I was doing sets of 90s on dumbbell press flat dumbbell press so it was a huge overnight difference and that's that's what I'm getting at two men with that that tightness because I do see a lot of the young guys that are especially like you're getting geared up your new and into body building you have started to grow some muscle I think one of the first things I see is those packs get overly tight they're pulling you forward and it's going to affect your ability to continue progressing from there you know absolutely and I guarantee there's some people that are going to listen to this and they're going to have the aha moment where it's like I'm that guy I'm the guy who was 25 pound presses are a grind for me and like you said you had one session where they were moving 90s and how many people are just like they just they've accepted that that's where they're at sure I've had that with certain injuries not related to the chest but like I just accepted like this is as much activations I can get this is this is life and then I got fixed and I'm like it's almost like a real weight getting you know like oh we hell I have I have all this range of motion that I haven't been able to tap into for X amount of time so that's what I'm getting at with the body work because if you are listening to this and you're that guy that's like you know you feel 135 on a bar not a good way and you're someone who used to be able to press more yeah that's your body's telling you something you're something is not opening up and there's a there's a blockage there's a trigger point somewhere that needs to be released and that's what a lot of these experts can do if you have someone in your area I'm everyone's different I'm blessed to be where I'm at and we have a lot of good people out here but um I would I just I mentioned that when it comes to training because I wouldn't even be training I train I could work for the Bauer people I've worked with so I look at any money and that is an investment in your performance yeah yeah I agree 100% man well listen let's wrap this thing up while we're here I think we shared some really good information hopefully hopefully some light bulbs get turned on here like I said at the beginning you know I have people who are interested in learning you know what do you do how do you do this and so hopefully being able to sit down with you and being able to have these conversations we can answer some of those questions that those guys have and you know they might be able to get a little bit more out of their training uh if you were to tell people to do one thing today to change their training what one thing could they do Tommy to improve you know next time they walk in the gym and train chest I would say with whatever you're going to do pause everything for a full at least one count in the stretch of every rep and that will show you you will learn right then and there if you're activating your chest out of the bottom of the movement or not I like that or if you're if you're bypassing it completely right then I touched on it I did the same thing I blasted through the chest I completely bypassed that to get you my chest out of the bottom for years so that that's almost like a litmus test is do that do it with your warm-ups obviously don't do it with a weight and you're probably going to have to lower your numbers but test yourself if if you're at the bottom of a press and you're going to get like yeah and your shoulder wants to from that from that pause position it goes up and then you go up then that's telling you something you're you're not getting the full activation you code or you're not keeping the tension you could and that might not be a tightness issue here that might be something in the thoracic that might be something tear like something back everything can kind of seat belt and so that's why it's you know the point is it's just a kind of turn turn that light bulb on and make you think if you are someone struggling to develop a chest and I think I think everything kind of falls into two-kit like there's some people who the first time they started venting they grow a chest right yep and then there's guys like us that didn't so I think you're either going to go to one or two ways and maybe you're in the middle and you want to get more chest development this is just meant this whole thing is kind of just meant to help you turn that light bulb and think and audit your training and really ask yourself am I training the muscle or am I just training a movement and am I training my chest or am I training everything that has to do with my upper body just to say I'm training my chest you know I mean I just want people to turn that light bulb on and really get really get in depth with how to learn how to use an training yes sir I couldn't agree more if people want to reach out to you Tommy where's the best way to follow along with what you're doing and follow along with your prep right now it's Instagram I have a website being developed but nice it's a takes it's time so Instagram T styles to STI LES and then you know obviously I train with dust and so anything he puts out on his YouTube I think it's training wise I'm in there too nice yeah that's that's it for following along with me right now cool man while I'm looking forward to seeing how things you know come along for your prep I'm sure we'll get another one of these knocked out before you get to brain dead you know everybody who's watching thank you guys for following along with what we're doing here and like I said in the beginning if you have suggestions on the next muscle group that you'd like to see us talk about definitely let us know Tommy Styles man it's been a pleasure as always brother thank you

for starting though we we were gonna talk about the central nervous system because this ties into to me at least intensity I think back to what intensity meant to me when I was a kid listening to ACDC my parents basement lifting the sears weight set and man I was grinding out those reps as far as I could tell you know like I was given everything I had but it's changed over time and my ability and I've noticed it especially this year my ability to really grind through difficult reps has grown it's changed my definition of what a hard rep is or hard set is has changed and I can't help but feel like I've trained my central nervous system but that's just the thoughts that are floating around my head I know if I brought it to you you would have some stuff that would that would make these thoughts a little more concrete yeah so it's we we sort of it's funny there was there's a there's a study from it was the year is a 63 the original study where people talk about the primary driver of muscle strength gains from resistance training comes from central nervous system was done by more tony and debris like this classic study and they looked at strength gains versus EMG over the course of about an eight week study and you found that the EMG increased in parallel with strength and that when you're not really seeing any detectable increase in muscle size and those first although things are initiated like right off the bat we know this now with more up-to-date measurements you can see like just one exercise battle start to shift the mice and I support you see in muscle and you'll start to initiate the growth process muscle protein turn of returns on after just one one about but the gains that you get take a beginner so this is just one aspect of training central nervous system that's just it's obvious that it's important and that it goes on when you're training is taking a beginner who increases their strength by 60 percent on average whatever over the first two months of lifting they go from you know 95 on the bar on an inclined press or bench press and now they're doing 135 to months later it's totally possible and then or even consider that person who you know starts off when say someone makes really good gains he's struggling one fifty they're sort of weak as a cat they're benching 95 pounds and then they go to they get to two and a quarter so let's say they put on you know the good 70 pounds of muscle and they're and they get really strong and they're benching 405 so that's a fourfold increase in strength and it's not a fourfold increase in muscle mass if you're the hundred and the reference man I believe reference like standard like hundred and seventy kilograms man so that's a hundred and fifty four pound guy like in the scientific literature has like thirty one so like less and set a little bit around seventy pounds of muscle mass okay so it's a doubling of muscle mass to get to two twenty five let's say and a quadrupling of strength the nervous system obviously had something to say something to do with that not all new muscle mass so there's obviously that you train the nervous system we see this too when you look at various ways you interpret EMGs in terms of what's going on in terms of fiber recruitment you can get improvements of muscle endurance as well just by because you're learning how to do this and that's just like looking at it from the perspective of like what signal is coming down the motor neurons in the muscle and that obviously has to do with your brain so we can kind of I'm going to just for the sake of like what we're talking about now for people listening like you get your brain and you got like the motor programs that you develop so let's say you've never juggled before you want to learn how to juggle I did this when I was a kid it was like one year when I was like eight or something like that I'm going to figure out how to juggle so I'm near as heeve today I want to go to the juggle next year and I learned how to juggle I just kept on for like the whole day I dropped shit you know and eventually I learned I could juggle and I learned to juggle in one day I just taught myself by keeping on trying I remember doing this like the weird shit I used to do on the kid but I had developed the motor program through practice and practice and practice so that's what happens with that's why Olympic lifters they can get away with this for other reasons but they're living lifters will do those three Olympic lists and a lot of the living lifters are a power thing in a snatch those are mainly concentric movements and they drop the bar eventually because those lowering movements cause muscle soreness they want to avoid the inroads into muscle recovery they don't want to make the muscle sore they want to train the nervous system and you're getting plenty of loading with those heavy loads you know doubles and triples that they're doing and that will provoke muscle growth and a lot of those folks already have a tendency to grow muscle easily that's why they're the top of the sport doing that sport but they want to practice that those Olympic lift techniques with the heavy loads as much as they possibly can because that's the central nervous system and they actually they've they've actually been research been done I think this was the pair of testes stuff where they've they've you know documented that strength gains in in a leap level like world class Olympic lifters that are substantial like literally you know five ten percent without changing weight classes and as all tech that's not gonna be all tech and that can be done so your nervous system is there to basically it is the largest part of strength gains in the gym in most every situation I mean take your average you know person who goes from beginner to all the muscle they put on of twenty pounds of muscle they might double their strength of the course of doing that but they didn't double their muscle mass yeah so you definitely train the central nervous system out of doubt so then the other side of that like that to start training those motor programs but then you also there's also the whole other aspects of the black box psychological aspects that you're talking about about learning how to grind and learning how to take yourself to places where you haven't previously been and some of that are things like dis inhibition being a big one so there's a paper I wrote an article for the lead FTS I'm trying to think what the name of the paper is but it's a it's or the name of the article is the paper that I talk about in there at least it's a large part of the of the article is by kind Steinehouse from like sixty seven I may have talked about this year it's a study where it's a paper something like factors modifying the expression of human strength and they did this shit before human subjects who made these were what they are now they couldn't get away with this they wouldn't be able to do this now nowadays and never gonna prove they took volunteers and there was one at least one person was highly trained like they said they call them a weight trainer or something like that he was a world class strength athlete at some sort and they had them just do it isometric arm curl basically elbow flexion and they measured a baseline sort of familiarized into it and then they wanted to see what things they could do to make them stronger so one of the things they did was they got them drunk and they disinhibited like you know people say loosens you get mystery inhibitions will they pulled harder so they went from this you know probably pretty sterile you know here we are on the lab the guys with the lab coats and the pocket protectors you know and they're writing things down so they push as hard as you or pull as hard as you can the good good and then they got them drunk and then they went started going to town right yeah but they they gave them and fedemines while they're drunk or different different times there was a different trial only they I don't think they didn't even combo that would have been interesting yeah who knows the fedemines did the same okay they they got a starter pistol and scared the she majines as out of them by shooting off this gun right next to their ear while they were pulling in of course they pulled harder they screamed at them so just like oh like in which of course the same thing is gonna happen when you encourage someone you're screaming at someone in the gym so if princess it this is just kind of an aside in a research situation if you have you have you'd have to control the amount of encouragement that you give your subjects you'll you come in and you have the same person who does his or her best job to encourage the same each time or you don't do any encouragement pretty much which just sucks because it's totally sterile and that's not any fun at all but that makes a huge difference it was demonstrated this study so those are all things up in the brain that are involved with this inhibition at least that's how they interpret removing those inhibitions and the one of the most powerful effects they found was from hypnosis oh yeah they hypnotized everyone and this is this is published in the journal of applied physiology which is a very well-known it's been around for forever it's a well-known high impact factor journal like no one's gonna you get published in JAP it's like hey about down to you man like you got into those with the big boys you're playing big time there in J journal applied physiology and of course this is a while ago but still in their method section to document the effectiveness of the hypnosis that they did the hypnotist took from the subject cool the person who he deemed to be the least amenable to hypnosis and that happened to be this this strength athlete who was just like wow whatever like bullshit you know he's calling you can imagine probably like you know you can't change my strength you can't hypnotize me he was like the world class athlete so he's got that maybe aggressive demeanor like like fuck you you ain't changing me well they put him under hypnosis this is in the method section and I have the quote in my article and I I may even read this under the podcast and in the method section they describe the procedure the hypnotist has did to demonstrate the effectiveness hypnosis he told that subject while he's under hypnosis that I will be touching a hot poker trigger hand just briefly here we go I'm gonna do that and when he touched the guy's hand with a ballpoint pen no hot poker nothing damaging to the tissue he pulled his hand away like he'd been burnt and a blister form that's the weird part I don't get I remember you tell this tell this to us before a blister formed the guy touched a ballpoint pen to his hand he believed that it was hot in there for it burnt him it's crazy it's in there you know it's in there but it's in it this is in like a legit journal this is not it's not the national employer it's the tissue you get in the biological sciences yeah it's like you know J.P.'s big time they do like heavy duty biology based stuff in this case it was a you know psychological type of thing it's insane so so that's the thing like you go and like people say like you know imagine like chy greens been there was interview with him where he's talking about tapping into rage yeah and you know I talk about you know visualization you know I've got an article in other article in FDS about visualization being very very effective and though these are all these are all things that are going on in your central nervous system and you're brain in your mind to allow you to improve performance you can actually train people where they just visualize performing an exercise and get strength gains on order of the same ones that you'd get if they actually did the exercises yeah which makes sense like over the course of many weeks like a ten-week training period on like group ages to imagine themselves doing bicep curls and and group B actually does bicep curls well you don't get that much muscle growth like you get like a five percent like you might get like ten percent increase in muscle cross-sectional area let's see over eight or ten weeks it's pretty good growth um five percent is what I got in one of my studies on average okay thanks five versus seven percent five or seven percent is training a quad and that was with electrical stimulation which even this was in training people but ten percent's pretty good so but you can get a thirty forty percent increase in strength or weightage use for X number of reps in that period of time so most of that strength comes from the motor program and that motor program can run by visualizing and imagining actually doing what it is that you're going to be tested on this case in the scientific study so you can practice those things virtually in your mind's eye and create and train a tremendous strength and improvement it makes me think about and you know for anybody who's been listening to body-building podcasts the people who are always serious in the gym they're the ones that they come the guys who are making the great progress they talk about like oh you got to put your phone away you got to focus don't talk to people you got to get in there and have purpose and we all have our own styles it's a how we want to train but all this leads me to like to that I guess is that you know I mean I'm not saying you need to be hypnotized to go into the gym but I mean I think there is something to be said about visualization you know especially when you're doing progressive overload and thinking to yourself like okay I'm going to get that 150 pound dumbbell for twelve reps today it's gonna happen being able to see that in your head carry it out in your head before you actually even touch the weight the research suggests and there's a couple from I remember recalling it's been sometimes looking at this specifically but there's a couple different paradigms that have been tested but they share the commonality in that you want to re-hers all the thing everything you can you can come up with in the sense orally during the actual visualization procedure so if you're let's say it's a squat you're going for a PR with you know four and five pounds you want to get twelve reps so you would literally get it out there and you would you would maybe even smell the chalk at the chalk or something you smell and you would imagine you know the the knirling on the bar and how are the bar fits down in your back and maybe it tears at your skin a little bit if that's you know if that's how your what happens when you do that what it feels like when you unwrapped that and you have total control of the bar and the bar is your bitch as opposed to oh fuck this is a heavy bar yeah like all the and what you see like like what you see like if there's a mirror in front of you you see yourself squatting down or maybe you don't see anything or maybe you just see a blur some people just do a blur you know that happens to them they just they unfocused but everything you feel see you know the sensation in your muscles even if for me this is convenient important like sometimes there can be a sort of a mental but potential for a mental breaking point during a set where you get to the end of the set and you're and you like all of a sense think okay three left and when when when that happens you can create a self-fulfilling prophecy and it's like okay well I'm just going to get three and this will be done and that can be a very smart way to train them I'd say you don't do that you know if you think if three's all you got the three's all you got but then there's also those times when and I you actually employ this sometimes a lot with myself is I will set a number beyond which is probably reasonable and imagine that so I like I can like said okay so how's that I'm getting fucking 15 with this set of a bitch okay you know and more or so most of the we got was 10 so I start off that set and sometimes that's backfire on me because I start I start going so rapidly and trying to be hanging out the reps that I had my form fails but but I have so now I know I have to visualize that and I visualize myself going through like that eighth rep when it looks like he's got like one left and I'm like no mother fucker this is when the shit starts yeah and you know with that feeling like when you have that mojo working where you're like like every rep is gonna be my be-out sheer rep by rep contraction by contraction and you go past what you would otherwise because you're you got the mojo working that's just that's happening if you've seen that once you've just done it it's right there in your mind in all the ways you can imagine this is kind of the important part is that it's not like you just say it you have to see it and experience as much as you can and like that you know that thought like oh fuck my legs hurt like shit like you don't want that thought you want that thought of like this is what I want my legs to feel like yeah I would drive past this shit so you rehearse all those thoughts and you ever have like and this is just something that just sort of thought of you ever have a workout where maybe start off a little tired you're getting things going but you start doing pretty well absolutely sick all the time you know they go in like shit they have a great workout and you get to that you get like halfway through your workout and all of the sudden you've just feel completely revitalized and you feel like everything like as opposed to like you're starting to slow down as the workout progresses you're actually like picking up speed and it's because you've had multiple wins sort of speak during that workout so we have to sort of see it you've been kicking ass you've had all these sets that you just like barrel through and now you've got you've actually experienced that driving through those reps where like this just getting hard and really pushing to a true failure point you can do that and bypass the need to having it had done some previous sets where you experienced that by visualizing all that in the first place and that's and so that is the visualization it's gigantic and you know there's there are stories of you know like skill athletes basketball players and you know people who you know baseball pitchers and people of that of that ilk who have a very skill oriented motor program detailed task part of their activity their sport and they can practice those things in their mind but you have to practice well too you can't just practice sloppy so same thing goes for the visualization so there's that so the important point here like there's there's a this sort of black box that's the term that guy from back in my graduate school days in Texas that Eddie Coil was an exercise he still is an exercise physiologist a lot of work for Gatorade done some phenomenal stuff like examining the physiological limitations to endurance cycling and he's like over the course of like 12 15 years he created this really kind of cool wide of research where he demonstrates like the glycogen becomes limiting you know when people bonks he sort of demonstrated that how you can you know supplant that perhaps with drinking Gatorade and blah blah blah and but he used to just talk about and people with every once in a while asked like so what about the brain like what about effort levels he's like I we don't worry about the black box and he would say that like the ciches like you know there's a lot of it's going out there but he's like we just for the course of this for the purpose of this class we have to focus here and recognize that these are some mutations but there's a guy named Tim Nokes NOA KES people want to look up looking up I think I sight him in my B.R. Bodybuilding Coach book and he talks about the central governor theory and he may have coined that term I'm not sure but so the central nervous system is the governor to performance just like you know like semi is on the highway they put a governor on their accelerator on their throttle so that they can't exceed the speed limit right fast yeah so there's this governor theory and he's got in the course of like he's got at least one maybe two another probably very spurgeons now of review of the literature demonstrating the ways in which you see that the brain seems to be the penultimate limiter to performance at the highest levels and hypnosis is part of that the effect of drug some of the things they talked about in that early study um expectancies and what competition can elicit in people so like you can find like you can you can you when you put like um at least in the lab you put like competitive cyclists on a a cycller governor and have them race you like a standard time trial race and if they they will try to paint and they're really good at pacing themselves they know they've been used to like this is the pace I can maintain this is my lactate threshold I go too fast and then I will end up having to slow down and it's so they optimize their race pace but if you put them against a simulator who's outpacing in a little bit like someone to compete against they will they will go faster I bet yeah and that and that's like why I say like the best training partner is someone who's going to make you their bitch every day I'm using the word bitch here you are what's up with that the bitch and it was so that just lift out man it was good I must have a two more somewhere no bitch probably several this is sound bike for you yeah but they will they will race faster when you have competition so and everyone has seen that how many times you've heard like you think you train hard and you go it's always someone else you train harder yeah you go try to keep up with them and you find a new level and like holy shit I had no idea I could do that yeah I think that's it I'll be out ahead of video that he like kind of co-produced with the guy that is like a competitive eater I think I just sort of listen to part of it and the guys guys were entertaining right and so he went he trained with Fula and then he had like a like a five guys hamburger eat off thing okay but you know the guy went in the train legs they did what you know one of the food standard training sessions which is much higher volume this guy is used to and he's trained like I trained pretty hard okay he's not he didn't just start yesterday but he's like he's like he never thought he could do some of those he's never gone that far at all in his life yeah and that's just like a recent example I literally heard you know like 12 hours ago and listening to YouTube when I was walking the dogs I think that's one of the things people are running into with all the quarantine stuff when they've talked about being demotivated training from home not only it's not just having training partners but like having the other people when we talk about like the energy of a gym I think that that's part of that you know just having other people around you that are pushing themselves absolutely yeah so I mean there's so much to this there's so much it's going on in our subconscious like one of my one of my favorite placebo studies I've talked about the the Diana Ball study here the steroid studies you know where people and like there's there's other example of another kind of cool one from cycling which popped into my head because just mentioning cycling is they could give people they tell them that they're getting different doses of caffeine under different conditions all of which are placebo's and their and their performance is improved in a great fashion depending on the size of the dose they were told they could were given. Oh, be damned. Oh, when they're given the here comes your big dose of caffeine you should just ask today and like they kick ass that day and like today you don't get any caffeine so good luck hope you make it through. Oh, no, yeah and they fucking drag ass. Yeah, I think pre workout is like that for a lot of people too you know that it's I think that when well you know when you started training or even when I started training pre workout wasn't even an invention yet really I mean they had ultimate orange. Oh, ultimate orange. Yeah, they did have that but it didn't catch on the way that it has nowadays. I know people who bought a gym membership and bought a tub of pre workout they've only known to train with that it is there is a mental thing of like I gotta have at least something. Mm-hmm. Yeah, it's funny like there have been times this happened like it doesn't happen very often but like it's happened usually when I'm dieting down and I'm taking my fat burners which basically are and are being pre workouts. Yeah, I get to like running around and like sometimes like sometimes I'm a motorcycle now that's wasn't a problem in the past when it's happened but and I just forget to take like one of my doses in the middle of the day I get out and I just like I usually have like like all those things in triplicate I have a little box in my cooler care with me a little bit I just forgot and I go to the gym in the afternoon and I'm going to start going through my checklist of like I've done anything to get ready I'm like oh shit I forgot my pre workout. Yeah, but I don't I can't even tell it doesn't I don't even doesn't even register with me it's not like oh God I can't train I'm like I just kind of forgot that it's like I forgot to wash these socks but it doesn't fucking matter I'm going to train hard anyway. Yeah, so I think some people they connect the two things and then that could become a limitation. Then they've sort of you know an operate conditioning kind of way leech themselves to training with a pre workout because they want to feel that way it gives them confidence and it gives them a sense that they're in the right mindset the right state of central nervous system stimulation in order to train the way they've been training it's a state depending learn it's I'm using this in a very armchair kind of way but it's state dependent learning like I only know how to train if I'm on pre workout sure sure sure you know yeah I think we we do that a lot we do that a lot I think I I've I've found when I've built a ritual around training like all of us who've lifted for a long time before you know it it's like okay I've taken my pre workout and then I take the IGF and then I take the the insulin or whatever it is you've got this whole cocktail of things 30 minutes 15 minutes as I'm walking in the door like you have this whole list of things it can become overwhelming I like that idea of stripping it back though and recognizing you know that those are things that you could become dependent on and that you don't I don't know man I keep going back this I'm going to tie this into the blister I don't know if I I don't know if I if I have a hard time wrapping my head around believing that somebody could believe that they would get a blister from the ballpoint pen and actually get it but I want to believe like I want to believe that's possible because if it is it just tells me how strong the mind is and how much I can prepare for a workout or anything it's it's interesting because there's there's all sorts of accounts and you know how true to they are I don't know of you know people healing themselves with with their minds you know all the thoughts about you know so and so with cancer and people pray for them and blah blah blah and you know who knows but I know that there are there are accounts seem like they're a little more reasonable of like like mothers who were in car racks and they had to lift like a you know 800 pound tree off their car to save their child and they did it somehow yeah which you know would be like how the hell could that possibly happen so there's some incredible feet there's some like there are actually a heart rate measurements of full-grown adult firefighters where they're heart like on their on top of a burning building you know life to find a death-defying type of um experience in their heart rates going 220 beats per minute that's so that's 220 is supposed to use your the most standard used it has a pretty wide standard deviation but the most standardly used estimate of your max height is 220 minus your age so if you're 30 your max height should be 190 so if your heart rate is 220 that's like three standard deviations above which is possible but that's just a ridiculous heart rate yeah and there's the breath hold diving yeah which you know people can do which will last I there seems to be last I looked into this no one's been able to completely physiologically explain how it is that that can be done unless the person's metabolism is slowed in some way she had to form could you consider the rate of oxygen use just at rest plus the oxygen use to perform the exercise to do the diving and that's a lot of that so that you're just going down you know so that like actively swimming and the amount of time it's like there act there should be no oxygen left yeah first survival unless metabolism has slowed and so I often look into that again like that maybe one of my little rabbit holes to follow down next few days but like that's sort of like one of those how do we we don't have a physiological explanation for this so you mentioned something and it kind of ties into some of the further thought I've had about this so you know if I'm able to grind through reps and endured handle more now than I could in the past and you know you mentioned like the lady who picks up the the tree off the car whatever I mean anecdotal report those those things happen you know you hear somebody lifting a car off of their kid or whatever those things do happen but those things like those people who do those things they aren't doing that every day we're a fitness and bodybuilding we're trying to do that at least every week you know check this because there's another another placebo experiment that and I can find the reference that they've done this they've done experiments where they used a topical anesthetic like a light a king and expose people repeatedly to I think it was an ice bath which we put your arm in an ice bath and that's like that's very very painful at the total perturbation of your autonomic nervous system very very stressful and they can test various other you can't keep your hand at it very long it's a pain tolerance test you know women tend to do better at that than man actually they can keep their arms so it's a very longer but there's also such the cool things too like there's there's also a study normally what we have is based a constriction in that case you know you're that's why we have people have frostbite and the idea there is the body's conserving the blood to stay in the core of the body keeps the core alive and the core includes your brain so if you're if your brain dead the rest of you doesn't matter but if you lose an arm it's better to lose an arm it's still a brain than the lose a brain and have functioning arms for the donor yes so normally you have basil constriction but there's there's their studies of New England a warf workers like fishermen who are constantly putting their hands in ice cold water and they can do that and they actually have a basilidilitori response their system is learned or reversed the natural flow of blood which normally is reduced to increased flow there so that their hands can stay warm while they're dipping in this ice cold water and pulling the fish you know the buckets are what have you so ice cold water so you can reverse those things with constant you can reverse the normal autonomic response and of course this is what yogis do they can drop their heart rates down like really really low levels you know with just their breath and the thing I was going to say back to the arm and the the top of the anaesthetic is that they've done placebo studies where they they exposed someone I think it was the cold water immersion exposed their arm to that arm gets really cold they experienced that and they said they put a lot of cane on there which numbs them and then they give them various exposures to actually a true nummy experience from using the pharmaceutical topical that numbs their arm and makes it put not hurt or not hurt as much and then they give them a placebo they say okay we're going to do another one with you know blah blah blah and they put their arm in there and like you know it doesn't hurt at all it's like okay great and there's nothing on there to put your nummy arm they just think it's going to be numb because they've experienced that and what they put on their looks and feels exact it smells exactly the same is what actually did so they were previously exposed to that situation where the cane was gone yeah so if you go and this is where I think called self hypnosis called you know learning to grind or what have you if you repeat of the going there and I mean one of my one of my just a little personal thought here like one of my favorite songs the song by anthrax called safe home okay and one of the themes in the song is like this is my safe home is is in the gym and if you can get that create that experience in your head where this place that I go to which is just mind boggling painful and full of maximal effort and potentially exhaustion is a place that I create for myself and this is my house baby this is where I fucking live you can go there repeatedly and each time you can go there you can go a little bit deeper into the house and explore it a little bit more and next thing you know it's not like it's not like a haunted house where you're scared to shit this I'm going to you know what's going to happen this is awful like let me out of here I can't wait to this set stops instead it's like now we're on my territory baby this is where I live and these last reps at the end of the set and that's sort of an analogy you may even say those things to yourself in your head I do sometimes you know everyone wants to know who's your fucking daddy like in the middle of the cat you know and that's funny seller right you know yeah he actually said that who's your daddy and that's because like here we go bitch we're going in we're going after it's time to it's time to go into my home this is where I live just for these brief moments in time and I've accumulated over years of experience as you have and you're starting to see now familiarity with that place psychologically where where you have to disinhibit where you have to pull back where you have to be able to recognize that this pain in this effort is all part of what you're trying to evoke this is where you want to be this is not forintereintory that you need to escape from this is your your your home land so to speak that you want to go deeper into so you can keep on doing that and that's that's like learning to take charge of that central governor and disinhibit and you know bring out things that you wouldn't otherwise be able to so you want so you can imagine then like that's part of this visualization experience is imagining what it's like in the home so but does it stress you they want it house and you're like just oh just like and you're like oh shit you know I know what's in there but if what if you stop and say I've been here before I know just what it's going to like and then you open the door and then you go in and it looks just as you just imagine it totally different experience so we're going to say but does it stress you does it stress you more because you are digging deeper and deeper and deeper into you know this level of discomfort is that is that harder on your body over you know repeatedly going further and further and further of course yeah like that's that's the point the stress is the stimulus in that context there's this stress and there's you stress people kind of use those terms like like when you win the lottery and you're happy you shit that stress will right that's your sympathetic nervous system gets jacked up and like like that's a form of stress it's a pleasurable one yeah but it's also kind of a stress and you absolutely when you when you do those two extra reps beyond the you know ten that you would have done otherwise yeah without it out but those those physiologically are the are the they're the most effective reps so to speak which is a really nice term just to sort of conceptualize all this so those are the ones that hopefully produce the stimulus that then a vocabular adaptation then what you currently were maintaining and training up until that point okay so if you just kept on doing those 10 reps with that weight you're not going to grow but if you start adding a rep every week then then you're going to have a unique stimulus that hopefully produces an adaptation which supports the ability to again produce a unique stimulus meaning you add another rep which is almost your eat and rest recover enough then you can have a greater adaptation so that the next time you could even get another rep and then like the whole system you know stimulus recovery stimulus or eat sleep row easily coiously crowed I guess I was thinking of like you know when I spoke to Chris Duffin and when I listened to him in Victoria talking he was saying like this is gonna kill me that was his talk was like that you he felt like you could only do this so many times you could only put like he was training with 900 pounds on his back and he was like every time I train this is killing me is the way he felt about it yeah there is I mean and that's extreme you know we aren't yeah I'm not squatting 9 no you can only you can only get away with so much you know Ronnie Coleman is the you know quit a sense of the sample if someone who just he put everything into it now he sort of paid the price in and Chinese medicine they have a nice way of kind of conceptualizing this and you see this and all sorts of forms and you'll one of these we've talked about and you'll relate to is you have you have the various energies of the organs and all the bits and pieces of Chinese medical theory but you have your in your kidney is where you're sort of root energy is your kidney energy and especially your kidney essence which is actually related to your ability to reproduce and it's something that you start off with at least according to most texts and I've always asked it's always been like can you replenish this or can you not it's like you start with a given amount of this kidney essence or jing is the name for the for the vital substance and then as you age it gets lower less and less and less like having gray hair as a sign for just one degree of less essence right your bones getting less low back pain which tends to happen etc etc but there's every time you go through something really stressful stress will period in your life actually the the teeth are manifestations of the bone which is fed by the kidney's energy in Chinese medicine and someone who runs hard and lives hard are people who are methods and you sound like they age like 15 years and six months you see the before and after and their teeth fall out too and that's mountain nutrition you can explain that from various other ways but there's also that's the Chinese medical way of conceptualizing this so obviously and this is this it's in with the rate of living hypothesis which is one idea that is sort of behind the thought that you know to some degree like free radicals and which are producing greater extensive the higher metabolism and the higher metabolism the shorter your your actual lifespan suggests that the fast you live and the harder you live and the more you live so to speak the shorter your life is going to be so you kind of have like a and there have been various philosophers who've had this sort of thought of theirs you've got this sort of this quantifiable amount of life yeah and you can bet you can burn out or you can fade away so to speak you know um like the guy from the highlander you remember that the bad guy from the highlander yeah it's kind of fogger burn out in a faded way we've definitely heard anyway so there's something to say for that and so yeah you live really hard and fast and those sorts of things are like because after you do one of those nine of brown squats you probably be fucked for like four or five days yeah yeah and then he do it again the next week training for a thousand in one you know it's like it's the extreme of course but then I do ask myself like you know even on an exercise like an isolation movement I'm thinking about hamstring curls looking at my machine I'm looking at it because it's right there so I have hard time not like having having the conversation this way it's like talking to me loving what bitch I'm watching you so uh but but I have realized like I can grind through these reps even when even when it's not hardly moving even when it stops and I'm just giving everything I have and I'm like holding holding holding and then eco eco eco eco tiny tiny tiny bit more like the reps that I'm doing on this at times it's like stuff that I know I couldn't have done years ago and then afterward I'm wondering like well what did that do to my recovery right now you know and that's the thing I think there and this is why you know this is built into four to get training those failure reps I limit those uh and you're keen you to like this is you kind of set it for me there okay you've heard me say this a million times maybe it's cooking for you differently but you limit those you do those to sort of test yourself and develop that capacity to some degree plus that gives you those those are highly effective rest but you also pay the piper for them yeah because the inroads to recover and this is purely like I've heard many people say this time I've been saying it for a long time um that you know you can only get a giant metals is said it for a long time too like you have to use those intensification techniques where you have multiple failure points like a drop set or you know maybe if you're doing a cluster set where you have more than one failure point you get a superior stimulus you know in that in the two reps in reserve and one rep in reserve from those last couple effective reps but you also get depending on the person and exponentially greater inroads to recovery overall so yeah you do three sets and stop stop for short set short of failure no big deal but you do one set where it's where you end up like getting one of those grinder reps that is just absolutely mind boggling and that might be the equivalent stimulus at least in terms of what your nervous system has been taxed in doing so everyone's balance is different there that's the thing you know and that's like that's where the where the to some degree where it's one factor the determines how much volume someone can get away with training with yes if they if they don't train like you do and like their failure point you know the reps and I was actually I have a post had all sorts of computer problems so I've been able to put up anything but um if you look at a skeletal muscle as it as if a teague so you can like take a muscle and just stimulate it so you take the nervous system completely out yeah you just watch it watch it's watch it's force production it will kind of decline in the sort of exponential way you'll see it kind of decline so that's the basis of using velocity of movement as a way to dictate effort level during resistance exercise there's people are starting to investigate this now so what you see as someone years the end of a set of taken to failures that bar speed slows on and movement they're using a bar so you can use velocity bar speed is a sort of high-tech fancy it may be overkill in many practical situations but you can use that as a way to limit the inroads or limit the effort put into each set so you know you stop all your sets when your bar speed slows to x percentage of the initial reps bar speed that means you're getting x amount of a teague because you're trying to go is you know at a faster pace but you simply can't because the teague force you so that might stop you two or three reps shy you could just stop two or three reps shy as well but the thing that we know then is that when muscle fatigue it doesn't like it doesn't like you know force force force force force force force force force it's like also boom the force is just drop off like that it's like a light switch turning off if fatigue is when energy supply can't match the energy demand and that is a slow gradual process it's a function in muscle of fiber type the enzymes that are in those fibers the mitochondrial content the the economy efficiency the miastin which is a function of fiber type funny I you tested all those things and so faster fiber types will we're more fatigable and slower fiber types are less fatigable but you still see like this gradual decline as some sort and if you're training with the nervous system that's driving the muscle to its maximal capacity like east-end wood and does okay you're going to see the same kind of fatigue curve so you'll be rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep rep. and then maybe you try one more you like move it a little bit than you're done yeah that's and you could see that like most people stop put three reps shy of that and that's because they're because they're nervous system their psychology their their their central governor is not evoking just stops the set. As a protective mechanism, probably in most cases. So the idea that's put forth by Tim Nokes and the central governor is that even in almost all circumstances, even in high level sport, there's still something left in the tank, most of the time, in almost all circumstances. And there's something there. And most people, like, they're so far from a max effort and best performance, just because of the central governor. So there's, so back to where I kind of started, like, there's the motor programming aspect of it. Like, you could have someone who, let's say, is a highly, highly trained athlete in, like, a wrestler or, you know, like, a intermediate distance runner, four and eight or meters, like some really hard shit. They're requires you really that you have to know how to push and push to pain. So they're central governor and their ability to disinhibit and drive is really pretty well advanced, but specific to their sport. So it's the limitation there is in, isn't the central governor aspect, it's not their psychology. When they go in the weight room, it's because they've never done those lists before. So you'll see they train and, like, you probably had clients, maybe, like, even a beginner client, and it's like, wow, they train really hard. But they're wobbly in this sort of thing. So their limitation there is probably still motor skill, because they got years of training and pushing and fighting through the pain, like, it's not a lack of effort in their case. It's just they don't know how to do the exercises. And they'll learn that really quickly. So their effort level doesn't, doesn't change. And then there are some people, like, who have both the motor skill issue. And then they have to learn how to train harder. And, like, in your case, you've got the motor skills down and now you've shifted your training. So you're exposing yourself to more of those high effort, like, grinder reps. And now you're working on that central governor. And, of course, that's going to require that because you're doing more of those really all out reps that your volume is going to have to come down. Yeah, that's exactly where we're been. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. So, so yeah, the central governor system gets trained. Yes. Very sweet. Wow. I knew if I asked you this guy that you would have a lot to say, and you'd be able to expand upon it. So thank you. Yeah. It's just, like, it's really like this whole central governor thing is really fascinating because it doesn't deny the fact that, you know, you can feel when the glycogen levels are low and that contributes like that does, is a limitation. But there's multiple limitations. Yeah. You know, to performance at a higher level that can all, the limiting factor can be at so many different levels. And it's so it's a long time ago I did a talk on causes of fatigue. And I think I maybe wrote an article on this. I've written about it somewhere. But so, like literally you can like, like a low side, a low-case of fatigue or low-sciath fatigue, like locations of fatigue. And it's like, so there's the central governor, this is the brain. And that can even be a function of like the neurotransmitters in there that are feeding or sort of the meadow asses that are entering the blood, like tyrosine, versus all trip to fan that are feeding the catacominal levels, the dope being levels in the brain. Like there's, that's one, that's one thought that the exposure to, to, to, trip to fan and versus tyrosine. And the, the entry of amino acids in the brain because it cause it be a cause of central fatigue in the brain. Yeah. So there's all these potential like neurotransmitter, potentially just psychological issues. Like what if you have someone who, you know, who grew up with an overbearing father who forced them to exercise? And they've got psychological trauma that in that, and some of that psychological trauma, it actually creates epigenetic changes in, on the DNA of the neurons of the brain, in areas that are responsive to trauma. And I've, I just came, I've discussed this with the friend of mine as a therapist. So literally the brain, the neurons in, in those areas of the brain that were activated during traumatic experiences. Now turn on genes differently and react differently about, when exposed to things because of these epigenetic changes. Epigenics basically determined to what extent and with what likelihood of the ease, which genes are turned on or turned off in response to the stimuli that the, the stimuli that the cells are exposed to. So you got someone who was forced exercise and they had an overbearing father, if they didn't win, you know, would say, you didn't win. So we're going to the weight room. You got to get stronger. They can make them squat on night long or some crazy shit. It's on tight. Good mood. You got nice mute skills there. I've done it before. A couple of times. Yeah, that's your first rodeo. So so that person, when they get in the gym and now they're like, they're way, like, you know, the daddy issues, they think are kind of resolved, but they get in the gym and like, well, they want to squat because it does good for their legs and it's like a saying a thing. And like, now they start having like this, at least friggin flashbacks, like almost PTSD, like, having to squat because, you know, they lost and they didn't get daddy's approval. Like, where's that's happening, like, at an epigenetic level in the brain. And then we can like, like, at the other end of the extreme, you could say, well, you know, I think this is, this might be a function of, you know, the interaction at the T-Tubles and the Sarko plaza, we're ticking them in terms of calcium release because calcium is the intercellular singular for mice and acting interaction of the crossbridge cycle. So, you know, you've got, you've got a limitation there in those cells in those fast switch fibers. Because you can't, you're not, in terms of calcium handling. So there's going to be a Bob Fitz who's written about all this stuff. So there's even evidence that, Touseling handling is a, is a locust of fatigue in certain fiber types, I believe, and like rats, fiber muscle fibers. Okay. So which is it? Is it the fact that your daddy was an asshole, or that you, you have a bad ryanidine receptor, you know, somewhere in your best switch fibers. So there's all these different things from literally talk to bottom. You know, the thing that could slow your, your truck down could be a loose lug nut, you know, or it could be like, you know, something on the, and the throttle mechanism, or anything, or the fact that you're out of gas. For your oils low, or all these different things. So we always think, well, it's the engine, you know, that must be it, but it could be a bad axle that's twisted, you know, million different things in just a simple relatively simple thing like an automobile. And our bodies are, you know, more complex. And a certain way. So yeah, the brains are big part of it. And I think this is the one that at the upper end of like performance and doing the stuff you're trying to do that I'm trying to do that a lot of list of trying to do an e-cout gains after years of training when gains come pretty easily. A lot of it's a lot of it's year. So I had, um, a funny story related to like going to the gym with like the, you know, the bad ass mindset thing. So one of the things I'm, in fact, you asked me about a New Year's resolution. I don't really have one, but there's one of the things I'm trying to do more of. And that's just sort of speak my mind freely. And be kind of authentic and just sort of say what, you know, be just truthful and honest and step away from the personas that I tend to wear in various situations. I've been wearing those as I was a kid. And I was at the gym. And so there's, there's two, there's two people in the, two women in the gym. They're doing Olympic lists. And one was having trouble with the straps. It's kind of comical. She never used them before. Oh, yeah. So we all kind of, she and the person shown were kind of laughing. So I was doing what I was doing. And then I had like five seconds when I was switching muscle groups and I said, hey, let me show you quick the, the trick to the straps. I put my straps on and use your thumbs to bring the straps around. You could put them on there really easily. So it took like all like eight seconds. And I, and she's like, oh, wow, that looks really easy. And like there you go. Good luck with it. And I went back to what I was doing. But another guy in the gym saw me take that break in this sky likes to talk super nice guy. Oh, yeah. But he's how I do not talk less. Yeah. Like, oh, and once you get me going, I'll start rambling as I, you know, people know me to do. Right. And so he's like, hey, Scott, and I'm like, yes, he's like, I want to introduce you to someone. I'm like, chest because I helped her out. Doesn't mean I'm open to a big long conversation. Did you say that? So yeah, I did. And I didn't sit like your dick. But I like, I knew like, that's, he wouldn't have said that to me. Had I not stop? Cause like, it was my chance. Right. Because you could see when someone is like, you know, waiting to like get their chance. And I just have to avoid eye contact with some people. I can, you know, fist bump. And we can talk for five seconds. We don't. Yeah. And then other people like you just can't do that. Because they want to tear you away. They don't understand that groove that sometimes kind of has to be in for safety reasons. And I know the listeners, I'm going to interject here. The listeners might not know this about you, but you feel that you need to respond. There's times that I've texted you. And I've just been like, you know, just sent a text. And I like, Scott will get to it when it gets to it. But then I know you've been like, I had a really busy day. And I didn't get a chance to text until now. And then you give me this long explanation back. And it's like, you felt like you needed to like if I came up to you. And I'm like, I'm much better at that. Good. But I've noticed that about you. I can imagine that if I walked up to you in the gym, I was like, hey Scott, how's it going? I want to tell you about this. And you'd feel like, okay, now I'm obligated like there'd be part of you. This guy, he's, I'm not even sure to what extent, but somehow he's connected academia. Oh, and I knew like this is going to be, he's going to want a formal introduction. And literally, I'm just, I am, I am just fucking cranking. I was having a bad ass workout. I was doing great. You stopped now. I was totally working. And I'm like, no, I just can't do this. I say, because you'd like to talk and you will catch me next thing and know we're just talking galore. And they're told in that. I just kind of, like, I was, but it was very nice, you know, because I knew that I did not want to break that away. And back story about four years ago, I actually went to a tour part of this biceps was during, was in a similar situation when I was hosting a meetup group for a bodybuilding meetup group. And a guy wanted to follow, just kind of watch me train. Yeah. And I felt obligated to kind of teach him and showing what I was doing. I would, too. And I ended up, yep. And someone else came in and next to the guy who I was like, people were running late and I were going to go eat. So I went and I actually was doing a side lateral machine when I tore my biceps. Yeah. And so I injured myself because I stopped everything. I wasn't properly warmed up and I, my work I got interrupted. So some of itself protected. But anyway, the point of me bringing all that up was actually when the one guy walked away, I went and introduced my self, the guy who was referring to it. And said hello. So we could say this before he comes back because it is going to want to talk, but it's to me, you know, I'm Scott. But like that was like that was part of the groove that you know, I had that was just like, this is what I'm here. This is fun. Like you wouldn't pull over Lance Armstrong if he's like cruising around, you know, and say hey Lance, can I get your autographs? And it's like, I'm on a ride. No. Yeah. It's like it doesn't. I'm not sure if I don't want to give you an autograph. I love to talk to people. But Lance was in his, he'd set, like, if Lance is on his bike, you know, he's at lactate threshold. He's cruising. And then the time trial, I was rocking. I was having a great workout. Yeah. And I saw it just letting him and it was totally fine. We laughed about it afterwards. Good. And I, but I was truthful with him. And I still would say that. Like, I even told him, you're on my Do not talk less. You like to talk too much. And it's nothing, it's nothing derogatory. It gets the person at all. It's just the truth of the matter. Yeah. That kind of disarms it to the way you handled that versus it being like, if you don't talk about it, then he might think you're just a dick or something. You don't I mean? Yeah. I mean, if he, if this thing, if he doesn't get it, then he doesn't get it. I can't like, yeah, they can, they can get that. The other guy actually apologized for him. If you knew why, like, I think he didn't want that. And because if he was, I think he's a, he's a power lift and pressure is training for a competition. So, yeah. It's, yeah. There's no reason to be upset. I was actually had fun interacting with him. Like, not now, man. No friggin way. I got like, I like that, that's, that is, I think I used the word bass at or ass battery or bad assory. Yeah. I said, you know, we, we cannot disrupt the flow of bad assures that going on right now. And I went about my business. He's like, okay. So anyway, but we get, let's just questions. I saw you looking. I haven't looked at all. I've been just to busy rambling. We did have a couple here. There was one from Brandon. Let me see if I can pull this up. Okay. Let's see. My mouth isn't clicking right. Yeah. Yeah. This is in reference to another podcast. He says, hey, guys, I would love to hear Scott's opinion on the question. Skip and ask to H answered on the last episode of Blood Sweat and Gear in regards to how we can make Deloads more enjoyable. I know Skip mentioned trying out new exercises slash machines that you haven't used. But I feel like that would prevent a novel stimulus that could, or that, Yeah, that would prevent a novel stimulus that could potentially increase the amount of muscle damage you experience. And lower the ability to recover within the Deload week. We'll love to hear how Scott would approach a Deload. And if he's remembered to keep exercises the same or just like that, or just drop down your volume as most do during a Deload. Brandon, my man, you need to go read the 4-inch you training book. I'll tell you what, Skip had said real quick here. So Skip had said he was like, listen, when I do a Deload, I could just go in and have fun with it. He was like, that might be an opportunity for you to use like if you're in a groove, you're not going to try anything different. You're not going to go over and try that machine or try a new exercise. He was like, I've messed around with machines. I went to messed with before when I was in a strict groove. And I found that that's given me an opportunity where like, hey, I like this chest press. I might give this a try in the future. That's what he was saying basically. But he said have fun with the Deload. Don't don't overstress yourself with it. So here's how I do like my intensive cruises in 4-inch training are an answer to this. I think he's read the 4-inch training because I'm going to be on his podcast for your presentation. So one in order to avoid like the increasing muscle damage, what have you. I have people drop down a volume to your. So and space out there training a little bit. So they train a little less frequently and they drop with the less volume. Yeah. But in line with what we see in, and I looked at the evidence was available. Time I wrote it. There may be more often up the look on this one as well. But the evidence at the time was pointing and this is how it's typically done in many, many sports is you do a taper. If you want to have improved performance on the day of a meet. So you keep your effort levels and the quality of your efforts. High, but you reduce the volume. So swimmers would still do, you know, maybe a couple time trials with their event. But they would they cut their their yardage in half. You know, and sprinters wouldn't do nearly as many, you know, all of sprints are maybe to shorter sprints. But they still would do sprinting. So the main training. The effort level. And then if you do a taper the right way you come back, strong as your performance is peaked. Yeah. So that's how I produce that. The also as far as the fun goes. The intense accrues are chest muscle rounds, which people find to be the most fun anyway. And so the most fun by far. And muscle rounds are de facto auto regulated and auto selected in terms of the exercise. So if you want to use the exercises you've been using, you can. But you can also pick whatever you want. The idea being that, like, you know, I haven't done a muscle round on that chest press or that, or that, you know, leg press or what have you. I want to give that one a shot. Yeah. And try out new exercise. So you know, I want to do like a meadows row. I'm a muscle round because I saw John doing meadows rows and look great or so on and so blah blah blah. Yeah. So you play with those things. And that, the end of the do that is just fun. It also allows you to fit a cruise in and have some standardization. Like when people travel, I have to do just muscle rounds. They don't have to necessarily make a cruise out of it. But that would give you a chance to go to different gyms because there's no. You don't have to go to like that one hammer strength machine. Great. That's made from the model year. Like it's definitely one at the other gym, you know, blah blah. You can do whatever you want. So but the volumes less and the workouts are also spaced out. You know, training like three times in a week as opposed to typically four. So that's how I do it. Less volume. Should auto regulate the exercises you select only go with the muscle rounds with your fun. People love the cruises. And if you do it right at the end of the cruise, you actually take the de-load which is I call an intense of cruise because in the sense because you still do muscle rounds, which are which you're not reducing your effort level. At all, during those muscle rounds, just doing fewer of them. And the last about third of the total time of your intense accrues or de-load, you just, you just take that time off. Okay. So by the time you're, that's a standard way to do it. Everyone can kind of figure out their own recipe, but that's the way it works really well for lots of people as a starting point at least. Yeah. And then when you come back, when you're after that completely free of training period, people just chop and hit the bit and they just, like, they're strength goes sky high. And if they've eaten up for making muscle gains, typically they've also moved forward a good bit as far as battery mass goes. If you just kind of see it, they basically it's a rebound period for many people. So that covers the whole thing. Like, it gives you some structure, but not too much structure. She choose your exercises, stick with the muscle rounds. You could do whatever you want, but this is just the way I have it. And that way, you've got those muscle rounds. You try out those exercises and you can then when the next blast comes around, you can do with muscle rounds in four to two training. You can either stick with the same ones. Same exercises. You can just keep doing those if you want until you fail to make gains and then switch. Or you can just do something different every time if you like. And just keep a logbook. Pool of exercises and come back to you. Okay. Last time I did that was about five weeks ago. Let's see if I can beat that performance. So that depends on what the person chooses to do because there's plenty of progressive overload with the, with the loading sets and the other aspects of the program. Yeah. I like the sounds of the. And I can see where Brandon's coming from too that, you know, if you really got into it with a new machine, you could end up being more sore than when you started, you know, if you just went in and just started tearing it up. But I can also see what Skip was saying where he was saying, like, you know, you're not going to heavy in his case. He's, is what he was thinking is like, he's just having fun with it. And if you do, if you reduce, if it's a D load, then you reduce something. Yeah. That's thing, you know, like a D load is so generic. So if you do, if you like, if you try new exercise, and you like stop three, four reps shy of failure as opposed to taking it to failure, yeah, even if it's a new exercise, that's probably going to be maybe about the same. It kind of depends. Like some people, and this is, this ties it as the next topic. We want to go to these are good questions. We can just say that for the next one if you want, but depends on how sore people tend to get. Some people, they do a new exercise and it's just like, holy crap. Yeah. Yeah. And then others are, you know, so it kind of depends. And depends on like there's so much. So many of an aspects. If you drop your volume to one third of what it once was, so instead of doing 12 sets, you only do like, you know, four, and two of those are with a new exercise. I think you're going to recover compared to doing 12 sets. Yeah. Yeah. Now because your volume is so much lower. So you would just say, if, you know, if I'm going to do all new exercises for this D load, instead of dropping, you know, from 12 to nine sets, which is what I typically do are 12 to eight sets. This time, I'm going to just drop down to six sets. Okay. Because I'm trying out new exercises entirely for the purpose of this D load. And I want to make sure I don't cause that issue. So you would just, you know, if you scared of the novelty creating excessive muscle soreness, then you just reduce the volume to account for that possibility. And then you invert it. Yeah. Let me accept. That's, you know, that's how I would do it. But yeah. When I went back into the gym after training chest at home, you know, for months, I started training back at the gym again sometimes. And I'll tell you what, man, I was fried. Because of course I wanted to use, I've been using all free weights at home. And there's a couple of machines that I really enjoy. So I was like, go to the gym and it was going to be kind of like a lighter week. I'm going to use these machines. Oh my gosh. I got totally cooked. I was like, I love the way this feels the next day. Like, man, I haven't been this soren months. So this is funny to remind me. So there's this gym in South of Orlando that I gone to, like the day after the Masters Nationals called Kiss a Me Muscle. Yeah. And yeah, you probably seen it because I didn't, the Olympia would kind of turn out the way I wanted to. I was wanting to get down there when I was at the Olympia this year. But a lot of people went down there. Like I saw a ton of tags and I actually went up going there about two weeks ago. Okay. For a little bit of the early purpose and the phone actually posted something. I think I Instagram of the picture of the two of us. But they've got a line of equipment that's just off. And I can't remember the name of it right now. It just has a great frigging feel like the converging chest press, It's mad ass like all of the machines are just great. And I use those like, it was the day after the show when I went in there a train before. I just used machines. I just wanted to get a quick one in just like a full work at full body thing. Keep the water moving around like kind of junk. And but it was like this feels really good. It felt awesome. I didn't even use a lot of the machines. And I remember asking him, I think it's Jonathan. I asked him. I said, man, that line of a, I can see why you found or kept that line of equipment. He's like, why did I just, I had to seek that out. He told me the story. But it was entirely not by accident that he had that line of equipment. Okay. And he's a people love that shit. He said he had a women's physique competitor. And this was, I think, What show was it? There was another. The show before that. But North Americans, I think, was there in Orlando. This is a women's physique competitor. And she was coming in like two days before show the day before show. And she was supposed to be doing like a light. He talked her for a little while. You know, light work out. She got in there. And she just like, like some women are. They just have ridiculous recoverability. And it's just love the train. And like he said, she was in there for like three hours. He was like, where's she supposed to be just like sort of like slightly. He's like, I love this stuff. I can't help myself. I can't stop. Yeah. I think like 42. Oh my gosh. It's like, it's like stop. Yeah. Yeah. So I don't know where I was going with that. But yeah, just when you go back into the gym, you just like get those new machines. It feels so good. I plus their novel, but you tend to want to also overdo it too. And I did that when I was there. I'm like, I did a little more, but I'm like. Shake up all the days rest, you know. Yeah. I'll live. We had a couple more things here. One of them is Mr. Scott Stevenson will you launch your own courses. Oh, I thought about that. I've got some other things in mind that I may try to put together. I would do with my be your own bodybuilding coach book. I'm doing, I'm doing, you know, our long consultations with people. And some people come to me and like over the course of the years, people like they line up several of those. We kind of do like it's not a apprenticeship, but it's a mini sort of, you know, guide them through with the half a dozen or a dozen regular consultations to get them going and help just educate around off their education, what they, what they know or don't know. They want to try to learn from me. I thought about that. It's just like, there's various ways I could do it. One thing I thought about doing and that I could still do is, is offer C, use through an existing organization. I can't do that if I offer my own course. And I even had someone come to me asking me to put together a course, but it would have been under his, in his organization, he would had control over everything. So, I've thought about it. What I want to, for a lot of people having, they just like the education and that's cool. But it's also nice when those C, use of education is connected with the insurance. That most, a lot of personal trainers need to have. So, offering that as C, use through the NSA or ISSA, and I've even talked with them, but through the NSA, I'm not even certified to you them, but I am through the NSA and ACSM. It is a way that allows people to both get to keep their C, use and thus they're insurance up to speed, to maintain those credentials. If I start my own, I'm not going to offer insurance. Maybe I could somehow even look into it, but I imagine that's a whole giant endeavor. And doing it, I don't take that half-heartedly because, or is someone says, you know, I have a fortitude training certification. I want to make sure that I personally would send my mother to you. Yeah. Do fortitude training, you know what I'm saying? Where you can offer all sorts of stuff and people, like, not so much anymore, but I've seen people who had like, they had an alphabet suit behind their name, because they got every certification possible. Yeah. And that kind of tells me that you don't feel like you know what you're doing, because you just had to keep like any certifications to try to fill that void of, you know, of imposter syndrome that you feel or incompetence that you don't think you're going to get. So, it would be a ginormous, gigantic undertaking to do that. I thought about it. And right now, I'm sort of feeling that that void by working with people one on one, and doing online consultations or a phone-sky consultation sort of on a ad hoc basis. But yeah, you know, there was a, I took a CECU course, I think through the NSEA long time ago, 15 years ago, that was like a body building physiology course. So, that's something I might do. And I've actually thought about putting together a peak week course, sort of speak to help guide people through the things that I do with peak week, and look, consider the options, because that's a big place where people drop the ball, get overly complicated or have no idea what to do or get dangerous. There's like, there's one area of body building where I feel like education is, could probably be the most needed. It's probably, at least in competitive body building, it's probably with the peak week. I could see that. Yeah. A lot of people look at it as the secrets too, so it's not always shared. Yeah, they don't share things. People use a lot of drugs. The diuretics can be really dangerous. They can fuck you up pretty badly. There's just a lot of science to be shared there too. It's kind of a lot of cool stuff. So that's the thing that I might do course-wise first if I do anything. And what I would probably do, I had those planning on doing this through Facebook, but I don't know if I want to know since my Facebook got hacked. I've got it in do it when my Facebook account got hacked was, what's do what many people do is they set up a private group on Facebook. And then they charge for entry. This is a... I've seen this. Yeah. It works pretty well. You go in and you get your part of an eight week cohort or whatever and they do weekly live Q&A sessions. You guide people through their training program or what have you. So I do like a six week thing to help people guide themselves and clients. Through a peak week protocol and then they could have access to that for a year or whatever. So they could, you know, to the course of a competitive season, go back and look at the videos and repeat the process that I've led them through. Yeah. You know, during the course of the actual course itself. But I don't... Facebook wouldn't be where I want to host it now because I know now my account is not... It all secure. So... Well, if you do, people can keep up with you too through Instagram. They can go over to 42Training.net, BYOBBCoach.com. And if they wanted to do consultations, that'd be a good place to hook up with you too over at those sites. You know, I'll say something that's interesting. It's funny like here. So even like, I didn't even see who asked this question. Who was the... Wasn't Brandon looking... Did you put this question up on the screen? Motives... What? What? Motives. Oh, yeah. We can't even have spoken about the peak-week thing. I know him. So it's funny. Very often people come to me asking for courses or those sorts of things. And I had the sense from various... In various ways that they haven't really looked at what is available to learn from me totally free. Like, if you go on a lead FTS, there's... I have 12 or 15 articles there that cover a lot of stuff. That's totally free. I joined the Mountain Dog website because he had some articles over there that I wanted to read. Articles over there. I mean, I did a Q&A when John was sick and in the hospital that was like 2 and a half hours long. You know, there's tons of stuff over there. He's got some videos over there from seminars that we did together that I... I presume they're still there, that I think you're available to members. And I've had people come to me who want sort of a mentoring type of thing. Hey, could you mentor me as a coach? And I'll... and I ask, well, have you gotten my book? And they're like, no, they haven't even read the B&B or anybody who's building coachbook. Yeah. So that doesn't... that's not to like, direct that specifically anyone in particular. But I see that almost more commonly than not. Actually, the three quarters maybe the vast majority of the time is people who are coming to me. So that tells me that to some degree it's not that they have exhausted the limitations of what information they can find just by searching. And like, you go to my website and it's like, you know, Bialis books. Like, you know who Paul Czech is? I know the name. Yeah. He's... he's an interesting guy. He was at Swiss. Last time it was there. Okay. I don't know... Ken knows him pretty well. He's been the Swiss multiple times. He's a phenomenal guy. He started off sort of an exercise specialist. He's got some various kind of number of different books and videos on functional exercise and things of that nature. And... but now he's a very well-read guy and he's very sort of a spiritual... kind of the sort of the zone of spiritual life coach type of... Okay, yeah. I know you're talking about. Yeah. I'm a fascinating guy. I really, really like him. I kind of feel a bit of a kinship to him. And he has a like a... one and a half year long course or something like that. You know, that you can take and you can pay for. Mm-hmm. And... but I... instead, I'm not... I'm not aggressively going after this, but I've... I've got a few of his books. I listen to his podcast on a regular basis. And I try to learn as much as I can for him for free. So then this is what I always tell people is then... When I... if and when I would ever go and do his course, which I don't think I really would need to, but if I would ever... we'll want to... let's say I went to Paul on a sit-hey Paul, I like to practice with you. Like to become a apprentice somewhere. I don't think you're offered that much just to private life and say this is the case. Right. I would have been completely up to date on... You know, everything I could possibly find. So that when I do interact with him, I can say, well, you know, here you wrote this and then ten years later you wrote this. And so how do you feel about these two things now? Because these ideas are juxtaposed. Somewhat, you know, contradictory of one another. And so he could give me that answer. Whereas if I have no idea what he's done because I haven't even read his books or looked all the... Then that tells me that I haven't even put out the effort that you want to see in an apprentice or you want to see in a student who takes your classes. And maybe that... and this is so common now. I see this so much and this is like a mehona soapbox with academia, but people want to go and get the degrees just to say they have a degree. Because that's what the industry rewards. You have a master's degree. We'll pay you more than you if you have an undergraduate degree. Or like I know people who've gone various places where they offer these sort of mail-in, PhD degrees that are really worthless. They don't give you an opportunity for licensure. There's some natural pathogen... ...creditations out there that make you think you're a natural path, but you can't get license as a natural path in position. Because they're not accredited by the accrediting commissions that do that. And people are just gathering degrees because they feel like if they have the letters that just having made it from eight as e in terms of getting that credential means they will have the knowledge and understanding that will wash away whatever insecurities they might have or feelings of inadequacy in terms of being a coach or being an expert in their area. Whatever it might be. Sure. And that's not at all what I think degree you should be about. Not in the lease. So someone comes to me and they say, hey, you offer class or I like to practice with you and I say, well, have you read my books? No, I haven't. It's like where do I get those? And I'm like, well you have any to look to my website. You know very little about me, except that you have the sense that I maybe have some expertise that you'd like to have. But you're going at it. You want that's to the end point like you're going at it. I'm not to get to the journey, but just to get to the end point and having the credential or the certification. And that's the most that's not that's not exact that's not at all what I would want and someone so. There's lots of stuff out there. Someone if someone gets my be your own bodybuilding coach, look, I've had people tell me like I download it and I read it in like eight hours. I'm like, wow, that's a. That's amazing. Wow, did you read warped peace just for like dessert like afterwards like how did you do that? So that's kind of what concerns me a little bit is I want to if I'm going to create a credentialing course it's going to have to be really big and extensive and worthwhile. Like, what's what's Martin's last name. Uh, Um, McDonald's. He's okay. Yeah. He has it. He has a Mac you. Yeah. He's put together a son of he's done it right. What they've done is created a specialized to create and it fits in with the UK credit educational system that allows you to become properly certified to be. Personal trainer and nutritional specialist or whatever in terms of use over there and Mac you are like a one year. Dig in get after it. You know, I'm with where you if you say it's graduate level. It's probably more of a graduate level because he deals with the actual research rather than with the textbook say type of type of study and that's a full time endeavor for him. You know, and he's done a phenomenal job with it. But if people don't know about that, it wouldn't help you so much even in the States. You probably could get you should get CE. If you're to do that, but this is like it's a year long program. Yeah. Martin McDonald's. So he and he's a phenomenal guy. Um, yeah. So that's the way to do it. So it's kind of like all or nothing because I don't want to like appease like I got the 42 training certification after four hours, you know, and now I. And I'm like, and you forgot at all. You've got everything I said. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, but it's on your Instagram as a, you know, whatever. That doesn't, that doesn't serve my purpose of helping people be able to better help others. It actually can be the opposite of that. And I'm helping people find little ways to to sort of brush the dust of their insecurities under the rug. Yeah. Yeah. The other certifications. I still can't get anyone that like I've had like one person so far who can who can adequately reproduce what a muscle round is really on Instagram. Yeah. I've had one person. And I think he was, I recall right, he was from Germany. So he was doing it and not even in his mother tongue. But he got it right. So I'm surprised. Well, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the whole point of how you said I'm up. Well, if, let's throw that out there here. I mean, we're at the end of the show here. If people are an hour and a half in, they're dedicated. Let's start there. That's true. Uh, if it's sweet. And they're just, their phones just playing. Yeah. Wait, tuning guys, tuning. We need you for a second. Oh. Um, let's, I'm going to put it out there. I want to see it personally. If you can do an actual muscle round, Tag me, takes God. Uh, I want to see it now. Well, it's, you know, I haven't even watched those so much. What I see are the descriptions of how to do them. Oh, I thought it was like an actual video. So, well, there's, there are some that aren't, you know, on, you know, that's a whole other topic. But, but there, yeah, like no one, like just just right. It's like, you know, and they just, they, and it's right there on my, on my forward, it's on my Instagram. Like all you have to do is copy and paste, you know, or link, like, you know, it's hard to get to links on Instagram. But copy and paste my description. It's right there. Yeah. George White's with us, still George White's with us to the end. George White's with us to the end. He's a man. Yeah. He's George is a veteran. George, George is like, when you go to war, and you got someone in the trenches, you see, you want to, who's going to cover me and everyone else is like, George is a dude you call on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Scotsome mental fortitude. Yes. He does. And physical. Yes. All right. Let's, let's call the day here, Scott, and we'll have a, your topic that other topic, then we can, basically call that almost like a part two. It sounds like segue right into that for that next episode. You got the other side of the coin that we just, that we just looked at. Okay. Awesome. Well, look forward to that. And as always, it's been a pleasure. I always, always enjoy listening and expanding, kind of like my working knowledge and this, of the stuff I'm exploring in the gym. And I like the chat. I hope the perfect match. All right. Guys for another episode of Muslimites with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McNally. Head it over to fortitudetraining.net. BY OBB coach.com. Of course, check out our awesome sponsor, TrueNutrition.com. User-coded vices. We'll catch you next time, guys. See ya. Bye.

is it hard court to be in the sport for two years and get burnt out and be done with it? Or is it more hard court to be doing it for twenty twenty five years continuing to progress making those gains as you go. You know what I mean? Like what is it? You know what I'm saying? Like I guess the depends on what your definition of hard core is. But if you want to be one and done and maybe you go and you want to pro-card in two years and be done, okay? Maybe. Hey what's going on guys? Thanks for tuning back into the next blood sweat and gear coaching Q&A. I'm Scott McNellie. I'm hanging out with coaches, skip, Hill, and Andrew Barry. We're going to tackle your listener questions as we always do. We got a ton of prep questions this week. So hey, if you're on contest prep right now, shout out to you. Keep grinding, dig deep and do your best. This week we've got a bunch of topics I have timestamps below if you want to skip around. We discussed post show rebound. We give it advice on splitting up your injections through the week. We discussed how tough should a prep be. Like should it be so hard that you can't get off the couch? Contest, cycle advice? Should you run a trial peak week? And of our in windstrile take it pretty workout on training days only, dropping test and increasing DHTs as you close in on a show? How long is insulin good for slowing down fast acting proteins and a bunch more? If you're new here, let me encourage you to hit the subscribe button and hit the bell because we have several bodybuilding podcasts that come out each week. Just tons of education and some entertainment featuring IPB pros, experienced coaches and educators in our industry that are all here to help you do better at the sport that we love and stay safe in the process. What's up guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear. I'm Scott McNeillian of course. I'm here with coaches Skip Hill and Andrew Barry. All of our programming is brought to you by trutantrition.com. You can use our code. Thank for some additional savings on high quality third party test and supplements. And if you are in Canada, check out supplements source.ca. They've got great deals, blow out deals in fact on high quality supplements over there and thank you to everybody who's supporting our programming on Patreon. Gentlemen, we're going to start by ambushing skip. Awesome. So this is the guy in the yellow shirt over there. Andrew sent this to me before the show. He was like, this is Skip recently. This is today or yesterday or something. Yes, yes, Monday actually. Is this like a homemade needle prep? It's full of French Oh, God. Now, yeah, here's the thing. You don't see my quads or lack thereof. I'm not kidding. If I I would jump, I would love to compete, but my quads are I literally finish that rehab four or five weeks ago. So now I'm starting to build back, but to be honest with you, I should be focusing on taking in more calories. I know I'm building and I want to get retardedly lean first. Probably because I haven't been able to do what I wanted to do the last couple years and everything has been up in the air. So I'm just really happy to be in really good condition and then I want to I'm going to literally stop when it's not easy and I don't want to sound like a dick, but because I've been doing this long. It is a fucking cake walk right now. I'm barely overturning. I'm 205, 204, 205. I'll be bright below that by the end of the week. I'll probably get to 200 pounds with hard to decide. Okay, I've had it now. I'm not going to work too hard to get there, but I want to be lean, be insulin sensitive and then shift gears and really just hammer my fucking legs as much as I can hammer. I'm right now I'm still programming my brain to know that it's not injured anymore. And that's a very difficult thing to do because it's been programmed the other way for for so long that it's just kind of hard to break that. So I'm just enjoying being, you know, lean as fuck right now and be honest with you. Jazz and tan is funny because you had posted a video training shoulders the other day and I shared it with the group. The think big bodybuilding group on Facebook and somebody was like, dude, skip. You don't look that big in the video and like on the podcast. Like you look, you don't look like you have that kind of mass in the podcast. I would have never guessed. And it's funny because as I explained, your camera is pointing down. It creates this like bubble head effect where your head looks bigger, making your body look smaller and you don't look like you have the level of muscle you do. Which I just find that funny because even when I met you in person, I was like, oh shit, you're that bigger than I realized because your cameras at this angle that like, yeah, it just distorts things a little bit. Yeah, so the camera on the podcast is more to make me not look like instead of 52, I want to look like 50, 51. So I don't really care if I don't look big as much as I just don't want to look as old as I am. And that's why I wouldn't like guys said it because skip doesn't it looks 500 years old on the podcast. I was like, oh, you could have said I was fat, you could have said I was small, but just said I look 500 years old. That one hurt. I think you met like though that you looked like you didn't have muscle like that. You were, you know, I think that's what you met, but yeah, anyway, we're struck. Yeah, you are looking good man. I actually had a question. You what? I had a bulletin sent a T and give you props, man. You look awesome. Thank you. I appreciate that. We had a question related to dieting down in order to grow. So I'll see if I can pull that one up a little later today. But guys, we have a ton of list of questions here today. You guys literally bombarded us on the last episode, which is awesome. We appreciate it because especially comments like and questions that you ask for the show helped to boost our programming and that algorithm. More people is helping to more people to find the show, which is awesome. So I appreciate that we'll just dive in straight here at the top. JL has a question for the next show. I've always been fat. This is it. I just randomly grabbed it. I've always been fascinated by the idea of the post show rebound. I know you guys for the most part recommend guys go into to more of a cruise health phase following a show. If no more shows are planned for the season, is there even as there ever a situation where you would have someone push hard for a few weeks following a show before going into a cruise period thanks as always? I don't know that there's not a, you know, not like we wouldn't do that. I just think because we've discussed this before, which is not to take a shot at the guy for asking a question. But I think Andrew and I think the same way in the sense that coming off the show, the increase in calories alone becomes so growth pushing and so antibiotic for lack of a better word. I know that people don't like to hear that food is antibiotic because antibiotic equates to drugs, but it is antibiotic in the sense that it's building and you know, providing the building blocks for muscle tissue. So the calories are so under-respected from an antibiotic standpoint. So going into a crew, I mean, you could do so many people can grow. Even people with mediocre jamey, with mediocre shitty genetics. You can grow. You can increase the calories and you can come down to TRT type doses and you can grow very, very well. Are there times where you may stand here and push hard? Yeah, I don't particularly like to because I think that when you come off of a show, most people have driven themselves to the point where you have minor aches and pains. You know, there's a, you want a little bit of recovery in there shortly after the show and to go and start slamming, you know, heavier weights and really start, especially if you're going to start regaining strength very, very quickly or rapidly from the increase in calories. I don't know. I think there's a, there's a vulnerability there. Obviously, you know, with me, it's a little bit different because I'm older. If I was 25 again, it probably tried to grow like a mother fucker for the first month or two after, but I just don't think that that needs to happen. I think you can grow like crazy by adding in calories and keeping the gear load, making sure your health markers are good. And then you get that growth from the food, the increase in calories while you're cruising and then you go back on cycle and you just build on what you've already built with the lower gear and the higher calories and you keep going. I can't necessarily disagree with that at all. I also think it's a person dependent, you know, like for instance, let's say, you know, two weeks out, you had some of other labs and they had a very 12 or 15 week prep. It was not very stressful to them. Their labs looked fairly good. You say, okay, we can push four to six weeks after the show and then we'll go into a cruise phase. I wouldn't be adverse to that. And I think also, I explained to everyone, like, a lot of it comes down to like your level of risk adversity in terms of health, you know, like would it be healthier to take no drugs? Absolutely. What if we need a lot more, you know what I mean? Like so it's kind of, everyone has their own little notch on what they're comfortable with in terms of rolling the dice with their health, you know. So I try to get a really good gauge with that with where that person is and then try to steer them the safest way. I think possible to get to where we want to go. So it would be uncommon for someone who had a typical prep. It was hard, but not like overly hard to say, okay, four to six weeks, we're probably going to cut the gear and half and use food as the driver like you're talking about. We're probably going to pull training back a little bit because I think I look at this. There's like an inverse relationship between like stress and results. And I think, you know, when you can lower that stress, you're not doing cardio every day the same amount you were doing. You're not putting the same amount of compounds in your body. You're not, you're going to be eating a lot more food. You're probably going to be sleeping better. So your stress level is going to go down. That's going to help you provide the growth. So I think you can do it with a lot less gear. I'm not saying like, you know, the day you get off stage, you're dropping right back down to 125 mx a tr t. That's not probably what I'm saying at all. There've all been one, maybe one situation where I've had someone do that because it was on their, you know, the house. But I do think you gear should be like the third or fourth factor in the program in that point, whereas the food, rest of recovery and the injuries and blood works should dictate what the next move is there. And I realize some of the listeners don't think that's very hardcore and that we're down. But I can't continue to do this. I understand, I'll keep taking this cheap shot, but I think. What do you guys always say? One more thing to skip points is that hardcore to be in the sport for two years and get burnt out and be done with it or is it more hardcore to be doing it for 25 years, continuing to progress, making those gains as you go. You know what I mean? Like, what is it? You know what I'm saying? Like, I guess it depends on what your definition of hardcore is. But if you want to be one and done and maybe you go and you want to pro-card in two years and be done, okay? Maybe, but, well, that's a question. Also, you're responding to one person. Don't forget your friend and your friend. Not necessarily. I mean, I get what you're saying because I was focused on that. But still, it's not the only person who's there have been more than a few that have been critical. And that might only other thing that would be, is it still hardcore than if you go 20 years and you make minimal progress because you are very good at what you're doing and you think that there is something else there that we're holding back. That's really what it keeps coming back to. I just want to emphasize that we are here telling you the truth to try to help people and then to be criticized for that. It does kind of cut a little bit. All right, I'll tell you this. I've gone both ways being that I remember one post-contest switching my compounds. I went to NPP and I was like, okay, I'm going to run this for four or six weeks and I think I ran it. I think I ended up running it for like eight weeks and, you know, I've gone to that extreme. Probably you've been added in a little bit of deep all or something like that to it. And then I've gone to the other side, the other extreme of just relying on the food. And I've buried myself with food post-contest to the point where I basically ruined my rebound and I've ridden it out as long as I absolutely could. And I threw all that. I think I found the balance. And I think the word that I use is after years and years of experimenting with myself and then having a lot of clients that you see the results with, you learn the term as finesse. You learn the finesse where you don't, as you had said, Andrew, you don't need to hit it with a hammer to get the results. And I discovered that maybe I didn't need to do some of the more extreme stuff I had done post post-contest. And it does, as you guys said, I think it depends on everybody. I've had situations where if it's a client that I've worked with long term and we have had to have an easy prep, then maybe we are more likely to say leave the test in for a little bit longer post-cycle. All right, post-contest. On the other hand, I've had, I'm thinking a one guy who came to me and he was working with another coach and he was committed to that coach right up until his contest and then he wanted to start working with me. We started together and I saw his training was atrocious. Like the way he did his barbell rose was terrible. Like some of the worst I'd seen in my life. And he couldn't handle taking eight weeks to get cleaned up and learn training technique. I'm trying to, you know, get him to get to the point where we can actually grow his back because that's what he needed to do with this offseason. Take that first eight weeks to focus on this technique while we're cleaning out and he couldn't do that. And he would, I mentioned this guy before and he was like, I want to go to another coach who was going to hammer the gear right away. So hammer the gear right away with that same fucking shitty technique that nobody ever taught you how to do a barbell row in your life. Okay, but you know, that's, that's not my style. So I think it depends on the person. But what I've learned is that the food does so much post-contest. You could do so much with the food post-contest that you don't necessarily need to hammer the jerks like you would think. Can I give it like a real example of what he did something I did recently with someone? I mean, if this might help us guy out, you know, let's say someone who's running the typical, you know, tests, masks, run, trends, some orals run into the show. Let's say, let's see, I think what we did is we bumped his test back up to 500. He was maybe, I think we pulled his test the last 10 days or so. But the, he was only at like 350 tests right into that show. We bumped his test to 500 and we added in 400 milligrams of premable. You know, it's literally, and we pulled all the orals. So this is in terms of milligrams, you know, because I do come sometimes like to look at things in milligrams, it was less than half the milligrams of what he was taking lead into the show. And I think that's a fairly appropriate way to do it. It's not an exact formula. But I think, you know, we pulled, you know, we bumped his test up just a little bit, added a little bit of premable and then pulled out, you know, the trend, the master on, halo test and the wind straw, all those other exotics if you want to call them. Right. All right. We got a bunch of these here. So we could probably try to just fly through as many as we can. James says, thanks for the podcast, lads. What do you guys think about injection protocols? Well, on cycle, if you use long asterus, would you roll on with once per week twice per week or every other day? Is there any real benefit of more regular shots keeping levels more stable? Andrew, you, I think you go more frequently than I do. I'm pretty much in every other day gap, but don't you typically you go daily, right? Off season. I'm every other day and then pre-contest when we get to like six weeks out. I like to go daily. Okay. Honestly, I think that this thing's between every other day and daily is like this much of a difference. I just am a creature have it during prep situations. I want to do the same thing every day. So I have to take my shower when I get done from the gym. I go to my little stash and I take whatever I need to take for the day. Yeah. Just because it's, you know, what do you mean repetition? Except for Sundays, that's the day for the Lord. Yes, exactly. No drugs on the Sabbath, keep it only. Which is funny because I don't take damn near anything on Sundays either. Not that it's lazy. But nonetheless, it's my, yeah, that's my day off like, I don't have to take anything. The other thing is he touched on or was talking about two about long esters. I think it's important to say that I still believe that even though the longer esters is sipping aids, the EQs and things like I still think it's better to hit those at least twice a week. And if you're going to, if you're on an every other day protocol, you might as well as some people do this. Some people will say, well, I'll take my long esters once a week and then my shorter esters to two or three times week. You might as well just keep everything the same. Yeah. And in that way, you don't screw up mentally and think you're on a different day or drop the wrong thing. You just, it's continuity. It's just the consistency of having the same thing every time and then you take those long esters. And I think that that still allows this, though, and I have not done any blood level, you know, blood reads or anything. But it just stands to reason that it would be logical that they would maintain better even though they're longer esters if they're injected more frequently. I think it was either