and on today's show we got a guest we got Dusty's tissue guy, Dom Pelosi, he's gonna drop by for a chat and then of course we have Instagram questions with Dusty and I on It's Just Bodybuilding. What's going on my friend? Look at the dream just off day training as you know, it's a little sad but on the road playing in different gyms, having fun, you know? Yeah, I first of all, different shirt, I assume that you know different shirt means someone else gets some love and this is a... Let's see, let's see, I didn't quite see, you want to get transcend company, okay? So tell people what that is. So transcend company is a clinic, so TRT, all the good stuff is on there and also we have some we call them all the PRP or the bandom magic joint shit, all that you guys have here. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, and then but these guys they do your test all that good stuff, women men sexual things, all the all the above, they don't do the sexual things, you know, sexual things, you know what sexual things are there, there are packages be careful, women need to breathe, and the name pills we've got them all, but the primary use for all of my guys is I have a lot of guys that come in and of course you know they're complaining of injuries, lack of libido, lack of energy, lack of energy, and what's the first point? I know, like I have lack of libido, what do you want to say? Because you know the people who come your way and say, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, okay, I thought you're going to have a mentality like you run, right, like what? What's in the old days you'd be like, well come back and meet me behind this parking lot and I'm going to give you some shit made in the bathtub, it's a lead way, and then you can turn it to the park, all natural simple, they go to tranceandcomedy.com, okay, literally a button, Dr. review, they come pick your blood, tell you what you need, and wouldn't you know, I say you $20, if you say dusty 20 when you check out. But the nice thing is, truthfully, that I like bluntly is unlike a lot of TRT clinics and not clip and people. So you know, an average person, let's hypothetically say that there were illegal drugs on the street, and my cost is say 50 to $65 to get a bottle of test, and I can legally get it for 75, and fly with it and travel with it, and subscribe, and by the way, you're going to fuck you up, you know what I mean? We're keeping you safe. So awesome company, all okay, excited. They got great products. So we met over a month ago, and just kind of, I wanted to see the companies actually use the product to make sure that I was happy with the legitimacy of it, and we actually signed everything up last week, our agreement, because I'm going to start using all of my supplements, it'll be from them now. So none of your stuff has like a wizard on the label or anything like that anymore. Yeah, it's a great idea. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, actually getting, so I can pick this up at like a wallgreens, that's different, so that's cool. You know, so it's definitely good though, because all kidding the side, it's, it's the one part of body, and I've always thought it's funny is you've got a bunch of athletes that in some ways are borderline criminals technically. Yeah, and we can avoid all that, and the big thing is right now, I hammer my clients for blood work and what sucks is very first one to ask me is, okay, what do I get on the blood work? Yeah, I can literally send them in. They go to Trans10Comedy.com, type in the information, and you'll tell them like they literally get the blood work done as it discounted blood work to get that out in the near on the phone with the doctor telling you, okay, instead of just I'm sure you have a client that just sent you the blood work and I don't know what this says, right, right, they do all that for us. Yeah, because we're all here to be meeting effects, here's natural supplements, you can use here's things we offer we can use and I are healthy. So I'll be doing a lot of Q&As on the individual products. I'm actually going back to school now, technically with them, because as you know, a lot of the joint repair stuff that you've used and those things that I never really tried, the issue I had with not getting into those was half a more fake. Right, sourcing and quality and all that sort of stuff. Yeah, I think that's a big problem. The guys who used the good stuff would be like, oh, it's so great. They talked to them and I was like, did nothing. You know, so this way it's all legit. They run through them. Those things, what's nice, some of them you don't even need is script 4. Some of them you do. So so they're doing all the peptides as well, you mean? Yeah, every peptide you can think of. Yeah, yeah, yeah, that's cool. Okay, but like I said, I actually have to get more educated on because I've always ignored them for that same reason. I'm like, yeah, like the BPC 500 and the T or the BPC 1 and 5700 and the TB 500. Alex, the only one I know are those two because I, they've helped people put them on, but that's that. And the problem was the only place I need to get them disappeared. Because they weren't there. Right. So thankfully that exists. So I'm stoked to get that rolling for people. And then when I'm posting stuff, the nice deal is you don't have the other than this, there's not going to be a discount code or anything. You just follow a link and it'll take care of it. So good for everybody. It's more I'm trying to clean it up a bit. We've got too many guys have coming to me recently with infections or underdose shit or whatever. Yeah, or yeah, I'm going to town for a week. What do I do? And I'm like, you're off. I had a client who was like eight weeks into a cycle and then he finally told me as I can feel like I feel like garbage on this cycle man. And my, and his weight wasn't moving up and he just did seem to feel good and I was like, maybe your gears all shit. Right. Like like maybe all these problems are just like gear related. You know, and he switched his brand to gear and feels way better. Right. And I'm not even sure it was dosing. It was a quality. We're going to be a two-high BA in the same thing. I mean, it just felt like the architecture. They're trying to avoid infections or the load you with. You know, yeah, and stuff like that. And it's like, I don't make sure that but now you've got redness and swelling on the site. You're getting the flu symptoms. Yeah, this just takes all that away. Plus my big thing honestly is, you know what you're getting. Because I always hate that. I feel like some of the issues with some of the dosing we see is because guys think they're taking 200 milligrams per milliter and they're not. It's like, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, some of the crazy doses we think we're seeing too aren't at they're not actually taking that much shit, right? Like, they think they're going out. What's pretty relating. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And that would be why everyone calls me a liar. The legitimate test for so long. Well, that's what I mean, also in TRT, you're really going to be like, that's what that's what Dorian said. You remember when that muscular development, the article came out where Dorian gave his actual contest cycles? Uh-huh. And people didn't believe him. Everyone just instantly called him a liar and he's like, wait a minute, guys. This is actually what I was taking. But remember, I was getting all European amps. Like, I think it was 100% legitimate, 80s quality, 90s quality. Yeah. I touched the stuff that was that good. Yeah. Yeah. Like, so, you know, he had, I remember his cycle was 400 test and like, I was like 300 pre-mo and then like some tabs on top of that with a bit of wind straw or something. Like, that's Olympia, him win any Olympia. Right. And people like bullshit, bullshit. And he's like, this was all like unbelievably good stuff, guys. Like, you're missing my point here. These are the real dos. It was super, it was super realized too. Like, when you think of when I first started and at first time I ever got to use D-ball, it was ridiculous. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I was in a decade because it's garbage. Every time I get someone like, well, that's a tech tech school. Uh, well, I remember real D-ball. So I know good D-ball when I take it. That's what I'm saying. Within days, you're like, oh, yeah, somes going on. Yeah. So remember, I got to tell everybody, I got to two things. I got to say, like share, subscribe, hit the bell. Yeah, ring the bell. Leave a comment. And secondly, you've got a little white string on your arm on that black shirt. Stry me crazy. I can't sub-stern at it, dude. I know that you would feel the same. Yeah. See, don't move it. You want me to get rid of it, man. We should say the thing where every time I'm on the show, like, next week, it's a red string. I'm just staring at it. I'm like, good. I feel good about that because that is the shit that would drive me crazy. Hey, I'm going to stop talking until you fix that. Yeah. Yeah. And then I, and then I'm thinking, I wonder if we get anyone in the conference who'd say that white string is just staring at me. They were going to, but they've already left the show because you said, say it or, huh? Well, everyone, that's a friend thing that you just did. You ever see that? Like, I see somebody like something hanging on their nose, wrong with teeth. I'm like, bro, you got fucking booger hanging on your nose. That's not what I'm gonna hear. Yeah. If you don't do that, you're not a friend. Yeah. No. I know. I'm not a person you want to want to make sure that's 10,000 people don't see you that shit. Right in there. I'm going to help each other out. Be better people. So are we bringing Dom on or what's going on? I think it's time. I think we bring Dom on and here where he came from and why he left. So we're going to eat for flex Lewis. So does he does these bring it on a friend of his and I'll let him lead this interview. I do not know Dom, but I'm assuming if he's associated with Dusty, there's some very entertaining qualities about him. Yeah, you know what I think he's okay. Not too bad. We've had some fun. Yeah, bring him in. Guys, Dom, what up? Hard. We're fantastic. Welcome to It's just bodybuilding now that you're on the show instead of just watching. He actually looks into our show. Oh, amazing. Hello, good to meet you, Dom. Run part of it here. It's hard to get to be here. Thank you so much for having me. You know what's funny about that is a lot of these big name bodybuilding clients, open bodybutters. I'll go to their houses. You know, nine o'clock, 10 o'clock tonight. And they actually have you guys on YouTube while we're working and it's funny. And then it's not like they knew they already had it on, right? You know, so I think a lot more people are watching than you guys think. Oh, that's that's crazy. Me and Dusty still can't believe anyone listens. Yeah, my mom tried to watch one episode. She bailed me. And she like this is terrible. Yeah, close friends. Our close friends tell us it's garbage. I like it's an honor to be here because it does have influence in our industry and you guys provide a lot of information in general. It's known to be like unfiltered and and by experience, right? Both you are kind of annoying for being just beast and an out of experience. I think you can almost help other people tap it in that, you know. Well, that's awesome to know. And I got to say I love this shirt. I love the Dragon's Lair shirt. Dragon's Lair Vegas. Grand old down to me, everybody. Yeah, are you gonna like go up and hang out there? What's going on? Yeah, pretty dumb. It was all day for for my side, you know, that I've been fortunate enough to be an independent contractor and they're servicing the members and my client tell there for me. It was great because, you know, obviously going home to home, it's a lot easier being at one location and like with arsenal equipment. I mean, everything is arsenal and strive. It really makes a big difference in the product. I can deliver with what I do. Cool. So we got to get a run-down dump. Well, it was thinking it was kind of a brief from the top how you started with me forcing you to stop trying to people and do this instead. And then, and then kind of where you are now and how you got there and who you're working with. You know, I can't want anybody to get a feel. And then what the equipment does, because that's a, I get a lot of people when I put that last post in which why I decided to do this, because they were like, oh, what is that? I don't know. It's a 40 minutes to explain it to any still, right? It's more, it's more complicated than you think, but in general, I want to say five, six years ago, my starter work went to us today. My relationship actually goes back to the bus the year 17 years now. 2004, I walked into a supplement shop, dusty owned, and he saw me some protein. I mean, I went in there for literally a multi-viadement. Okay. Like, I heard this was a cool. God. And the episode, the episode to the 70 pound tub. For care, super draw. God knows what I had. But either way, I got the full run-down and gave me an idea of it. You know, I walked in and there's this monstrosity of a person eating a piece of chicken off of his fork, right? You know what I mean? And so I definitely made, sorry about that. My dog did it. It definitely made an impact on me. And as a trainer going through the industry, I recommend all my clients. Anyway, I was a trainer at a gym in Scottsdale where we live. And it does see was their workin' out if you feel mean is kind of when I'm not long after you first turn pro. Oh, I don't want to second guys. Hey, my dogs are like, they're all too good. They all they all jump in. That being said, you know, like, it's not see was was working out there. Just turn pro. And you just look, you know, kind of get ready for a show. I think he had some things in mind, some big things. And you know, it was just when like YouTube was getting really big. And Instagram was getting really big. And I think he saw me stretching somebody in the corner. And it was just one of my clients that were lazy, right? Like, I didn't want to give up this session. They couldn't work out. So we're doing some like fashions, trench therapy stuff and some things I got certified a little earlier. My career in Dusty comes by and he's like, hey, I need that. And I'm like, oh, man, like, you're too big. I don't think, you know, I mean, that's, that's a lot of work, right? So we just kind of joked about it for months. And then one day, grab me and he's like, hey, like, I do want to use your services like like to try it out. So I take him through a stretch and, you know, he liked it, whatever. And I was like, man, that's so hard. Like, it doesn't really move the same way. And then getting, I swear to God, the first first pro body boat I've ever really like, known and worked on, you know, I'm from on a little way. And the guy who brought me up is Chris Faudo. And he's one of the biggest guys of mine, her came. But keep in mind, he turned pro at 167.5. So we're not. I'm from big is not dusty big, right? At the time he's pushing like 272.85. And I was big for him at the time. And I think he got to like 3, 10, 3, 15 or something like, while I was working with him, it was insane. He broke one of my tables. I mean, you know, they are like lying down on it. And you just hear this crack. So anyway, I bought a special table for dusty. And because of his needs, I ended up acquiring other tools and certifications. And basically acquiring knowledge to help my friend. And in return, just me working with us, he really kind of, I guess like created a line of people trying to get these services. And you know, at first there's pretty cookie cutter, or your hits your ties, or ankles are tied. And then that book another one. And within a couple of days, a lot of times, they kind of just would like come back just the same. And there's like this, it was actually really difficult on my body. And you know, through learning more, you know, you acquire better tools. And all of a sudden things start kind of sorting out. And then before you know it, I remember Dusty telling me, like, what do you want to work on? Yeah, like, well, what hurts is like nothing. Like, and I'm like, man, there's like six months of one thing after the other, right, Ron. Anyway, it's like, so we kind of like, look at some stuff. And like, man, we, I think, does he's like, I think he would actually like can do like good, you know, I mean, and so slowly, but sure, yeah, I stopped eating the trainer and my got more and the bodywork got more starts. And I ended up with some technology that is becoming really popular. But I found my own way to use it for therapy needs and mobility and rehabilitation. And you know, in the end, it's a tool, basically it's final electricity, you know, everything runs on electricity. So this, these, these, these, these stem, these bios stems. And we'll actually create a very similar signal to what your brain is pushing out. See, you're trying to do some biceps. And that's a signal, right? So like, it actually amplify that signal. And of course, the first idea we get is, yeah, wow, that can really get bigger on that, right? You know, and that's the majority of everybody's blowing everything out, right? You know, I mean, it's like the people are sorbitated, red mean, they're, we're pissing blood after workouts, right? But it really does unlock the muscle. It's amazing for movement and training. But so what I do is, I run that current through, uh, is some tools and then combination with different modalities. Obviously, my, my stretch therapy background. Um, and then as a corrective exercise trainer, you know, everyone kind of has a prescription. So, you know, with this current, you can make things stronger, you can tone things down, you can tone things up. So there's a lot of cool things you can do within. In fact, we're still kind of learning what its capabilities are, you know, um, uh, in the end, it became a little more of a need for things. And I started targeting pro body voters, especially ones that repeat up and like I knew they had problems. They've worked with everybody, right? Uh, kind of like dusty. I was like, man, if I can do it on them, I'm gonna come up. This is going to be legit. And again, level up level up level up. You got to learn more to fix more and eventually I ended up with a flex Lewis and uh, just the happen to be at the same time. He was open the dragon's layer and they thought it'd be a good modality to add to their physical therapist, the chiropractor, you know, trying to create a little bit more of a one stop and a hub, a four industry to come in, get fixed, get better, um, win their shoulders, win their, win their day, whatever, right? You know, so so you're, you're in Scottsdale, but you're going to go up to Vegas, like part time or how is that going to work for you? Actually, I've been splitting time for a while. Uh, yeah. I'm very blessed to have a strong clientele, um, in Arizona and to work around some of these opportunities in fact most of my clients are, are, are ecstatic. And, uh, you know, I think honestly, it's going to double just being on this podcast by the way. I think, guys know, how much it's, it's really done, but anyway, um, yeah, no, uh, so I split time. I've been splitting time for six, seven months anyway. You know what I mean? I work for the idea, he, he, he to tata, uh, a couple of the other Olympians getting ready for that show and, uh, you know, in the end, they sent me a lot of their people and then there were people sent me a lot. So I really had a strong following there anyway. It was a blessing to have a place to, I guess, continue my work there without being, without being interrupted by having a drive. Cool. What, what, what are some of the, I guess, you know, thinking of body builders, obviously, because of the theme of the show, but what are some of the most common things that you think you go the law, do, do do the most good, that we should be doing, that are easy. Like, like, what are some of the things that we could be doing a lot of prevention with? Well, so understanding this function and in balance is that's, that's, that's again, that's kind of like a frequency and a signal and it can be actually half and reset in a lot of different ways. But like the most simplest that we're supposed to be doing anyway, eating good food, drinking, tons of water, I mean, flushing out the toxins that were creating from training and, and, and, and, uh, in the end, just getting better sleep, right? So it's just the basics. Like, anything else on that show, it doesn't, there's no big secret to it, right? Like, if you do the things you're supposed to do, unfortunately, we're in an industry where, um, you know, having cheap meals is great now and all these crazy supplements are out there and got a lot of different, uh, uh, uh, uh, supplements running through, um, the system and some of them are toxic, some of them are being prescribed and, and, and, and, and, and set up in a way where our bodies are not able to get rid of those toxins in that limb. So, you know, your wrists and the signal, when your wrists is messed up, your shoulder gets messed up, your tummy, your digestive system, your lymph system, when that stuff gets backed up, the signals are quantum fun. So now you get this person who's actually creating more issues as they're trying to work out and getting a shape, right? It's very kind of productive. I think to the general idea of bodybuilding training. So the number one thing is, uh, I love that answer because you didn't try to sell me something that you do. He said, you said, first of all, many of you assholes would need me if you would just take better care of yourselves. That's what I are. Well, you look funny about the Ron is, and you know, it's true a lot of guys have done it where especially with orals, they start taking an oral, then they're, their appetite goes away. Right. And they're like, well, I'm struggling to eat and I'm like, well, what change? So I took an oral, well, then stop the oral because as much as that would have an impact if the food was still there. Yeah. Yeah. It's not. You know, a big thing that I wanted to push that, that uh, was funny. So when I finally broke and like sort of pushing down to work on me like twice a week, early early on, I kept having an adapter issue where it would pull or nearly tear every leg day. Right. So I would go to the gym and you've been there wrong where you're going to like, just please don't get hurt today. Like that was my, that became my leg day process like, right. Like nothing fun, nothing crazy. And you know, what it comes down to would kind of with your question was, if I would have worked on mobility earlier in my career as I was starting to get big, none of the sort of happened after Dom worked on me for a little bit. Oh, it's your ankle. I'm like, no, no, it's my, right after. No, it's your ankle. It's causing all that. So ankle, adapter hip just works for you. Yeah. Yeah. And once uh, he and another uh, P.T. I worked with kind of jumped in and worked on that together. Once that was fixed, then Dom could work up my body and start fixing what had now been damaged because of the ankle. It's was talking the other day about my collection of injuries. And almost everything that's ever happened to me has been on my left side. Right. And uh, I'm thinking back, you know, how far back do I go before I see like a like an injury that and it was when I played football in high school, I rolled my left ankle super bad. Like it turned purple and black. But I just taped it up. And played the rest of the season because I was fucking hardcore linebacker, right? And uh, started every game, just played through it with a black ankle. Didn't fucking just pop some of Featherin and wind, right? And um, I think back and I'm like, I wonder if that left ankle injury because that ankle was never the same. And then, you know, that's the need that went. That's the hip that hurts and that's the shoulder and that's the lat that I fucking had problems with. And that's just like I was wondering. Well, well, funny. You see that. I did the same thing broke my finger in the high school and I taped it together. And now it doesn't work, right? You see, you know, I don't have something like that. That's like awful. Like I mean, let me think about it, right? Yeah. That's that ankle. Now your foot kind of stops working. It works differently. It works. That ankle has never been the same as the other one. And don't even wrong. Like that's something that you can actually live with. A freak show like dusty actually is so connected and too. He figured some of that stuff out and he just kind of shift, you know, we all do it. You shift it a lot, you know. First thing I'm talking to Flex one of those days and uh, uh, and this happens with a lot of my clients, right? But Flex was kind of funny. I love because he goes, uh, you know, my cue is I lean to go, what, what do you mean your cue? He's like, well, everything I kind of have to lean the left. That's just to be like, good. I'm like, man, this guy just kind of means, but understand what is happening there. You're doing that, but it's probably not working right. And most likely it isn't working right at all. You're using something else to do that. And now we're creating compensation. So don't get wrong. There's everybody has compensation, right? I've seen people destroy classes completely dysfunctional, but for some reason it just works for that. So I think for the average person though, when there's enough dysfunction, enough things off, it creates a little bit more of a stressful environment. You take a couple other factors that is just life relationships, uh, your animals. I mean for me, man, I was a running my life right now. But, uh, you know, there's enough, uh, you travel, right? They think different things create different factors and now your body goes in an overload. So in an neuro therapy and the bios, the bios, them and a bio, that just the intellectual growth, uh, we, we, we reference to the nervous system quite a bit. So, you know, your wrist impenetra, your shoulder impenetra, hips, your ankle kind of swells up after you hit something that's a sympathetic single. And in terms of what we know, that's fighter flight, right? So in a fighter flight system, everything is going to be poorly compensated. You want to why you sleep on your hands like this every night, right? You know, because your shoulders so weak, now your body's trying to kick your hand out a bit. Now from that, your, your, your, your, your your scap gets really long. And then they're talking to us, they can't keep my traps down, right? Like when they're posing, right? So does seem to actually figure a lot of this out while I was figuring it out. And it was, it was, it was absolutely, uh, uh, uh, imperative to my career and where I am now my understanding and what makes me an effective therapist to understand like prescription. I actually didn't really understand it as much as I thought does see tied that together with me. And I kind of tied the crazy audience, you know, they're going to get all of a sudden we had a system, you know, I mean, what's amazing is he's been able to take that same knowledge. Look at one of my clients, I sent him with a, with a, with a, with a, with a X amount of imbalances, right? You know, he can actually already training them. I'll look at their workouts and it's actually already geared for for them to be successful, you know, I mean, I just go in the extra if there's something really weird, you know, I mean, I came in there's like, uh, has a thing that's just so much longer and I gave up this to do this, right? And but either way, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's really cool when the trainers and the therapy and the supplements and everything kind of rolls together because that my job gets easier as a body worker. And I don't have a the same impingement to fix every week, three times a week in this kind of freaking out trying to come to me and paint, right? You know, so you mentioned some earlier, you said how flex Lewis told you he was like purposely leaning to the left so it felt right. Yeah. So I think I understand what he means. So a lot of times, like I had a, I ruptured my Quad 10 in once. That was a few years ago, but and I've had, you know, a lot to injuries is a bodybuilder. So when I, when I put my feet on the platform for an instance, I have to make sure they're visually straight because they don't feel straight. They feel crooked, but they look straight. So if I video my form, it looks perfect, but it doesn't feel straight. And if I do it, so it feels straight, I'll be my feet aren't even. Is that ever going to go away? Or am I always going to have to train to make the reps look proper even though they feel weird? So that's a, um, yeah, I could go away. It depends how much help important it is to, right? Like, I mean, men without the technology, I mean, it's gotten better. It's gotten better, obviously. But I'm just wondering more fiddle. You put some work in your head, you put some work in your foot, because this, but again, you still have that signal going to that end book. And every time you put your foot on the gas pedal or every time you go to sleep, really, I think, when you're subconscious, that's when your body goes back into that protective piece. Now, you've actually learned your way around it to kind of settle into it. And you know, crooked is straight. And that's what everybody talks about, you know, and I remember a video in the new fit, the new beat, new fit is one of the machines I use a real popular bad role. Right. We can mention that. Yeah, we've had Brad on talk about the newbie. Yeah. Everybody knows about the newbie. It's awesome. You know, I mean, and it's a, it's really nice for bodybuilders because the bodybuilding is almost like, I hate to say it, but it's inflamed. You know, I mean, it's inflammation. That's what it is. It's right. So that being said, in this case, X amount of inflammation is good. It's just bad when it builds up. But the new fit, it creates a, you can be running out of certain frequency. And it creates a blowout. I mean, a visual blowout. It's amazing. But on the other side of that, Ron, is reprogramming that signal. So now we have a pad that can electrode on something. So I'm trying to get this sort. This and another pad will coordinate. And if you run it in the right frequency, your brain's going to pick up on it. It's a loud enough machine strong enough, right? It runs out of a ridiculous hurts, out of a very specific layer sick. And when it's layered like that again, your chest, your hip for your job or your ankle, it's not going to be able to know whether that's a machine or your brain. When you're difference between this, we're operating at 50 times a brain's potential with some of this equipment. You know what I mean? So I think in the end, it's a, you can kind of see the bottom right away, right? It kind of locks things in and for us, somebody going, we call that the mind muscle connection. And you've learned not to pull your lots out. You've learned how to do things, but how hard did you have to work at that, right? You know, I mean, so that was person. Probably ain't going to put it in the time. I mean, let's be real, right? You know, and, and that being said, going back to bodybuilding the general population, most people fail in the gym because it's not really worth it for their energy. The harder they work, the worse it gets until they hire somebody who actually, you know, I mean, so not a corn dog's eye for is all insulin. We all know what happens when you cut out alcohol and sugar you drop. Or does all just cause you queues effective itself, right? So you know, me and Dusty, we try to control whole, usher in a new era. I think trying to keep his alcohol in gestion is low as possible too. Good luck with that. You know, it's funny though, is, uh, run, uh, when I just saw Dom, I coincidentally just, he got a new machine or a new machine. I hadn't used yet. And, uh, I was like, hey, I want to, he, he mentioned that he could fix my digestion, start working on my sleep. But I walked in and I had a trap. It was just locked, which happens to me a lot at the same spot all the time. And it's usually a very long process, uh, a couple weeks of getting worked on stuff just because, it'll get released, but then my body squeezed back in, especially if you're under stress, like you said, cortisol. Um, so he put the new machine on the trap and on my back, but then also on the pack. And I'm, of course, you know, like, what are we doing? And Dom kind of explained the relationship, because that's what you're just going into. Why you had to hit both sides, you get my body to let go on the trap side. Yeah. So what were we doing with that? Well, with that being said, um, first day I did with Dacia, they was, uh, I mean, that's my hardest critic. I'm just going to be very clear on the hardest hardest critic. Most of because, you know, he's been my coach. He's been a very close mentor of mine. Um, but at the same time, like I went in with a little bit more of a game plan. And knowing Dusty's habits being round and for some time, no he doesn't sleep. I know he's, uh, it trains way too hard, right? And he did an easy doing a lot of therapy, which is releasing toxins into his system. So first I did, was kicked his nervous system down and got it from that fighter fight into, like, more of a rest than feed from there, half the trap and everything kind of like go. And uh, uh, he has a torn pack on that side. So I just took a kind of a gander and, all right, well, I think this is the trap is compensating from that peck not working and him trying to do some shoulders and stuff, right, whatever, you know, and anyway, so I knocked that back and kind of reset where his wrist should be and he was golden, you know, um, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the really such a really cool new fit developed, um, quite a bit of a system and, uh, when you see when I say a system, they have a very, like, full proof system where it, it allows any practitioner to be effective, right? But like anything else, it's a tool. So it only amplifies kind of what you know, right? So there's people I use it and it, it probably doesn't do the person any good in a long run, right? But, uh, that being said, though, like, if you follow the system, it's all about relationship and, and the nervous system. So, you know, they give us information, they give us the tools, they give us the basic, the basic protocols and from there, you know, it's us up to us to accelerate that. And, uh, because I was a successful body worker and I had people like Dusty helping me, you know, we, we got Dusty pretty much on point as much as we could manually. I mean, no neural, no nothing, which is very difficult to do. Uh, the PTEC, so you know, as someone that actually, I'm telling you, the guy is, you guys are pretty sure, but not, you know what I find is a lot of my, my high-distant clients, my, my biggest names. They have very similar nervous systems. Like, there's stuff that's adapting, they're feeling a little too much. The ones that go real far and work their way back, they actually feel a little bit more. It's like a blind person. I can hear better, right? You know, I mean, so it's, uh, they give me a lot of weird feedback, which actually allows me to develop the system further. Um, little things I'm working on now that I've got to show you that's the, um, I got a great sleep at me as a kind of acceleration. So I'll take that machine and run the current through a glove and kind of open up the nasal passages. A lot of inflammation, you know, own down up in the air and sometimes it's a bit stipular. It's through the ears so you can use that current to clear out those pieces. From there, you open up the diaphragm, clean up the long gistemists, teach them how to breathe under a, uh, a, uh, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a, a parasympathetic current, which is like a rest and feed. And then, well, ah, you might not need your sleep up anymore, right? You know, there's like little things like that, you can actually stop. And almost when you're stuck with thealities, now we're like, stuck in progression. All we have to do is make sure the person's nervous system is able to, to take it. And I know one sounds crazy, but it's all a signal, right? If you understand anything, signal allergies is a signal MS is a signal, um, so the news that right now is being in the process and they're calling it the cure to MS. So with, with, with, with that kind of fiber, around the MS, Hashimoto's, these are these are not uncommon things that we're dealing with as trainers. And, and to be able to know, they can receive a couple of treatments a week or under 150 bucks. You know, now they can be actually be successful in our programs. We don't have to work around it. So that's the beautiful thing about the new fit and, and other similar products, like, you know, like the, the other machine, and then I run, but, um, you know, now it puts it in, it puts it into our hands, or we can now assist people, and more than just fitness, but, you know, it could be successful at fitness. You have to be healthy for some more. Yeah. That's what we're trying to do. We're on this kind of the reason I wanted to bring Dom on in particular is, um, obviously, if you're anywhere near Arizona, I only send people to Dom and I only spend people at my PTJs, and that's it. Like, those are my guys. But what I try to drive home for trainers is there's always this fear of sending money to someone else because, oh, what if there's a limit? But I find, if my athletes are healthy and functional, what I do works better, they don't get injured, or if they do they bounce back faster, and they're a long-term client plus, I just can't lie. They're results are better because I'm putting them in the hands of people who do things I can't do. I always think it's a very short-sighted industry we have where it's like they're afraid to let anyone go, and like Dom or Erjson will tell you, I follow up after their sessions or they'll contact me and I'm like, okay, do I need training? Changing or they're training? Because I don't know the depth of what's going on. I don't know like, hey, Dom, let's kind of show the fact that I don't know what's going on. Yeah. I saw a video I didn't like it was tracking. Can you run him through? Then he comes back and says, leave the training alone, but I'm having him at this. Okay. Well, next thing you know, when that guy is doing better, you know who the hero is? Me. That's why I think it's not worth finding. Like I did nothing but direct you to the smarter person and that's what I feel like people like trainers missed though is they're so afraid to bring anyone in like I joke and it's like I have it at a team like the reason I couple up with the right people, the right supplement companies, the right hormone companies because at the end of the day that makes my product better and that's why I wish more people do so wherever you guys live in the world of the country that should be thinking is okay, my career would be over if it wasn't for dog. I couldn't train legs and now I joke about but people don't realize it. I'm stronger than I've ever been and more healthy at 39. Then I was 29. It's like, I don't walk into the gym, I want to even hit hurt, I walk into gym, wanting what records I'm going to break that day. It's a fucking game now, you know? So that's kind of the value. So Dom, how do people get a hold of you if they want more info or I do know it's a little tricky but you know enough of the guys if they can contact you to see who in the area they should see even if they're the same as you, what's the best way to get touched with you on that route? Well, you know, I do I do run a lot on Instagram. IG's been really nice for me and it's funny that I've never really believed in it. I still don't put enough into it but a dusty made me get one at one point to help me get from Scottsdale to God knows wherever I've been right and not but I think you can't get a hold of me through IG. I'm at the dragons layer Wednesday through Saturday every week and that's an easy way to find me as well. You know, I got stuff on their IG that can link through and fail both of the stuff that you're there. Oh my god, Ron, you have no idea. And kind of happened back to them. I was just helping flex with some stuff and you know, I mean we're working through some things and it's like man, are there other people, how many other people do what you do? I'm like man, actually I do what I do and it's got on my own deal, right? I mean it's like well like you know, and it's hard to ask questions about the machine and I know they wanted that service available to the client. Flexed and Ali is white. They're they're they're very adamant on building a culture, right? And and creating a place where you can get the best of the best, right? And that's kind of what you know flexed and I flexed and it seemed Neo, heo, heo, it's a white 3T. They're trying to go with a champions champion. I mean it's another level. So I'm like man, I'm on in on that, for sure. Like I'll do it and they're like well we need a full time. I'm like well what's full time. Like maybe two days a week. I'm like I'll maybe four just because of how many people are going to be rolling through there, right? And yeah. Just in the time I can prove the system man and and you know like going back to dusty real quick if some of the things he was saying he was a you know he looks at it like a game as sometimes I use a dynamometer basically it measures four ships of PSI. So you can run it on certain strength tests and figure out what muscles we give. You know it's part of that new fit system they teach us. Anyway, I'm going through this and there's obviously a number and that's who's like what's my score? I'm like no man it's not about like a score we're trying to you win when we fix it right? But you know like so a lot of that it is it can be like a game and and getting this even to that and a lot of us who are successful in bodybuilding we got car core OCD sometimes like neurological stuff right? We have to do this a certain way and everything I think what's so hard about what we're doing in the neuro world it's it's not the normal right? It's going to be the new school is it's definitely becoming more normal especially with the lead in the sport. Everybody's tried it right at this point and now it's just about understanding how to implement it for what we need. Some people need training, some people need therapy, but you know with the trainers that's how I I even got all the experience I marketed to the trainer in the state free work some of your clients I fix them you know they do good and does he's absolutely right? I don't get it I don't get a lot of the credit but I'm happy the trainer is making more money and doing better and making them better products and thus you know in the turn they get more clients and they send me more people so I think that's how we're trying to make it work even in the dragons there where you know everybody works together we have a PT there it's not just there it's chiropractic obviously neuro therapy you know I mean like so we're going to try and work together to get this athlete to be their absolute best and and perform the best of living that's really right obviously it's available to regular people too I worked out a dog yesterday right I can't know the the current works on dogs too so I mean I'll take care of your dog and your grandma make sure you get your dog happy with you. I have to do love it well you know you know I'd be sending the dogs before me. That's opening okay what was the date on the grand opening again? March 28th it's uh there they wish this cool because they're waving daifies and they're and they're this is different from their other location where they actually have a membership and uh weekends are big for daifies a lot of people come in just to have a part of that culture for a day you know and that's like gold student vennence he's used to be making a hub you know Jake coupler's walking around saying hi to people flex rodent is there right it's it's it's it's crazy everybody's in there and um yeah March 28th they're waving he's not anybody come in well I hope actually I think they're waving babies yeah now let me double check right okay all right well I'm not going to pick because I'm going for sure and I talked flex so we're good. Well Dom and I appreciate you jumping in here and kind of give us a background on it and we'll make sure to well siphon anyone your your way that hits us up it can't figure it out but uh please and that's it man appreciate you coming in. Thank you thank you so much for the opportunity guys you guys have a good one. Thank you Tom good to meet you. Hey what's going on guys thanks for watching another podcast here at Think Big Body Building Media and thank you to our great sponsor True Nutrition dot com for making this all possible. True Nutrition dot com is owned by Dante Trudeau the creator of DC training you wanted to create a supplement company that offered high quality third party test and supplements at a fair price high quality protein powders just about every type you could think of huge variety of flavors plus health and performance supplements check them out true nutrition dot com and hey if you use our code advices you directly support our podcast and thanks guys let's get back to the program. So fun we got we got to rotate dude because I got questions I don't know if you even did that but I did. I did I threw one up and I purposely threw it up really late. Oh good because I couldn't handle the volume last week or last time I did it so I'm checking now crazyness okay so yeah I still got a lot of them good okay you go first I was just sitting in a tweet Jesus or you're gonna act like we're on the show live okay here's one dusty. Here's one and I'm not gonna give any context or meaning cause they didn't. It just asked the question. I'm ready. Start a business or buy a house. Oh good buying your house is a business number one. I just don't even rent it out it is a business. So tricky there right now I would buy house. There you go. I'm gonna make for sure the market the rates are low the the market is ridiculous just understand you're going to pay premium special if you're in Arizona but yeah I would buy a fucking house for sure and put a rent around it. Oh for sure yeah I mean you could buy and live it yourself too but I mean there were multiple times in my life that I rented in home houses that I didn't live in. Yeah so or you can do it and you keep the house you have if you already have one and you move into it and you rent out the one you don't want. I've never been stable enough to like I've only lived in a house I only once I was able I like to bounce around too much right so I was like well yeah I don't want this one but I don't want to say you go. I like I like more of those kinds of questions. Okay I would do that too. I already have two businesses I don't need a third and unless I don't have to do anything and the other people are gonna run it. I like that one I like that we got good questions man. Would Milos have been better if he had trained like Dorian in Europe than you all you know that's a good fucking question. Yeah it's just it's impossible to say I mean like what are they trying to say Milos didn't train like hard enough or I don't know what they're trying to say just I think diet training like Milos let's be fair whatever you know Milos for and whatever you think Milos does I guarantee Milos tried everything. Yeah what I also was going to say is what Milos has created host career yeah it's not exactly but he was doing exactly and I'm not saying that he made it up falsely or maybe he caused the end of his career I mean look at you things that you have realized when you were tired and realizing you know some of the things you know now you would have altered the way overall you're training what to say the same but there would have been some tweaks yeah what have kept less injuries and may have resulted in better results like I don't train my clients exactly how I trained when I was young and growing the principles are definitely very much intact but there's certain things certain exercises certain ways of doing exercises certain positions I don't utilize certain you know what I mean I'm like you know what that was a mistake I went too hard on that fucking position and it you know wrecked my fucking elbow or something you know what I mean I just I have a few things but yeah I know you mean I mean Milos fucking tried everything man you can't say didn't try training heavy what even I'm sure he squatted what Milos probably squatted 600 pounds in his day for reps I mean it's like you think what also people for get or she needs it forget but don't realize is um Dorian is Dorian yeah regardless and I can say this from training with him people look at me and are just like they shape their head at the intensity and whatever and I can tell you it pales in comparison I trained with him retired and when I got done what the workout my first thought was he's a nasty motherfucker and my second thought was and this is the retired version right right what was he when he got ready for the Olympia like and I don't think I mean I couldn't even put it towards but standing there I just realized like and I I became I'm more intense now than I was then but I can pretty much blindly say as much as I focus I don't him Jordan there's certain people that literally have a level that you like my point is I couldn't I couldn't put together what Dorian did and the same workout that he did even not even the focus the intensity and the connection I have I think Milos maximize his and plus look at him it's just a different body like he was not a possible way I loved his look overall um but I did think it was a good question because people ask it all the time or people like I look at that when somebody goes man Ben Bikolski and he's figure out it gives back big I'm like oh you think he doesn't know his back is lagging because he's he's Martin would take youlessly studied every possible fiber that you could have in your back and how to make it fire and contract yeah how to load it and how to stretch it and try to try to everything I mean I mean I'm trying to say or even friends while reach out and say hey I know you had this like weakness like Jonathan it's uh that's with that just one of the assholes the overall his back is weakness and I watched his videos the other day training and they were very meticulous very whatever I said hey you ever thought about just getting fucking wild and just pulling weight and seeing what happens and he was like uh I'm like and he said he'd done some things in the past like some heavy deds and stuff like that so he's gonna come out for a week and we're gonna just try some shit and send him home but same thing it might not do shit maybe it's back it's just stuck in sub-embodied part but point being is here he goes just like that you got a guy who won the overall his second show won the overall nationals his legs are the bat some of the best of the pros right now yeah and he's now it's like okay how do I figure out this back well well think of it this way think like I remember seeing that video of Ben Pockowski uh deficit deadlifting seven plates for reps right deficit like like this much of a three inch deficit yeah three inch deficit pulling like it was six or seven plates for reps yeah so yeah okay check heavy deadlifts heavy insane deadlifts check and then also you know 200 pound dumbbell rows no okay check and now also the pinky twisting cable pull downs yeah you think like he did everything the weird like stand back from the hammer to get that that that contraction where the strength curve changes versus using the machine the the way they made it he did everything so sometimes genetics are the barrier people need to realize that you know when you see a guy with an amazing physique and a weak body part it's not that he's not aware Jesus yeah yeah plus I think the other things of fact are going to move on was um to the exit physics that there has not been a durian sense story and what I mean is and I know you guys are watching now don't understand this but I know from talking to like a pseudo and things I told him the the last Olympia I said man I think NASA had that he goes you weren't there yeah I know I've had so he's a Nazi only person that said that to me I've had a few people that are like yeah you know watching the video again now it's really shoulda one of 97 and I'm like fair enough we have watched the video too yeah I watch the video too fair enough but then there's like handful of people that were at that Olympia the crystal said whatever you've ever seen even the great stuff that you've seen in a picture or in a video not it does not he told me he goes it was not close so did you see who had interview the vrown last week I didn't see it no yeah so it was pretty good um you know like I've interviewed you see myself right for the mutant show I had him at the fibo booth it's on YouTube if you guys want to watch me interview Kevin LeVos my favorite body of the old time but go ahead and have a microphone from Fibo mutant live you can search it on YouTube great interview but anyways who had had him on and even he like when they came around the time to talk about Dorian it was just there was this moment where Kevin goes aww I mean Dorian was he was just so unbelievable that's from Kevin LeVos and he just left it at that like he just he just moved on he's like yeah but you know Dorian was just so his just like you know so so and then he started talking about how we thought he had Roni and O2 you know yeah so like LeVos is not saying that with Dorian he's saying that with Roni but that when it comes to them talking about Dorian he's like oh yeah yeah it's just a drop of the that was like Roni after you got we're after oh after O2 when it was close I just you remember the when they did the I'll never forget the backstage when they're interviewing Daxa Jackson triple H he was man all I'm saying is I'm getting second triple H goes second and he looks right the camera and he goes that's fucking Roni Coleman yeah second which is winning for the rest of us that's funny that's funny it all it's good shit you're one one of my favorite Daxa Jackson quotes is from a video that he filmed in 2008 before he won the Olympia I now my memory's very solid on that but if someone remembers and I happen to be wrong on the date please correct me but this is how I remember it he's training at the at the jam in their film and he's talking about how anybody can win the Olympia now you got to remember Jay was a current champion at that point Jay would have been a two-time champion at that point so that's where we were in time and this is the year Daxa actually wins and Daxa says in the video he goes I made a career at a catching people when they're off because I know what I'm good at and then he goes and times have changed he goes there ain't no more runaways the same the Ronnie Coleman days I can't anybody can win no more runaways no more eight times like that's what he's saying right no more runaways is say the Ronnie Coleman days and then he fucking won that year and I remember I was just thought like fuck that was a great one exactly the way he said I made a career catching people when they're off it's just so did and he did 29 times he's it's so here's one I don't know how much we want to talk about this but um either one of you have one regret about your body building careers what would it be? my name's simple don't mind immediately I if I could go back and something and work on clients I would not have been in such a rush to grow I got as big as possible as fast as possible through food primarily and I know what we do fight that but if you look back at the pictures I put up four gear and then even after gear when I was like getting ready for and we'll cut the first time my midsection was better than his now hip structure hip structure but because of the way I forced food down to get as big as possible with fast as possible when everything else got bigger I should have had a much more dramatic extreme than I do now but my midsection got a bigger right in conduction and it was not the training I trained that way back then I've always that's what I made a name I mean that's how I got my first coach to knock half the money off of it because I trained like an idiot they loved it but it was that I was in a rush it was how fast can I get to 300 pounds and just because you could I used to get heavy because I didn't give a shit like it's fine just get big so now I'd pace guys I'll literally slow them down or I'm gonna go oh we're slow now we're gonna hang out you're gonna pay me and we're gonna hang out and then when things start tightening up and you actually start to get tighter on the start we're gonna go up again so yeah my regret would be that it's a long game I'm 39 now and completely healthy and could keep going and had I taken two more years to get to that point I think my body building career as far as competitively would be in a better place than it ever was right I think my mistake was in like the first 10 years I was training I was very close-minded okay like I'm lucky that I was locked in on a bunch of stuff that was really good like progressive training and you know I obviously had picked a good role model the follower Dorian and his drive and all that stuff but I wasn't like open to like any variety or any variation like if if someone said hey do you want to train back today I go yeah I'm so I'm doing these these and these and if they go do you want to do these I don't know like you know what I mean I just I feel like and now that I'm older and you know I work with so many clients now and I see the the the bigger picture you know I was I was just a little bit too I was almost too serious about certain things when you know training is a bit more of an adventure it's there's a little bit of a philosophical side to it too that you know you have to explore the space a little bit and you know I was just such a like I thought I thought that was going to get me their faster and like I said too I tried to get through a lot of walls just by smashing my head against them instead of like maybe just step back or for a door you know so that's that's what I guess I would say you know it's perfect okay you're turned I could ask this every week so I'm just gonna throw it in here when are you gonna have a live porn star on it's just bottled on it's close to a dead one apparently oh god I bet yeah I dealt with that question a couple weeks ago I made Instagram I was like you know I met a point in my life where I'm not quite sure what type of show I want to have do we want to have we just separate show if we're gonna which I've actually considered doing I thought it would be fun to do a show where we literally brought out of people there were just successful in all areas um because it is fun and it's stuff that I like to watch but I just laugh and how often it's I get every week when you have a porn star I'm like I know and then some of some of the people are watching show they they know that I've like been to the AVN so like we can you just call one and I'm like well you have to understand like also too you're dealing with like a lot of very unreliable people it's like body but I'm not a human yeah I know the few that I we could reach out to that would come through but yeah it's also then you're also in a people of crazy scat like hey you want to come do it just show that it'll have no benefit for you but we'll have a little bit more yeah yeah it's not gonna hang that many it's not gonna make this much right we'll give you nothing but I would really appreciate it I will sign up for your only fans two months straight if you do this for me right we're already a member oh if you like we'll still be able to see my credit card how do you know that I'll let's see here on the bone no oh dusty with the question let's go dusty is there anything you wish you would have known before getting your first car oh yeah that it was gonna be terrible in the winter do you get what you had truck with that for a driver something oh my well my first car was a beetle the Volkswagen beetle the real jack no front well is it real yeah might be real well it's real well yeah it is okay it was a chance to go yeah yeah no it's real well it's got the engine it's got that little engine in the back it's real well yeah okay anyways I I bought it because I was like oh these are fucking cool it's like a kind of an old can I got a little bit of hippie in me right like a little bit of like you know you know buck the system be different type of thing and I thought I only get a fucking Volkswagen beetle is my first car what the fuck that'd be funny you know right you know big dude I was a linebacker at that point lifting way to drive in a Volkswagen beetle it's actually was like pretty fun to drive that's another thing too it was like a really fun car to drive you know and and I mean that was back in 93 so it was like it was a 79 so it wasn't really that old you know it was only like 13 years old it's a 79 so it was in really good shape and it ran well but I don't know why nobody pulled me aside and said dude you live in northern Alberta like winter times going to suck in this fucking car I don't know why not fucking pulled me aside and told me that nobody said a word everyone just allowed me to buy a beetle and and then winter time came and I was like holy fuck this car's cold little tiny gas heater in it that barely put out like it was fucking with an adventure oh yeah you're driving a lot of time got my two pulled pulled down driving the gloves on yeah I was thinking about Drew this hell is that not can I I'm like oh I didn't drive well in the snow you're like oh it was fucking cold yeah so it's let's say it's minus 25 out like you could die outside like minus 25 Celsius which is you know you can't imagine it's colder than you've ever experienced and and and and it's like you know minus 15 in the car so it's still like you're like you still have the wind and what would happen is if I got in the car after my workout the windows would steam up and freeze so I'd have to get the scraper and scrape the ice off the inside of the windows before I could drive home from the gym to let my car heat up enough and scrape off all the ice and then it would melt and it was like water running down the doors and I'd have to scrape all the windows and then drive home fucking nuts that was your life oh man rubber for like one year and I thought I'm gonna pick up we're rotating yes I you're not this terrible I do not have any good stories for my first car my first car was bought for me when I was 14 and it was waiting for me when I turned 16 so what happened I got a 1966 Mustang convertible and one of those deals where it was cool story though I always wanted one and I was out of town on a hockey trip and my dad people used to read the paper back then just saying you know one of the kids read listen to this even what that is but he saw it add just cruiser through that said 1966 Ford convertible for sale right that was like four and it has to be a Mustang and so he's like oh fuck it's down the street he goes to look at it and it was uh with 66 and the ladies husband had bought it in Arizona and then three years later died and it had been sitting in her garage all the way until I was 14 was at 1995 and my dad was like what do you want for it and she was like um I don't know 12,000 and he was like give me five minutes and he called my mom and she was like go the bank get 12,000 dollars so what was it worth 20 30 I sold it for over 30 yeah yeah so literally they had to tow it because everything plastic or rubber was rotted so they picked it up towed it directly the Mustang shop down the street they fixed everything and when I came home that weekend it was in the garage and I'm like okay awesome but I'm 14 and my dad was like yeah you could not have afforded to buy this car in the other way so there's your first car and you know but then what was crazy is as the years passed by you know finally at 16 it wasn't a sensible thing to drive every day so I got a different vehicle to drive all the time and then that became the down payment for my first house was it okay that's awesome yeah people say it was kind of like I don't have enough money to have a car that sits in the garage I don't own yeah so we're gonna use it but now of course in high-end time like God what I would do to have that car what color was it it was it was it was it was it was actually red but it's called poppy seed red so it's almost orangeish oh yeah yeah and had a white top on it which was never up because there's a which is of course also funny and high-end say because I don't like convertibles anymore I've been I'm really get convertibles something I don't I don't they get ever buy a convertible I don't even really like to sunlight on my face yeah I don't it's funny I have a son roof and I never yeah I'm with the I don't very well during quarantine so I don't like to go out and I noticed there were less people out there in quarantine we just play yeah you're up okay I know we probably talked about this but I'm sure there's a few stories it could be what was the first thing you remember that blew your mind in the gym you actually saw I was the first thing I saw but there's a first thing I saw as a bodybuilder I was getting ready for a show my very first one I had no idea what I was doing and this guy Sean was getting ready for the show too and I was a kid and I I was just surviving the crap I didn't think I was doing anything but I remember seeing this guy and he never talked anybody and I just watched his face keep thinking and sinking as a show got closer and then one day he had to weigh in and I'm stretching and he stripped all the way down to me to make weight and I just remember there's a first time in my life seeing a real bodybuilder like he was like five six and he literally weighed in at 224.5 for heavy weights and I just remember seeing that and realizing what bodybuilding was I think that was probably the moment I realized I wanted to do it though because I remember seeing him but I also more than anything remember looking at people's reactions and they hated it but you just see almost almost discussed you know because the dude stand there is underwear he's nasty and and you're looking at how it's hated and you're going I like that you hate I want to see that like glitter that's like you hate this yeah it's just you can see it I'm like I want to be that because I remember thinking like that's freaking shit I want to do funny you know what which is cool because I met him at the show and I've never been like a fanboy christmas I was like hey I don't kind of shit about what I'm doing here but this fucking you're not so awesome and when I turn pro he actually reached out to me on one of the social media things and it blew my mind that he even remembered because I was like 19 years old and you know what I mean well your name your name's easy to remember unless you're not really like to have people dirt you know what I mean so but that was pretty cool because he did he reached out and he was like he's like well you took it further than I did and I'm like huh but you know what's crazy I'd like to look back and see what he really looked like because there's a few guys who when I was a kid I remember thinking like holy shit oh yeah we tell people like that guy is prime was nuts and then I'll see pictures now of back then I'm like oh he's okay I know time does that what about yeah so so I remember you know when I started training you know first my first year at the gym you know I was wearing the tank tops and you know we were in there training we're just those kids you know we're muscleing up you know my the kids I trained with were tank tops you know we're in there we're in tank tops you know we're training and I'm fun and I'm trained really hard like and I'm out training a lot of the my peers like I noticed like they're having fun more than I I'm I'm having fun but I'm also like okay on this next set I'm gonna get eight or I'm gonna fucking be upset you know like I had these like different little bit different mentality so we're training away and there was only a couple guys that trained like me so we sort of gravitated towards each other and then one day these two fucking dudes show up at our gym I think I remember it's not a big town there's only 30,000 people in this town and it's northern like we're isolated like five hour drive to the next city and it's and it's grand parry Alberta for those of you that don't know and these two fucking guys roll up and I'm standing at the window and and like I said about the frost the inside of the gym would be very humid because everyone's sweating and working hard and they got the heat cranked and outside is like minus 30 like death for feet of snow the plows just gone by it's just fucking chaos right and this little firefly pulls up little Pontiac firefly if you don't remember a firefly it's like a three cylinder car right and these two fucking big dudes like 250 pounds each get out of the out of this firefly and they got work boots giant baggy pants a huge winter jackets like the big long three-quarter winter jackets down to your knee right big huge like army issue like winter jackets, tux they fucking get out big gym bags are huge and they walk across they come into the gym and I see them at the front and they sign up and I'm like for the fuck are these guys and I guess they were training at the other gym in town and I just had never seen them before and they were just switching gyms for a change right and they came over and joined our gym and I remember they come in they take the jackets off they got all the gators gym gear right gators of course if the flex it gym pants a big baggy genie pants that everyone had them see hammer style fucking walk over no talking throw their belts down at the squat rack immediately just start grabbing plates and stacking them by the rack bang bang not even putting on the bar yet just taking plates these are ours these are our plates right and they lined up five plates aside on the floor you're gonna really do that and I'm like oh shit are these guys gonna squat five plates aside because I'd only seen a couple of like the older like power lift or guys do singles with 500 to 600 pounds right it's seen guys squat heavy you know chalk on their back everyone yell and we'd already had that in the gym when we hadn't had this and these guys throw the bar up and they get under the bar and the one guys got long blonde hair and a ponytail so you kind of look like a pro wrestler and the other guys got long brown hair and so they kind of like like the barbarian brothers like this Canadian version of the barbarian brothers got work on I dare to you they knew yeah and they're fucking and yeah they definitely knew the barbarian brothers were right these guys were like different and they were totally covered right there's no showing anything and they they started squatting one plate two plate three plate four plate five plate the knee wraps go on five plates goes on they squat five plates for a set and I'm just like who the fuck are these two monsters right and then they show up at the gym you know the very next day and they go to the bench and it's the same thing throw the belt down start stacking plates right and I'm like these guys run the gym they've been here for this is their second workout here and they run the gym this is their gym they just came and took the gym like these are the kings of the gym that's what I thought that's all I viewed them and you know of course me being me I'm fucking right in there of course hey where you guys from what's going on you guys fucking train hard what's going on hey I like the Gators gym shirt you know and next thing you know the one guy the one guy actually lived out of town so he was only in town like occasionally to train with that other dude but the guy at the brown hair was there all the time and he eventually comes over to me one day and he's like hey you want to squat with me on Monday and I was like yes I do that's too anyways I'm so their names the the blonde guy his name was Kevin Jones he wound up becoming a school teacher of course and I I don't know where he is or what he's doing but he's a great guy and then the other guy's name is Eric LeBru and he's still a good friend of mine I still talk to him he's still trains and hopefully here's the story yeah yeah be funny if Eric heard this story but but I just remember like at the time like those were the two guys as it like changed the gym because like they brought like that Gators gym where the hoodie like you know like that's that's yeah yeah and then of course that was like the style at that point like the early 90s everything went to that it wasn't about tank tops and stuff it was about fucking hoodies and you know training with work boots on and like that whole thing you know I love that though man like it's funny because I wear sleigh you listen stuff because of Instagram I would last like yeah I like the train I mean because I always do with JJ when I first started it's comfortable I could be warm in the gym I would train in long pants along so you've shared in a half every day like so you wanted a while I wear sleeveless shirts now when I train why is that because God damn it I trained a long time I didn't show anything off ever. You're tired career covered that my entire fucking career covered in the gym basically and now I'm old and retired and I mean good shape so fucking I wear some sleigh with the shirts. I like it I just never show my arms because I was like all my arms aren't big enough I got to get bigger arms you know I'm a triceps you're kind of flat and this my biceps aren't really huge I got to cover my arms I cover my arms all my whole life and now I'm like fuck I'm retired who gives a shit I'm I'm I'm lean let's go I'm lean is hot in here yeah yeah yeah I freaking loved them that was that's it like when you when you have like a real story like that so I'm like I could see that happening I remember being in the gym and knowing who the guy was and I've actually been to gyms now I won't say it a gym but I had told someone there was a lot of a lot of bodybuilders in this particular gym but they're all kind of dickheads and I was like we yeah because they don't have the guy every gym needs the guy and that's handled so when you have a bunch of like it's not like they want to be that person but they're not it's a problem and then you know Kevin the Brody walks you know oh never mind it's his yeah and here's here's a note and there's a note for everyone out there who maybe wants to be the guy right all you people out there that want to be the biggest guy in the gym or the best bodybuilder at the gym here's a bit of advice for you set a fucking example put your weights away clean your shit be respectful don't hog shit don't stand in people's way don't like you know what I mean don't be an asshole because that's another part of all being the guy at the gym is you you don't realize like that stuff will make people just dismiss you over sure and on the reverse when you do it correctly it's the reason that where I am and we're lucky but that I have free membership every yeah you can just be there in one town because they know nothing bad comes if I'm there and good shit because I also you know Lanta he he's giving me the nod it must have had you but I'll stop people from leaving to like hey you know you finish that like place again yeah you should help help out if you want to be treated like the guy at the gym and help out the gym be good example you know but yeah man as those were those were the days I vividly remember those days you know that fucking gym was cold man that gym like it would be minus 30 outside people open the front door to come in there's no two doors it was just like doors and this who like hold out of ice crystals will just spill across the floor the gym and like this like it's steam and like it just crazy every time someone says there's Ron and his stringer yeah yeah that's what you know you're a true Canadian I've been in those seven jackets freezing all right so I got a good one and I'm giving this right to you because I know it's going to be fantastic I gotta go where do you go what I'm saying I want to say the way she said it but um okay I'm gonna okay most adventurous thing you've done on a date Ron preferably legal oh I just had a facial and my teeth whitened you can be careful what you say first day you're gonna fade like I'm right true awesome what you say think about how I will twist it and then come that's for comedy most adventurous thing I've ever done on a date damn I mean wow I said give it legal and we're not having porn stars next week so does but sex count no it did absolutely doesn't count everyone does that on the first date too yeah yeah yeah yeah well I mean well it's not still good come on here we're on it here good we're on a sleeping bag anyone's here Ron we're going yeah oh that's the the things you say that other people don't catch oh goodness I'm just throwing your brains like where are you at last oh yes not some another story for a different time okay geez I don't know to me it's pretty adventurous to go to a restaurant I've never been to we're rolling it nice so I had to look at the menu it was like we were out on a limb yeah no I like I said at Buttex doesn't count I don't know where we go from here don't play this game oh okay so maybe be a green to go to a movie without knowing what movie it is you know what sad is you're getting so full of us right now yeah we have control issues and this is not a game what if it's a shitty movie yeah what if she tries to talk during the movie I can't imagine I actually can't imagine as a body builder I can't imagine someone saying hey I'm gonna take you on a date but I'm not telling you where we're going or what we're doing but you have to agree to it it'd be like uh fuck oh this is gonna I think it's relationship is over how many meals am I gonna need I'm gonna least gonna need a timeline for short and will there be a microwave or should we need timeline we need microwave availability we need yes there's the is there is a is there breaks yeah is there gonna be a temperature change a large temperature differential do I need a a hoodie or a jacket say I asked those important questions you're like do I have to wear my nice track pants they're gonna be as warm and normal right my dress jeans are just my regular jeans they don't have a big change just not having me I'm not going there no so what about you maybe I'll recall something so this is adventurous uh this is a first date ancient boat which is a date just a thought I was thinking first date for some reason I don't know why I that's the that I probably said that oh okay that's why I was so stopped geez I mean I've done stuff dusty you're all easy no this is is any date so my adventurous which this is not gonna go anywhere near where you would think but um which I may have told the story so I'm gonna make it quick uh I got a knee surgery uh just scope and then uh the next day when I got home a couple girls from school called and they're like oh hey how are you I'm good and they were like hey what the doc says far as you're recovery and I said they said I could do what I wanted just kind of go on how I felt and she's like oh okay well Zara and I are gonna go uh take a hike up the mountain do you want to come do in one fucking right I want to come so I was like yeah let's do it so we hike up this mountain and we get to the top we stop to eat I made sure there are snacks and uh next thing I know my knee starts swelling like a base yeah yeah and then blood starts coming out of the stitches right and so I was like oh shit this is good so we finished the same which is they were good foot long um and uh they were out there panicky little but I'm like I'm fine the guy told me I could do whatever you know yeah I'll just get home and arrest it I'm just gonna need to get down this mountain my leg won't bend now but now I'm like hobbling down the mountain I get down the car and I call the doc and like hey doc is sitting wrong with my knee and he goes what do you mean I said it's swallowed up as believing like through the bandage and down my leg and he was like holy shit what would you do what I said what nothing I was like I went for a hike and he's like what I said I went for a hike just what do you mean you went for a hike I said these girls called me asking me to go on a hike and you said I could just go based on pain I didn't hurt that bad just fuck it down here you why would you go on a goddamn hike that's hilarious I thought like I doubt I was so pissed it was so pissed I'm like you should guide someone like me better than do what you want yeah there should be a sick man there I'm I'm estimating that there was a point in your childhood when you could have been identified as one of those kids for sure and he should have had a sticker put on your head or something the helmet that I was wearing all the time right right just do not tell this guy to use his own judgment like you just like okay this this child does not play well by his own rules well that's sort of because I was I had moved out as I lived on my own yeah um so there's talking to me there's no adults to talk to it was just me same thing that happens now oh man yeah I was that I called that adventure so because number one I hate hiking I was just asked I did I should fuck now and do that to yourself please so you're gonna be a motorized vehicle you're up dude I'm up and you guys are good what do I need I need some great next here oh god I'm a great next this is oh yeah yes okay just um this guy says before bodybuilding I got a lot of my body tattooed and my waisting my time taking about competing no especially now on L.S.R. is he in Canada I don't know L.S.R. Canada specifically but everywhere there are fabrics yeah they're in tattoo cover up is ridiculous a lot people asked about my tattoos because they're like oh so you're done not like now they're cover up I they have one on on their website of a guy hitting a rear double and then they did it needed again that's not I think that different physique like it it's like because now you see why tattoos are a problem because you don't see shit and they put it on and the depth and everything is there the coloring is phenomenal I only use like what's on race ever they've never sponsored me and they're color is unreal and that tattoo cover up now they've seen it on multiple people I've seen tattoo cover but you can blatantly see it like that's a tattoo under that or the color is wrong so it still doesn't help them yeah I've had a few clients just have amazing work done in the last few years yeah well you got that what the you just tag me as he ever was holding leg done yeah yeah Morgan that pump on Instagram says hold leg done but in his stage shots he can't even tell which leg he has covered yeah I mean and I can remember that I remember when he competed a couple years ago with you or a year ago whatever it was and the whole time I was like well that's what being interesting and then I saw the stage I was like oh he's shit in his leg or ridiculous which is great he's got big quads I was actually that was actually 2016 he did that shit give or take five years ago when I saw me crazy yeah he was like 183 and right now today he's 250 he's not fat 250 for him yeah that's coming but yeah no his that was a him and that back are the two reasons I don't even blink pretty frozen no people like not frozen I just don't move I'm preserving energy I was impressive I was only going to shit what are your predictions between blessing and Nick Walker okay I'm going to tell you my prediction but I have to first say I don't know blessing at all but knowing Nick I have a very hard time betting against him and the reason is Nick is a body builder like the house matters not like literally not like he is what you should be to be a champion body it's funny but I think I've met people hell someone like myself where if they were going all in like Nick was I'd be like you need you need to figure out how you're going to survive life you know I mean Nick is all in all the time and if someone said to me well shouldn't he be balancing himself out of go no no he shouldn't he should go all the way and fucking do this and yeah so I would I'm going with Nick and again it's that's something to seek I just think that he's some there's nothing that you could ask Nick to do he won't do to win right yeah I don't know blessing at all either I he's a huge guy holy shit like he's humongous it's gonna be great to see them show down I guess you know what the funny thing is is I don't even know why they have a thing I think they're smart I mean it does themselves oh so you just think it's just them like hey okay I don't even I don't even know if it's best of bugs or not but I think that they created it one way or another and I think it's genius because now it's all right somehow started and they both just let it go yeah yeah but here's what's funny I don't how about this I'm saying my decision but you know is too and I don't think either one of them is going to win the new year pro and I don't know who's doing it right okay you said yes you did question next yeah well it's great to me you just so this tells me who people are we ready to go listen carefully you have three choices tacos and margaritas beer and cheeseburgers whiskey and steak that's a good question whiskey and steak so easy no whiskey and steak so here's my reasoning love it okay I assume the whole idea is to have a good meal and get drunk down at the right that sounds like the point of the question so tacos and margaritas I'm not really a huge taco fan so I'd rather eat something else the beer and cheeseburgers love the cheeseburgerers I don't know if I could get drunk on beer I'd have like two beers and I'd be so bloated and burpy right and I'd be like I'd be like I gotta go smoke some weed and lay down we're not getting there because I had I actually had a beer the other night I had one beer the other night it was very it tasted really good it was a pill's ner it was some Belgian beer my friend gave me and I drank it real slow I didn't quite finish it you know I drank slow enough that it kind of got warm it was tasty I liked the taste of an interesting beer but man I like like like yeah it really blew it yeah then whiskey I'm not like a whiskey drinker but if the point to drink is to get drunk then pour me some straight booze and let me shoot it like what's the effective here like why do three sets if you could do what right let's fucking go just go to failure on the first round pour a triple let's just fucking bam rest pause set boom right I mean that's that's how that's how I think I'm like that's you know just do it bring me a triple whiskey and a 12 ounce fillet with a power fries next to it and we could have an all hit the drink first so it's in my system and then I'm thoroughly entertaining for about the next two hours and we can just enjoy our food and I like you I like your thought process with that because I did the same thing in reverse I was like why won't steak so what do I have? Okay because steak decided everything and just like you I'm like I can do that um what's funny is that is how I approach alcohol I don't other than wine I don't enjoy drink yeah I don't have it and even like wine is literally typically with some nice meal I've gotten into like experiencing it but if I'm drinking it's a goal like the last time I this is crazy but the last time I drank which is now years ago was at a friends wedding I was the best man he was obviously the groom and I went up before it started to the bar and my kia I need just a couple to kill us and they got gave me like a shot in normal glasses as I grow this one's for the groom and I don't think this is a great decision and he goes oh he pours about four shots in it and he goes and you and I go and I'm letting him do it so he poured about five shots in mind and I'm like thank you walked away I was standing there like mortal combat the finish him moment right we were scared I'm like please don't fall yes that was a good question I like that people can hit us with more of those yeah more than those ones too because you know like how you worked it backwards you have another one or shows you with one and I'm already looking at yeah hit me with one and looking at I got one for you why did people say the energy energy drinks are bad for the body is it just the caffeine no it's uh there well I mean you know there's there's there's there's a bunch of other stuff in there too like I mean fuck I haven't read the label on an energy drink because I don't drink them but I mean what's in there to huge dose of caffeine probably higher than recommended most of them are at least 300 mc per can aren't they yeah I don't drink real ones either I think the bullshed red bulls the sugar freeze yeah yeah so how much is in a red bull 150 and then some people hate touring so I know they bitch about the fact they put touring in there I'm actually looking to make sure I'm accurate keep talking I don't know yeah I don't know what it's even less 80 oh fuck like that's right you know I drink these because people to make it complain too much we drank these all the time and so now the flavor is like reminding me of that it like it's funny because I had a friend go those tastes like shit I'm like yeah I know it's reminding me of and it's it's nothing I take these because in the morning I have headaches I don't have a little caffeine because I have an addiction obviously one of these makes sure I'm gonna headache right that's it you know what I was gonna it's funny that I was your answer because here's my thing if you're hydrating doing an else right people can shut the fucking mouse yeah like everyone has advice for everything do I drink hydrating so no why I don't like them energy drinks are bad for you I'm 45 I drink I drink a hundred thousand cans of diet coke it's exactly it's the same where I look at a lot of things and I know you're wrong I don't down great like I do believe in thinking about your health and thanks for sometimes people were ridiculous like you really think that splendors are good idea I'm like do you know what I do for living yeah thanks blenders gonna be what takes me out that's gonna be the thing well my thing is yeah I have had a like well listen I also spent a large portion of my life you know force feeding bags of burger king down my throat to hit 300 pounds so I don't think this splendor is gonna be the deal breaker do you remember um remember that movie the green mile where when he touched him he could see all their sins and all the craziness like sometimes I wish I could do that so when people are like do you think that's a good idea I'm gonna show you something give my hand I think give a view into the rest of your life for their like all the splendors insignificant have five I'm like thank you let's move the fuck along shall we yes I say I X the day after me sir do you think people don't realize how much diet poppy drank in the 90s oh god who do you win these bodybuilders 90s bodybuilders just this is a can of our hand like the whole fucking time I saw that I mean that said uh there's no greater addiction than someone who loves diet coke and I'm like yep I remember I used to wake up by the fridge in my room I would hop one before I brush my teeth so another funny thing is you know how Donald Trump drank a lot of diet coke right yeah so I just watched an interview with a guy that got to interview him and he was just talking about how we interviewed him three times in the ol Office and he spent like several hours just in his presence just observing him and watching him and just interviewing him and he's like yeah he drank a lot of diet coke like like all the time as soon as we were done doing anything he'd be like give me that coke give me that coke right this is kind of funny he's like I never saw anybody drink so many diet coke's and this may be laugh we got time for one more I got one I don't know if we can answer this one or not I don't want to throw anybody under the bus who's the biggest male slut in pro bodybuilding past or present I saw you crack a smile there I like seven names pop up so the top five at the 95 Olympia this fruit through your head or top whatever yeah you're trying to put you like I don't know all right I'll safely you're right I'm not touching this but but I have to say um it's a it would be a battle for sure I think I think rather than break it down to that way what I would like to do is have each of the ones that I that are my favorites share the craziest story because I'm just going out on a limb I'm just going out on a limb and I'm just going to throw it out there that cormier and the de California boys from the mid 90s probably had a lot of fun yeah they had some good times for sure for sure sure for sure he was crazy get a $4,000 room service charge on your room Chris people up for my that's back when they before they check in these pale I should oh that's in great stories about that yeah yeah we're just going to file that all under uh athletes and walk forward haha it's called a day on that yes okay so not throwing anybody out of the bus a can't I can't I mean you know and you've been a child of gods and that's not knowing so we're good to go I have them I've behaved myself true story I'm okay it's your turn right yes I do believe I have one or two more decent ones here let's get one more for I let's see here boom boom oh this one's for you Ron this is not a violent question he always feels lonely he has no friends or girlfriends and he helped go into gym yeah I'm like this is on you let's well above my pay grade I don't really like a lot of friends um yeah well to to give actual like he's saying he's got no friends and he's lonely and he's doesn't know what to do that's basically the question that's the question and he helped well if he has enjoyed a gym join a gym for physical and mental well being as well as starting the process of taking care of yourself because nobody wants to be around somebody who doesn't take care of themselves true and that's not you know well yeah there's a physical stuff but also just like take care of yourself do it for yourself you know no one wants to spend any time around someone who who's letting themselves go and that's not just physically but you know you're letting themselves go you know developing bad habits and being lazy and all that shit so I would say join a gym get a hold of yourself you got to clean yourself up and you might you see that vicious vicious take down video that went around to that dude that was given at vice and the one guy was like I can't get women and he is like listen here is that that really angry black guy huh did you see that video and he's like he's like how taller you and the guy's like five ten he's like what do you weigh and the guy goes 285 he goes see you're a fat fuck and the guy goes whoa you're a bit heavy and he goes you got a big dick and the guy goes oh what he goes all come on he goes come on you know if you got a big dick or not the guy's like oh well I think of a bug average he's like okay so you don't have a big dick he's like how much money do you make and the guy goes oh make like 800 bucks every two weeks oh shit and he goes oh so you make like less than like 20 grand a year whatever the fuck you did he's like so you make 20 grand a year you don't have a big dick your fat and he goes you're five ten which is good but that counts as out the rest of it and he's like think you wonder why you can't get women to pick you and he's like you have to get a hold of yourself you like what are you doing you can't be you know on how old he was but whatever age he was with making this much and expecting he's because the guy was like talking as if women were being mean to him and he's like you don't understand how it works did did you see that that study about the 80 20 rule so so so the the funny thing is is the top 20% of females sorry the top 80% of females right are competing top 20% of men which means the bottom 80% of men are stuck with the bottom 20% of the women right because women are far more selective than men yeah some people refuse to believe that they're like oh no no we're equally selective no no no they say there's there's lots of research now that says that when a woman meets you she looks for reasons to fuck you so the default position is not fuck you right she looks for reasons to fuck you whereas when a when a guy meets a girl his default position is fucking her and he looks for reasons not to fuck he's the final reason not to his if not he's in this is all not even comedy to these researchers that have looked at all this and so it's really fascinating because that's real yeah yeah so another thing they yeah there's all sorts of crazy numbers now that we're seeing from how people are selective and how women actually have all of this selection choice women make all the real decisions when it comes to selection so you'll love this I have a gay client I used to train and it was funny because he never told me but I knew and it was just a cool guy right so finally one day we're in the gym every train but like six months I'm like hey Dan like yeah I'm like you fuck that guy and he froze he's like what am I I'm just asking would you think it was how do you know I'm like I don't get the shit I was like I just needed to break the ice in the most rough way possible is that's how I function and he was like all right so down the line we're talking one day and he goes you guys got a lot wrong and she wouldn't even use you know what stops sex in a relationship I said he goes a woman that's what I'm sex is we don't have that so it's not in the wake he goes so it's every single time that's what the logic was so clear of like Dan this is what you're like we don't have the barrier we don't have the person of logic that's selective and cares because we're just all right there it's good as a body of a bunch of an accurate statement I'm like yeah yeah it is so it's it's it's interesting to see that there's also new numbers now they're kind of frightening about young people and sex they're saying that 20% of the of the women are having all the sex and oh sorry no they said was it's only 20% of men are having all the sex with 80% of the women that's what it is so the 80 20 rule has been very very consistent back and forth so there's a lot of men right now there's the highest number of young men ever that are not having any sex at all so there's a huge number of men that are just pushed out of the sex market completely right now and only very few top number of men are having sex with all the girls that's not afraid at all for them right list right it's but it's interesting and they said it's it's these social media apps that the next generation is using the selection process it that there's a handful of guys that are getting all the sex from all the girls and everyone else is like just left out because when they do the whole you know social media it's not about meeting you yeah right that you like before they can before you get a chance to meet them in charm them you're already out of the game if that's you know because of the old days in our day dusty as long as you were funny yeah which is why I'm funny online yeah exactly that real funny online to get through that very good right gotta go further it's gotta go further you saw the poor filter standing fix me so that's why yeah okay but is that it for today's episode and it was solid we we had some good stuff in wrong him I want or when uh when Domkin on the ones he left it went south from there it's perfect yeah terrible terrible I would just as soon as he left as well okay everybody remember like share subscribe comment ring the little bell we appreciate everything you guys do for us to help push to show along you know repost all that sort of shit um dusty you gotta give us quickly really quickly before we go we he he mentioned I knew you hurt your chest but you had a little tearing there is that what you had because I knew that shot there yep so yeah we we did pro therapy in there um I was told to just leave it alone for about a week and a half and now I'm just inching it back in so Jason my PT's got me doing 30% next week right okay the maximum is working way up but it's fine it was it was it was it's actually in the muscle just in air in the muscle yeah so it was never 10 into 10s are all good there same with the need everything was solid it was just one of those things where every time I go to the gym I'm like okay I'm good to go and I start pushing and I'd feel it again and I'm like okay I'm nervous right yeah you know and your immediate thought of the pack is tendon especially over here it was a little low but I wanted to make sure so that's gonna speed up the process and uh it's good the only it sucks is I don't really like training chest and all was said and I'm like every nice to right throw some weight around all the 7s okay well hey that's that's that was posturing terror was healed within a month I was like like you know back on the bike and doing stiff legs with lightweight again and okay thanks man no doubt so no thanks everybody remember it's just body building

Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding Episode 84. Like, covoist, dusty hand show myself from Parlo, very happy to have you. Remember to hit like, share, subscribe, comment, ring the bell, all that stuff. And it's just bodybuilding. Dusty What's Up? Man, many things going on, but I have, so last night I did something you're not really used to. I planned ahead and I posted a Q&A before going to sleep and said I like 20 minutes for the show. So we have a lot of fucking questions. Oh, I'm glad, because I actually just kind of held on to a few from my previous one. And then I was given a few off the side. Then just really give a grocery store, so I just walked up my hand again, no. Yeah, this people out of nowhere, they come up to the hate for the next episode and they just give me a piece of paper. But you touch the paper because a code you have to carefully wear gloves. Yeah, I live on the edge. Add a fucking boy, me too. Well, we're living in revolutionary times. Sometimes you just have to roll the dice dusty. I agree, you know what happened the other day. I was in the grocery store. And I'm not a mask wear anywhere. And this lady in a mask put her hand up. So I stopped and I was thinking, oh, maybe she doesn't want me to walk by. Just fine, give her her space. She was high five. I'm like, okay. I'm like, why? You're not wearing a mask. You are. She was, I don't want to. I'm like, well, take it off. I like walked in the front door. Anyway, it was a funny thing. I was like, that's odd. I thought the opposite because of the mask. It's a lot of people. If that's your thing, I dig it. I actually make sure I kind of avoid people and live my little life over here six feet away. I prefer that way prior to COVID. I really want people standing six feet close to me. I feel like I can punch you in the face without moving your two clothes. That's kind of my system. You see the new. It's the new study out now. Turns out three feet enough. But just because we have a new study that proves three feet enough, we don't actually go to three feet. We just stayed six feet now. They just keep saying the same number, even though they just admitted three feet enough. You know what's classic? So I was out with trouble. They were in the past of the other business out there that's suffering. But no, no, no. It's hold on. We're good. They'll be fine. Yeah, still pay. I had a friend went to a restaurant the other day. And she made it to the reservation. And and this is double. This was prior to so Scott Seal has just changed it all. Seething is open now. You can go into a full restaurant. But this was prior to that. They go to seat them and they seat them at the table and she goes to sit down across and she goes, oh, you have to sit on the same side. She goes, what? Well these two chairs are less than six feet from that table over there. And she's like, I don't want to spend dinner with my friend next to her. We're not in a relationship. And even if we were, I prefer to sit across the table to speak to someone. They're like, you can't. I mean legally. And she's like, is anyone ever like measured? Like they come in with a tape measure to make sure. So she's like, what if I push my seat back too far and it was six feet? Now it's five and a half. Right. That's the most important thing. Right. That's the most important thing. Literally that's the so. So literally, in the funniest part is the reason they chose that business is because they had a big thing on saying that they were having problems with their suffering from COVID. Right. She was like, well, okay, well, then can we sit in that's that table over there? It's open. And I sit on either side there. They go, that table's reserved. She goes by someone with reservations. And they're like, yeah, so they reserved that table because I have reservations as well. But I didn't know we could choose the table. I can't be literally. So finally she was like, okay, well, then we're just going to leave because I'm not going to sit next to my friend. They go, okay. So they left. That was like, I can't believe your business is having problems. That's shocking. We're all living in the Twilight Zone, Dusty. Everyone's area is like a little different. And culturally has a different vibe about the whole thing too. I've seen a bunch of videos coming out of Europe. It looks like stuff's like fucking almost ready to kick off there. You know? And then you got like states where they're just having pool parties. And like if you if you go into the grocery store without a mask, nobody says anything to you. Yeah, I see here that you'd be like braided by security and it would be a big scene. Because I've seen it at this at the Safeway across the street for me. I went in there the other day and as I was going in, there was like a guy standing inside the Safeway. And there was like security talking tool. And he was saying, oh, I have a medical note. And they're like, give him a hassle about it wouldn't let him in. And there was all these people like watching. And it's just fucking, yeah. But that's what sucks. I mean, truthfully, and I know I'm going to piss people off with this because there's always people that are on both sides. But it's like, I just reached a point where I don't want to anymore. Like there's been a shit. Everyone's covered up. I go to the grocery store for the record. I used to go at five in the morning. But prior, since COVID, they open at eight, which is not convenient for me. My day is half over in the fucking morning when the store opens. So I used to go and know what was there anyways. It's not just avoid people. And I'm just over it. And I found that most people are as well. So they don't, I don't even get looks here. When I first started doing it, people looked at you like you were crazy. Now you think a little more normal. Do you think that if you went to a different state, like what would be the worst state to try to not wear a mask in the grocery store? California. California. Yeah. But I would never go there. I went to California. I could totally check up a month ago. It's a shithole now. Yeah. That becomes a ruined. Wow. Yeah. I've heard nothing good about California for like, like, what? Two years straight, three years straight now. Yeah. Well, like we, we, we, we, we want to create people there. Let's wait. We went to film there at Metro Flex. I rented a car. Matt rented the car actually. And we go to leave the place, you know, to sign out the car. And Matt rolls the window down. We're in the car. And then the lady opens the little door and goes, put your mask on and then slam it. And Matt looks at me and he's like, shh, shh. So he kind of like looks out the window. And she literally opens the door. I'm not going to talk to you to tell you wearing a mask and then closes it again. He's like, this has got to be a fucking joke. Like wearing a har. So he puts his mask on. So they come back now. She's pissed at us. And I'm like, car. Yeah. Over here by ourselves. Like, I mean, she would, she would not speak to us until, and I was like, that was beginning about trepid. I'm like, so this is California. Uh-huh. Nice. Nice. So what the thing that bothers me and I, I try not to let any of this step bother me anymore. I'm just, I try to be easy going and just roll through it. But I was riding my bike at the lacrosse box that I go to the other day. And I was all by myself in there. Right. I've got that stuff. And these two, it's huge. It's like, like, it's, I don't know if you know how big a lacrosse box that I wanted to do. If I'm getting huge. But it's like, you know, what two eye surfaces? Yeah. A hot soccer field almost. Yeah, it's a soccer field, right? It's big. And these two young girls, I don't know how young because they were pretty far away. But I'm going to guess. I mean, they were like 13, 15, maybe. They came in with Babington rackets. And they had this little net, like the super light little net. They set up on one of the little parts. And they played Babington for about 45 minutes. And they both wore their masks the entire time. And when I say it's a lacrosse box, it's outdoors. Like it's completely open. There's just a roof over it. The terrain. Yeah, but the sides are open. Yeah. Completely. Yeah, like there's a four foot. There's like penalty boxes and stuff on one side. And there's just a little wall in the other. But like it's, there's wind blowing through there. You're outdoors. It's not indoors. And they were wearing their masks. And they were, they were what? They're playing Babington. So they're what 20 feet apart the entire time. And I just thought, man, we've got a whole, like there's a whole bunch of parents that have just brainwashed the fuck out of their kids. And just poison their fucking minds with this nonsense. And they're wearing their masks outdoors, playing Babington 20 feet apart from each other. And 150 feet away from me. Yeah. It was unbelievable. And I just thought, oh fuck. I don't know. You know what it is though, is it's just that, I'm nearly wrong. Like, I don't want to be the asshole that's just that fucking guy. You know what I mean? Like, it took me a second. But I just realized like, I actually believe this. Wholeheartedly. And you can't speak it if you won't do it. And it's funny because when I just flew back from South Carolina, I was in the airport. And I was the only one not wearing a mask. And when I went up to security, I walked up, you know, where the scan and then a lady was like, give a mask, I said, yeah, I did some of my bags. You're okay, because you'll need to get on the plane. Like, oh, okay, thanks. That was it. That was the end of any conversation with anybody about it. No one gives a fuck, right? It's just the way it is. And as is always, I was by myself. By myself, away from everybody. So it was just, it was baffling to see because you could see people looking at you. And I was telling Tommy, he was texting him, I was in the Charlotte airport. I was like, I didn't feel dirty, looks. I felt like looks of like, yeah, admiration or something. I'm like, then take it off. If enough of you just stop, it'll end. Right? Like, that's the thing that's powerful. Like I think that people forget, it's like, we allow loss. We allow them. We accept them and that's that. If you don't want them, if enough people don't want something, it ends, because it has to. You know what I mean? Like, there's only so many. So it's an interesting thing. And like I said, I just blew up the comments because there's gonna be some pissed off people. Do you think? I think it was a great part was, I saw a post when they got rid of the ban or the necessity of mass in Texas. Somebody wrote, you know what's really cool about this? You can still wear one if you want to. Yeah. And I saw some footage from, someone posted some footage from Austin. They were at a pub in Austin. And like, a lot of people still had mass on. Which is great. And they were like, fucking thing. Like half the staff were still wearing them and stuff and they were like, they're now it's the way it should be. If you want to wear one, you can wear one. Yep, no doubt. You know what I mean? So. No doubt. Okay, Dusty. Oh yeah, we gotta say thanks to Will, Will the Beast. Yes. It's a good time on his podcast. That was fun. We sure did. He had some good questions. And I watched a little bit of the episode that got to finish it today. I'm a little halfway through. I just wanted to see how it turned out. I didn't know if they're gonna, I don't know if they're gonna like edit it up or not. It's pretty much just exactly what we did. I don't even see you're so much more like, I'm sure than me. I don't ever look and I don't look back, you know. But I thought it was great. You know, I actually reached out a couple of guys and said, hey, you gotta do his show. Because he has a plan. Like he put it together. He gave me plenty of shit, which I love. Like I like that he at his age immediately was like, I'm gonna fuck with this guy. Right. Yeah, yeah. I was like, a kid. Like that's, it's like the thing. I mean, you know that. If you're my friend and you're not giving me shit or vice versa, we're not friends. Yeah. Don't get it twisted. If I'm always nice to you, we are not friends. Right, right. We're associates. No, yeah, he was good. And he had some great questions. And I enjoyed his set too. Like with all the comic books, shit and stuff, it was cool. I like what he's doing. Yeah, we need to step it up. I got just the pictures that are actually on my wall. That's, I know. They're real fucking problem. I mean, no, you should see what I do to this room to get this Jay-Cottley picture over this show. Like it's actually there all the time. You know. Yeah. Could I please put a picture on? No. No. No, but I think, you know, he did. He did a good job. And he let's suck though. So he is so ahead of his time and his age. And like even he, we asked the question how did he get this role. And he was like, he basically did what I did to get Dante to work with me. He just kept emailing and asking and asking and then finally, food what I think was the first one. I was like, oh, I fucking, let's do it. Yeah. And that is so like an adult hustler move. And then to hear that, you know, that not too long ago, he was eating lunch alone at school. I'm like, you really? Yeah. Yeah. Like it shocked me. But it also like, it really reminded me. And I hope some of the parents watching this show like remind their kids not to be fucking decks. Yeah. Because that's that's done to me. And if I had a kid and I found out they were pulling that show with someone else. I would whip their ass. Like, what is wrong with you? That's why when we were talking now and I'm from the number I told them I was like, high school is not going to matter in a few years. Oh, yeah. I'm burned. Because I was like, that's just so important for people to remember like, you know, I know lots of awesome people and they're like, yeah, high school suck for me. I was like, it was like a nightmare. I'm like, wow. Yeah, you're all you. Like, no, no, no, I mean, that just seems like it's just this is so much lottery involved with how your high school experience turns out. It's fucking miserable for some, you know? Yeah, I don't know. It just odd to me because life is hard enough. Like, do you imagine just like a, even as an adult, if people were just constantly fucking with you, it's like, why? And then add in the, add in like hormones. Oh, yeah. Non sense. Yeah, just a train wreck, but I did laugh because I'm thinking of myself. Well, kid, just give it a bad another year because he's just about that age where all the kids in this class are going to start working out. Yep. And I'm going to have to tell him to make sure you put the lock on his phone because if you ever lose it, there's a lot of valuable phone numbers in that thing. Now, like, I, why does this say flex Lewis? So what if I push this? What happens? Yeah, he's going to answer. Yeah. I think it's cool what he's doing and now is happy to go on. So I wish we'll lock in a, you know, I'm going to check in with him definitely, you know, yeah, he's a rolling. I told my wanted to come back one day and he was like, yeah, it wasn't that good. He said, well, if someone cancels that give you a call. Yeah, exactly. If we're in a very last minute, what am I like on the letterman, right? I'm right. I'm down the hallways. Yeah, you're just down the hall. Yeah. It's grand. He knows you're at home doing nothing. Yeah. Exactly. I know you got to stick going on and I need you for like 20 minutes. So yeah. Okay. You want to fire a question off? Absolutely. I'm going to do my job. I have a lot of questions in myself, but I can't answer them. So we'll get to the ones that you guys asked. Let's see here. I have a lot. Okay, here we go. Boom. Sorry. I'd like so many different things going on that I had a lot of different options. I'm scrolling this. Okay, here we go. Hmm. It's a good one. I know this will lose question, but. Oh, like, I didn't. I didn't. Anyways. I got to get experience. Looses a little far. Who is the best coach for a beginner bodybuilder who wants to improve as as he can? You know what? I think the best thing for a beginner bodybuilder who wants to improve as fast as he can would be someone that's willing to train with him. I like it. Someone that's willing to train with them and stuff some food down his throat after working out, you know, like he needs a beginner who wants to get big needs a friend who knows what he's doing more than he needs. Chris is a seedle. That's a seedle. Yeah. You know what I mean? It's like a guy who's, you know, four or five years older who's pretty experienced and, you know, he's had some help and he's willing to train with that guy, you know. And like, I think that's the best scenario. You know what I mean? Hmm. Yeah, that's the scenario that I think probably yields the most gains for, like, someone who's a novice or beginner getting in there and wanting to get going. Because it's it's all about training man and eating, just training and eating, like, you know, we know, we'll be getting our stuff. It's not about grams of rice. No. And, and it's not about meal timing. And it's not a post. I mean, it's not a post. But it's not about your supplements stack, your AMP, pm vitamin list. And it's not about the trainer recommending an intro workout for you of their particular, you know, favorite formula. It's just not about any of that stuff on your beginner. And when I say beginner, I'm kind of thinking of like me in high school. No, yeah, I agree. I think you know what's funny is what you're hammering on is, some of the can teach you the basics. Like when I think back, like, and I was fortunate, but when I first got into training to body build, there was a guy who I actually, it's kind of funny, but his name is Robert Ferro. And he was a big bodybuilder here in Arizona. And I used to go to the gym and just watch what he did on a Monday. And I would do that on Tuesday. Like, and then finally, like, when you're in the gym, jam and hard enough for long enough. And I had, I've always been an athlete. So I didn't need someone to teach me how to squat. I watched you squat and then I knew how. I watched you dead. Left and I knew how. I didn't need someone to like give me cues. I was kind of like, okay, that's how you do it. And then boom, it clicked. But I did finally once I'd been around long enough in hustling and he gave me a couple like nods and you know, realize that was there. I just went up to him one day and I said, hey, is there any way you could help me? Like if I needed to die it. And he was like, sure, grab maybe his paper. Like right now. So I ran up to the front office, I grabbed him a piece of paper and he wrote 10 six meals. And I remember one of them was like, you know, go to Jack in a box or place like it. Get two chicken fajita pizzas with double chicken. Have whatever sauce you like and a slice of cheesecake. Like so I had this diet on a piece of paper and I kept it in my car and I followed every day. I started gaining. And I was like, oh, and so I I'd see him and I'm like, yeah, he goes, you know, it's calorie. Just calorie. So of course, doing a problem was he's talking to him more on. So I was like, oh, calories. Well, I have three of those and I have two cheesecakes. Like, yeah, right, right, right. You know, so I kept up in the ante. But what was funny is even in hindsight when I joke about how I got fat, I got big. Yeah, I got strong. And the only thing we're going to even call it mistake was I just doubled down on what he taught me, which was like, oh, well, then if one is good to his better, right. But that was the diet the whole time. And it was so simple. And that he literally gave me that was the key to bodybuilding for me. Was that piece of paper and falling around the gym. No one said, oh, but the key is you need this supplement. Like I trained for years with nothing. Just food because I was broke. I didn't have any money anyways. I trained for years with nothing but protein powder. Yep. Like yeah, so yeah, you do in that and it's funny. And then, you know, it was kind of great because he was a great bodybuilder. And then as I evolved eventually, I coached him for his best national showing ever. So it was kind of one of the, the cross, the bridge thing down the line, you know, for the funny. But it's funny because he still will tease me because he remember I started getting fat. Like he's like, oh, fuck. This kid's taking it too far. But you nailed it. It's it's the simple stuff. It was the same when I got better and older. Time, Chris Kormier. I was in the gym just blasting at Gold's Venice one time. And he told me because he looked over and he was like, who the fuck is that? Like, because those people they go into Venice Golds for the first time and they're looking around. And like, I was just trying to kill myself. Oh, yeah. Cool, Jim. You know what I mean? And he actually walked over and he was like, hey, who are you? And I wasn't obviously anything to look at yet, but he just was like, oh, fuck. Like someone who wants to train, you know, and I am an aspiring him later as well. So I do love this industry. It's all small circle. You know, full circle stuff happens pretty regularly in this game. So yeah. I like this. I'm gonna complete control the questions. You got like five. Ooh, I guess this is one for me. Who am I? I'm so I'm going to the driest layer this weekend. Um, oh, yes, they saw for the grand opening. So what's funny is I saw the grand opening was coming. Dom who does my, uh, some of my tissue stuff. Uh, he's gonna be there main guys, you know, we talked about him last week. And he was like, oh, yeah, that's this date. And I was like, oh, I'd be fun to go to. And I have Todd, my video, I had come in in this week. So he suggests he's like, you want to buzz over to Vegas and hit that. I'm like, oh, sure. So uh, Justin D's posted because he's the GM of the gym. And I just, Matt, I just, uh, comment it. I was like, oh, cool. I'm gonna, I'm gonna come. I'll see you there. Not thinking of it. I was just gonna walk in, you know. And then next thing, you know, flex is reaching out to me. He's like, I need a picture. We're gonna post the your comment. I was like, oh, I didn't mean to make it official. But cool. I have to come. It was funny because my, I didn't know what it was. I just wanted to go. I mean, I think that's what people forget is, this is still bodybuilding. I'm like, oh, fuck a bad ass gym, a friend of mine's opening. I want to support. So I was more plan on just rolling up. That's cool. And training. But uh, who I look most forward to training with? I am really excited to train with Tommy, my training partner, because I'm bringing him. Oh, okay. Yeah, I don't, it's funny. Like, we've been doing this for so long. I mean, Jose, I'll be there. I'm sure I'll train with him as well. But I mean, it's, it those things as you know, Ron, if everybody who's going to end up training, we just kind of'll train. You know what I mean? So I kind of feel like you're training with 20 people, even if you're not doing the same shit. You know, we've had enough of those where like you'll do a speaking or arrangement. And then there's, you know, 20 guys there. It's fun. And if anything, the real fun is the fans that you don't even know that are hardcore and you get to kind of get in there. Air a little bit, push them through some sets. So the thing I can guarantee you guys is we're going to film it all. So there'll be some good footage of it all coming up with me and a bunch of real bodybuilders. So that'll be fun. That's awesome. That's awesome. I'm looking forward to the, all the evidence hitting Instagram. Well, it's edited. We added this shit. Yes, bump bump bump. No, no. Oh, you have to do this one. Okay. And then I'll do it because I hate it. How do you reset energy and receptors for the next cycle? I don't really believe in that stuff. And it never really crossed my mind. And I never really gave it a second thought. You just answered. The reason I, I said it like that. And laughed. Everybody is because that is the answer you're going to get from every pro that I know and even some of the best in the world. The amount of mental masturbation in the sport right now and in the world I think is the amount of information that's our fingertips is painful. The, you know this, Ron, like, it's like growth hormone. I always laugh at people go five days on and two days off. I'm like, why? Well, because you, why? Show me where this has been proven. Right. See, where was proven? A guy who couldn't afford seven days a week? Yes. Yes. That's exactly where it comes from. It comes from the old days where kids were like, fucking 1500 bucks each. And you'd get two kids and they'd be like, 128 IU each. And that's all you had for the whole prep. And the whole old school thinking was growth hormone is way better if you take a little bit for a long period of time than if you take a lot for a short period of time. So guys would be like, well, fuck, maybe if I just take three IU's of like real farm aggroath on days I train. And then of course, anytime you think of something like that, you can also think of a reason why it might be a good idea. Right. So then they're like, well, technically growth hormone raises insulin resistance to some degree in some individuals over some length of time. Also, maybe. So maybe the two days off the GH would be help downplay that. That's awesome. So, but it all starts with only, we know, two or four two kids. Yeah. So you can always justify something with a reason. You know, like, there's always a positive to doing something a certain way. There might be 10 negatives. Right. There's always one positive. So it's just the just the ability to find the positives in the negative that you can only for two kids to grow back that. That's all. Well, I think a lot of it's funny because Tommy and I laugh, there's a couple, um, a couple trainers in the, at muscle factory, good kids. They know just enough to be dangerous. Right. But they speak as a matter of fact and with confidence. Yeah. And I laugh because I'm like, oh, if I didn't know better, I'd believe that. But that's the dumbest thing I've ever heard. Right. Like, I'll over here, things. But that's how these things all come into play too. Like, well, are you wrestling, are you resetting your energy or receptors? You just unplug it from the wall and then re-plug it in. I mean, is it like a couple? Yeah. Well, all I can say to talk about, you know, actual sensitivity of androgen receptors. I mean, I do believe there is a period like, I mean, I know what it's like to come totally off and then go back on again. Yeah. So I do believe there is a point where your body's not as sensitive and you can get things to be a little bit more sensitive. But I don't, I never had a strategy for it. I just something I would notice when I'd come off or go down to crews and then go back on or something like that. You know, it's, that's all it is. And a lot of it is, I've read about androgen receptors in the brain being part of it. So that's actually something more. A lot of you see you feel that more than androgen receptors in your bicep. Right. Androgen receptors in your brain are what, you know, make you like notice that all of a sudden every girl is looking pretty good. It was six a week ago. Damn she's out now. Yeah, when I was off tested, even notice I girl was at the gym and now all of a sudden she's here. Oh, yeah, that's me. That's the red pants again. Right. So, you know, there's everyone knows what it's like to like suddenly go back on or whatever, you know, because guys go through that stuff. But I mean, there was never any strategy or thinking I could control it or think in there was, oh, if I eat a little bit more of this berry, I'll get a little bit more of this micro nutrient that'll enhance my Androgen receptivity like I just never ever thought of any of that stuff. Yeah, well, I think some of that comes back to from right now with trainers and people trying to make money. If you can make it sound like you know how to do those things, it sounds like a great thing. Right. Right. It's the secret, you know? Go ahead, you go on. Well, non guys, thanks for watching another podcast here. I think big bodybuilding media. And thank you to our great sponsor, True Nutrition.com for making this all possible. True Nutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudeau, the creator of DC training. You wanted to create a supplement company that offered high quality third-party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders, just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors, plus health and performance supplements. Check them out, True Nutrition.com. And hey, if you use our code advices, you directly support our podcasting. Thanks guys, let's get back to the program. Yeah, so one of the questions I got handed was, totally off-training topic. Do you believe in ghosts or have you ever had an experience that you might describe as supernatural? Well, I absolutely believe in ghosts. Okay. Absolutely believe in supernatural. I haven't personally had like some like, moment, but I've definitely seen enough evidence. And I actually know a few people that are not looney tones, who have shared stories with me where you're like, oh, shit. You know, and I don't know, well, I think of ghosts. I don't think of like ghost busters in the halfway visible thing. You know what I mean? I think of energy. Like something in the room. You know what I mean? And I know I'm going to set the religious people off, but that is something that I kind of see more than like, oh, I saw a cat that wasn't there. Right. You know, what about you? So I'm a pretty evidence-based scientifically-minded skeptic. Right. You know, I don't believe in God. I don't believe there's any evidence whatsoever to support any claim whatsoever about the existence of any kind of deity whatsoever. I'm just- It just means absolutely nothing to me. I-I'm very scientifically-minded. I'm, you know, the type of person that thinks the human mind is capable of creating and experiencing a whole lot of things that aren't actually happening. Right. And, you know, we obviously see this on another level when we introduce many different types of compounds, you know? I mean, if one thing's for sure, if you take 100 micrograms of LSD, you will be having an interesting afternoon. And there's no denying that. So there's- there's some stuff that happens on the brain that- and I think that that's why it goes back to my argument against religion. Is it every single religion experiences all the same stuff when it comes to, you know, feeling God and all that? That's why I don't believe in God because it's even atheists have these crazy spiritual experiences. So I'm gonna mention two things. One is I've mentioned it before, but it was a concert I went to. I went to a tool concert in 2006 and it was like the most insane experience I've ever had where you where I could see a religious person attaching the label spiritual to it. But I'm not a religious person. So I just thought it was an amazing display of feeling connected in an energy sense to thousands of people who were all connected to this music. And it was just this crazy experience. And I talked to a bunch of people that were at that concert. And there were people like balling their eyes out after the show. They were like, that was like, I don't know what happened to me there. And I was like, yeah, that was crazy concert. Like it was- it was hard to explain. But I don't believe it's super natural. I believe it's happening on the level of the brain. And it's a lot of people that are just experiencing the same chemical, like, you know, I might have smoked some weed. I might have popped a mushroom cap. I don't know what was going on in my brain. But a lot of other people have in the same thing going on. It was very, very fascinating. What do you think? And I know you probably won't go to the answer this very easily. What do you think made that happen there to so many people? I'm always curious, because I feel the same way and a lot of stuff. So it's fascinating to me when 100,000 people are in a moment. And I think it's a bunch of people felt that thing. It's again that happened. So while too full, sorry, this is off the topic of ghosts. This is just supernatural, but I go back to ghosts. I think first of all, it's tool fans. They're a special breed. Right? So, you're not going to have this emotional sort of transcended thing going on at a nickel-back concert. They might have some screaming girls throwing panties. But you don't have this. Yeah, yeah, yeah, you know what I mean? But some of the stuff I saw at that concert, and it was just crazy. It was like a crazy issue. I ever been to for anything that was sort of like odd like that. So, but I think it's first of all, starts with tool fans. Secondly, tool fans like to experiment with their consciousness. So, you know, again, it's not a beer drink and crowd. Right. It's a fucking eye-took-a-quarter trip at LSD, and I'm at the show now type of crowd, or hey, it's a mushrooms, or I'm high as fuck, or that's the type of crowd that goes to a tool concert. So there's that. There's a whole bunch of other elements like that that have to do with the music and the band. And then the music is like, they're not three minute pop songs. They're like these building. It's the music itself as part of that whole build build. Build create this massive thing inside your brain type of music. And I was saying, they've got 13 minute songs and stuff, right? Like you're not listening to fucking, you're not the timber late concert. And so it all kind of came together. And then the fact that they only fucking, you know, at that point, they hadn't toured for like seven years. So it was like everyone was starving for a show. So whatever. So it was just a neat night, but that was like, that was a kind of the closest thing I've had to like this sort of spiritual experience or transcendent thing going on. Where there was other people involved and we all kind of felt the same thing. And that's just why I don't believe in religion, because there was no shared religion there. It was all chemicals on the brain. You know, the sounds, the environment. It was, you know, it was very interesting. But back to ghosts. I don't think I don't believe in ghosts, but I was laugh because here is this one house I lived in. Because there was a ghost that I was I lived in. So I lived in this, yeah, like I never ever talk about this because I don't, I don't know proof, right? I'm like, however, and I'm a skeptic. So I'd be skeptical right up until the last minute, right? But I lived in this house in Australia. It was on beach road in fucking broad beach. So it was right on the beach. So like we go out the back door and the right on the sand. It was this giant beach house. It had like seven bedrooms. And there's a whole bunch of people living in it. You just rented a room and sounds terrible. Something you got a horrible time in your life. It was a blast, you know. And uh, giant shared kitchen, but most of my roommates weren't home that much, because they all like worked at the bar and served. Right. So like I'd come home. I'd get up and they'd all be gone surfing. And I'd make my breakfast. I'd go to the gym, come home from the gym. They'd be watching TV and smoking weed. And then they'd like go surfing again. Like they weren't, they were just easy. Right. And uh, had a good time. But I remember they used to say, oh, yeah, this house is haunted. Like everyone who lived there would say it was a haunted house. I'd go everyone knows this is a haunted house. And I was like, I would ever. And I remember I lived there twice for like three months each. Two little stints I lived in at house. And there'd be some times when I was like, this house is little fucking weird. Like, there was just a couple things that happened where I'm like, did that? Did I remember that correctly? You know, you don't yourself? Right. I remember just like closing doors and then coming back and they were open. And I'm like, I think I closed that door. And I'm like, I'm not like an idiot. Yeah. And then I remember like coming into the kitchen one day and like drawers, a bunch of drawers were open. And I was like, I was just in here and I'm the only one home. This is making you fucking sense. So it's just he's like, but I never ever allowed it to make me think there is actually a ghost. I always thought, I want to make roommates of us to come in and open a bunch of drawers and stuff. And I just just found with you. It's a fact. I don't know. I don't know. But there was like a whole bunch of stuff. Time is in that house. Whereas like, I'm the only one home. I love that you are such a perfect skeptic because you have soft evidence and something is up. But just like, I guess it's like the reverse of religion. You can convince yourself that now someone walked into the house randomly, looking for the forks, which they know where they are, but open 72 other drawers and then walk to out. And while there was one time, I remember I was sitting at home. I was watching TV eating or something. And I heard someone walking around upstairs. And I'm like, I think I'm the only one home. Right. So I went upstairs and I loved and there's no one upstairs. And I come back downstairs and I'm like, is it possible that there is like an animal on the roof? Going through the roof, really grounds. And I'm hearing that. And I was just like, there's just a bunch of funny things that happened at that house. But I never ever walked around and said, I lived in a haunted house. But all my roommates did. I love it because you did. You lived in a haunted house. It sounded like a step that fact. And apparently they were your friends and it pissed them off. And you didn't believe in them. The house was built in 1920. So it was like super old. So there was like, it kind of had this feel to it. Why didn't you want to? Oh, see, this is where you and I, we, we have subtle differences you and I. And I'm not going to say I'd be like, oh my god, there's a ghost. But I would definitely be like, let's research who built this house and who died in this house. Right. How many families are going to tear? But what happened in this house to make it this way? Oh, a mass suicide. Interesting. There it is. That, like, at least when I heard something up, Santa, like, Chuck, keep it down dude. Yeah, you never know heavy today. If it would have been now, I could have done some googling, right? Exactly. But at this type, the address in all these newspaper clippings from the 40s come up. You look at over here like, oh, that is Chuck. I fucking knew it. That's a size 13 shoe, just like they said. That's loud. Hey, it's his bliss. I'm glad I didn't know. Yeah, but I want to. Now, you need the address for that house. But I also want to state that, you know, we are screwed on the comment section. So far, I'm going to show. Oh, I think it's a religion we would not have not were. Matt, we just did lunatics. I want you guys to enjoy our last episode. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. YouTube is actually not going to let us release this. This is too late to say I didn't mean to offend anyone. Yeah. Remember at the end, you just say, you just say in a nice way. I was just talking about me. That's just me. I can't help who I am. That's like, that was my high school thing. I used to teach my friends. Like, I'd go fuck yourself in a nice way. In a nice way. Like, does that take some of it back? No. So how about your favorite ghost movie? What ghost movies do you like? What's a good, that's, but there are some good ghost movies. My favorite ghost movie is a six cents. That's a great one. Because listen, you know every movie where there's something common you always know because I have that brain. I just know. I always, I'm like other about sitting in a boom and I'm right and we move on. That movie I was like, wait a minute. And then you replay it in your brain and then they show you and you're like, oh shit. But because you know, all of it, the whole, I don't know a single person that ever told me, oh, I knew. Yeah, that was a thing is like the six cents, they did a great job at, you're right about them. Like people say, oh, I picked it up right away. No, no one did with that movie. But then everyone afterwards was like, how did I not? Yeah, because they, that was the buying line. You, you're like, they gave it to you the whole way. Yeah, they gave you the opening scene more than enough. That opening scene when you first meet the boy is talking to the boy. And things are happening around, but in your brain, like, oh, they're just letting them have their conversation. People are walking by. Yeah, like you said, once it's done, you're like, so they told me five minutes of the movie, the disguise was not there. Yeah, and the whole thing with his wife. Yeah. Eat and dinner, not talking and all those weird shit, like, and then after it you're like, oh, God. Yeah, that was good. You know, another one that was great that was kind of like that where you, you, you got flipped. Was, do you remember the others? It's Nicole Kidman. Oh, there it is. Yes, okay. I was a guest, but no, yes. They're living in that house. And the whole time you think they're living in a haunted house. Yeah. That was that fucking good. I liked that movie a lot. I watched that movie twice. And it got pretty good reviews, but I just, I thought it was really well done. I almost felt like that movie had it been never seen movie, like after the fact like if they made that now, it would have done better. Yeah, I know what you mean. Do you know what I'm saying? Because I really think too that one is one of those examples. That's great to us. We have a following that 90% of the people have no idea that movie is so go watch it. Yeah, go watch the others. You will not be disappointed. That's no, too. I liked it. And then of course, you know, you can't forget the cultural, cultural impact that ghost had on my generation with Demi Moore and Patrick Solting. Crazy. Yep. And who can forget the the Clay sculpting scene? Yes. Would be Goldberg. Yeah. What a what a great what a great movie. That was so funny. What year would that have been like 93 or 72? Jesus. I was really young. I was really young. So it had to be early. Like I would guess even 91. Because I was a young. But me. Yeah, might have been might have been 90. Fuck long time ago. You know, it's so great about a show like this is I can just look. Just look. One was ghost. One was good. We go home. 1990 to life 13th. They nailed it. But he 1990s. I was nine. Wow. Yeah, that's a classic. The romantic thriller. Just so you know. Was that what they call it? Yes. romantic and thriller. That's tricky. I don't really see the thriller. And it but okay. Yes. What about what about your favorite horror movie? Like you have any like ghost horror movies. Like you remember like the ring. And like all that shit that grudge. Remember they remade all those Korean movies. You know, it's crazy. So I never got into those because I more preferred the the thriller horror like saw. Right. You were more like a actual killer type of violence thing. Yeah. You know. Yeah, that those were all I remember when. So this kind of reminds me of like the the Honex store that you never knew. So I have a really like religious God fearing just the sweetest person friend. And she's like, you've got to go see saw. So I'm like, all right. It's all right. So I go see this movie. Like halfway through. I'm like this crazy bitch. Like I got to like call her like, are you serious? Are you even allowed to watch this? That's buddy. I was awesome. It was awesome. Oh, yeah. I thought they were all good. But the first one was like, you know, it's I think we've talked about this before. When I see a movie like that, I always think. So the guy who wrote this should be arrested for sure. Yeah, when they're having like, I don't like where their mind goes on their own. You know, I kind of hoped that they're like on a bunch of shit, which is really possible. I have a friend who used to own a business that made video games. Right. And they used to do a challenge, a drug test challenge, where he would do a drug test and see who could check the most boxes that worked for him. Because they were all on something. Still like he's like this makes sense. No wonder Charles is so good. That's funny. I'm sorry. I'm a liar here. I want to make sure we just finish this is our very last episode. Anyways, going to work for me. You got to be able to handle your drugs. Well, those guys, that's the, you just plug in. And that's what they would do. You come and go and you write code and you whatever the hell goes into those things. You know, he made a few hundred million. So that's cool. Not too shabby. Okay, let's get one here, Dasty. All right, let's see here. This is an easy one and I think we all have a million. Funniest Jim story. Oh, God. Funniest Jim story. Yes. I don't know how many funny things have happened. I mean, I've, I've seen, I saw a guy projectile vomit on the lake press in the middle of a set. Did he keep going? Um, no, he, he racked it. He's, so I got to give the guy credit. I think he did a couple more reps. And then he realized he realized that it was a little different than a bloody nose. It was like everywhere. Again, it is a time to stop to set. I'm impressed that he did a couple reps. Pretty sure he did a lot of stuff. I think he might have done another rep. And then I think everyone around him was like, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. You know what I mean? Please, yeah, please clean that up. I'm going to do it too. Oh, yeah. Yeah, pretty disgusting. I remember the funniest, the one moment where like I personally lost control. So here's a question before I set this up. Have you ever absolutely lost control of yourself laughing? And not been able to stop laughing. Like you thought like, oh my God, people are starting to stare at me. I can't stop laughing. This is becoming a scene. I can't breathe very well. I'm starting to get dizzy. I might have to sit down in the middle of this. I can't breathe. I make it funny noises. My face is turning red. Have you ever had that moment? Not to that degree. But definitely when I was a kid, I used to get drugged to church. I would find things funny. I was supposed to have to stand in the cage a time. Well, I have had a couple of laughing fits in my life. Like uncontrollable can't stop. Everyone around me is like, what's wrong with them? And they're like, I always have an laughing fit. And I'm just like losing it over something. So one time I arrived at the Arnold. I got off the plane, took the taxi, got to the hotel, walked into the hotel, and I run right into the gas crew. Right. Yeah, it's like at the time it was, you know, Greg and, you know, the whole gas better body's crew back when that was, you know, the whole crew. And a bunch of the guys were there. And they had just trained at elite. Right. So they had gone out and done this crazy leg workout at elite. And they'd used the big, like press at elite, the big elite, elite, um, elite FTS1, right? Right. And uh, and they said, hey, check out our video. We went really hard and they just stuck it in my face. And they had just finished editing it. I think. And it was a clip of two of them, puking in the same garbage can. Like the one guy was puking in the garbage can. And the other guy couldn't wait and he went in. And their pukes like merging. And it was kind of splattering each other. Like they were, it was, and I just lost it. It was like the funniest. It was a long travel day of stress. You know, you almost ready, like ready to snap. Yeah. And I just saw these guys. They're all great guys too. I know all of them, right? And they're puking together. And it was just fucking hilarious to me. And I just lost it in the lobby, though, tell. I laughed for like five minutes. Everyone was like, he could be okay. It was like, they get the public like, it's not that funny. Yeah. It was as, as it pretty funny. But the sight of them, they're puked merging. Like, I'd never seen anything like it in any gym video or anything. It was just fucking killed me. See, and that's why I always tell video guys. Don't ever turn the camera off. Don't ever turn the camera off. Because like they got to blow some fucking worst. Yeah, I can think about that. Like, like, if they had been filming the first guy in the cut. And then all of a sudden, this dude charges over. And this happens, you're like, okay, we missed that. We've also won one guy, but you've no one seen two. Yeah, it was a good time. Oh, that was a good time. Yeah, I don't have any like specific stories. But I do find the gym in general to be highly entertaining. The things that just just that go on. And this is, this will show my age and how long I'm doing this. But I laugh at the difference of what it used to be to be like hardcore and in the sport versus now. Like, so when I started, and this isn't humor, but more like a change in why I laugh at our where things are, I guess. So when I started by the way, and I first hired JJ Marsh, he was like, oh, you should buy some long sleeve shirts. And I was like, what? And he goes, you can't hide huge. You have to wear a tank top, you're not big. Right, right. Like, that's just the rule. If you have to wear a tank top, people know you have muscle, you're not big. So I wore long sleeves until marketing became the thing. I would still train in long sleeve t-shirts if it wasn't for nobody wants to watch me training long sleeve t-shirts. Right. But now, when you go to the gym, it's the opposite. Like, we've got a crew that go the come into muscle factory now. And I understand, I'm not mocking it. It's just a change in the generation. So it's funny to me to see like the gym shark get up. And the girls in the perfect outfit, and they're just, I'm like, so it was, it's almost like when you see someone that puts more effort into editing their video for Instagram than the training itself. Right, I understand. So that's how I see it in the gym. And they're on there. They all look great and have great physiques and are, and are doing their thing. But those are the things that really make me laugh on the gym because I just remember like, I kind of preferred when it was a dungeon thing. Well, I think, so here's my take on that. And I got to give them credit for multitasking because when I used it and this is no knock on it at all, they're, it's just the way it is. When I used to go to the gym, I knew that the odds were 99.5% I wasn't going to run into anyone I wanted to fuck. So you might, we met. Oh, never mind, do I? Like my first, my first 10 years in the gym was I'm going to a gym where there's a bunch of other like barbarians like me. Yep. And maybe some attractive women, but most of them are probably married up and not my age because I'm a little young for my level of seriousness at that point. So it just wasn't like back in the 90s. I didn't go to the gym to pick up girls because there weren't really a lot of them at the gym. Right. That's how it was back then. But now like that's the, that's, you know, like no one saw me at the gym. There was no photo is there video. Right. Like those were taken when you go for dinner. You know? But now it's like, y'all has got to be on. They're always on. Like you're always like, you know, it's a big advertised. I mean, you're advertising your attention. Because I do, I do tell people that on the flip in the same conversation like if you're attempting to be an influencer, whatever, then you have to treat it like work. I mean, you wouldn't, it's like if I used to go when I had hair, I used to get haircuts at a high-end place in Scottsdale in the girl was always dressed classy but sexy. Yeah. Every single day, she would never show up and like swatts. She would lose money. So it's very similar. But like you said, it's just, it's different to see. But the things that really I laugh at the most now is just the implementation of useless bullshit in a gym to look different. Like, as I, I watched like, like I've said this a million times. When I used to go to gym, I didn't know what the fuck I was doing. I would just look at the guy who was where I wanted to be. And like, what's he doing? And I see what people do in the gym who are trying to become big bodybuilders. And they're 10 feet away from me and I just want to walk over and go, have you ever seen me do that? Ever. So here's a funny one. I saw a guy the other day who is laying on the floor doing those, like, cable side laterals from the low pulley. Yeah, that the double low pulley and he was doing them. And I said, uh, it's a terrible exercise. That's a terrible exercise. Right. And the person I was talking to goes, oh, I thought that was like a good angle. Like, though, they look good to me. And they go, you have a, you don't have to lay on the floor to do that. Yeah. And he's laying on the floor and I'm a germphobe who thinks of floors fucking disgusting. And I'm not laying on the floor to do side laterals. I can do side laterals in one, two, three different machines, three different cable varieties, dumbbells, fucking whatever I want. I don't have to lay on the dirty fucking floor to do side laterals. Right. So, so nice people think there's a, a read, all that must be a reason why you don't like those extra, that extra says I'm like, yeah, because he's laying on the fucking floor. I don't want to get dirty. Yeah, because there had to be a thing in the opposite. There's a reason it's good. It's, oh, he can't sway backwards or whatever. You can do those on a bench. Yeah, yeah, there's a million ways to execute the same. But yeah, and I think that that's the, the neverending search for something different. And, and it's funny, because I put it on here and Jason, my PT who, you know, I mean, you fucking know this shit like no one's business. I joked about the old sideways, one arm, hammer, strength, the press, because it's a fucking joke. They're like, I'm walking the inner pack. I'm like, no, you're shortening a range of motion tremendously. Yeah, no, and then you've lightened the weight and then, and it's funny, because he commented on, because I mocked it on one of my, uh, my Q&A's and he goes, I get a good burn from that. I go, I don't doubt that. It's fucking useless though. Right, burn doesn't mean anything. Yeah, just like, hey, doesn't mean like, no, so it was just a funny thing, because you see it all the time and I always think of myself, I've never seen a dude unless he's marketing on Instagram with a giant chest doing that. And I saw, um, I got that I know doing cross over the other day, but his body was moving a lot, right? So when he'd go into the stretch, he'd dip down and get a good stretch, and then when he contracted, stand up, right? And I, in over two of them, and I put my hand in the middle of his back, was I don't move. If dude again, again, and he did a bunch of reps, and I might, you're shooting a gun in a canoe. Right, like you're firing a gun, but the bullet is losing a bunch of power, because the canoe goes back. Right. There's only so much energy involved in this, in this process, and you want all of it to go that way into your backs, and a whole bunch of it's going that way, because your body moves. Right. And he was like, oh, and I'm like, yeah, that's why if you can't do cross over his properly, there's shitty exercise, because you need to be able to brace. You have to be able to brace. That's what makes you be able to load. So exercises where you can brace, you can load more. That's why Meadows does the Bulgarians hold onto the frame, because then your stability isn't an issue, so now you can load more. Yeah, exactly, because you know what I mean? We'll lose it on those, as the other. They're trying to balance this problem more than anything else. I'm going to take a leak, okay? Jesus, okay. Editor don't edit, talk about me, and don't care, Scott, come on, make fun of me. I'll be sure for sure. Okay, Scott, proceed with you. Just like that. You guys actually had some good ghost stories there. Oh, I'm not on the mic. You guys actually had some good ghost stories there. I was surprised by that. I was shocked at Ron, when it did not believe in God. That was like, let me go. So so far, I feel the same, but I don't say that. Yeah, we covered all the bases today to make sure that we don't get any new subscribers, I think. Maybe we will lose a few. I have to be a superstar. Actually, it was like, all right, so I've mocked the masks, told people I do whatever the fuck I want. John Ron has now publicly said, God is a joke, I'm like, oh Jesus. I'm going to put in a request to our listeners, and that is that they a message, flex Lewis, is many of them is possible to say, hey, come on Ron and Dusty show, and then that way, when you get out there, he's going to be like Dusty, I've had 30 people message me to come on your podcast. I got to do this. Plus I figured he wants to promote his gym, so we should, I would love to see him on the show. So we should get it. Oh, I'll ask him anyways, because I know he doesn't like to do them, but yeah, he does, he does. It's so funny, I had a friend actually DM me when I put up the post. Yeah, congratulations, I'm like, for what? Well, flex is Jim, I'm like, what? What do you mean congratulations? He's a friend of mine, I'm just fucking show up and I can pay you. The ear invited? Yeah, I was like, all right, yeah, like it's just funny, because if it's associated with flacks, then it's congratulations no matter what. Yeah, yeah, I'm like, that's funny. So how about congratulate Flex, the dust he's coming out? You got my ass for free. He's welcome. I'm dragon charity, shit's getting fucking very good for him all of a sudden. I'm out as if he needs more help. You ready to roll? I am ready to roll. Okay. Does that have my question or yours? What are we talking about? We were talking about. Did we go so far from the question that sometimes we're talking about those? We're done and I'm like, oh, we didn't have her actually answer that. That's we're done with go so, right? I think so. It was a great movie. This is a good one. Oh, that was the funniest Jim story that we also really didn't answer, because they were no funny. Yeah, but yeah, we tried. But we suck. If a follower saw you at the gym, would you say what's up or strictly business while you train? Oh, of course not. I'd say what's up. I mean, the whole time I was super hardcore and ultra serious, I was still nice to people. Like, I think like the shortest I ever was with someone was like, hey man, I'm just about to do a set. Can I catch you after I train? Right. Like literally putting straps on and someone doesn't realize, you know, and you're just like literally or staring at a squat bar and you're like getting zoned and then you're like, hey man, can I do? I got to just do it. Like, and to be honest, most people have always left me alone in the gym pretty pretty much. And also, I've never had like a, I've never had a bad incident where someone was like, hey, can I get a picture? And I just said no to them or anything like that and everyone's been really cool. And most little banners only take 15 seconds. Yeah. And most people time them really well and I don't really have any bad stories. No, I don't either. Actually, the only bad story I have is I would, I hope, like it sounds like such a weird thing to say. But like, I would hope people know to walk over if they want to. Yeah. Yeah. Like sure. Do. Well, like walk over. Like walk over. Do your thing. You know, it's funny. People will ask me for a picture and I literally every time like do me a favor tag me in that because I want to use it. Yeah. You know what I mean? Like that, that I want to share it or whatever it is because they created some, some content for me. I love, I love hearing it. I still find it funny. I, I forget that people I actually know ever watch a show. Like I, I see the numbers and I talk to Scott sometimes about the downloads and I know that, you know, we're getting about this many people watching and all that stuff. But I never think of that as like actual people. Right. So when someone I know is like, well, I watch your show. I was just laugh. I'm like, oh, God. Sorry. Sorry. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Oh, yes. I'm a little god thing. Sorry. Oh, no. Yeah. So it's a little bit seriously. I do like, like, I'm glad the question was asked because every one I know who is in the sport feels the same way. As long as you time it right, you're good to go. I've had a couple of guys actually really cool like when you're in the middle of something like, I don't know, heavy squatting or whatever, even though you're resting, that will literally walk or be like, hey, bro, not now. But if before you leave, can you come, you know, you make sure I get a picture of like, sure. And sometimes in that moment, yes, you're right. We're going to do that later. And sometimes I'm like, let's do it now. Right. You know what I mean? Because it just depends on what the moment is, but it's always cool when they do it that way. But I do feel shitty. It's about a couple of people message me after, oh, I saw you today at the gym, but I want to bother you and I'm like, fuck, you know, bothering me or supporting my career. Like Jesus, please, you know that someone actually listens to my show because yeah, it's funny. Yeah, it's a magic to know when you came up to us. If no one ever told us they listened to the show, would be still be doing the show? I don't know. We're remember in the beginning when we first started like we were both shocked at like, you bump into some of the store, they're like, man, I love the show. We're like three episodes deep and like, oh, thank God, people are watching. Yeah, yeah, people from the gym really helped me out. I was like, oh, I guess people wanted to listen to this. Okay, I was keep doing it, you know? Because you're right, it does make it more real when it's a person versus a click on a YouTube, where it says someone watched it and you're like, oh, you know, George watches it. Cool, you know? So that's definitely thing. But yeah, I know, I think always walk up and I don't mind answering questions, stuff too, if it's the right time. I've stayed after for 10 minutes talking to people before. Right, true. Okay. Is it my turn? Yeah, it's been your turn like the whole time you've done one. You suck. You're unprepared. So we started watching Yellowstone at a boy, that a boy, we almost, we're almost done season one. Yes, got to it. Those are long episodes where you shocked how long episodes are? Well, the first one was like almost two hours because it's like the pilot. Yeah. And there's been a couple, they're not all the same link. That's a funny thing. Yeah, like an hour and a half sometimes. Yeah. But so it's really good. It's a lot of fun and people are right. It is sons of Anarchy on a ranch. Yep. That's exactly what it is. So it made me think of this question. Oh, we got your own question. Here we go. And specifically for you. Thank you. So how many seasons deep in Yellowstone are you? Because I assume it gets more twisted. I'm actually about the same as you because of my attention span. Okay. So like I cranked for a minute and then I fell off for a bit. This is very normal for me. So would you hear it as would you rather be a cowboy on Yellowstone or a Biker on Sun's Anarchy? And I'm talking in real life to live like lifestyle. One of those bikers or one of those cowboys. Oh, man. This is so okay. So my answer is like, in the consideration how far you are from the city. Everything. Yeah. Like no, I would definitely be the biker. Okay. In in Sun's and the reason is because their business, their work is my kind of work. I don't forget that those cowboys are actually also running these giant ranches while doing all these things. I mean to give you an idea, man. I sent five pit people a picture of my truck the other day because I had an item in the bed and I was like man shit. And it was, you know, an inversion table. It was not man shit. I just was using the bed of the truck and I was excited. I was like, this is what men do. We use the bed of the truck. Right. I do not want to do any fucking work on a ranch. I don't want to live in the middle of the fucking nowhere. I talk about all the time. I was doing it's beautiful. Like I see where and I'm like, God, it would be so cool to be there. And then like an hour and a half, I'd be bored. Because, you know, when I tell someone I'm going to go to cheesecake factory, I debate if I should drive or walk because it's across the streets. Right. Right. Living the epicenter of scastas. So you know, I would be the bike or for sure plus. The one thing I like about that like Sons of Anarchy is it's a fucking business. Like sure it's drug mealing, but it's a business. And I dig it. It's protection. I dig it. It's strippers and porn. I get run that business. These are all things I'm interested in. Right. Right. Like I put up a post this morning. You're creating a solution to a problem. Right. That is a business. Okay. Okay. For sure. Okay. And how about you though? Well, I mean, I'm assuming the cowboy lifestyle gets a little more violent as we go. And a little bit more of them die and a little bit more stuff happened. So I was thinking, well, you know, knowing the death rate of Sons of Anarchy by the end of the show. You wanted to be alive? I'm wondering, yeah, like how many cowboys from season one are still around in season three, right? It's going to be one of the factors that we always have. How likely am I to get popped in the back of the head by one of my buddies? You know, so there's a little bit of that. But I can't, I can't get away from, you know, the being able to hop in my pick up and just drive to the store or go to the gym or whatever I want to do. And out in Montana living in the cowboy quarters with all the other dudes. I don't know how long I'd be able to last. I do like, you know what's funny though? The one thing that I like and it it's scary to me because it mirrors the US government is on the outside. It all looks so clean. I just heard ranch owner. Right. And the cattle. You think you think? You know what I mean? Yeah. It's like, you know what the governor and that is how I think it's one thing. It's funny is that's real life. You don't make it. And I hate to say this because I don't want someone to read this wrong. When someone's at the very, very top of whatever they've stepped on some throats. Yeah. There's people that are not their friend. You know what I mean? So I find that to be a little bit of luring. Because like, I laugh when people are talking about like gangsters and shit and I'm like, oh yeah, like so you're talking about like Hillary Clinton, like a gangster. Got it. Because she's as gangster as it comes. Absolutely. You know, people die and we all know how it happened and she just smiles. Yeah. Yeah. People, there's still a disconnect where the people who think like the suits, you know, the governor, they're not, well they're saying they think they're not shaken hands with a guy who does a lot of dirty work. You know? They have one on their staff. You know, I had a friend of a DEA guy. Need someone roughed up. Need someone to understand the consequences of their decisions. Yeah. They got someone for that. You'll come and explain things to you. Yeah. Very platter. Yeah. Very politely. We need you to vote. We need you to vote a certain way on this coming up thing. Yeah. You know, we're not asking you really. We need your endorsement and we need all of your workers endorsement too. And if it doesn't happen. Yeah. Your factory might bring to the fucking ground tomorrow. Yeah. So true. They're because people don't see that. Whereas in the bikers is like, oh, it's bad dude. Right. Right. But I think, you know, what's funny is in the real world too. Some of that's twisting. Do you remember back in the day like when we were younger, people with tattoos were like rebels? They were bad news. Now my attorney has tattoos. Yeah. He is a very well-spoken. You know what I mean? It's like, it's not the same anymore. So now my, my, my, my, my, my, my cousin's husband. My cousin's husband just finished medical school. And he's a full fledged doctor now. And he has covered in tats and has a brown belt and Brazilian jiu-jitsu. Yeah. He's a bad ass. Yeah. But he's your doc checking on your car. Yeah, doing the rounds. He's good. You know, it's poking out. You know, you know. But I love that too because it's even the playing for the bit. Because like you said, it's hard to imagine back in the day that, oh, yeah, the suit might be the most dangerous man in the room. Right. The doctor is now. Yeah. Exactly. And he might, and he also knows people that he grew up with. Yeah. Don't forget that. Don't forget where people came from, right? My knees are more dangerous than anything. People with a lot of money are the most dangerous people. Of course. That's the mouth. I'm jiu, don't you know the golden rule wrong? He who has a gold makes the rules. That's the one, baby. I remember the first time that was said to me, I'm like, oh, that's the real golden rule. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. You know what, with I got to kick out of how we both answered diabetes at the same time on a Hill show. He was like, he's right. I think no one gets this right. We both, man. He's like, yeah. I don't know if he asked that question. Other people are not. So I don't know if that was supposed to be easier or not. If it was hilarious to me. But it definitely was. Okay. I got a good one for you. Thoughts on porn and it's effect on any past relationships you've had. Oh. Eh. I don't know. I think the new generation is going to be a lot more affected by porn than my generation was. How so? Well, we had access to hard core porn when we were young. Like I remember my buddy had a satellite. Right. It's back in 80s. Like the big ass satellite. Where you push the button and then it would turn. It had to move lean. Like a few minutes. It would lock onto another satellite. You'd have another fucking 500 channels and you could like watch cartoons. And oh, fucking we get WrestleMania six without paying for it. You know, like I remember those days, right? And then there was always the one satellite. You know, if the parents weren't home, you fucking put it to whatever other satellite it was. And then the channel was called. Like senior watching Debbie does Dallas. The channel was called American triple ecstasy. I remember that. And it was like, so what my buddy used to do? So this was in like grade nine. It's like 13. My buddy used to get a setup. It was a craziest setup and his parents just didn't realize. So they had the satellite hooked up to the main TV. Right. Right. But then he had a TV in his room. Right. And he hooked that TV up to the other TV. So whatever satellite the main TV was on went to his TV in his room. And he had a VCR hooked up to that TV. So he could record them. So he would get up after his parents with the bed. He would move the satellite and he would hit record on his VCR and he would go to bed. And he'd wake up in the morning and he'd have six hour tape of that channel. Whatever they happen to play. Right. So grab bag, fucking random. You don't know what you're getting. Right. And that tape sells its school for 40 bucks. This is my kind of friend. How rich is this guy right now? Because I already see his brain. I don't know. But I, I think he did pretty good. No, I started out. I guarantee it because that's a fucking business mine. I'm like, I'm so proud of him right now. I don't even know him. Yeah. So like, a bunch of kids at school had like a random tape of porn. And it was like full on like, you know, hard core. What we would say is like full on porn now. Because back then, there used to be like playboy. Wasn't considered hardcore right? Cause they didn't show any like that to that to that. Right. You know, so it was like the full on stuff. So it's pretty funny. You know, 80s hair and you know, get the back comb bangs. And he's not just talking about on their head. No, no, yeah. Yeah, exactly. You know, it's a full moth's back then. Good time. So we had porn. But you had to go through a lot of work to get it. And you had to like go through a lot. Yeah, to be patient to watch it. It would like no one was home. You know, like it was as different. And now I mean, there's some pretty interesting studies. Now about kids being just so overloaded with it. So easily, just so fucking freely on their phone that it is having some real detrimental effects regarding their ability to like form relationships and their expectations. Like, imagine having sex for the first time in your 14. And you think sex is fucking what you've seen on the life. I'm going to fucking the ass and come all over your face. I mean, this is what we do, right? Put it in your mouth while you're at it. Like fuck, like it's just, it's just, you know, like I'm glad that that's not what I, you know, I'd seen a lot of porn by the time I had sex. But I was smart enough to know that that wasn't real sex. This isn't how it's going to be right in the beginning. You know, it's just, but I'm not sure. And that that's the difference. It's smart enough to know the difference, right? Right. Or, or, or where enough to know the difference. And I think that it, that they're saying now that there's so much of it that that's being eroded. Right. So, then what is supposed to be normal? Yeah. Like, like, day, yeah. What about the relationships side that he brought up in the question? Yeah. Um, I've never had a relationship where porn was a problem or an issue or like, it was, it was always a, a fun thing that could, uh, may or may not be watched occasionally. I was, I thought you're going to say produced, but I guess that's my life. It's always been a free topic, you know, you're proud to say. So what genre is deal like? Who's your favorite? A lot's dusty. I had lost you. You were frozen. Yeah. Yeah. So, yeah. So, no, but I think it's the same. I mean, I know what someone's thinking, but I guess what's weird um, for me in particular is I'm, I'm extremely open book about all things and apparently, you know, I know you guys are shocked, but Ron also is. So, I don't think any woman that's ever met me is shocked by anything that I would say or do. Um, so you're not going to have a girl who's anti, what I call fun, um, rolling up on me and wanting to go to dinner. Yeah, and Emily and I have all, obviously everyone already knows this, but Emily and I have obviously been to the AV and awards like five times, which is a great January Vegas excuse, by the way, but um, but yeah, but that's, that's just like, I mean, when you meet the porn stars and you listen to like, like we've talked to many of them, they're just, it's funny, like even they know it's not real sex. Yeah, it's what's the thing? I mean, you know, because I know enough people in the industry that we have conversations where it's funny because people think it's so bad and they're like, I'm just going to work more to the other. If they've got a good business sense, they actually have a business plan, but they approach their porn with when they start and that's why a tender lust is a multimillionaire and then a lot of them are scratched out because they made $2,000 to the nastiest thing you've ever seen. Yeah, you know, it's like, you have to have a plan just like any other business and the problem with the porn industry is anyone can get in essentially, but there's only the just like, you know, it's funny it's just like every industry, 5% of the people make 90% of the money. Yep, every industry is the same. So, you know, to answer the question, I've never had that issue either, but I think the key with anything in relationship is no one has communication skills. Like, you should sit down in a relationship when it's starting to go somewhere and discuss a lot of shit that no one wants to touch. Like, if you want five children, I want none. We have to, I have to, we have initially year 7, you know, if you're a huge churchgoer and I don't believe or whatever, we have another issue. Well, it's a double issue if we both want kids and we have a different stance on that. I mean, people don't communicate and then they're shocked and I'm always amazed. It's kind of like when I see somebody that like proposed in the woman said, no, I'm like, what, what, you're fucking blinds? I don't like, I've been married twice. We all knew I, they told me what ring to buy essentially. Right. You just rolled up on the chick with a ring and she didn't know like, what? Yeah, yeah. I see that and I don't feel bad for you. I'm like, fuck, you guys didn't speak. Yeah, that was terrible. Yeah, I know. I gave a couple of those on Instagram. Yeah, and you're like, what? I've never even asked someone out that I didn't know the answer was going to be yes. Like, blows my mind. I mean, you do a little fucking recon kids and the same thing with these things, because it does matter, just like sex matters. Like, if you are a once a week, light soft kind of chick, our relationship doesn't matter how good everything else is, this isn't a work. Right. Right. And you know, so it should be a topic. You know, very interesting people's looks there. Do you got, you got more because I got tons, but I just don't want to steal your shell here, buddy. Oh, that one hurts my soul. What's the worst quality in a roommate? Let me think about myself. So I can fear out why people would hate to live with me. Oh, them, my bad. No, for me, it's, I mean, the quality is lack of consideration in general. Right. Because that covers so many things. But example, so I've only ever had one roommate that was not someone that lived with me in my room. And I realized literally, in that time, I couldn't do it. Because I'm wired differently. Like, you left your dishes in the sink. What? Yeah. Or we had, when I first got married, my wife and I had a three-bedroom with our best friends, Guy and a girl. They would go to Costco on Sunday and fill the freezer for the week with their food, which meant there was no freezer. Grus at all. Yeah. And that meant nothing to them. And I'm like, but I want to put this one little thing in the freezer and there's no space. And you don't see an issue. You know, I mean, just basic stuff like that. So lack of consideration covers pretty much everything for me. You know, yeah, that's being a pig. That's, you know, not paying on times a million things. But in hindsight, it's to be on to, I would, it's funny because you've had a lot of good experiences in that scenario. I'm way too stuck in my ways. A roommate doesn't work. Yeah. Never work. I, I, it's funny because Emily and I joked about that too. She was like, what would you do if I was gone? And as I never live with anybody ever again. That's awesome. Because, you know, like, so I remember the evolution of my tolerance. Like, when I was living in that beach house, the haunted one. Yeah. Right. Um, I was living with like, there was like seven of us in that fucking room in that house. And like the odd person would switch out, like, you know, all of a sudden Dave's gone and there's a guy named Greg in that room and they're like, oh, hey, Greg, good morning. Because there was one person who had contact with the landlord and had kind of control of the house. Right. And everyone else was a stand. There's like, we had no say who is there. So like I'd come up in the kitchen and be some dude there. I didn't know. I'd be like, oh, my name's Ben. I just moved in. Like, oh, hey, Ben. I'm going up. So there was like a level of just sort of wild randomness to living there. They had to put up with. So if I got up in the morning and the kitchen was dirty, I would just do my best to, you know, cook my breakfast and get ready and I might clean up the kitchen and just be a good roommate and think, oh, well, that's my contribution to the house and, you know, I'm helping everyone and I just put up with it because I knew it was short term and I knew there was, you know, I'm leaving all my fucking shit on the counter, my blender, my George Forman Grill and my fucking giant tub of protein and, you know, whatever. But as I got older, you know, the, the, the, the how things must be done definitely changes especially when your name's on the lease. So, you know, and then I lived with my best friend, which was fine, like we were great together for years and years. But I occasionally go to someone's house and you're like, holy fuck, how do they live with their kitchen like that? Right. You know, the kitchen is a big one, man. Like, that's, thanks God to be fucking anti. Yeah. And I don't want to see shit on the counter and, yeah, kitchen and bathroom got to be clean, relatively clean at least, you know, decently. Yeah. But I would lose my mind living with someone now. I'm so fixed in my ways and so much older and I just be like, that doesn't fucking go there. You know, I always, I always do those are right way or wrong way in the way I do it. Yeah. And you know, which one needs to be followed. Yeah. In fact, I think like my temptation is to, it's to, I'm often tempted to strip things down to the point where someone might think there's something wrong with me. I, someone might come over to my house and go, there's not enough stuff here. Yeah. Do you just move in? Yeah. Six years ago. Yeah. Like, there's, there's, there's not even enough chairs to have a guest. Right here by design by design. You know what I mean? So that's, that's where I'm at on that. Yeah. It doesn't, it doesn't, I think too. What's funny is I actually think the opposite direction too. Like, I would be difficult to live with because of that. Yeah. That would make, yeah. I mean, that's a thing. I'm saving someone else the fucking nightmare of living with. Yeah. Yeah. If you left a bowl in the sink, your answer be it's one bowl. I'm going to get one bowl. So hurry up, clean it up. Right. Like, yeah. Good. It won't take long. Get that done. It's a must here. Okay. Go ahead. Oh, geez. I don't know. I don't know. I guess. I'm a bar. Look at that. When you coming up, Australia doesn't matter. Oh, I think this is a good one because it's something that we've touched on briefly. So I have talked multiple times now about how the study on EAAs versus Branch chains kind of bugs me. Okay. Because we've essentially deemed Branch chains as complete shit and no one should ever take them. And my argument is how has everyone forgotten the way they feel and the changes they felt while on Branch chains for all those years because a piece of paper told them that they're garbage. So the kids question is, you mentioned, you know, it's a change in your physique with Branch chains. What do you mean by that? I don't actually mean the way it looks, but I'm going to let you kind of roll with that for a second. Then I'll kick back into the rest of my hands. I just said there. What did you see with Branch chains and what do you feel about now that there's a study basically saying you should throw them away? So I remember specifically one incident. I was living in Australia and I was getting free supplements because both my buddies worked for a company. And so I was getting big tub of BCA's, you know, big tubs of creatine, that sort of stuff. Glue to mean all that stuff. So they just told me back then this was the 90s. So they just said, hey, take a big scoop of BCA's and a big scoop of glue to mean before you train and then a big scoop after you train of each. Right. I don't know. Looking back, it was probably 20 to 30 total grams of each. And I remember specifically more than once I would do it for like a few weeks and I would get stronger and I would have. I remember my incline press was like my big marker. Yeah, for the whole fucking existing, my whole reason for being alive was my training and my incline press stuff. I remember that phase. Yeah. And I remember it fucking was going up and I was like fuck yeah. And I remember that was the only thing I added was I was just doing like these amino's around the workout. And again, like who knows a placebo effect or whatever. But that was the first time I ever seriously used like 30 grams of BCA's around my workout. Right. You know what I mean? And the glue to mean and the creatine and I was just loading everything. And everything just went wide taken creatine for ever. But I'm just saying taking everything. And I just remember thinking like I noticed that and then I like ran out. And then I forgot about it. Like we always do. And then I was like I'm going to get some more of that and I did it again and everything like went fucking was going better. And I was like fuck. And I was like the first time I really took BCA's. I was like you know what? So yeah, now we get a study saying that they can make you fat. And you know the valley and actually make you fat. Isn't that the study says? Yeah, there's a million like I mean I should say million. But how much valley is in a pound of state? Yeah, there's so many points on it. And I think that it's kind of back to it. The reason I wanted to touch on that is back to what you said is about you can find a way to justify what is being said or what you want to believe if you're staring at it long enough. Right. And so my argument with this and the twist I want to take with with this is don't ignore what you're seeing in yourself because something is written. Because I took branchings and we won the few supplements that when they first started taking them is back with like extend existed and all those. I used them all the time. And I remember I'd start fading my workout and I just slammed like six ounces of it real quick. And I could keep going. And in general my workouts were better and I just always had them. Then you have a study come out and now everyone's like don't even bother and I'm like we've all been using them for so long. How do you ignore that? And I feel the same way in the opposite direction like to me. As you've said and we've said a million times it all comes back to training. So if my training is at its peak that's what that's how I judge every marker. You know what I'm saying? If my training is at its peak it but eating is at its peak that's what matters to me and the results will take care of themselves around that. So it's the same in reverse people like you've you've got a love de-ball you've got a love and a draw it's that's amazing it killed my appetite. Right. Or I didn't feel good literally internally so my training suffered. I don't give a shit how great that's supposed to be. If I can't eat and I can't train it's doing more detriment than positive for me so I can throw it out. Right. It's the same in the opposite direction with the brand change and that's the answer to the question segment I can't ignore that. So what did I do? I take both. So I now take yeah it's and brand change. Right. Good to go. Everything's covered. Everything's locked in and fortunate. I mean literally coincidental but condemned to my sponsor their intra EA is both. And it kind of made me laugh because I was like not many companies are doing that especially like a lot of them immediately just unless they were a top company making brand change a lot of it pulled out of the game completely because like oh the market's saying. Yeah. Because all three BCAs are in the EAA list so they jack those ones up a little bit more as what you're saying. Yeah so they've got a heavy dose of both. Yeah so my clients a lot of my clients I'll put you know basic intra information in their program depending on the client and I'm like hey I think it's a good idea to take some EAAs and a lot of them message back I quite don't have EAAs can use BCAs I'm like oh yeah if you can find it completely I just am not the type of guy who tells someone to buy like $300 with the supplements on the first month. Yeah you know so I just write one EAAs and if they have one BCAs it can use those and I use I use EAAs or BCAs at both of my cupboard. I usually take EAAs because I like the new flavors but but I like the idea of having a meenows in your blood stream and I'm not gonna fucking lean on someone because I can use BCAs I'm like of course fuck. So and you know I see all these people in Instagram saying valine makes you fat and I'm just like I I've been inside out shredded using that shit. Yeah I've been inside out shredded using that stuff every day and how again like I said if if taken five grams of valine makes you fat well how much valine is in a pound of steak. Right because I need to pound a steak all time. Yep. So it's it's it's like that. I think it's important that we that you realize when you're hearing these things is who's saying it and I'm not calling them a liar because the study exists but there's an angle like you know my my buddy Joe Donley he's one of the ones that really goes on about EAAs and brand change and I'm like well which one does he make? Right he sells an EAA. You know why don't you ask a Ford salesman what do you think about the Chevy in comparison? Right you know and they have attributes you know what I'm saying and another one too. Yeah yeah I get what you're saying. Another thing too is if you do ask the Ford salesman about the Chevy the Ford salesman you should trust is the one that says you know what Chevy's pretty good. It's got thisnessness I like this and I like this I think we do this better. Yeah The guy that says I'd say she had it sucks. Especially when you've got again years of proof right happy drivers right that are still driving so I think that's the that's the key barrier there so yeah that's my argument on those so again I'm not anti EAAs I just don't like that in our world nowadays we want to throw away things we've seen that we've done and guys who lived and died by them and saw the results I go fuck these are garbage and they will speak it and I'm like it's kind of like when you if you gain weight during a prep and you just ignore the fact that the pictures look better right so really matter what you like you know I mean Chris used to tell me all the time I I'm awesome getting shredded and I suck at losing weight. Your frozen I can throw this up again dusty geez I just said the same thing but so right you're still frozen frozen right at the right at the last minute there I'm waiting there you go you're back you're back you're freezing every time I freeze so when you say that you're frozen on my screen that's funny it's what we do we're frozen together so any who that's the the majority of my really well time and true I have a million questions but guys I will finish answering these on my Instagram because last time I didn't and I took some heat I left the thing up and then I had some investor like you didn't answer single one I was like oh I was so I was so I was yeah those were the those were for the show so I now I have to answer these 700 questions before the twink project I had to skip a week with that because I just didn't have time yeah until that was the I made the I mean I did I made the mistake I put it up for the show and I get more response that way if I leave it up just as a Q&A but I always go back and do them and I was so slammed I didn't and I felt bad to like fuck like people take the time to ask the question and I don't even answer one I feel like such a dick and I didn't mean to do it that way but then it got worse so I had like five people they're like you didn't do the Q&A is like fuck I know I know what stuff okay well we've been almost two hours buddy yeah sir I gotta go get beat up again I'm doing doing more the stretching routine and the the X-Wife is what the big rollers call that he beats the shit I knew it so we have to I have to ask you one thing before we go because I didn't catch up on it what's going on with Kai it doesn't it appears to be the same shit dude and it's a little frustrating like they're they're back to hinting that it's having a conversation with Dan almost like possibly for the Olympia right and I love Kai I mean I am one of his biggest fans I wish that all those times ago he would have kept at it but I'm sick of it like if you wanted to the Olympia then fucking show up right and do it don't I don't even like do not not do it don't hint at you might it's it's not even like cute anymore dude you competed in like 2014 or something right and I'm not saying he's not capable but here's the thing that I think in regards to it I see Kai a lot like I see Connor McGregor right now he doesn't need it anymore it's not in his soul he's not fighting for his life I do not think that we will see the Kai we used to see when he was broken needed this right so so do you believe he's gonna get on stage again no okay I don't at all because because why would he and it frustrates me to see them going back and forth with Kai when Sean Roden is dying to get back on the stage and we're letting the la galley bullshit keep him off the stage in a country where innocent self-proven guilty yeah like like this man is losing his career I mean it's gonna end at some point I mean he's not going on the hearsay essentially and I don't and I don't get me wrong I mean I do not take the allegations lightly but there's no reason for me to believe they're accurate and this guy's career is ending let it roll put him up there make him sign a thing it says all the money comes back or whatever if he's convicted I don't know but he shouldn't lose his career while he's dying to get in and everyone knows if you told Sean Roden you have to qualify which would be dumb because I don't miss your life here but you have to qualify and then you can do the Olympia I promise he's doing both right he's getting ready now he's been ready for two years since this all happened I mean I was in Canada when when this went down so for me it's it's very frustrating to see them flirting around with it when I'm like oh well you got a guy right over here that's fucking ready to go and he doesn't need to think about it well from my point of you the longer this stretches out the more bullshit it probably is yeah like listen someone is me right now when something major happens and there's hard evidence and good proof it doesn't do this drag on for two fucking years exactly exactly so to let it roll and they made them a snake so ready so to me get him back in plus it's it's I hate to say but it's such old news there's people who have no idea why Sean Roden's not competing yeah it's crazy they don't even know because it's not talked about anymore it's all in legal bullshit and the same with Kai like I'm sorry and I guess that I'm a huge fan of Kai and I miss seeing him and I love that he took a stand and said fuck you and didn't compete for while because he didn't need to but I'm over it you know it'd be like me if I if every year I said I'm gonna compete this year and I don't the few people who actually care to see me compete would stop lying to hear about it right this is a doer to don't situation you've never teedered on the idea of competing when you're getting ready to do nationals it wasn't I'm thinking I'm doing yeah yeah it was yeah because I yeah you can't you can't maybe do bodybuilding no that's the thing I mean even the off-action you're in yeah so I don't it's funny I saw the thing I did a brief because I knew we would cover it I dug it just a hair well I was just annoyed because it's a publicity stunt and it's okay like he's not going to compete and if he does great but I still don't need to see it I need to see it compete I'll care when you walk out from behind the curtain right when you're at the press conference I'll be back oh okay you did it and then I'm excited now I want to see what he's been doing you know okay okay see I didn't even click on it because I thought I'm just gonna ask Dusty on the show there you go and you knew I would come through that's amazing that took a good idea does a lot sing on my list all right I gotta give one more quick thing for a transcend company dot com and the reason that that is I got a lot of feedback from last show about bringing up a legal and healthy way to get on HRT and and these types of things so guys just remember if you want to check out transcend company dot com and Dusty 20 will just knock $20 off of your purchase other than that forget about me you're set up the doctors will take care of you we had a lot of good feedback of guys that had the same issue where there were not even bodybuilders just guys wanting to get their hormones right and either couldn't afford it legally right or do you know how so I'm stoked to hear we're getting that that reviews or check them out and you will not be disappointed one more thing I know we gotta get off did you know Andrew's home in it all did you know Andy I did gotta say I knew Andy a little bit I spent some time with him at the Toronto Pro one year we we like sat together at the night show and we joked around backstage and he was a great guy I was had nothing but love for Andy Hamon I all ever knew him as was just a great friendly guy that would come up and say hi to me and and it's too bad I I I did hear what happened sort of so it wasn't it wasn't just somebody who related to sort of speak like that as he had um some give you a test you get it or goes to store I don't know third time okay so sorry go again oh I said I said yes not it wasn't bodybuilding related per se the way people might think yeah yeah so I heard that he towards tries to pohwala go and it was healed but it was given in problems and then it like somehow started swelling up and he went out and it looked at and they were like oh it's infected somehow and they opened the opening of that day yeah they opened them up that day and then he had a blood clot that night yeah like short thereafter broke loose and they they think it was instant and he had an incident previously a few years ago with a blood clot as well yeah and getting to the hospital on time and that situation probably this is me guessing so please don't quote me but probably went to his long or something which gave him time to get in they put him on blood thinners for like 10 days and he was good to go an assumption and I have to say it's 10 times an assumption is if this one went straight to his heart that's why it was more or less instant okay um so yeah that it's terrible to hear and Andy the reason I knew him is he used to him he and his family is wife used to come down and Scott still and stay for a while so he trained at my gym or he was just super nice guy strong as strong as fall fuck yeah he was a super man dad that's how I was thought to Andy because he always talked about his kids every time I saw him too we had to arm you like he it was funny I used to lie on a teasing because that like a big like van van like a cargo van because that's somebody kids they literally needed like a church van at a whole ocotine you know so really cool to see and you know it was it's terrible to see him go out like that but you know what was nice for the first time ever something like that happened and I didn't see a lot of assumptions of drugs and health that I think enough people knew Andy had enough respect from to say oh I wonder what happened instead of the immediate guessing yeah yeah I know it's too bad so we just you know want to send our condolences out because I did know Andy a little bit and yeah so tragic take care of yourselves boys and girls no doubt you never know what's gonna when the ride's gonna end so enjoy what you're here yeah that's what take my baby aspirin every day okay okay everybody remember we'll be back next week like share subscribe comment hit the bell blah blah thanks again dusty but out remember everybody it's just body building

Everybody welcome to it's just bodybuilding episode 85. Dusty Han Chau was still alive. So here we're still cranking and apparently based on my Instagram people want to know a lot of shit. Yeah. A lot of questions. Yeah. I keep meaning like, you know, hey, I'm going to get back to every single one of them. And then like, I'm like, oh, they shit. It's a lot of fun. You're not quite. I would never guarantee I'm getting back to every one of them because yeah, I'll do like 30 or 40 and just blast them out. I took I took your lead with the whole video much faster. Yeah, obviously. Yeah. And they keep a like a better. Yeah. I think I can feel good about themselves and they see me for a solid 10 minutes right there. Like things could be worse. It's a good at face. I remember that. Like share, subscribe, comment, ring the bell and help us out. You guys are fantastic and we appreciate all that social media love and spread the word. And here. I want to hate too. Yeah. It's good for us. Yeah, little hate. Little hate's good. You know, remember we're just a couple of down body builders. True. Meads, one or one. Which, by the way, speaking of hate, you know, we had our episode where I had an episode about masks. Oh, yeah. And I'm pretty sure our governor watched it and was like, fuck it. Let's drop them and it does. It doesn't like it. Yeah, you, you, you were the final word. You know, there were all these people speaking out and then he was like, ah, does he's kind of pointing? Yeah. I felt it because literally the next day it popped up and I was like, he saw the episode and he was like, ah, it's interesting. Yeah. I mean, it seems like a fact to me. It's science. So yeah, yeah. We don't have it anymore and I love it. A couple places to deal with it, but I still ignore them. So we're good. Okay. Okay. Well, that's life in Arizona. I know. It's great. As it should be. New shirts. I've heard and love that shirt. So I'm going to mail you one. My collection, dude. I love that one. So you guys make, you made a quite a variety though. I saw the picture. You guys got some good shit going there. Yeah. I'm going to send you a couple. So you got to send me your address again. Because, yes, well, change the plan. I, oh, yeah. I guess good point. A plus I can never find it in our message. Threat. I would be in the 7,000 messages ago. Yeah. Yeah, terrible, terrible. So yeah, it was a, it was a, a very good week, you know, very happy. Last episode went pretty well. I know, you know, we got a little controversial, but I don't think was that controversial. We didn't say anything. I was fancy. Absolutely. We just kind of like just find that anything that's even, if you're honest, I just expect people to be in an approar. That's really what it is. Yeah. That's found the opposite. I have to say we have the coolest listeners. Because I had a few people tell me in person and on the thing, that they backed us even more, even if they didn't agree. Oh, that's interesting. Okay. Because you're actually just saying what you think versus like, you know, checking the temperature of the room. What should I say? Right. Right. I know what you mean. Said, I think what makes it a little bit easy for us. I don't know why I actually don't use word easy. I think it's why a lot of people with podcasts, you know, upset people. Because like, I, I, I, I, I, I speak to you as if no one's going to hear this. Yeah, actually forget. Sometimes we're like, I honestly do. I, I forget that there's more than like 10 people listening. You know, when I think of our listeners, I'm just like, you know, it just doesn't compute. So that takes the being careful away. That's why we say whatever we want. Because we still don't think anyone's listening. I also think it's because we're old and we've reached that. You know, when you get older, you know, it was young. I remember looking at me and like, one day, I'm going to be that ass or they just says whatever the front you want. Like that guy with the gray hair just says the route is shit. That's actually the gray has come through the beard and I was like, that guy is mean. Yeah. Yeah. No, but we don't mean we, you know, obviously I never mean to upset anybody. But hey, some people get upset at stuff that they shouldn't get upset about. It's, you're allowed to have conversations about stuff. And I think right now, one of the things that we're that, you know, the media is failing at and a lot of people are failing at is the ability to have a conversation about something without getting emotional. Or I put a post of about it. Or or about. So emotional. You know, disagreeing is okay. You don't need the amount of people who will unplug the moment you disagree with them. Yeah. Like how are you going to be well grounded? And I'm not, I've never tried to convince someone to do what I do or think what I think. I just, this is what I do. But I find it fascinating because I have learned a ton from people who do things different than me. Oh, yeah, for sure. So it's a funny to me to block them from your life. And I think that that's, that's what, that's kind of the power. Like remember back in the day with forums. If you spoke, you couldn't speak out of turn because you couldn't just delete other people. Like you were in a forum where as now, I can say anything. Want the moment you disagree with me on my page. I'm a complete control. Yeah, I can block you. Whereas I liked that. You had to earn your stripes before you could speak. And then once you did, you could say something that maybe hadn't been tried before. And people would actually say, well, maybe. I mean, he's not a moron. We've, that's been proven. Yeah. Yeah. No, it was a, it was a interesting time. I was talking about the forums the other day with a friend of mine because he, he just caught the tail end of that era. Right. Before it was, it was great for a while. Yeah, it was, it was pretty cool because it was like such a small little world. Yeah. Like, one of my, you know, and it made some weird friends too. Like, do you know Mike Pusanella? Of course. Yeah, right. You know, the, the filmographer that, you know, is so good. Yeah. So me and Mike became like really good buddies on MD. Like, I never even met him. Whereas he became really good buddies and we would gang up on people. We would like people gang up on us. And we were just like, it was so funny. And it got to point where, um, when I went to my first North Americans in O'Nye, Mike message me, he's like, hey, I'm going to be there with my, like me and Dave are both going to be there. Right. Well, I'm his brother Dave obviously, but he's a me and Dave are both going to be there. He's helping a bunch of people and I'm, I got to film some stuff for somebody or something. You know what I mean? Yeah. He did a lot of stuff for MHP, right? Yeah. And so we like hooked up and got a coffee. And like I was prepping for the show so I couldn't go eat anything. So I like sat down with him and I had a coffee and we talked for like two hours. We just make like funny friends that you would never like, you know, oh yeah. I was out of the forums, but yeah, it was a cool time, you know? Yeah. So okay. What's going on with your questions? Do you have a ton of shit? Do you have anything that you want to cover before we get to the questions? Uh, I mean, nothing. Well, things are important in my world. You've got to, yeah, well, you got to tell us about the flex visit. Drankles there. What's that? Yeah. So we did that. Um, actually, that was one of the questions I got, which I thought we're funny. I actually had some of the, it said, uh, how did it feel to train at the dragons layer? I'm like, I felt like a gym. Right. Right. I think the only thing that gets altered, um, when you've been in this a long time, is a great gym is a great gym. Uh, and I even found it was funny, but I'm so out of touch with, uh, you know, when you're first getting to bodybuilding, it's all about going the place where people are being seen, making sure people know you. Um, we got there, um, purposely early so I could train. And then Dom, my, uh, tissue guy was there and I said, hey, can you run a reset on me real quick to just look at her? So he did, uh, Tommy had never had one. He did that for him. And then, uh, he's like, you guys want a train with the new ex on? Fuck it. Let's do it. So that's like a newbie is it like a just a different, it's a small, it's a smaller version so you can carry it around and say, how it can be hard. Um, and then the other thing is it runs two different currents. So basically, and I'm given you got nobody fact checked me. I'm not I'm purposely being very loose with words. So I don't say stupid, but it runs different currents. And between sets, they changed the current. So basically for the 50 minutes we were training, my muscles were firing the entire time. I was sore as fuck. But next day I woke up with adults and I literally was like, well, Abby beat my ass. A hundred pound bikini pro kick to shoot out of me yesterday. I've never heard like that before. I ran through a very typical workout so I didn't let it slow down the intensity or anything like that. It was great, loved it. But I also realized while I was doing it, that I'm so just a bodybuilder that I forget. Like I just went trained and I got done and then I realized, oh fuck, these people want to talk. My bad. And so they're like, so I did like pull it back and I looked up at one point and realized like there were people watching and they weren't watching because they were in awe. They were like, hey, dipshit. Don't forget to say hello. I was like, oh fuck. So after like, and you know, people, I experience you just know in those places, you can just walk right up. People don't know that. So you have to tell him, hey, you know, you need to write a question. You know, so it was really cool. The gym was phenomenal. Of course, I love everything about it. I mean, it's just set up perfectly. It's got great stuff. The vibe is great. Everyone in there was awesome. I think they'll be extremely successful because I really do believe Ron that in the States, the smaller gym model is going to start hurting the big boxes. I think that is going to kill them. Yeah, because people want that and they're tired of it and fucked around with here like for example, it's a known thing. Oh, you want a cancer from me? Oh, it's good. Good luck. Good luck. Get him to stop charging your card one more time and one more time. It's like it's a scam that everyone knows about, but they literally will not take cash upfront for a year either. It's a, yeah, a trip. And of course, if they heard of it, we never do that. Really, everyone I've ever heard that's tried to cancel. I got hit at least one or two more times. I had, I had a some commercial gym nightmares trying to cancel memberships. Yeah, so it's, it's a mess. But they're, they're cranking and then more importantly because I'm selfish. A gym here, a single owner, big box gym got purchased just recently. And in my opinion, the new owner is not smart, but maybe he's a genius. He sold everything in the gym. Okay, blows my mind because he has some really good stuff. So I went and shot. Oh, so what did we, what did we got? We only got a couple things because we only have nine thousands square feet. So we're pretty particular on what we wanted, but I finally got that Atlantis standing side ladder up and wanting nice. Payday, $100 for it. Thank you very much. Got what I believe to be a custom chest supported row that three plates murders me. Right. It's, people are going to have quarters on that thing. Then the way it is set up, your legs are useless. Yeah, it's just for man row, take the ball, dude. It's so great. It is so great. So got that. And then I think he bought it. Oh, like this is a funny thing. There was also a leg press that I wanted. It was like a horizontal leg press, but it was notless. And I've seen him before around us. Yeah. Grabbed that. So I had told Lance, I was like, hey, can you grab that? Guys, yeah, 4,000. I'm like, $1. We took a Canadian or what are we doing here? Yeah, he was doing that. He was doing it for that. For less, I looked. I was like, yeah. Bro, I could say 500 bucks to get a brand new one in color. I want. Yeah, I think this one's special. I think you're special. But, so Lance went and picked it all up. It was funny because I came back and one of the trainers was like, man, if you, you see we got that. You're going to love that thing. I'm like, I've used that one. He was like, we just got it. I said, I used it. The gym. It was that before. I begged Lance to get that piece. So he bought it up. The gym looks awesome. And I'm literally, some of you asked me to spare like you. You're going to open a gym. I'm like, no, have you seen my gym? I already have one in someone else's place for it. It's phenomenal. Yeah. You got a good setup. I'd love to come and train there, man. Because because you love it so much. So they make it home for you. We have no other solution. You older press coming this week. Okay, cool, played loaded. Yeah, of course. Yeah, okay, cool. You know me. I like that one. Yeah, it's good for my wrists. This is not the straight out like the hammer strength. Plus I had to. I had to start wearing. I had someone ask me is riding your bike, cause any problems. And I was like, well, I did have to start wearing a gasp wrist wrap. That I can believe. I wear, I wear one on my left wrist quite often. And I wear it. Yeah, and then when I press, I throw it on to and heavy presses. I throw one on my left wrist. Yeah, just for the concept abuse. Yeah, it's just funny. It's like one of the, one of the spots of my body that actually feels it. That's it. That's it. That's it. That's my whole life. It's been told you guys. I thought it looked like a lot of fun. And it kind of looked like, you know, the gym at the expo like, you know, whatever the internal thing was. Yeah, it's a gun at the Arnold and I was fucking here. And trained in at the, at that Metro gym downtown or whatever it was, the powerhouse now. Yeah. When it's just packed, you know. So it worked well. We planned on delts because I said, no matter what's there, I can grab some dumbbells. Yeah, we'll get a workout in shoulders and arms. That's all that's safe to train on those crazy days. Yeah, it was great. And they're going to kill it. And I did not realize that everyone in the industry moved to Vegas. Yeah, I looked at, I looked at some of the pitches and there was a whole bunch of people that were there and I was like, oh, yeah, they live there. Yeah, like I forgot that Dennis Wolf was going to show up because he lives there. Yeah. Well, then I guess, uh, uh, he day and I, or is there opening a powerhouse, also soon. Oh, so. So, I mean, Vegas is, it's kind of like saying Phoenix, because Phoenix encompasses all of our cities when you say that. So I mean, more than enough space for him, but I heard that during the interviews that they were doing and he day was like, yeah, we're open to an agenda and I'm like, this fucking world, man. It worked. So yeah, it was pretty nice. And I know one thing I like that flex is doing is he kept the memberships. Yeah. So, you know, you walk in, you pay for the year and you're set. You got your spot. You know what I mean? Which I think is genius. It was, that's kind of been the master plan when we were originally talking about building a gym not for profit, but essentially for break even. My plan was to figure out how many people it took at 200 bucks a month to, yep, if for itself. You know, I would have funded the equipment, but I was like, how many people at 200 bucks a month would take? And it's a key. You want to sell your key? Let me know who we're selling it to. Right. Right. Yeah. I know that exclusivity and not having to put up with corporate type of stuff. You know, is is something that a lot of people are willing to pay for, especially in those markets where there's a little bit of extra income for some people. They're like 200 bucks a month for a gym where I have no hassles and no one's on my machine. And there's no stupid groups of people that have no idea what they're doing. No problem. I'll pay that all day long. Yeah. And I think, you know, it's crazy. I didn't, I didn't realize how well you guys did it. Because I'm spoiled when I come to your gym, it's, um, yours, but I just, I think a gym is differently than most people. They're all mine. Like, we're walking on my car, home. You know, you know, as long as they have good equipment and they let me use it, I'm comfortable. I really realize now, after seeing what Lance has done with muscle factory, that you guys created something. Like, I told him the other day, he was like, I'm thinking about doing something, another gym, I would, no, no, no, no. I need you sitting in that chair. You, like, no, I couldn't replace you. Like, people know they walk in. Lance is here. He knows everybody by name. I'm like, I really realize that that's what you guys have done. And in you, particularly because you're there all the time with your gym that has immense value, you realize, oh, I actually kind of know every person in this room every time I come. Yeah, it's kind of cool. Yeah, I did get in a love it. You know, some people don't, like, talk to people with the gym and I don't know everybody. That's cool. You know, some people don't say I have to front desk, but they just, like, walk through, you say hi to them, they don't say hi back. But some people are just shy and they just don't, you know, they're not that they're rude. They're just like, you know, in a super fucking hurry, you know, a lot of people can barely fit the time to work out in their day. So, you know, we don't bug everybody trying to talk to them, but, but yeah, you know, generally a very friendly gym is, it's got that community feel to it. And they're usually where most of the body builders wind up. Yeah, one people know, I think that's the big things. I don't really talk to people either. Yeah. But they, they do know that if had a few instances where someone would just walk over say, hey, you know, I had a girl just recently come over and she goes, I hurt my back doing dads and I want to squat, but I don't know if I should yet. And I was like, oh, let's put you on the pendulum and see, you know, I made sure I asked her what the injury, what is the injury? It was safe. We went over and I mean, now it was funny. She, uh, she's moving to Tennessee. She went into a gym now and she walks into, she gets up and pendulum squat. I think I was like, I love that machine and she goes, oh my, uh, a guy from my gym dusty told me about it goes, oh, so you're talking about, uh, you know, he knew that he actually literally goes, oh, muscle factory. She was like, that's what. Power of Instagram, buddy. Exactly. So good stuff, man. You got to know his question. Like rock ander. What do we do? I got tons. Let's, let's start out with this one. Yes. What do you consider? I don't know where I get these. Some of the ones people send me. I love the big of you. The good ones. I don't know if this is too early for this one. This might be a heavy one off the bat. What do you consider? There we go. Okay, Dusty's ready now. I'm ready. What's the greatest invention of all time? For now. I'm done. No, no, no, no. What would you say? Man, do you go early or do you go like, you know, I think, I think, there's a change. That may, you're bringing a good question because it's very difficult. I mean, if I say the internet great, but what about cars? What are the air condition? I mean, or so many little things that we have been invented. They're like, oh, so you got, so you got, or you got like concepts like agriculture. Yeah, Jesus. Now you know, right? Or I need all of them or plumbing. Right? Like to say, go what happened to the cities when, you know, they invented plumbing. Let me see the example. That's a form. Why this is such a hard question to answer. Or in living. So I met a guy that seems to be a friend, polio, small epoxy. Sorry, I'll stop. I'll speak small. I met a guy who, who, to a friend who's like up the multi-multime multi-millionaire talking and I was like, what do you, what do you do? I think it was a big thing. He goes, oh, I invented the PVC elbow. Yeah, I'm like, tell me about this guy. It didn't always turn. What the fuck was it? You can't get what was the best way to do it. I mean, what do you hear that you're like, well, why did we have a PVC pipe? The guy that with the pipe didn't make the turn. So my point is, is the best inventions almost impossible because every single thing matters. I mean, this day and age, I will say the best invention for me. And this is just for my little life of this point. The internet has been an amazing thing. Right? And that's an encompassing thing. But like, I pretty much only know people because of the internet. I can only keep in contact because people because I haven't seen you in like a year and a half. But you literally forget that. Like if I were to come there tomorrow, I wouldn't be like, dude, I haven't seen you so long. I sorry last week. And I don't know. God, but yeah, what do you think is the, and I guess vaccines are probably the greatest thing because we would all be dead. You think about numbers. Like that's what I mean, you know, or is it antibiotics? antibiotics, probably. I don't know. One of the two, like medical stuff. And then you got electricity. Hey, I would have seen things anytime prior to now, I would have been even a weaker human than I am now. Oh, the battery. A eternal combustion engine, as you mentioned, craziness. It's interesting to think. Good. Good shit right there. Trend blown acetate. Yeah. No, it, it, it, it makes you wonder about stuff when you think what's a greatest invention of all time? Because you know, they all build and stack on one another and something started it, too. Yeah. Or is it just yours to give us some examples in the comments? What are some more promising? Hey, hey, you go back far enough and you get the wheel. Exactly. Right. You know, some guy said the horse isn't enough. Yeah. Yeah. That's okay. I said the horse isn't enough. No, man, it's, it's crazy. So what am I, I got to bring this up because we're talking about inventions. So here's a little history for you. So one of my favorite quotes. I just got to make sure I find it here. Don, I ruin this. Okay. So there was a report to Congress in 1843 by a patent office commissioner. Now, there's a little bit debate on who actually said it, apparently, according to the internet, a lot of times it gets credited to a guy named dual in 1902. But the thinking now was actually a report to Congress in 1843 by a patent office commissioner named Henry Ellsworth, who was talking about how he didn't think the patent office was that important anymore, because everything that can be invented has already been invented. We don't need to do this anymore. Yeah. Oh my god. Yeah. Like, you know, we're pretty much invented everything. So, but they say Charles H. Dual was the one who is the commissioner in 1899. And he, he said it. He didn't write it. He said it. So, but he so he gets credited almost these articles as saying that, you know, ah, you know, everything that's been invented has already been invented. I don't know what we're all saying a little regret. Yeah. No, this might be a government department that we can close soon. You know. So, it shows you that not everyone in government has the vision. Oh my god. Right. This thing that I was the head of the patent office. And that was his vision for the future. So, these people were electing, you know, it's it's really like it. We're not electing the smartest people. We're electing a random neighbor. That's who we're electing. Random neighbor and we're not quite sure if he agrees with us on much. That's why. Yeah. But then you and then you got to you guys in the other end of the spectrum. Like, could you imagine if you were to say that to like Elon Musk now? Well, aren't we kind of cap that? Isn't this the end? Yeah. Isn't this all our great, great, great, great grandchildren? Are we going to see right here right now? So, I have to depart from the quote, well, there's kind of some questions about TV shows and stuff here. But I have to go to TV shows now. Roll. So, two things about TV shows. First of all, have you got back into Yellowstone? I did watch an episode since you sent me the reminder. Now you've got it. You've got it. No. Okay. Season one ends. Awesome. And season two, let me just tell you, it watch out. Like, you think sons of Anarchy on a ranch? Okay. You're going to get sons of Anarchy on a ranch pretty soon here. But you've got it. Because season one you're like right, but I didn't realize how right I was. Yeah. Season one you're like, well, it's kind of like sons of Anarchy on a ranch. But, you know, not quite as violent and, you know, you know, a seedy and, and then season two comes. You're like, oh, okay. Now we're getting dark. Now they're turning out of the light. Now they're now they're letting the characters faster. Right. And, and that, you know, stuff starting to boil over and I'm like, oh, God, this is this is, you know, this is going to get really, really messy. So, yeah, we might have to revisit that cowboy biker discussion. Yeah, we, we, we, we, we, we're catching right now. So the good news you're giving me reasons. I realized the other day when you sent that to make it, I was like, why am I stop watching? I wasn't bored of it. It wasn't like it was off. And I just realized when sons of Anarchy was out, I was an appointment in life. We're sitting in front of my TV was an important thing to do. Right. It is, and now I laugh because I've been trying to switch insurance. It's going to save me like a couple, like a hundred and something bucks a month for my health insurance. And the ladies, like, are you serious? I'm like, I hate to tell you this, but the things I'm doing make me more than the hundred and something bucks a month. So I'm just trying to find time for you. Right. I think I really appreciate that I only need 15 minutes, but it's hard to find at the moment. Yeah. So back now it's, and now I don't. Improgency. I don't want people to think I watch TV all the time. I hardly have time for it. But that's why I'm so specific about what we watch. But that's why, but that's why we're having this because you, you actually checked it on me. That's what I knew I was like, I got to get back because I actually, because we watched it. We watched it episode a night and that's a stretch because you don't sleep. So I laugh because you're you text me, you sleep a weird hours. You text me like super late and I'm like, Ron, know's I'm awake. Yeah. You got to watch it. So now, so that's what Emily and I are watching is is the Yellowstone. But then I've got my own show and I finally got back into it because I took a huge break and it was that sci-fi show on Amazon called the Expans. I've seen that on my TV, I'm an option but of course I've never watched it. So I talked about it earlier and I thought it was good. There had some cool characters and stuff and it was kind of a neat, you know, really neat premise that they've set up. Like the world that they created is really cool. And first three seasons, first, first two and a half seasons were like, you know, pretty cool. Okay, I'm totally into this. And then what happens is I was told like, it was great, but it wasn't like mind blowing. Right. But I was told that how a season three ends transforms the show and it becomes this like insane even more insane story. And so I was like, okay, what the see where this goes. And then the way they ended season three, I like cannot believe what they did. And I'm so excited to watch season four, which is on Amazon. I'm like, gonna fucking binge it. Oh, I was like, my Emily doesn't like this show is it's just the time she's in her home when you come with another one. Well, she's not really into sci-fi like I am. But then, of course, I'm three seasons deep and she starts watching a little bit while she's eating. She's like, oh, she shows actually pretty good. I'm like, it's true right now until they know you can't watch it. You watch the wall. Yeah, watch the friend of the corner. I can't have your own dad's three seasons ago. You know, you're glad you didn't though because I had that before with with every on where she'd be like, like hinting in and I'm like, I'm not going back. I'm not waiting for you. Oh, no. You're supposed to like, leap no man behind. It doesn't count in television. She ever has left the harbor. This is your ride. You got pick another show. What's your own show? You can you could out when Yellowstone's next. It's fine. Can't shut up if you want. I don't know when with your schedule, but good luck. In between clients. She's on her cell phone watching five seven. Hey, what's going on, guys? Thanks for watching another podcast here at Think Big Body Building Media. And thank you to our great sponsor, True Nutrition.com for making this all possible. True Nutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudeau, the creator of DC training. You want to create a supplement company that offered high quality third party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders, just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors, plus health and performance supplements. Check them out, True Nutrition.com. And hey, if you use our code, advices, you directly support our podcasting. Thanks, guys. Let's get back to the program. You got to ask one. I have to do it. I was having so much fun just being like on the side. Okay. You've really ruined this for me now. Okay, here we go. This is actually a good one. I've went through this for some clients already. How would you change eating if you had COVID and you felt like death? Do your best to eat question? I just like consume whatever easy calories I could. Well, I was sick. On the type of guy that if I was out, if I was like super sick, with the flu or something, I'd like pound a shake and sleep for seven hours. And then I'd like eat a tub of ice cream and make myself have some meat and go to bed for seven. Like I would just, yeah, I'm like your sick. I don't know. I'm gonna say that's why I want to ask that because I've told all of my clients. I mean fortunately, knock on wood and not in the middle of prep. I was like your sick. Who cares? Yeah, well, I like to get like better is what I mean. Like when I say who cares? Who cares about bodybuilding? You're not gonna lose a shit ton of muscle. Whatever you lose your lose anyways because you're not gonna eat enough. Yeah, that's my thing. You get underneath down. That's fine. And like you say you nailed it, too. If there's something that sounds good and you know when you can't eat, if something sounds good, I'll fuck eat that. Whatever it is. Yeah. And I'm assuming too that. When you're sick, there's no way you would ever go over your calories. You're not really that sick. If you don't that'll say, yeah, if you can go over on your calories and actually put fat on, then you're you're you're not sick because you're able to eat a lot. Yeah, not from co. Everyone I know what co with you is it's a battle. And I mean to tell them, I have a crazy belief in stress and cortisol. I'm like, I don't want you stressing about another thing. No, I just relax. I'll shake. I'll shake. I'll never we get through it. We'll get back to work. You know what you're doing sandwiches. You'll be fine. You know what I mean? Simple simple. Okay. Ooh. Go ahead. This is important for you. What more anabolic? oversized t-shirts with sleeves covering the biceps or tentaels. oversized t-shirts for sure. They hold in. I can tell follow us because they're very specific. Like, the science shows that the Androgens evaporate out of your body and the big shirt holds holds in the Androgens steam and it reabsorbed through your skin transdermally and then you get a re-uptake of Androgens, which is why your receptors never need to be reset. Yeah, it's a science. That's literally my answer for everything's stupid. I say what science. Right now, there's someone like really what has Androgens in it. Google, wait, what? They're not clueing into our sense of humorous. That's so funny. Okay. How close are we to having the book 1984 be accurate? Oh my god. What time is it? It's it's give it. I feel back because I feel like the majority of our viewers have no idea what we're talking about. But it's it's frightening actually the the mirroring that's going on. Let's just leave it at only. I heard it. So I have heavy red 1984. Yeah. I have a copy in 1984. Here I was actually going to read it again. So um, but that's George Orwell. So I heard someone the other day and they were, they were not joking or arguing, but they were just like, like having a little conversation about what's more accurate or Well's depiction of the future where we're all controlled with fear, or Huxley who wrote a brave new world, where everyone's controlled with pleasure and and satiation and pacified. It's interesting. It's like, ah, they're both like Orwell's version of the future was very like, it's dark. Very dark. And then Huxley's vision of the future was like that pacified cluelessness of just happy obedience. You know what I mean? I would if I could choose which one was I was going to live in. I'm going pacified because they're like, yeah, they're still even no. Like, yeah, like I laugh. You know, they always say that like what is it um um um like not knowing is an event. What's that saying goes to the arts list? Yeah, like that it's so true because I've seen people that are dumber than fuck in a situation. I'm like, I don't even know if I want to fix that because you seem so happy. I don't want to break the bubble like about Santa Claus. I mean, it's good that you think he's real. It's right. Right. No. That's it. You guys, if you haven't read those, you should. Because the fear won. It's funny with that. I noticed the people who are against living by fear in general more now than ever. You know, and it's becoming more common to be openly speaking out against it, which is which is kind of nice. I've noticed a few people I don't know well. There is. Oh, you and I were on the same team. That's nice. Right. And also too. I sort of feel like I don't want to get too crazy on this stuff. But I feel like the media, you know, the media really tries to divide left and right. Of course, there's a whole lot of people here. But people on the left and the right, the loud ones. They seem to a lot of them like the loud ones. They think the centrist are like the worst type of people who like. We have a side. Yeah. Like they're coming in a haunt and not like not decisive and you're part of the problem and all this sort of stuff. But yeah, I think there's um, so here's a question for you. Do you think the media is going to, well, hey, there could be a transformation of the media because of all the podcasts and the non network controlled sources now. But um, do you think the media is going to try to fix its ridiculous way of operation so that it can become more credible again and try to gain back like trust from the public or do you think that the the corporate media is so far gone that they're just going to like die a slow death. I don't know. I think the media is blocked up. Okay. So they're just they're not going to clue in. And then this then what becomes tricky is the lazy people and I'm, I use a word lazy not in a negative context, just factually. The people will look busy people. Yeah. The people who will not take their time is seek out their own like information will really struggle because they're used to being spoon fed the truth. That's what stop happening. Um, or at least it's my truth. It's kind of like, if you know, if you have a breakup and everyone only listens to your version of the ugly situation, right? And it's not 100% accurate, but there's some pieces in there that are real. That's where the media is. So I do, I think it's too far because I think the powerful people of the world, the people who aren't run by fear, aren't coming back. I walk into my mother's house and they have the news on like, okay, turn that off. Yeah. Like immediately. I don't even want to hear it. Yeah. I'm afraid that I've always, I was joke that's stupidity might be contagious and I don't want to get any on me. One of the things that I was, I was listening to people talk about this exact thing. You know, the kind of loss of market share that the number media is seeing right now with like massive ratings drops. Like, you know, and then viewership on podcasts is like, you know, Rogan's getting fucking like 10 million downloads an episode and just insane shit like that. So they're talking about, they're talking about it and one of the guys said a camera brother names. I'm not like a media pro guy. And he said one of the problems with the corporate media is that a lot of the good smart people have left. Right. And a lot of the people left, so sorry, a lot of people that are still there, are they, they, they're so virtuous in their thinking that they think that they are doing the, that the most good thing they can do by being a type of media person they are. Like, they think it's the, they think it's good for society, that what they're doing. So it's hard to change it. Well, I think what's happening in some places and I think I might have mentioned this, but I'm not sure, uh, here the highest rated night show of news has been the same two people since I was a kid, uh, and about a month ago, the woman of the two, not only did she leave, but she voiced why, and she literally said, I can't, this isn't news anymore. This is not something I can be proud of. It's not something I put my name behind. Right. And we're not doing our jobs anymore and the media has changed. And when you hear somebody who your parents and now you are an adult with kids have been listening to and you trust her as an individual. And she says that you're like, oh shit. Because when Dusty says it, I'm fucking me head if it's got opinions like who gives a shit. But when someone you've looked to as truth, literally says, hey, we're we're lying to you now. And I can, I mean, literally, she was like, I don't even know what I'm gonna do, but I can't do it this way anymore. You know, she's like, I don't even know what I'm going to do. I'm like, we're gonna read a book, but anyways, I'm saying, but you know, I mean, that's good. When I saw I was so happy because I was like, oh, that's gonna get some of the outliers that couldn't see it yet to go away. Yeah. And they're a Katie, whoever fucking name it says this now, too. Shit. Maybe we have the, there'll be a lot more of that. Yeah. I think there's going to be some pushback. There's got to be some cultural pushback to all this sort of hype being everything and making everything so sensationalistic and over the top. And, you know, every single thing is offensive and I, and then focusing on the outrage and there's got to be a pushback to it because I see I hear a pushback in everyone I talk to, even the people that I talk to like that are kind of more polarized to left or right. Like I got friends that are like, you know, old-born, carry constitutional mother fuckers. And then I've got friends that are like, you know, leftist university, you know, under studies that are going for PhDs. Right. And they all say the same thing. And like a lot of them, a lot of them say the same thing, not all of them obviously, but the ones I'm friends with say the same thing they're like, yeah, it's like, you know, we got to, you know, stop the media's just bullshit right now and so, so more people are becoming being, you know, recognizing it. Yeah. You know, so I don't know, I have high hopes. I'm optimistic. I don't, I'm not black pillow to be heard that term, black pillow to. I don't know. Yeah. So you know, there's red pill and blue pill. Yes. Right. Like the red pill or the ones that are like a wake to reality and the blue pills or the ones that are living in dream world. Yeah. And then now there's just term black pill, which is, you, you just think you're, you're like, okay, I see clearly now everything's going to fucking end. The economy's going to crash. The organ has a race war coming. Currents he's going to be devalued most of measurable levels. We're going to be killing each other for cancer 2 and a let's get ready. So that's like, I'm, I'm not black pillow. I'm, I'm pretty optimistic that we're going to work things out and, and we're going to realize, you know, all this nonsense frying our brains. Yeah. No, it all. I mean, I think at the end of the day, it's like your own personal life. Eventually it all works out to you. Of course. Well, mine. But it's not that way I have to do something. You look back and you, oh, that's why I had to go through that. Yeah. I don't know what's going on in my gastron, but it's fucking wild. Yeah, who knows? Are the people you have over at your house? Who knows what's going on in your gastron. Fucking wild. Okay. You go ahead. You got one? The hookers are doing here. Oh, sorry. Here we go. Mm. Uh, uh, uh, did you just say dead hookers? I said I didn't remember the hookers coming in, but apparently it's way too loud in there. I know where I got dead hookers from my apologize for that. Oh, because it's not so out of reach. Um, oh, this is good. I'm trying to touch some of these sometimes if I don't think they're bad. Uh, Deca only cycle. Is it stupid or effective? Well, I would never do it because my body hates Deca. So, this is, this I laugh because so does mine, but to answer the question, um, I know that Jordan had great results with that. Um, yeah. I don't know if there's no task, but I think it was like, I think it was like 200 milligrams. Like super low. It might have been none. Um, but he said he could eat. Uh, unlike when he was on other cycles and that's something I press. I know you do too, Ron is like anything that affects your eating has to go. And also to side effects are almost always just dose dependent. So, you know, maybe my body hates Deca because I was always taken it with in 750 tests and, you know, 50 makes anodroller, whatever, you know, well, maybe if I was just on nothing, but, you know, 150 or 200 makes a Deca, maybe I would have felt like a million dollars and had no problems. Yeah, well, some guys could be crank on a Deca only cycle, they'll take it on a milligrams of it. Yeah. Um, I'm like you. I would never know because there's a few things in the arsenal that are popular tools that I've thrown out years ago. Like, oh, I hate you. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I know exactly what you mean. You know. Yeah. But yeah, I, here's my answer to the question, guys. I, I think I'm repeating this so often. No matter what I say, Ron says, anybody else says, you've got to find what works for you. And I think that's the thing to press. Like, you really want to know if a Deca only cycle works, do it. Yeah. I mean, it's not going to, you'll know if you don't like it. And it's not going to hurt you. Now, I'm not saying, oh, you're not sure if four grams of test works, give it a shot, but with something that's sensible, give it a roll and then you can decide because it's just like training. It's not one size fits all. The, the never ending arguments are everyone wants to put everyone else in a box. You know, I was having a conversation with Tommy other day and when I was coming up, I would try everything. So when branching Johnny, when they're primed, I was like, I don't know about that training, but I got a fucking try to look at these two. You know, so I started training in the violent, I don't even know what to call it, man, or that they trained in. And my four arms were fucked up and I had golfers this and tennis that and I'm like, Jesus, I changed in sports with the fuck's going on here. My body could not handle that in every way. I strained a pack three or four times trying to get explosive on inclines. But I never said that training is stupid. Right, because the results screamed not training is awesome. Some people have no problem with it. It doesn't work for me. And that's so that's the answer on the Deca thing to is, you know, coincidentally, Ron and I neither one of us use it, but I'm also telling you, I'm fucking give it a roll. See what happens. Yeah. Okay. You're out. I agree. I agree. Here's one for you. I don't know if either one of us can answer this. I'll make something up. Let's do it. What is the key to being engaging and interesting as a host in a YouTube video? Okay. I can answer this actually. Okay. Dusty's on it. This is easy. Be yourself. Because here's the thing. There are people who get on my channel and like, oh my god, I get it all the time. I don't know how you don't have more subs. This is the most the greatest secret blob of I have other people like this fucking guy never stops. Everything's a joke, always laughing. No good. Point being is there's someone for everyone. You might be dull as shit to me. And someone else might be like, this is so much great information. I love it. So stop trying to decide what your viewers want and create it. Do what you do. The market will decide if they have a value for you. But I just don't think you can create something. I have a lot of people I really respect and look up to that are phenomenal. I would never try to do their thing because I wouldn't be good at it. Yeah. I know exactly what you mean. I don't know what point it was. Maybe it was before bodybuilding or before all the videos and before everything. But I remember like, I remember when Ryan first pointed a camera at me for a moment. I remember knowing already at that point the only hope I have here is to just be myself. Right. And there's going to be a whole bunch of people that think that I'm boring and unimportant and whatever and there's going to be all these comments. But there will be a bunch of people that are going to connect because I already knew at that point plus rich was in my ear the whole time. Your audience will find you. Right. He said it's about time. Your audience will find you. It don't matter. Film yourself eating a bowl of cereal. The people that want to watch you eat cereal will watch you eat cereal. There's an audience for that. That's so true. He's like there is that your audience will find you and he's like, that's why that's all I'm going to do. I'm just going to put my personality out there and that's what they're going to get. I remember him saying that. That's all I ever. I knew that was my only hope because it's sort of like I see it as having a fake internet personality or like a separate person that you become. It's different when you just go into mode. That's different. I go into host mode all the time. But to become a separate person, it would be like having a second wife and trying to keep it a secret. It would be so much to manage at some point. It would take up too much space to be two separate people and try to have your internet personality that's all built around this artificial nonsense and this hosting personality and then also be yourself. They would just be too much work for me. Maybe some people are up for it. Maybe some people love that idea. I'm keeping this. I'm going to be this and then I can handle being that. You know what I mean? I don't know how it works in their brains. Not I can't be saying. I think what it was for for me, truthfully, is unlike you. I had no plan at all taught who's here filming this weekend. Literally showed up to a photo shoot that I did for I force after my first overall win. He's like, you might have played a film in it? I'm like, and then as we started doing things, he came in a town one time and literally like the Costco videos, which would put me kind of on the map. So to speak, right? He's like, I'm going to film you. And it was just like you were talking about earlier. It was him and I. So I was joking with him and fucking around in the store for getting that people are watching it eventually because at that point I didn't even know they who's going to watch it. We don't even have a YouTube channel. Like what do you I was literally fucking off. So like you said the only difference in the in the YouTube person out is it's all turned up because I you know, I don't literally sit around and joke nonstop in the fucking jam or I'm cooking. No, no, but when you're doing that, it's the same thing that I do. So this is my job to entertain. And sometimes I'll literally get done ago. That was a little far, but we'll see. Yeah. That was a lot more jokes than necessary, but I didn't know what to do. I was standing there doing nothing. But I decided that it's the same shit. I mean, you and I hang out, that is who you are. It's just a little more because they're going to watch for 10 fucking minutes. Well, yeah, it's like interviewing someone. I mean, you don't want dead air. So if there's a camera pointed at you and the guy's filming, I mean, he'd give him something. Yeah, but you know, where you draw from, you draw from like a fake personality or do you just kind of like pull real out of your ass and not put it up at your jokes. I mean, that's what that's what I say here. If it was an awkward silence because that's what we're going on. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, I like that. Rich is advice is great though. It's so funny to hear somebody like him had that because it's true. Like I am amazed at what people do want to watch. I'm like, well, so it's sort of a mind this question kind of reminds me in a way of the old school pro wrestlers. Right. And they would wind up kind of becoming their personas. Right. Because the personas were so over the top that, you know, and and got and would garner them so much attention. Like, you know, just think of Hulk Hogan when he's in mode, you know, we're a macho man. You know, when he's in this and he's talking like, you know, when he's he's in his character. Yeah. And, you know, if the fans, the fans would see them later and they would want that character. There's one more of a time. Yeah. And they wind up like a lot of those old pro wrestlers. They kind of winded up like being their character all the time and it got weird to some, you know, some point to got weird, you know, right. But some of them. Okay. You know, imagine your neighbor is like, one of those guys when you talk to him, he's like, talks like that. Oh, you see. You know, I'm just asking if I can borrow some sugar. Why are you being someone weird? How's the weather been? It's been really rainy. You know, it's. Don't actually be fun to fuck with your neighbor and be like, move into the neighborhood. You just did all that ship in like a weak straight. And if I, there's all that brought out. I was just following you. Yeah. Just want to dress like that all the time. They, they, who the fuck is this guy? Oh, okay. It's great. Okay. I got, I got, yes. And this one's for you because God knows I'm not qualified. I have to apologize for a terrible impression of what was kind of like not meant to be macho man, but what sounded like a bad macho man. You know, I was just trying to be over the top. I was just trying to be like wrestler guy. It was more of a generic impression than a macho man impression. So no offense to the hardcore is out there. They're all pissed. They're not just them off to run into terrible savage impression comments. I must go to the combat section. That did shame to the king. You know, they're getting ready right now. Okay. What's the date idea for someone you don't know on a first date? Make it fun or dinner? I think that this is my advice. Well, here's advice. Never go to a movie on a first date. You know, get to talk. You don't get to know each other. Nothing's going on. Of course, we all did it one way younger because that's the only place you could maybe, you know, hey, make out a little bit. I'm a bad guy. So anyways, I would do, you know what, well, depends on where you live. Like, hey, going for like a walk to grab like a coffee together instead of just meeting for a coffee. Maybe meet at a park and walk to get a coffee. I don't know. I'm just coming up with random ideas as if I was like some young guy dating for the first time. Because like you know, it's weird. The question that would through me is I've never been in a situation where I didn't know the person at all. Yeah. Yeah. That's like dating. Like so I would at least know like, okay, this should would would think many golf is fun. Right. You know, versus, you know, that's actually something with what have been here. I'm you got to we got to stop and appreciate the, the imagine going on a first date with someone who didn't know anything about what kind of fucking just think like that's sort of where I was when I was thought of the question. I was like, okay, well, we got to think that's where you're supposed to be though, because that's where the yes to be. Yeah, because if you don't know the person, you want lots of conversation on first date. Yeah, because that's you got to, you got to go over music. Yes, or over movies, porn preferences, lots of marijuana use. We got some. You actually really do. You got to cover some bases here. You know, some to decide if you even need a second date or you're not 12. Not like, I don't care too much, but there's a couple of general political things we have to get past. And I'll ask a vague questions around them to kind of get where you're at. Yeah, I'd be terrible in that situation because I would sit down at a clipboard and like so. What are your thoughts on? Right. You think you're back? You're back. You're back. It's a question that's been Biden doing an adequate job with border security. That's, this is not a yes or no. Dig deep. Dig deep. She's sweating. What is happening? I don't know. I have a watch of the news lately. 90 degrees are asked to grasp. I need to know. Right. Yes. You know, yeah. So that I can see that would be a problem for me because the border would run immediately. I don't know what to do on a first date with someone you don't know. Something where you got to talk a lot. I'd be so uncomfortable. I'd never stop talking. I'd be like, like, this fucking dude doesn't stop. Okay. Now I don't want to like sure in that scenario. Or to think like don't check dig like, you know, checks like to do shit. You know, I hate that. Like Emily. I just like, hey, I'm going to go for a hike. To me that is something like an aimless walk in the bush and then you come back to your car. Yeah, I don't get that either. That's like going somewhere. I lived every time someone comes down like, you want to go to the grand canyon? I'm like, why wasn't it beautiful? Like, I don't have never been. Why do you never been? I've seen it. Where the internet? I'm going to drive four hours. Ron, this is what it would be. I'd walk up like, it's a big fucking home. Yeah. It's just like, it's just like, it was restaurants or anything up here. Because we drove four hours to get here. Why what are we doing? Is it if you say shit out of me? Or I love it. No, there's that view. Remember, Stacy was up there. She took the picture. Oh, yeah. I saw the pictures. I saw the view. Where are we going? Or do you take the horse ride to the bottom of the canyon? Which is like, what's in the list? Fucking four hour horse ride. There's something like that. That's not none of this stuff sounds good. What I think sounds good. Helicopter ride over the Grand Canyon. Yes. Right. That in Chicago. I did the city that way. I was like, fuck, I just saw the whole city. I never come back. Where can there you go? Good. Hey, have you been to? Well, kind of. I was flew a helicopter over the whole city. So I kind of been everywhere. Yeah. I did the thing. I did the damp. See you. And I think literally, charity will be there. You want to go for a hike? That's a great spot. I'm like, no, so I just want to go for a walk. That's why I threw that out there. No one think that I'm like into going for walks or anything. No, yeah. Because you did, you said walk. That might have thrown them. Yeah. I'm just taking like, yeah. I also think it's, but you kind of weird to like meet someone for a coffee when you don't really know them. Like you walk in and they're sitting at a table. So, and then the first thing you think is this is the table you fucking pick the one right by the fucking door. You were a laugh of bread to mind. Had a guy, it was just jamming on her, like online, just comments, comments, comments, or funny shoes. You know, all right, let's meet for coffee. What made it start box? So she's sitting there waiting for him. He walks in with a dozen long stem roses. First time they've ever met. Oh, no. She's like, oh fuck. She immediately knew she's like, I can't be him. It looks just like only can't be him. It's not, oh fuck it. That's like awkward. He hands with these and she's like, a lot. The only thing that works at that point is if it's all just a gag. I mean, I'm totally fucking my own a floor. I just want to watch you for a while. Right. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. These are useless in eight euros when the garbage. It's just a fucking with you. We were throwing these away this morning. They were just a prop. Literally. She told me that I'm like, what's already over? It's already done. This guy is a stage five cleaner for sure. I got the bat. I got off the bat. I come in with a wedding ring. What the fuck? Oh, yeah. So there you go. Don't do that. There's my advice. Okay. Is my turn? Yes. What guest have we had that you've learned the most from? Ron. I learned something every up. In fact, today I learned there was something that Ron didn't know a lot of things about. And it threw me back. You did not know the name of everyone that's online or whatever. We were talking about. What that. Oh, no. Okay. Guests. It's not Ron. That's tricky. Who's yours? I'm still thinking. I don't know. I, I, I, I, there's a lot of ways I could take this question. Learn the most from. I, I remember thinking that I learned the most, if I was thinking about the guest, like, learned the most about the guest from. I, I think, Hollinshead. I remember he had some really great stories and he went kind of deep personally. So there was a lot that I learned about James on that podcast. I remember while we had him on twice, but there was a lot that came out on those ones. I thought those were good for learning about the guest. They've all the guests. Great. Oh, yes. Great. You know, it's crazy. So I, I have known all of our guests pretty well. Most of them. Yeah. For the came on. Someone not really. But even the ones that I knew well, I really appreciated the depths of how much further we got to meet them. And I will say that on multiple Hollinshead being one of which I bring you up, I was going to say he definitely altered my views a little bit and just how to look at situations, which I thought was awesome because I, I, I had a much deeper respect for him after our first interview than I had before, which was shocking because I already thought it was awesome. But I was like, I do some areas in life. I could work on, like, literally after you're done, you're like, man, I am super shallow. I should work on this a little I can't get better at that one thing. So when he went into depth about, for example, energy exchange and just, you know, with the Kilman General, I was like, damn, I'm going to take it to the bull and yeah, and then meeting it and not knowing. And I was like, and I do know that I'm a firm believer in it. But when someone can really paint you a picture of it happening, you're like, shit. And so I will say I was more cognizant of that. And it's something I now work with the clients all the time. But literally we'll bring up to them like your energy to this situation is half the problem. And you build that up and all of a sudden the issue goes away. It's purely inside out energy. Right. You know, right. And I credit him for that because I literally was like, man, because I could see it when you're when you're an individual that I don't believe in self-made, but I do think that there's a level of like, I just get shit done because I have to. Yeah. But then you start looking, I'm like, oh, but I do have this guy that I pull from in that guy. You know what I mean? You know, like, then you realize, oh, I should probably step up my game on allowing other people to pull from me. You know, so yeah, I would say Hollingset if I was going to list one would be it. That was that was awesome. I mean, I learned a ton from everybody. Him, his was more stuff. I could directly alter with myself, which I thought was cool. Right. And notice how none of it's about training or nutrition because none of the, none of the guests we've had on have had any secrets regarding training or nutrition at all. My, it's my sling game. I had no idea that JP was some problem. Yeah. JP's music is, is like, yeah. No, yeah. I mean, that's, that's one of my favorite thing when we have a guest on and it gets like way away from the, the gym. Yeah, you know, and you, you can't force everyone to want to go there, you know, because I mean, I know what it's like to be a guest on a podcast too. And, you know, sometimes like I've gone on podcast where I was prepared to tell him anything they wanted to know. And all the questions were just like, how do you cook or chicken? Yeah. That's your favorite incline movement on where do you put your hands on the bar? And after the interview, I was like, Oh, the people watching that interview know absolutely nothing about romparlo. Yeah. You know what I mean? I've been through a few of those, not everyone, like, just a few. And I'm like, I'm not even, I came and remember which ones. But you know, I'm now probably. Yeah. Some of those happen. Those happen. So my, I guess my nightmare is to do that type of interview. I don't ever mean to do that with anyone. You know what I mean? But I think you nail that those. It's where the guests takes it and how they expand on a question because all you can do is ask a question and then get out of the way. I've tried, and I know you do really well at it now to is ask the question and I try my best other than to keep them moving to just shut the fuck up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let them run with it. You know, and if they don't, then I do try to get a little more out than I might realize, oh, that's not him. Okay. Yeah. That's a question. If, if I had to say, is there an episode that you're most proud of that we've done? Yeah. Even that's, you know, it's funny. I mean, it's, I really are guests have been so good. And this isn't like the, it would be difficult to choose one. Yeah. Because I literally have, we've had some episodes. Like, you'll, if I were to name four, you'd say another, oh, fuck yeah, that one where I've really walked away and like that was really good. Remember there's a couple where I literally told you I was like, man, that one was on. Like, to the point where if I, if it wasn't me and I'm so lazy, I would actually probably listen to it again. Because it's like, oh, I learned a shit time from that person. Like, I knew as soon as we were done with JPL on and back, yeah, I wanted to haul and said back, like, we're looking to clocking with the fuck's been too hard. We have to let them go. Jesus. Yes. So, what was the word be the one that you'd be the most proud of? I think I'm the right, I think I'm the most proud of the cutler interview. Okay. What's that? Yeah. I don't know. Well, I think I was just excited to have them on. You know, like J commented when we started the show, we hadn't even done an episode yet. Do you remember any comment when am I on bro? Yeah. And I thought, oh, we're going to get them on right away. And it just took so long to line them up that I was like, fuck, we looked down for not having them on. And then, and then all of a sudden, he message me, he's like, hey, what am I on your show? And I was like, fuck, it's been a year. Yeah. So, I remember just where we wasn't, he like, the year episode of right. He's like the, like, almost the one year episode or something. And then so we had him on, but it just went really well. And, and, and, and also it was like a nice reminder, um, you know, like, everyone has their, everyone has their level. So, you know, if J is going to come on our show, I want to be ultra respectful with his time. Right. What I mean, and he was like, oh, no, I got lots of times keep going. You know, like, that's sort of thing. Like he, to know that he had a good time on the show was important. And I think everyone feels like that when they have a guest like J on, like, you know, I mean, it's, uh, you know, you don't want to fuck that one up. For sure. And we remember when we went, we had the, the incident where it didn't record or whatever you had like, corrupted the file. And you couldn't he couldn't transfer the file or something. I felt so fucking bad for him. I was like, oh my god, he get two hours of J's time. Yeah. And then J did it again because obviously it was that good. Yeah. You know, that's a way to, you know, you know, it's a way to, you know, it's a way to, you know, it's a way to, you know, it's a way to, you know, it's a way to, you know, it's a way to, you know, how do you, how do you do you, you two, personally? I, uh, I think that who out is phenomenal at interviewing. I just, I feel like he's got a plan. I think, I mean, I literally, if I do have 10, 15 minutes to listen to a podcast, I don't really watch the, by the unbox stuff because it's just entertaining, but I do like his other ones. I think he's awesome. And I'm blown away when people don't think that. I'm like, really? What is he supposed to fucking do? Yeah. Because remember we hadn't, when we interviewed Chad, that's when I realized it. Someone's like, oh, thank God, someone else in your business. Who are the, like, are you serious? I think he's fucking amazing at this. Like, yeah, I kind of look at him in the industry. He's like, the bar. Yeah, he's really good at it. He's really good at it. You know, he, he, he, he, he takes his time and he takes risks with some of his guests, too, which is, you know, which is good. Because that's like what, what Rogan said, like, Rogan got to the, you know, Rogan never thought anyone is ever going to watch a stupid fucking show, right? So he's having like Tom Green on and like, whoever the fuck he wanted to have on, right? So he does, he can't let, you know, and then you see, who I'd get real comfortable with his guests when he start taking chances and having like, you know, some exercise physiologists that no one really knows except for like the super nerds. Yeah, and cranked cranking. It's a great episode, you know? Yep. So yeah, God, I got a good one here. What is something we do today that future generations will look back on with shock and disbelief? There's lots of stuff. How far into the future? It's funny because this will make you laugh, but it's, it's, it also depends on what your mindset is when you answer this question. Because here, here's what I'm going to answer. It's going to blow your mind specifically, but in general, a lot of people's. I hope that what we do right now that they look back at disbelief on is trading in relationships and marriages like they're nothing all the time. And I say that as someone who's been married twice, so don't, you know, not throw on a rock from a glass house here, but I am amazed. And I feel like our industry kind of magnifies that. It's something that's kind of bothered me recently. So I'm hopeful that that is something and I know that's not where the question was supposed to go, but it's literally the first thing to get in my mind. Because I think of how acceptable everything is now, even we joke about I joke about it, even with myself. It's like, that's not really fucking funny. Yeah, the degradation of the willingness to fix relationships because you're only as loyal as your options. Yeah, and that goes with all of our hinders fold. Yeah, everyone's on. Friendships, that's what everything. And I used to joke about that more openly. And now when I see it, some of them are like, Jesus, really. Yeah. And again, same thing with friendship, same thing with the big hit for me recently that some people will not understand is the weight belts. Cardinal weight belt Steve has been in the industry and had everyone's back literally a lot of us have never paid for a belt in our lives. And it or we have, but he's always taken care of it. And I understand it just changed other people can make belts. But I am surprised how many people he has taken care of that are just pimping the next thing. And I'm always like, really, just to me, it matters. He's never paid me a dollar. He's never asked me for a post. I've gotten a hit, hey, what's your address right now? And then something shows up in the mail. But that is a, that's kind of those relationship things. It's a disappointing portion of life to me right now. And I hope. And I'm actually talking to enough people that they seem like I'm not the only one seeing it. So yeah, I know that that's not the point of the question, but that would be what I would hope. I would hope that two generations now they'd look back and go, man, they were fucking at up for a while. The loyalty back. Yeah, exactly. So, okay, interesting. I guess I was thinking more like where it was meant to be. Oh, you're thinking the way the question was asked. I took it way, I mean, I think in, you know, in a hundred years, there'll be like, wow, these to burn oil for fuel. You know, stuff like that or, or hey, they stopped using, because I had some immediate present. Right. Oh, my bad. Well, by that point, I think we'll hopefully onto some sort of other sort of energy. I mean, like Elon Musk talking about nuclear, nuclear fusion, not like relying. Like, well, he was saying how he still thinks it's possible that we'll have, you know, completely clean, you know, like infinite energy from nuclear sources at some point. It's possible. Right. It's pretty crazy. But anyways, I, you know, the fossil fuel stuff, I guess. And then, I think that we're going to come to a point where we're not going to be eating meat anymore. I think that meat-based agriculture is going to come to an end in the next, you know, 50 to 100 years. And I think synthetic laboratory produced meat is going to be a huge thing that is used in, in a lot of areas of the world. And I mean, I've read some like a, read interviews and listen to podcasts. People who've tried it already. Like, they went to a lab and they ate like synthetic meat. And so, just the texture was different. But it's essentially like Sam Harris was talking about how he went to a lab and he ate some beef. Right. And it just looked like a brick of spam. But it was beef, beef protein. 100% beef cells, muscle cells. Let me think. I mean, that would be nice. Because I'd find a way to handle the things that we don't like about how beef is essentially produced. Right. And essentially, it is beef. Right. Like, it is beef. It's not fake beef. It is real beef muscle tissue. Right. Like, it just doesn't, it just hasn't walked and flexed and pumped and processed. And they can know how they feed beer to certain cows in Japan and fatten them up. And they, yeah, salt them and they get the Kobe beef. Yeah. Yeah. So you don't get the beer and you don't get the massage and you don't get the same meat. Right. No. But it's beef. And you know, if you want to ground it, grind it up and cook ground beef. It's fucking ground beef. And, and, you know, I'm sure we'll solve all the palate and flavor issues. That's not a problem. They can flavor anything. They can do it. They've done this far. Like, they can make a bitch veggie burger taste good. They can make fake beef tastes like beef. Yeah. Would you, you know, just like, because you be so good because it's not fake beef. Yeah. So I think that synthetic meat is going to be a huge thing. Just think of feeding meat that never had a mother. Well, just think of it this way to grow enough to grow enough food like plant food, you know, fields of wheat and fields of all this, like agriculture, grow enough food to feed the world, even with green houses where you're cranking out like hydroponic crops faster. Yeah. Um, you still need so much space and so much water and so much light and so many acres and all that stuff. Right. But they're saying synthetic meat could be produced in laboratories pretty quickly. Right. Like, think of how long it takes to grow a cow. Oh, it's way faster than that. That's fine. You're going to think about that because they're constantly building the next cow for you to eat and also, you know, the, the, and that's the, I actually completely understand the vegans and the vegetarians who look at the conditions and can't get past it, you know, because because I think we all have lines with how we do that. Like, when I think of things that are done to dogs in any negative way, I'm only going to go into depth with that that means the amount of violence that comes out of me and anger is unbelievable. So I understand that from any animal. Yeah, you know, I have no issue eating a cow, but I could tell you, and this is funny, but I have no interest in going hunting. I, and it's, and I have nothing against it. Obviously, I, you know, my neighbor goes out hunting brings home me and I'm like, yeah, hooking up. I don't want to be responsible for something ever having its last breath because I have a connection like that's an animal. I don't know I just can't do it, you know, but then point is there's lines. I'd go fishing, think nothing other. Right. Oh, so I do see where people come from and I would have no issue. You're like, oh, well, now you have the same thing you need need and it comes from a lab. Like, a sweet cool. We don't have to do that. You want to come in. Right. Right. Yeah, it's interesting. It also like, you know, think of like storage and and do dates. I mean, maybe they can engineer all that stuff. So it's even longer and better and sure. I hope they can do it without it being without the sides because that's always been my issue, for example, with milk. I used to get raw milk from the farm. You go down, you'd buy it and they made it where you can't do that here anymore. And it truthfully, without getting a crazy depth, but if you give people through some research, I have personally believed that if you want really, really healthy milk, it's raw milk. It's not pasturized. It's not all the things that the government, once again, is doing to protect to me. What the fuck's it up? Right. You know, the quality of it. So, you know, now I actually have to watch my dairy and you know, what I bring in because it affects my allergies, where it never did if it wasn't processed to fuck. Right. Right. You know, so yeah, that'd be interesting for sure. There'll be so many things because like you said earlier, like back then, I think in what else would we possibly patent? Yeah. Like, how could there be more than this? So I'm sure if you go, if you go for the 100 years, they're going to laugh at half of the shit we're doing. Yeah. Even when I look at, you know, Tesla's and all these, you know, non-gas running cars, I'm like, how does it do that? That speed, that this, that that without gas? That's crazy. Just going to keep getting smaller too. Oh, of course. Like, yeah, it's good. I think of the first cell phone, buddy. Oh, man. That, that 80's drive. That Marseidi's driving, you know, rich asshole with a big brick. But the junk, you know, plugged into a cigarette lighter. He's like, hey, hey, hey, hey, yeah. So, so, you know, like, he's a joke now. Every 80's movie villain. Exactly. You know, he was the only one that had the money for that kind of luxury. Actually, I have a good one here that, and you might not even know about this yet. Thoughts on JP's update. Oh. What was it? Is update? Last, last update I saw was that he was doing some crazy deadlifts after pulling his hand string. So, here it is, here's the deal. And it's funny because I actually, I saw this coming. JP has decided he's done gasing up. Okay. On the TRT. He's going to show what you can build that way on, you know, 200 milligrams. And he didn't, you know, he even said, you know, you know, if he's going to go on a vacation or something, he might bump a little something in just for fun. But basically, he's done chasing size and taking the drugs and everything else. And he wants a more healthy lifestyle. What put him over the edge was Andy, Pam, and even though we all know what it was a complication, I think all of us have been seeing enough death and enough issues that eventually you kind of wake up and go, yeah, I've been playing this game a long time and I'm still here. Maybe I should cash out now, you know. And I saw it coming anyways because you know this, a lot of people don't, when you, I have not been under 270 pounds. I don't know, seven years, like even in contest shape. I haven't been under 270. Yeah. Those. Dusty disc froze. Dusty just froze. Yeah. Yeah. You have been there. We go Dusty and froze after he bad for a little bit. Yeah, I paused when I was saying that so we can hopefully, but basically the the rundown is he's going to be running low dose. It's going to run everything the same as far as just training things like that, show us to Zieg and I dig it. I think it's a great move because he's been there done that. He also, let's be honest here, he also didn't fuck around with doses. Like he already kind of proved his point. It's not like he had room to like bump it up more to see how it went. Like he'd already done, hadn't he already done like the 4000,000 milligrams cycle and stuff? I don't want to put numbers out there. Yeah, I don't know the numbers. He openly said some numbers. Did any 3500 or something? I might be wrong. He never sold that. I never saw that, but here's what I know without even getting into that. He pushed the limit as far as he could. Yeah, in every way, the training way, the food way. Yeah, and that might have just been a few cycles too. I'm saying that's what he always did because I know that it's always trying to get the most out of the least with JP as well. Yeah, no, I think when I say that what I mean is he did what he could do and I think he didn't realize. The reason I said I saw it coming was he started referencing looking forward to coming down. I don't think most people who follow JP have any idea how big he is. No, it drastically bigger than me. Dressedically bigger than me. It's JP is one of the guys. JP is one of the guys where at the Expo, he looks funny. Yeah, at the Expo with a bunch of meat heads that are all freaks. You're looking at like, oh yeah, pro bodybuilder, pro bodybuilder, you know power left there, we're strong man, giant people, giant people, and any sea JP, you're like, oh, that guy looks like crazy. He's a completely covered in his shirt. Yeah, I think it like what's wrong with that guy? Like he's so fucking thick. Yeah, I mean, what is he? Five, seven, five, six, something like that? Yeah, like in, you know, 300 plus. Yeah, very plus all the time. I mean, he's just a massive human. And the reason I bring that up is because I've been telling people that for the last few years, I purposely just relaxed and stayed 90 to 85. So I feel comfortable. He hasn't relaxed ever. Oh, no, pushing up or down or whatever. And it gets confused. Because like, oh, I see you traumatic. No, I train hard. Just I love it. But I'm not pushing food. Not in the food is the hard thing. I don't take a shot. It's no big deal. But the food sucks. Feet sore can't walk out of breath. I haven't felt that in years, dude. And so when he said that, it didn't shock me at all. He's been talking about looking forward to moving on. And I think that this just gave him the reason. Because when you start talking about that, you're already halfway out. Yeah, yeah, you know, which is, which is, and that's not even a bat. That's not a shot. What does he need to do it for? There's nothing left to prove. Like I really respect the guys and that keep a physique because they choose to, but literally are like, I don't like, doin. I've been a monster. What do I have to prove? Yeah, yeah. You know, when I'm done and shrunk down, because people will all, you're never going to be that's what I'm like, no, I do. I fucking do. I have no, this is not my identity at all. I love doing it. I did it. I checked the box when I'm done. As small as I can get as fast as I can get. That'll be the right. You know, so yeah, I'm actually looking forward to it's funny. So he hinted to it this morning. I was out the middle of the night shocking. And he said, you know, something about, you know, my announcement or on my forum, if I'm not going to go into it here. So I had to go log on. I became a member of his site years ago because of friend of mine. And I don't actually go on there. But I just support friends if they do things. I, okay, I'll buy. So I went on to go read at this point. I was like, oh, and I assumed that's what it was. But it was cool to read it. And I think it's going to give guys a great insight on the what you can do when you're done and how much you can still carry through training food. And then we wrong there's remnants. I'm not saying you could ever get to where he's going to be in a year without doing what he already did. Right. But what he can hold afterwards. So it's pretty cool. You know, well, that's what I've been going through the last few years. I know exactly what's going to happen with JP probably very similar thing. Well, you know, things are like, yeah, yeah, he's like, nobody's armed with, you know, he's armed with all that knowledge of nutrition and metabolism. And he knows his body like a clock and all that sort of stuff. So he'll just steer his physique into whatever direction he wants to. Like I was really nervous about like, oh, what am I going to look like? But then after a little while, I realized I'm like, oh, I'm still in control of my food and my training. So that's like, that's why I'm still looking the way I look, you know? And then you just realized that, oh, yeah, like, I don't have a normal person's body. I have a body that's the metabolism has been trained and primed for so many years that it's just like, you know, an efficient machine and I can, I can, I can have days where I'm high fat, days where I'm high carb, days where I'm low carb. And I just feel normal on all of them. Right. And I'm metabolically flexible is I saw an interview with a guy talking about metabolic flexibility and how like most people don't have any because they just eat such a shit diet all the time, right? Right. And they don't exercise. So they, you know, the default level for most people is no no flexibility at all. Like a faith fast for a day, they don't even go into ketosis. Right. You know, they just feel like garbage and get hungry and a blood sugar problems. Yeah, but yeah, but if like someone who's really fit and works out fast for a day like my girlfriend, Emily, she fasted the other day. She's been doing the out 20 for our fast. She gets like, she has all the the trademarks that he listed of metabolic flexibility. She, she actually gets more energetic almost like she's on like a, like, uh, uh, a stimulant, right. Almost gets like mentally overactive. Right. And it's, uh, the body is like already running on ketones. You know, halfway through the first day of fasting because she's a metabolic, efficient and flexible. And so anyways, this guy had a lot of cool stuff. I don't know how much of it was true, but it was if you do a 24 hour fast, noticing what your body does tells you a lot about your metabolism. They does it drop into fat burning quickly or do you suffer all day because you don't have sugar. Right. You know, there's a bunch of that. And so he was kind of interesting, but anyways, that's a side bar, but he's going to find out that you can do it every once in that physique. With all that muscle tissue. Yeah, I'm an weak side of that. I think, I think he knows what's going to happen. But I think it's cool that he's bringing everyone along for the ride. So yeah, you know, I'm excited to see plus like I'm still training super, super hard. And I'm still, you know, eating lots of bodybuilding too. Which you will try and I'm trying to be lean. Right. Whereas I know J. P. We'll have more specific goals like he will be tracking strength, mapping out body comp, starting and graphing every thing. He drugs everything else. So I'm assuming J. P. We'll have even better results than I have. Like you'll probably stay bigger, stronger, and get more ripped because everything's like, you know, he's treating it the same. Well, you need to go to his page anyways because he and Corinne are almost finished building their super gym. Oh, I haven't mentioned which means you need to, you got some travel and to do some. Yeah, I'd love to. I'd love to. I got one for you here. So it's what kind of talk about food. They said, this is a friend of mine, Mike. He says, how much consideration to appetite when you're pushing food for size. So this is a big dude. He's like in the two 90s right now trying to hit 300. And I assume by the question that he's running into those first time hitting 300 blues, where you start to be like, I'm so full of food all time I can't, I can't even eat. So this is tricky. I, I, I, lightly consider appetite always. And the reason I say lightly is I have both sides of that scenario. I have a client AJ who I tease him all the time. His appetite never ends. So he's like, I'm hungry. I don't give a fuck. You're fat. Right. Like even when we're like we're growing and you said, be like, oh, you got room for food, fucking eat eat more eat more. Him, I'm like, I realize I couldn't say, shit, this kid to save my fucking life. He'll be 400 pounds. So I'm like, well, you're going to be hungry for the rest of your life. Right. Yes. You want control your physique. You know what I mean? Most people to be honest with you, I don't give any consider to that I give consideration to inflammation and digestion and that's it. So so maybe this is more of a lack of appetite quick, especially then. Yeah. If that's the question then you just fucking eat. But you do want to verify why. Because sometimes I've found, we've been over this, I don't want to go into much depth. But obviously we know that movement helps so walking before meals is key, things like that to just or after meals. You know, yeah, to get the body moving or to get rid of it. But the answer to the question you eat more because you have to. I think something, I think something that too many people are stubborn on. And this is my personal opinion is the whole solid food versus liquid food thing. I understand. So my whole base is about using shakes. I have no problem with shakes. Way protein isolate, especially is extremely high quality. Right. It's some of the highest quality amino acid you can put in your body. Right. There's nothing wrong with it. However, it's really fast in and out. So the consideration with shakes is I tell my clients to never have shakes twice in a row. Right. Because then you create gaps with no protein in the blood. Whereas if you have, you know, 10 ounces of steak and then your next meal's way isolate and then your next meal's 10 ounces of chicken, you're fine. Right. You've got to mean those in your body the whole time. But I get when you're dieting and you're starving, it's the shakes because you get more solid food. There's more metabolic action with digesting the food, yadayada, yadayada. But when we're talking about offseason body builders, there's only so much physical food you can stuff into your system. Like we have to realize that, you know, what? When you get to 10 cups of rice a day and three pounds of meat, you're supposed to keep like how much food can you stuff into your digestive tract and have it go. So there is going to be a ceiling somewhere for everyone. Some people can eat more food than others digest more. Maybe you can use more enzymes. Maybe there's things you can do to optimize digestion, minimize inflammation, all that stuff. But the end of the day eating food is inflammatory right. And stuffing yourself to your digestive tract is literally full from top to bottom all the time. There's going to be an end to that where you can't put more food in. So well bro, just add three more cups of rice doesn't always cut it. And when you're at the point where your food volume is topped out, you have to go to liquid calories. There's absolutely nothing wrong with it. At that point you just topped up. You just gotta get them in. No, I agree 100% I think that that is actually going to mistake in my coaching before we could do prefer whole foods. But when someone asks usually what I'll let determine that and I know I'm not actually being seen right now. Then plug in my back again. Is you gotta get the calories in somehow. Yeah. And those are the easiest ways to get them in. Dante taught me. I grew up and gained on doing shakes with olive oil three times a day. Yeah. So I shouldn't have the appetite and that was just an easy thing. And I was super busy back then when I had the stores, I was in them. So it was also time management because I'm a slow eater. Even if I love the food, I eat slow. I didn't have 30 minutes to eat a meal because if I was busy, that was an hour and a half. So let's give a one more tip here. What would you do if you're like, almost at your goal, but your your appetite is gone to complete shit. I mean, the things that we already mentioned, number one, which is, you know, a little more movement. I do find there's a line where bringing in movement. I'm not going to use word cardio movement. Elevates much more than the calories you burn. You're going to eat more. And the other is just that fine foods that work with you and in my last touches, a lot of times in the off season, when we're pushing for a goal, we accidentally start bringing in more shit and don't realize that's half the reason we can't eat. If I had a giant bullshit meal, my next meal is always a bitch to eat because if I had a giant bullshit meal, my next meal is way isolate blended in water. Yeah. Oh, you're your body is you're back on track. Yeah, it's not used to all this, the shit it's trying to break through. Yeah, clean up your food is step one. And I know it's a tricky line because people like, but their less dense encounters, when poor olive oil all over your chicken while you're cooking it or whatever. Like get the calories. I'm not saying to eat dry chicken breasts and plain white rice. Yeah. I'm just saying that food that your body is more accustomed to breaking down is going to make sure you're ready for your next meal faster. And like you said, the the shakes thing is huge. I used to just also live and die on. I found it's kind of like a movie. It popcorn is seeing on my lap. I will empty it. No matter how big it is, it will disappear. So I used to keep I used to bring up like nuts to my store and keep on my counter. I would just eat them like all fucking day somehow like a handful here and there. Yeah. Well, I then have adding like five ounces of nuts to a day. Yeah, several hundred calories. Yeah. So basically, shit like that, what about you? Anything last I missed? I just say liquid calories. Where you go? You got to start drinking some carbs and some protein and your protein probably doesn't even have to come up because you're probably already eating enough protein. So you have to get some carbs and fats in but liquid calories. You can go to swaps and meals over to shakes so that you can make them even bigger and get your calories out more. Just a thought. I've originally thought I think something else. That ho over there. I remember when I found out what thought meant I was kind of disappointed. I was like, oh, I thought I was going to be funnier. Yeah, that's not funnier. And I know her. So here's one. Here. Oh, is it your turn? Sure, turn. You already have them. Go. Okay. What are some of your favorite old school action movies? How old is old school? Um, I don't know. I probably got a wide of going 80s on most of my for old school. Give me a give me an answer so I can start priming my brain. Wow. I mean, I grew up on the Arnold shit. So I'm watching Kmando and fucking running man and you know all the Arnold classics. So I was I was a man and I'm guy. Yeah, see the van der movies were big too, but I wasn't as much into him. Blood sport and kickbox or time cop was okay. And then I kind of tuned out. I liked those. I don't even know if I come action because they were more like fighting and I'm you know, I mean, like right double impact. I mean, they were too old. I mean, come on now. Two van dams. Yes. Yes. Was it one hockey one? No, no, that was like there were twins. But the one was like the slick back hair with the cigar. Yeah, it was like the pretty boy from California, which one was the one where he was a hockey goalie. I kind of even know that one. Do you've got I didn't even know that one existed. So you got the and he's he's dressed in the hockey goalie. I'll fit. Yeah. Yeah. I don't know. He's just he must. He had some bad moments in his career. Oh, that was near the end. He was near the end. He's like, I just need a couple more million to tie up this life of mine here. Have you seen his show? I have a check to show up, but I've had some friends recommended. They say they love it. No, what? He has a show on Amazon Prime where he plays himself. I don't want to fuck up the premise. I think it's a comedy series. But he plays himself. Yeah. I got to find it here. I got to look it up. And I thought, come on, wake up. I don't know if that's going to help. I don't want to fuck it up. It's like, God is name in the title. He's done a few things that were really fucking a double impact. Double team. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Where he plays himself, but he wasn't actually a movie star. That was his cover. He was actually an agent the whole time. Right. And now he's old. I think that's the premise. You know what I mean? And so it's like makes fun of his, you know, everything you did. I can't, I can't remember what it's called. I love it. I think about the last movie. So it reminded me, I watched an interview the other day or it was a question. They were going to be in Dana White. And they asked him. They said, uh, what do you think about your friend Oscar De La Jolla coming out of retirement? He literally without breakage beat goes cocaine's a hell of a drug. It's expensive or something like that. It's expensive drug. You got to make money. I fucking died of like, did he just say that? Yeah. So here. Yeah. That was, that was crazy. He was savage. So it's called John Claude Van Johnson. And here's the premise. It's got good ratings. Van Dam is a name that is synonymous with action movies. But what if he was actually a secret agent and his entire film career was intended to be a front for black ops missions? Actually, they've got, they've got my attention. You know what I mean? So, and I've only actually could follow through on watching television. You know, who we have to ask if that's any good David Bale, though? Obviously. He would have had to have watched it. I'd be kind of get him on. But you know what the sucks? He works a real job. What does he do? I don't know what he did. He's a mean master. He does his meaning. So, well, I just assumed he was at home. Like me. He's a real job. He probably surprised him. He was a job. Oh, yeah. I'm sure he's he's an master physicist or something. But I literally, he goes, he goes, yeah, I get off at five. A hedge fund manager. Literally, that wouldn't shock me. So, yeah, I was like, oh, I don't know how to handle some of the schedule. I don't know what to say right now. I'd love to have one. I tagged him in a photo of the other day just because it may be laugh. Oh, dude. There was some one of my favorite people. Do you follow? Do you follow your dad's America? No. It's one of my favorite accounts. They just put up like pictures from the 80s and 70s basically that are like, like, cool, you know, like your dad's America. It'll be like a dude with a beer and some hot chick like leaning on him with back comb bangs. And he's like, you know, or be some dude on the back of a pickup truck, you know, back in the day when you used to ride in the back of the truck and there was an illegal. There was fun. Like cruising down the highway and there's a dude like drinking beer in the back of a pickup and it's your dad's America. I got time for one more because I actually have like five appointments today. Believe it or not. That's my kind of hostility of people that want to talk to you besides me, dusty. I'm paying them. It's totally different. Okay. Okay. So you pick. Oh, fuck. Oh, okay. I'm getting to that in there. Okay. How did you like? What do you think? I'm going to have a lot left for my son. I'm going to do, I did. I have a, I'm a frightened guy to answer all of these at some point today. Okay. This is simple. But I'm going to do it just because I want to end up on a strong note. What do you think about the blood and guts training program? I think that it's foundationally sound covers a huge amount of shit that you have to pound into your head and focus on. Teachers you have to train with really high intensity if you understand what you're supposed to be doing. Okay. So assuming that people are doing the blood and guts program, they're not just reading it and going, oh, two sets, one set, you know, priming and getting ready for those sets and then treating each one of those sets like a big huge event. That's what I always said to people like those those are just sets those events. That's a great statement. Yeah. Like once a week, that happens. That set right there. Right. It's not just a set, you know. It's like a set that you're that was my mentality the whole time I did that was like, you know, there might be two sets of incline press. You know, I would think about them all yeah. They weren't just sets where I could just be like, I got some incline to do. I'd be like, fuck, like those are coming. That's like job interviews. Right. Fucking like, you know, do a dime moments where you have to like pull something off like you all set out of your taxes done by the 15. Yeah. Like that's like that set is coming for you and it's there all week long. You better be there all week long to thinking about it. Right. That's what I used to think, right. Don't just think about it that after noon on your way to the gym. Oh yeah. I got hacks today. You're just funny. You said that. That's not how any of that got done for me. That's not how any that got done for me. I don't think that that's seen as I mean here. Maybe it never was. But I know it's not seen very much now. So yesterday this is funny. But a kid I'm training is an adjim training and I look over and he's getting into a set and it's starting to get tough. So by reaction, his training partner is behind him on the leg press. And he's starting to grind. So I just walked over and like took over and started pushing, right? And he gets done and I literally didn't say anything like, good set, walked away. You know, and he just stayed in this fucking zone. I didn't even think he knew I knew who he was. We just started. But he gets done with the workout and he comes over real quick and to do himself. And he's like, uh, so when you write the workouts, you know, I got three sets of this. This is like, I got to change your workout. You train way harder than most people. Like I realized during, because I thought it was his final set. It was his second. And I write it all. Only the last set is the absolute failure. And I realized he doesn't even know what that means. Right. Because he was pushing way too hard on his second working set. You know, when I told him, I'm like, no, I want you to hit 20 because you did. But on your last set, I want 17 to be possible. And then I want you to find 20. Right. Just realize him like, this kids fucking gear different. Like, I don't think he knows how to do that. So I'm going to have to change his entire fucking training after watching him do one set. I'm like, oh, that was your second set. Okay, you're insane. You're going to love this sport. Yeah. That's cool. That he didn't even start any partner. Yeah. Yeah. And he should learn how to spot. Yeah. It was hard enough that I was like, I don't want him to mess with me standing here. Like, Holy shit. Like, I would have done that. I didn't know him. I just saw the grind. I'm like, oh, this kid's going to work here. Okay. Right. Right. Then when I found out, oh, that was a second set. I'm like, all right. You're fucked in the head. This can be fun. That's good. That's good. Yeah. I would say the Dorian, the Dorian, you know, blood and guts way of training. It's, uh, I mean, it's made for that kid, though. Yeah. So for people who really, really know how to train hot, not know how want want to train hard, want to learn how to train hard, want to learn how to find those key sets and make them count, I think it's a fantastic default to start. For sure. You know, you can tweak it all sorts of ways, but I think just a repetition, two on one off, two on one off, two on one off, and list, bu bu bu bu bu bu bu bu bu bu bu bu bu bu bu bu bu, you get in the groove, you know, you throw, do workout A workout B where you alternate your starting movement, you know, you know, like I'd be hacksquat and one week late pressing the next hacksquat and one week late pressing the next or whatever you're doing for body parts. It's, uh, it's a great way to train. I mean, it's a foundation of everything I still do. Yep. Me too. I might do a lot more of all you now and not go to as deep a failure with the heavy weights and stuff, but it's still like the principles are all there. For sure. Agreed. Well, boss, I gotta, I gotta get cracking. Actually, I'm disappointed because I have really good questions. I'm gonna, I'm gonna, even I'm gonna answer these. I'm gonna save some of them for next week, because I think you're a tweak on them is always good. I, uh, I feel bad because I got like tons of good ones, and then I even had someone like DMs that we didn't get to any of them. So I'm gonna have to do so many on my stories. Good. Well, I'll watch them then. But don't, so save a couple. There's something that are really good to save them because that's what I'm gonna do. I literally just scan through like fuck. I need like two more hours to get these in. Okay. Okay. We'll do that. Thanks, buddy. I'll send you a shirt. Send me your address right now. Yes. I'll text you. Okay. Thanks. Remember everybody like, share, subscribe, comment, ring the bell. It's just bodybuilding.

He's like, can I ask you a question? I said, sure he goes, what is with this machine? It's the panel of the kids got good legs and everything. He goes, I've never used it. I'm like, no one does. It's so nice. Don't use it. You'll hate it. Hey everybody, welcome to episode 87 of It's Just Body Building. Of course, that's the hand charm myself. Ron Parklow, from today's show. We got a bunch of Instagram questions for you. And you know, an open look into our lives, and it's just bodybuilding. There you go, Dasty. I was acting an intro. I was trying to make us sound welcoming on that one. You don't threw me off. I'm a concerned. You dropped the big. You just were run parlo. Well, I wanted to experiment with it because you don't have an extra word. Okay, I was just going to say, because you know, just because you're riding BMX, doesn't mean I want you dropping the big. No, no, no, no, no, I don't do 100. I just get to today out, you know, maybe if I would have said your middle name, that's three three words, and then I could have added the big on mine. It would have flowed. I just just playing with it. Bestie. You can throw any word in front of me that you think is accurate and people might have some fun with it. You know, I have a small bit of poet in me. Because I want to laugh. If you know, then, that's true. Remember, like, share, subscribe, ring the bell, comment, and remember to spread the word that there's no more advice is radio for the audio. It's think big on YouTube, like it's been, but it's also the think big body building on all the RSS and audio feeds. So if you're on Spotify, it's think big body building, you know, all that stuff. So if you can't find audio, that's why. So think big body building, right, Jesse? Seems simple enough. I like the name better anyways. Yeah, yeah, me too. You know, you used to, you know, who used to do that was, I don't even know, you know, if you know, this is, but the natural bodybuilder's skip the core. Yeah, you used to do the think big was his hero to book called that. Oh, yeah, I'm not that. Yes, I have. I see the cover of it in my head actually. That's funny. You have seen that was, that was the first seminar ever went to was him. Then I totally dug it and I, and I credit him to a lot of the simplistic mindset I have because he was all about each fucking food, each fucking food, each fucking food, you know, because he was a gold Venice legend. What was he really selling all that? Yeah, I thought didn't skip the core training, gold Venice. I have no idea. I learned you know, I met him. Yeah, yeah, I thought he was one of those guys for a long time, but you know, that was the magazine air and kind of made us feel like they all lived and trained there. Because that's where the pictures came from. So the pictures came from. Right. So you read the article. You see the pictures. You're like, oh, it's gold Venice. I must be where he lives. He lives in Lysman. I was, you know, exactly. He was there for three days. He shot everybody. Yeah, I do. I Jerry Goeier. Exactly. Yeah. I, that's the one thing I think a lot of people don't realize with the old magazines. I stopped doing shoots. The very first year I started them unless I could control the content. Because they would have me like, okay, now do this. I'm like, I would never ever do that. Yeah, it's for the, it's for the, the article. I'm like, But I wouldn't do that. Yeah, I didn't want to shoot like that. And I was like, too. I don't know, I didn't shoot like that. I did a shoot where they're like, okay, you know, hold the dumbbell, hold the dumbbell, and I'm like, I wouldn't do the sexual sacrifice. And like, yes, an arm training article. Remember we actually did two of those because one time with me, and someone tried to pull that shit. Yeah, yeah, it was video that wasn't it? Yeah, it was video that went over just about as well. Yeah, who on deaf getting it done our way, Dustin? What's tell them why you're taking the wide go? Because my fucking shoulder to wide is that the answer you're looking for? I can't reach the narrow one. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, no, that's not why I'm going to know that is why. Yeah, yeah. It's precisely why. I know I did a shoot one time. It was, you know, just holding the deadlift bar and all that sort of stuff. And, you know, it's one thing if, like I remember we did a shoot where you had your hack a t-shirt on and you actually like we put some weight on. And you were like, you were pulling like singles, I think, just to get good photos. Yeah, no, I mean, but we weren't, but we weren't like holding the bar to inches off the ground and pausing for photos. Yeah, I felt bad for the photographer because they literally had me pulling 600 pounds one time many times. Yeah, but he had to catch that shot. Yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. And they were normal reps. So it was a full speed thing. The only thing we did that shoot that I remember because I kept fucking it up was they wanted me to slam the bar down when I was done. Right. And I, I don't do that. So I literally multiple reps I forgot and I put it like push down. I was like, ginger and she's like, hey, dumbass. I only asked for one thing. Right. I need, I need the good job and the bad. Because there was a video shoot happening at the same time. Like literally I thought they thought she was going to smack me. She's like, you can't possibly be this dumb. I just need you to drop the bar. That's right. I keep it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Life man, what's going on in being Cooper ish. Well, we're like, I don't know. I don't know the scoop on everybody, but it seems like we're the like the only province. I guess the scapula still has their gyms open. But yeah, it's Canada's having a real shit. Right now with all this stuff. It was a whole bunch of places close or doing crazy curfew and Ontario. If we home by APM or something like that. And then the premier who's just just a disaster out there, he said, oh, we're going to extend the powers of the police to pull you over and check your reasoning for being out of your house. Like they don't need a reason to pull you over anymore. That's right. That's right. Yeah. That's enough reason. Like we're going to allow them to do this. And then all the police, it was 36 out of 49 police agencies in the province immediately tweeted out on their Twitter. Yeah, we will not be doing that. Yeah. We do not have the manpower to just be fucking pull very well over. They're actually saying we don't have like that's that's that's like there's a lot of stuff with mandates, but that's actually just plain illegal. Nice. That's good. We're not we're not doing that. No one has to worry about us pulling them over for no reason. If you're speeding or you run a stop sign, then you're getting pulled over to my ask. Pull you right right in the law. Yeah, exactly. Right. Right. And there's a cure fuse. You might get a ticket for being out if you don't have a good reason. Right. But we're not just pulling anybody out of the fucking. We're not stopping people on the street. That's not going to happen. So they all they came on and said that on Twitter. So it's like just makes the the premier of the province look like a fucking idiot. You would run that by like if I'm pulling a lot of little things. I did at least but I came guys. This is what I'm thinking about doing. Are you going to back me or no because I'm like, no, fuck you. Then I'm not going to say that. Yeah, they go to police chief for eating breakfast out morning and he's on the right on the news and you're like, No. That's not an evidence. That's a cute idea. Not fucking happening. Yeah. I am going to get dusty handshot to come to your house and beat you up. And you're sitting at home eating like. I can't do a problem with that guy. I'm like doing this. Yeah. So just a bunch of crazy shit like that. You know, and do you know, there's a chance that Canada felt like way to minute. Those fucking US people really showed us up being stupid. We got to try to beat them. So you guys started doing stupid shit because you know, we had like a good six months where we were just doing dumb shit every day and you guys were confused. Oh. Yeah. Yeah. Well. It's slow. My back. My back. Your back. Your back. For a sec. I think that Canadians got really cocky because like Canada was doing good and the states was a disaster because of Trump. Right. Right. And then, you know, now places and shutting down third lockdown, closing jams. And you know, you guys got states that are open and a bunch of stuff going on. So I think a lot of people, you know, yeah, feeling looked a little stupid right now. It's a little backwards. It's funny. I'm here. And I forget because like we remember one, I haven't been doing anything for months. But we opened like I told you a couple episodes ago. And the only thing that's changed, which I have no issue with, is place are welcome to uphold their own rules. Yeah. So you, you can require a mandate in your gym if you want to more in your place of business. And that's perfectly fine. And I have no issue with that. I just want to go there. So, you know, which is, which I think is totally cool. And a lot of places here. I also like, which I think is smart. If I, by still own my business, I would actually hang up the thing that says, um, suggested. And the only reason I said is because I'd be more concerned to the people who want to wear a mask feeling like they shouldn't. Like, right, because I got like me doesn't give a shit. I see suggest I keep moving on like, I'm not wearing a mask. But I don't want people who want to to feel like, oh, I shouldn't go here and spend my money. You know what I mean? Right. So a lot of the businesses that I frequent on the regular have a sign that says suggested or welcomed, you know what I mean? Yeah. And then a few of them are still upholding, you know, like there's a, there's a tie place I go to. I went for 26 years, literally. And I walked in the other day, it's about a six foot walk to the counter. And I could see my food that I had ordered and she was like, give a mask on my, no, but I just need the food and she was like, okay, we're still having to do the mask. I said, okay, do you want me to buy the food or no? And she's like, what do you mean? I go, no problem. I won't come back after this. But I need to know if I should leave now if you want the 70 bucks. Right. You know, like, the fee is very simple. And then moving forward, like I have no issue with it, too though. Like you're welcome to dead that. I'm just going to come back. I mean, that's all I'm about. Free choice. Yeah. No, and that's how I need business. I mean, you want. You can be kind of what you can force people to do shit. You can force people to wear purple pants if you want. Okay. That's how I look at it. Like I wouldn't even matter. I'm like, cool. When this stops, I'll be back. I still love your restaurant. I want to do that. And it's ridiculous. I'm walking and literally grabbing a bag of food and walking out the door. No, I don't want to do that. You know, so, and it's funny because the Starbucks, I go to, you know, Starbucks is very democratically owned. Yes. So the place I go to, they bring it to my car. I preorder on my phone all the time when I pull up. There's walking out. Yeah. I don't really want to do this. I go on a problem. We'll bring it up to you. I take it every day. We, that's every one's a winner. He makes a little extra cash. I don't get on my car. I'm happy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So it's definitely nice here. I went to, like, a Fort Lauderdale and Florida. Everyone said was open. Apparently it's depends on where you are. They were Nazis there. It was fucking unreal. Really? Yeah. I went into places. I mean, and it's funny because I thought the whole state was open. I thought they were more quicker along than us. Everywhere we went. There was, you know, you want to go in. You have a mask. I'm like, fuck. Sure. But, but it's, but it's technically not mandated by the government. It's the businesses. No, I do. I do. I think that city because it was everywhere. That's the city. Oh, there was nowhere that we went. Okay. That wasn't that way. And I was, I wouldn't have cared about it. I was actually blindside because I, I had heard that Florida was open. And I mean, I'm talking grocery stores everywhere. That's probably state laws. Like, there's no state law about it. It's probably local. Yeah. It had to be. It had to be. It was super weird because I wasn't prepared. And like you said, I had no issue with some things like. What I mean, I shouldn't say, I don't know issue, but it is what it is. Like if I get on the airplane, I understand. Right. But if I want to fly, then just don't fucking fly. You know what I mean? But I was blindside because I didn't know that about there. And I'm like, oh, I would have picked Miami. That's on vacation. I didn't have to come here. Right. Fuck. Okay. I would just put my money somewhere else. But, you know, it was all good. But yeah, it was definitely shocking because I thought it was. It was statewide. But they're trying to do that here, too. Like, tempi wants to bring in the mask rules again, which is a city in Arizona. But they're not enforcing it. Like right strongly suggesting the businesses that they do that kind of, which means down the line, they'll enforce it because of course all the businesses. Like, oh, okay, we're not just not going to do it. Yeah. It'd be like if I said, you know, Ron, I really think you should, you know, start wearing a shirt backwards every day. Oh, okay. No. Yeah. Yeah. So very similar. But yeah, all good. The only thing going on here currently, that's not my favorite is I don't have allergies. And I got hit by allergies like two days ago. And I was like, fuck, this is why people hate these things. Right. I have no idea what happened. We didn't have like a change in temperature, wind, nothing. I woke up in the middle of the night. Like, someone was, you know, squeezing my head in the ice. And I'm like, oh, yeah, this sucks people are right. I don't like this, but to treat them and have the COVID, I probably do. I probably do. I actually got to say if this was COVID, I'd be like, you guys are pussy. This is nobody. Take some allergy meds. And if they help, then it's not COVID. Yeah, that's what I did. I had to take allergy meds, which is funny because then I find out that, you know, I take the one the first night and I didn't look at it. And allergy, whole and sinus perfect pop this. And I feel good. And then that night, I'm like, man, really not tired. It's all the studio effect. And it was in the ass. You're 20 minutes of a phase system. Yeah, try to sleep on that buddy. Take that shit at 11 p.m. Because I just want to make. What's the take to blue one at 11 p.m. The night time for me to do it was so funny. I'm like, oh, well, I don't sleep anyways. It's fine. What the fuck's going on? This is worse than usual. Yeah. We're going to the park. It's midnight. Let's do this. No, wow, that's that's, that's something you don't want to do. I, I took a micro dose mushroom tab yesterday. Would you think? I didn't notice anything. You got to do it repetitively. So I get the chocolates, you know, and each bar is three and a half grams. And they're like a hersey. They're all broken up. So now I just take one half of those every day, one half of the little bar, like a hersey's cube. Right. And I don't have any milligrams is that is still a seven. Would that be? So it's three points. Be three point five grams divided by 12. So a 12. So that 3500 divided by 12. Yeah. So whatever that number is, I do that every day. I don't feel it, but it does help me not want to beat people to this. Oh, that's, that's always helpful. Yeah. I mean, I don't do that, but I do feel it a lot on the daily. How much is that? That's 292 milligrams of psilocybin. Yeah. All right. So it'd be like one just over a quarter of a gram. Yeah. I, I wasn't sure. I took 150 milligrams capsule. You know, what I took is it would be a lot for most people I use in every day. So it's good for me. I don't, but I don't see the effects whereas when I once a month I do three and a half grams all at once. Oh, okay. That's awesome. Oh, wow. It's been a long time for me. No, I just took the one cap and I was like, you know, a couple hours later I was like, oh, yeah, I forgot to take that cap. I guess I didn't feel anything. That's the point. Shouldn't. Like if you're doing microdose incorrectly, you don't even know you're doing it. But you might just notice, just for me, it's just, you know, I mean, you've been enough around me. A little things make me irritated. I'm like, doing that. It's just, you're easily my most irritated friend. Yeah. So it numbs that. So I'm safer in the gym from giving the look that I give all the time. Like, I would feel like you're someone filled me the entire time because there'd be so much of. Yeah, you can't hide it. You're very bad at hiding it. You have other skills dusty, but hiding here and knowing that is, that is not what of this. I think you've just never, never really shared it. Maybe because I followed up with a what the fuck was that out loud. That might be an issue too. Yeah. And then of course, it's always funny when I notice someone gets to the end of their of your threshold. Because you go over to and you go, let me talk to you for a second. Do you want to know what's great? Then you walk off to the side with them and you lean on something and you have a little conversation with them. And I can tell that it's not going to happen again. I have to tell you a funny story about that with a see that I've seen you do that here for a time. Never, never. So a pseudo, you know, I have a conversation in Tampa a couple years ago. Just talking, I don't even know if we were talking about it, it'll maybe a little bit, you know. And this kid comes over and just joins the conversation. Right. And we're like, let's find, I guess, but he keeps saying dumb things. And he says something, well, you know what I mean? It's a science and Chris, of course, goes, I don't like science. I like results. So that was like strike one. And I'm like, oh boy, he was annoying me. And finally, I'll, I'll never forget all calmly. Chris goes, hey, could you stop talking? That was like, oh shit. Chris, Chris, sorry, hilarious story one time he's, you got on an airplane. It was on his way home from one of my shows. Okay. I go, how was the trip? And he's like, oh, as soon as I got on the airplane, this guy sat beside me. And just wanted to talk. And I, I had my, I was so fucked. I had my head on the window. And I just had to look at him like as a plane was taken off. And I was like, can you not speak to me at all? I love the gossip at all. And the guy was like, oh, and then Chris just went back to sleep to stop the whole flight. There's so funny. If anyone's ever worked with Chris, he knows that four days equals a good 17 minutes of Naps per day. Right. And that is the end. I mean, I used to wake him up. To go look at me real quick. And I would knock on his door. He'd be on top of his bed. All of his clothes on. Sit up. Run you through the shots. Hair a mess. He's like, fuck, you look good. Okay, coffee. He comes his hair the way Jordan Peters does when he's at shows. And I'm buying my headband now that I know how that works. That was, that was the greatest part of our entire show. I don't care what anybody else says. The only value was when you were like, oh, you called your hair. He's like, oh, I didn't. I didn't fool you. We got to want to thank everybody for the feedback on that one. That one went over really well. Everyone seemed to like it. And, you know, got a lot of views and Jordan really had a good time. You know, a message of laughter and all that. So, yeah, what's your feedback on that? Feedback, of course, is phenomenal. But I had no less than 10 people request that we bring on. Have I seen him current? Yeah, yeah, current. Yeah, current. So I posted asking her. And she said, if she gets the Olympic qualifications, the only way she'll feel qualified to do this show. I'm like, well, that's bullshit. None of us are nearly as good as you. But okay. Yeah, I'd love to have her on. Oh, I would too. I haven't, I mean, slightly intimidated because, yeah, she's not only a better bodybuilder than all of us, but also stronger, which sucks. So I got a pretty much single. Like, that's the only thing I have in this world is that I'm strong. I'm like, but not as strong. Oh, she's only doing four plates. Oh, those are skinny plates. Oh, she had nine plates. Oh, yeah. And then I did use the math. Oh, yeah. So I would be using five or six. So that's me, definitely a thousand pounds. Okay, I can't get this. Yeah, it's funny. So, but no, I love because he also said, I mean, he tells me all the time, off record that she, he thinks she's a better coach than him too. She's like, his, her clients are fucking nuts. Oh, that's awesome. So I imagine she gets very, I imagine she gets a very hardcore clientele. Well, yeah, because she's also, she doesn't even understand. Yeah, weakness. Like, I love when he posts about that because he put up one time, she's somebody asked him, um, dumbest, something like dumbest question you've ever been at or current, current has ever been asked. And he said, it's not, he said, not a question, but I don't suggest anyone ever use the word flat in front of her. Right. I think that's does not get you a good answer during prep. If you say one flat, that's not a good one for you. I, I think that people need to jettison the word flat from their vocabulary, 90 to five percent of a time. Oh, yeah. And they, it's, I just want most people to know that when you say, oh, I'm flat and you show some of your pictures, chances are they think you sound like an idiot. You probably know when a client tells me they're fluttering up. Yeah. What I hear is I'm hungry. Yeah. And also what I hear is all the dice kicking in. Okay. That's good. Let's do this for months. Plus you can be a pancake, the whole prep. Okay. You know, that's the thing is if you said to someone straight up in the beginning, do you prefer we look really good during the prep of the day of the show? That's, that's, that's not a hard answer, but for some reason during prep, I'm flat. I don't care. Yeah. Yeah. You're very nice and too. Exactly. And you don't have a tan on. Yeah. You should shave. Yeah. And you're not done dieting. Yeah. Because all of that's supposed to be ready yet. So I wanted to bring something up. I was very impressed. And I think maybe this will help our case. You know how we haven't been able to get Dante on the show yet, because he doesn't really like to do stuff with speaking. Yes. He put a video up. You can do videos though. It's too long. But I just, I still think. He knows series with me for, Yeah. I just, I just, I just, I was all on his own, right? I do in the incline press and doing the exercises and stuff. And I thought man, is he getting out of his shell? We should throw him another note. You're going to know those confidence. I will keep asking him though. We, you know it's funny. So you know this just like with Chris. So Dante, I find it that reminded me that it's pre-recorded. That's the thing. We can throw it away. He won't. We'll lie to you. But we just won't let you see that we posted. But yeah, don't we talk every day? And I laugh because we never talk about bodybuilding. Yeah. Like everything is investments. Because he's helping me to tell what different things. So it's like, I laughed. And I was like, what is the last time we spoke about bodybuilding? And then today he messes me some training things to look at. I was like, oh, sweet. Finally. We're back to this again. We always talk about blood work. You know, he sends me, he always sends me like, look at this. And it'll be like this terrible blood work. I'm sending my blood work because he laughs at me. Because I want it perfect. And he's like, right. He's like, you're fine. It's fine. Yeah, yeah. I will say though, I think I forgot to mention this on the last show. My blood work was good. But there are a couple of things I wanted to be better. Like for example, my HDL was 1.00. And the lowest that you want it is 1.00. If it's 0.99 it's low. Yeah, no, I was so I was in range. But I wanted it to be better. And then there was, what about your diet is having you shortening? You're just not giving enough. Sorry. What about your diet? It's just like just how my body sits. He said, he said, my diet's fine. But he added some supplements a while ago. He's like, this might raise it. And I was like, okay. And then I got my blood work back. And it's 1.32. There you have it. I'm like, oh, no, it's up. Thanks. And he's like, yeah, no problem. That works every time. You know, 7.00. Yeah, yeah, yeah. So that just, it's just been so many times when, you know, I know Dante's not a doctor, you know, and all that stuff. But man, the results are crazy. Like he has single, he is manipulated a single thing on my blood work with supplements. Like I'll be like, oh, my GFR 70. I think I wanted higher than that. He said, oh, do this. S.S. Next blood work when GFR is 93. No, he's done that. When I was going to a guy locally, he fucking, he's talking about it. It's cool. No, I saw the guy I was seeing locally. Um, who's an endo? Uh, I told him some of the things we were doing. And he's like, I've never heard of that. Yeah. Like, so I don't give a shit that he's not a doctor because literally because so he had on the, on the topic. Occasion asked me, what'd you change? And then I tell him what Dante had to do, whether it was supplements. I do a lot of flex seeds actually now. Um, and that was something he was like, oh. Yeah. So I told my doctor, I was taking quite three grams of astrologists a day for like the last year. Yeah, which is all. And like, like, my numbers are almost past blood work. I only mentioned a few, but like, they're all great. Like, I've, like, this is possibly the best blood work I've ever had in right long time. And, uh, and I said, I'm taking a bunch of astrology. So my doctor, who's, who's got a hormone clinic upstairs. He's a really smart guy. Yeah. He's like a good doctor, you know? He goes, oh, yeah. And here in there's like some value in that. So he, it's like, he's just, he's way ahead of the other doctors. He's got like, you know, the clinic and stuff. And he's just getting on this stuff. Which we've been over years. And Dante's like, you know, years years deep with hundreds of people that have turned their numbers around on their blood work and stuff. So, and also I have to mention how to a good friend of mine, who sent me his blood work a couple months ago. And, and while, like, it was like six months ago now. And his kidney numbers weren't good. Like his crack. It's crackin' and it was high as GFR was under 60. It was like 58. And there was just a few things on there that were like, oh, this is, it's sharply all. He'd be looking at this, right? So I sent his blood work to Dante, who replied same day with like a list like this in charge of thing. I sent it off to my body. I was like, give this a go and do this. Give it a go and do it. Give it. And he got blood work again. And it was like, camera footage like marginally better. And then a few more months went by. He got blood work again. Everything's in range. You know what the problem is, too, that Dante switched with me. Even though I worked with him, prior to this was, I used to do my blood work eight weeks after cycles. And things were drastically on the other. Right. It's doing a normal thing. And he's just wondering, so now I do them in the heart of it. Like, okay, where am I at? I'm at my worst. Yeah, and that's the numbers you want to see. Particularly if you're, I mean, I blast and cruise. So I'm on during prepping on the whole time, but even like, in this next plan of mine, I'll be on for the majority of six months. Yeah. On and off. But more time on than off. It doesn't mean no good to know where I'm at when I'm off. I know. I'm at when I'm shit. So I wish more people would do that. I'd say with my clients, so I go, okay, when should I do the blood work? I'm like, today, we got two more weeks in a cycle. Right. Tomorrow. Like, let's get to it. Yeah. So the only thing that I've questioned a little bit, which we haven't talked in, and I'd love to do live if we get them on, is another friend of mine will, who's literally a scientist. He doesn't believe in changing anything. Like, you know, you don't train for three days before blood work itself like that. Because his answer to me is, how's that normal for you? You're never not training in three days. So wouldn't the most accurate blood work be right in the middle of training? I'm like, there is something to be said for that. You're no I understand what it does to the numbers. I understand the bond and you know what I mean? But I see what it means. Yeah, there's also though it is also important to see like, let's say you're training hard like you smash legs and you go in and you're see K levels like 1500. Right. So, okay, you just smash legs. That's probably why it's high. But you want to know if you took three days after what would it be? It is good to know that. Yeah. What would it give you take down? You take a week off training and it's still 1500. It's like, oh. Yeah, no, you're fucked. That's very valid. Very valid. It's fine. But you know, it also comes down. Some people have to pay for their blood work and stuff too, right? So there's also like, you know, they make sure they just spread it out evenly and get it done a few times a year. You know, make sure you're generally good. Yeah. What, what do you think of? I can't help it. Hope I is a little bit of a spark in this, but you see, hallings head on the inline skates? I did. I did, but I have a few things and this is going to hurt. It's going to hurt a little bit. So number one, I hate seeing it because he's not me. If I fall in hurt myself, nobody goes a fucking, it doesn't alter my career. I'll, I'll have a new story to paint on the internet and be good to go. It scares me to see someone with his talent doing that. And then the other thing it's funny is, because he's getting back into it is skating stride is terrible. So watching him skate hurts my soul because you're a hockey player. Yeah, but again, and rollerblading is different. I will say that. Yeah. But on the flip, his mobility blows my mind. Like the fact that he can even commit to those things this quickly. I'm like, damn, because I mean, I think about everything I do. Like, if you say, like, even when I saw him fall, the first one he put up with like, Oh, God, is he okay? Open, okay, he's up. Okay, we're good. I mean, I consider myself like this fragile little thing now. If I were to fall down, I don't know what would break, but some things, I'm pretty sure would. You know, but yeah, it's, it is cool to see though, and I am noticing more and more guys, you, I'm blaming you. You have started a drum. I, I don't give a shit that you've retired. I don't, he's done it. I'm not trying to take credit. I just, I'm wondering, I'm hoping there's a little bit of a spark there that caused a few people to get back on some stuff. I know there's like some normal jail guys that have mastered me that are like, I'm 48, and I'm fucking building a skateboard because of you. I've had a few. Yes, what? I mean, and I'm not saying it's direct, but I'm going to give a shit. I believe it has a hint. Sonti, when I'm Bahaaki equipment again, and he's playing, he's going to start, he moved Dallas. He's going to start playing Haakey three nights a week as a way to do cardio notes. He already made sure it was crystal clear. It's, it's a no checking situation. Yeah. Dude, just ran away like, I mean, it's, you know this. It's kind of like you, like you don't just go buy a little equipment. He dropped a couple grand. Yeah, he'll be a stocked up. Yeah, I got my, I felt like the best fucking bike I could build. Yeah, and see, and he hasn't played since he was 18. Yeah, you know, but it's funny. Yeah, so I saw him, I saw him in post a video just stick handling in his living room. And I'm like, it's still there. Oh, yeah. You could see it like, like, it's, it's rusty, but it's still there. His hands still know what to do. I was like, oh, fuck. You know, I could definitely see this slowly starting to kick in, you know. But, you know, it's funny is on the flip of what I just said about Haakey's head. I also think like, live. Like, it's funny because I have so many kids come up to me and they don't want to do anything because they're bodybuilding or you know, I don't want to mess up my, my bodybuilding career. And I'm like, shhh. It's a balls of use of the word career. Yeah. It's a pretty loose, I just think you just heard right there. Like, you know, all I have to say is from my own experience of getting back on the bike. Hologs had just needs to make sure that he warms up really good stretches out. Because I remember the night I tore my hamstring. I just went for like a quick ride in my park hate. I like didn't really warm up. I just wanted to go down. Like, that's just started running. I just wanted to pull a few tricks that night because I didn't get to ride that day as I have a fucking school ride for like half an hour and I want to hurt myself. So just make sure you warm up, stretch out, you know, the hammies and the doctors and the calves and, you know, do some jumping jacks and make sure he's warmed up and it'll be fine. Another thing is his strength, you know, he's such a durable like he's not a dainty body. Yeah, no, yeah, yeah. He's like bone density, tendon thickness. Like you could just see this probably just a dexascan dream there if you were to look at everything on the right. So he's pretty durable when it comes to just falling down from like standing height. As long as he doesn't start airing out and stuff, I think he should be okay. Well, and the nice thing is to just like what you're doing, it's not explosive. Because I could tell you so a few years ago, I was big, you know, like 240-ish or whatever, in prep for a show and I decided to start doing bleachers again for cardio, which was fine. I did fine and then I got the itch to do some sprints with some friends that were there. They're athletes and I'm like, I know I'm faster than all of them and they would have never guessed. So we did like 40 yards and I smoked them twice and they were like Jesus, so even like yeah, it's a been a fast twitch muscle. I fast third time hamstring bone. Yeah, yeah, three steps in because the muscle is too strong. It's just you don't have to mean so it's funny because in my head, I'm like, I'm still an athlete. Like I was stunned actually. I knew I was faster, I didn't realize it's to be that fast. And then when my hand went, I'm like, what am I thinking? It's my muscles aren't made for that anymore. I had a guy explained to me why hamstrings are such a injured area when it comes to bodybuilders sprinting. It's always a hamstring, you know what I mean? And he had kind of a neat explanation for it. He said, well, the primary function of a hamstring, if you think about what a human does to survive, the primary function is to deselerate the extension of the leg while you're running. Right. Right. So like, you know, it's really easy to curl your leg back to get your heel to your butt. Right. That's an explosive snap. But then your quad-extended leg at maximum speed and the hamstrings job is to catch it. Right. So that you don't land with your knee hyper extended. Right. And then you blow your ACL over the fucking blow. So the hamstrings goal is actually catching the front leg being extended. So it's a deseleration function. And that's not how we train in the gym. We're lifting weights, lowering them under constant tension. We're not dropping them and catching them. Right. And that effectively would be something that you could train your hamstring to get better at. Right. You know what I mean? We're trying not to do that anymore. Yeah. We're constant tension, whereas it actually is no tension in any grabs it and stops your foot from going too far. So you just said the hamstring just operates a little differently under normal circumstances. So when we go to do something like run, we haven't been training that function at all. It's funny too, because in your brain, as you're telling me this, it's not at all what my brain tells me happened. Do you know what I'm saying? Yeah. And now understand I'm wrong. It's funny to look at because you're thinking it's because it's I'm going. But it's actually because it can't stop my leg fast. Right. You know what I mean? And it's what happens in thought is as the leg extends and you plant your foot. That's when the injury starts to occur. It's it's stop. And then all of a sudden you command the hamstring to yank you forward and that's when it goes boom, you know. So it's kind of like what what I what I get scared when guys are on like a preacher, when you see him drop the neck and pack it up. Oh, fuck, that's going to stop doing that. Like you're you're daring that muscle to tear. So it's funny. Yeah. Perfect sense. But yeah, it was definitely a wake up. And I think about that less per se, but like for me and hockey, I think it would be the same or it probably an adapter. I don't know how to fire in comparison. But I guess with a hockey striad, there's more quad, glute in volume. And then you're going to go on to all the way to the front back. It's almost 45 degree push. But definitely fun to see all these guys doing it. And what I do like as much as it scares me is the exponential growth in his ability and like three days. Oh, yeah, first I said to remember how to skate a little bit. I think it's back under me. And then by like the third video he put up her. I was like, let's up that little background. I mean, it was drastically better. I mean, I'm, you know, and I know that, you know, kids that skate or probably like, drastically better my ass. But in comparison to what he was two days ago, it's like, you could see it coming back. I saw your video. I think it was last night that you posted when you're, no, it was Sunday. Yeah. With you nailed the trick you hadn't done since you were a kid. You know, but it's fine. I don't know the sport at all. But literally in my brain looked perfect. I was like, got those or smooth. Yeah, I came off good. So the funny thing was is I've been, I started trying that trick again. Like a couple months ago. Mm-hmm. And I got over the top a few times. I had like one fall. And then I like kind of bagged myself once. And then I had like, you know, big bruise on my doctor one time. I was like, hey, I'm going to hold off on those for a little while. I'm not, I'm not good enough to do those yet. Like, because, you know, I used to do them all the time. So the temptation is there to keep trying them. So I put it away for a little while. And then I, you know, I guess a few months ago, while about a month and a half ago, I started doing them at the end of every session. So I'd ride like two hours and when there'd be like 15 minutes, I'd say, I'd be like, okay, I'm going to, I'm going to try a few of those and just get comfortable trying them. And, you know, I had some close calls, but they just weren't happening. And then that night, I was riding. And Emily actually wanted to come and hang out because she had the dog and cheddar computer and she's sitting on the lawn and drinking her Starbucks and she's just in heaven, you know, birds chirping and shit. And I'm riding. And I go, hey, you're ready to go and she's like, yeah, any time you're ready. And I was like, okay, I'm just going to try this trick a couple times, just because I haven't tried it today. And landed, I think it was the fourth one. Right. And then I just threw my bike in the truck and we left. Yeah, we're done. Yeah. Yeah. And I always turned my camera on because I knew I was going to pull it, like, randomly, one of these dates. So I set my camera up and the video was only like two minutes and 30 seconds long. So I like, do they went for four times a go to the day? Yeah, nailed it like the fourth time I was like, okay, fuck off, I'm finally got it. But it's victory. Yeah, go home on a high note, you know. So I would've been, I was funny because of course the whole time I was wondering, and now I'll be curious when you go back out is, will you, I almost feel like you'll definitely get it again. Yeah, that's how it works. I'll probably nail it. How it works is you nail it once and then the next time you ride, you make yourself get it one more time. And then the next time you ride, maybe you get to, you know, and keep something you're always good. Yeah, yeah, you know, so it's just kind of. And then once you can get it, I guess like, I asked my buddy the other day, what's, what do you consider wired and he's like five out of five? Right. You do a five out of five times it's wired. You're ready to like throw it into a contest or something, right? That's what he thinks. No, you'd get it. Yeah, let me just say, yeah, yeah. So I'm like, oh shit, that's tough. I was not allowed. I can do five out of five times. You know, I get you if you have this five out of five. I got a few three out of five and stuff. I can do a few of my, you know, like, but it's tough. Those guys are so consistent, you know, it's just like, it's just like anything. It's like doing a set of squats for 10 reps. How hard is that for you? You can do a 10 out of 10 times, right? You know, that video you put up with that guy that you said was like, your favorite style blew my fucking mind. Yeah, he, he started people who don't watch runs, shit, you should probably follow him Instagram, so I don't ruin your life, but it was impressive. So he was like, that guy's a very fascinating individual's name, Chase Gwyn, Gwyn, it depends on how he said it. But anyway, he's actually from Windsor, Ontario. And there was a point in time where he was like the greatest flat lander on the planet and he was like, change in the game and doing stuff and the one was doing and progressing. And it was actually through the mid 90s. And he was actually homeless during the period of time when he was like, one of the greatest riders on earth, he's a very unique guy. He's not a normal dude. Yeah, I know in a weird way, he was like locking himself in a shed under a skate park by the beach. And it was just a loaf of bread in his bike. And he was like, sleeping on a fucking patio furniture mat set. And he did that. He lived in Portugal homeless. He lived homeless in Europe for a while. All he had was his bike. And he would ride eight hours a day. And he was like, reclusive and very, very unique guy. I've read some interviews with him and listen to some awesome interviews. He's really cool stories. But you know, he's got near death experiences and some crazy ship that he saw traveling the world and nobody to show for it. Now like just normal dude, you know, but he still rides every day. And it's just a crazy story. But the mid 90s period of time, they're all those video clips a hammer just so fucking nuts. So, that's awesome. I love to read or see that stuff. I'm getting into that now of like, I'm not sure about it. But like, autobiography and stuff like that with some of these guys. I just, I just heard, which I haven't started yet, but I guess Ketis's book is insane. Like his life and he doesn't. Yeah. Well, didn't you do one called scar tissue like 15 years ago? Yeah. That's the one. Yeah, I think so. But I guess it's supposed to be just like, there is life from my understanding how he's not dead is amazing. Yeah. And so I literally was on my trip. That was actually something that Nicky was like, Oh, if you read this book, I'm like, no, and now I have to. Like she gave me her to read it. And I was like, oh, yeah, I got to read this shit. And also, I'm excited because Brian Johnson, the singer from ACDC, he's putting out a book called The Life of Brian. Oh, God. He said, take on the Monty Python movie title. Yeah. It's life Brian and so I'm really looking forward to reading that. Because he's such an interesting dude with the race car drive in and you know, being a singer into ACDC for 40 fucking years and just take all the stories he must have. So I'm looking forward to reading rock star books. So you are good. There's a handful that I've been through that were pretty good. You know, I like rock star documentaries too. Well, I like it because a lot of them, it's not all sunshine and rainbows like no. I mean, that lifestyle will each you up. You should, you should, for those of you, I think it's on Amazon Prime, but there's one on slash that I enjoyed. Yeah. Yeah. And it's like the interview all the people that kind of grew up around them and like it's pretty cool story. Yeah. I read, I mean, it's so funny. It's so long ago, but like I even remember when the rodman's book came out when he was so in his prime, like I was like, because I loved him as a kid. It makes sense that I grew up the way I did because he was. He woke up, I mean, basically the love you don't realize that that was always his personal habit. He didn't know how to let it out. And literally Madonna met him. Yep. And was like, oh, be you. And like unleashed him more or less. And then disappeared. I mean, she made him millions just by saying, Oh, what just fucking go off the deep end then. Yeah. I do it all the time. Yeah. Have you heard Jim Jeffries, the Australian comedian? Yeah. Have you heard his story about his wife? No. So it's his wife used to be a model. Right. And he's got a funny joke where he's like, my wife was a model, you know, and everyone's like, Oh, and he goes, relax. I didn't get the model years. I fucking love it. Oh, don't get ahead of yourselves. Because I got the later years. Like, you know, it's that. But anyways, he's like, I guess one time, his wife was just like casually telling him a story. And he like, so it's putting stuff together in his head. And turns out his wife was kind of friends with Madonna at one point. Because she was a model. And Madonna was living in the house in Florida. Right. And she was Madonna was banging Rodman. So Rodman had a friend who played for the heat. Right. And he was banging her. And one night they took too many drugs and drank too much booze and had like a four way. Right. So Jim's like, imagine me trying to put this together after a party married or whatever. You know what I mean? It was just so funny. But yeah, it's in one of his standard. That's special. It's awful. But it is fucking classic story. I like the comedians like this is the rough point of my life. This is definitely a part of my gig now. We're taking it there right now. Yeah. You know, I'm really looking forward to having stand up comedy again. I have to admit how jealous I am. I look at Instagram and I see Joe Rogan doing stand up shows and Austin with Dave Chappelle. And I'm just like, the fuck, you know, I had Rogan tickets had, you know, they got canceled. You know, like that sort of thing. So I'm really looking forward to having those shows back. Because I think I said it before, but the last normal thing I did before COVID was I went and saw a bill burr. So at least you went on top. I mean, that's one of the best you could have possibly seen. I think. I think. I would have got a lot of questions. I know you have a lot. I've got a lot. I'm sure I do now since we spent another hour just talking about it. We always do this. I tell people and they don't understand. They're like, you guys are like, you guys are like, you guys flow so up. Like, oh, we forget you guys are here. Ron and I are just having a conversation. You guys help us with material. And then I'm like, oh, you guys watch this. I see that's awesome. I still sort of. Every episode we do that does never gas. I still sort of assume that's that Scott's going to message us after and go, ah, that one didn't really come up with. I mean, we can't post it. You guys talked about nothing for two hours. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. It's definitely a very inside look on exactly what dinner Earl sounds like. Yes, exactly. You guys have not all had dinner at Earl's with us now. Except when we eat together in person, there's a lot more of like, hey, watch this and we're actually going to the other. But I apparently have about 200 questions. So we should get to our. I gave it three hours. Ron and that was, uh, damn. Yeah. Okay. Hey, what's going on, guys? Thanks for watching another podcast here. Think Big Bodybuilding Media. And thank you to our great sponsor, True Nutrition.com for making this all possible. True Nutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudeau, the creator of DC training. He wanted to create a supplement company that offered high quality third party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders, just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors plus health and performance supplements. Check them out, True Nutrition.com. And hey, if you use our code, advices, you directly support our podcasting. Thanks, guys. Let's get back to the program. That should have, I need to bring that down on hour. I think. But anyways, so let's get these things popping. Okay. Fire away. This is a great one to kick it off with my client, KC, perfect. What's the biggest difference you see between local level clients and national level clients? Yours. I'm assuming we're meaning what gets won from under the next. Well, I guess. It's hard to say. I mean, obviously, they have more experience. So there's less, less, less simple questions, right? Cause they have more experience if done more times. But it's, you know, the mental approach to it. I mean, by the time you get to nationals, you kind of, you know, either had your ass kicked already. Or you have one. So, you know, it takes to win. So there's like one of those two have already occurred to you. At least one of those two. And you usually just change your, you know, your mental approach a little bit. Make sure you a little bit more solid and locked in, you know. Yeah. You know how when you have like entry level clients doing their first show, like there's like all like a little bit more chaos, usually in their mind. Yeah, I found, and it's funny. And I'm going to be specific. And I don't really care if we've really, really, really. That's what it is. I've got a guy who's actually really talented. And I'm older guy. But he wants to dream way too big right now. Like I'll get the email. I don't know where that's like, you know, what do I got to do to turn pro? You know, I really want to make sure and I'm like, no, no. Right. You have that plan yet. Executed every single day. Like because that's, that's literally I think what will get you to the highest level. Like I'll be honest, I think not everybody. But a very, very high amount of number to people can go competitive in national level and not get murdered. I didn't say win, but not embarrass themselves. But the key to that is consistency over time. Like when I, when I won my first overall in 2008, I said to myself, I looked at the pro or the national level. So it came out there. And I put my head down for two years before I looked up. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't think about it. I just grinded grinded grinded grinded. I looked at my pictures and I was like, I'm one of them. Right. Okay. Now let's look at what a show is. You know what I mean? So I think the difference is consistency over time, obviously. And then I think you plan for it. I knew what I wanted to do. I was not someone that saw the value in competing many, many times because I knew how to do it. I wasn't worried about committing to the diet. I didn't care if I was in shape. I didn't need titles. I needed to turn pro. Right. You know, so I lived. I did a show in 2008 and I did not do another one until I won Junior Nationals in 2010. Yeah. In fact, in hindsight, I didn't even qualify for that show. Yes, jumped in. I didn't even have a lot to do that. Yeah. No. That's that's definitely true. And you know, I just told someone yesterday I trained for seven years before I competed. You know, so you did do the same thing. You used to even more quietly than me. You trained as a bodybuilder. When you started to be and you've competed every year because it was time. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? Yeah. So when I first competed, I was terrible. And then I did a show two years later when I was decent. That was how I did it. You know what I mean? Yeah. You were very good when you started competing. So that makes sense. Go again. Do you see a problem using splendor in moderation during prep? No. Everyone knows my answer. I didn't mean I'd use moderation. No. Just fucking it's like a non-concern. Doesn't even cross my mind. Never cross my mind. The only time it would ever be an issue is when you find out that some client is drinking bottles of syrup and eating three packs of gum a day and drinking a gallon of diet soda. And you're like, oh, we are upsetting your stomach with all this stuff. But as far as putting splendor in your fucking coffee and using protein powder that has been explained in it and I don't know. Don't worry about that stuff. Yeah. I'm the same. I mean, I'm using. So the last couple days when Chris pulls the water down, the only thing I drink is coffee before my liquid. Because I find that drinking and then cold, it's, I drink so much. It's hard to drink six ounces of ounces with a meal. But if it's hot coffee, it's easier for me. But I'd have a splendor every single time with it. So six times a day, I'm drinking a pack or two of splendor the day before I show over the day on the show. Yeah. Pretty simple. So yeah. I'm the same with you. Don't think about it. And like you said, if I have a client that's hit a wall and I know in my soul that they're doing everything they're supposed to do, then I might start working backwards. Like, okay, what do I not know? And not like you said, that's when you find out, oh, you're using a half a bottle of it. It's not butter spray a day. Yeah. Or half a 50 calories. Okay. That's a pretty good one. Yeah. That's it. So, okay. Yeah. I agree. Some of you want me to just keep popping up. No, that's, that's, yeah. Just keep firing. You're doing good. This is, this is awesome. So easy. Oh, what's the next one? Why is my elbow hurt when squatting? Everyone says it's, that my form is on point. What do I do for the pain? Well, there's something tight through the tricep or forearm. That's, so he's got to work on some sort of flexibility in the long head of the tricep. I would put, you know, hand over head, stretch the tricep out stuff. And then also he's got to do like, you know, get his, get his wrist mobility better. Try to loosen up the forearm. But it's, I'd say it's tricep slash forearm tightness in a squat position. He could also just like walk his fingers out one finger. You know, like he go a little bit, try his little bit wider grip or something. So try that while you're handling the actual problem that way you can keep squatting. Yeah, I agree. Oh, god. It's good shit. I like the ones that I don't need to ask with their funding. And this guy says, when I helped me form a super Army to fuck these shitty governments for closing the gyms. We're already on it. Yeah, it's already been handled. Oh, there's an interesting one. does libido impact training progress. I hate when I don't have enough information. No, if I keep brain's out in joy life, you should have as much sexes you can possibly have there. I agree with that. I was like when people used to say that they're like, oh, sex is bad for the legs. I'm like, I wouldn't know. They're like, oh, you don't have sex. I know I don't have sex. Yeah. Yeah. Take whatever you can get at all times. You might have a dry spell. I've heard of those. Never seen one before. You never know when a drug is coming dusty. Fuck you brain's out. Oh, here we go. I will also say that I have had sex a few times between the morning show and the night show of a contest. Yeah, the only thing about the next situation is like the tan on my garage. Just make sure we get this fixed. But yeah, you know, some doggy style involved. You know, I'll create a career. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Hey, you go to the night show. Pretty relaxed, man. You know, I want to have a pent up. You know, what was it? It's like the rule of making a face. Got all that stuff. All that all the good, good brain chemistry going on is floating there. And you got to do something with that time. Yeah, yeah. I actually follow that logic. I do. I do a little bit. It does. But about 10 minutes worth. It's a sodium drop. All right. May have to have back surgery. Please tell me it's not the end of bodybuilding for me. Ronnie Coleman at back surgery in 1996. There you go. There's a piece of data. I didn't even know. That's his first back surgery. That's where it all began. And then he won 80 Olympias. So was it the end for him or no? I'm not a lot following. Yeah, he did okay after that surgery. Yeah. You know what Liz truthfully is a drug. I don't recommend the other 20. Yeah. That's what I think. That's what I'm talking about. One well. What's speaking of? And you know I had to do this because I sent it to you last night. The fucking, so Ronnie Coleman now, if you guys go to his Instagram, is offering a service. I'm going to call it where he will do a voice note slash video note for you for your birthday or to pump you up before. Yeah, that's an app that there's all these celebs on. It's like the celebap or whatever. Yeah. I puked in my mouth when I read that. Because here's where my brain went. Number one, he used the word small, what a small fee of $300 fucking dollars to do this. Now, number one, I think my finances are well above average. $300 and I was a small fee. I don't just toss 300 bucks out the window for shits and giggles. So that's ass in mind. But and you just said there's an app for it. So maybe a lot of people are doing it. But my brain immediately went to, if I remember that, hard up for cash, that I'm thinking of using my past successes, as a way to make 300 bucks for a note, I've made some fucking errors in life. I just don't literally my heart sank because I'm telling you right now, Jake, color ain't ever going to do that. Ever. Right, I'll bet on it. He could prove me wrong just to take my money. Like I just can't imagine me being like, oh fuck, don't forget I gotta do those three videos for those guys. I have people doing it all the time. I mean, I'm not Ronny and never will be, but someone will say it. And event, you know this. Hey, boy, couldn't make it. Can you say something for a real quick? Fuck yeah. Imagine it was like, yeah, absolutely 300 bucks. Yeah, yeah, it was interesting dude. I was a little surprised. I need to look into it more because I know there is, I know that that app that he was talking about has a lot of like celebrity type people on it, doing bad stuff. But they also do that kind of stuff on only fans. So it's a little weird. I just don't get it. I mean, I mean, again, it's a different mentality, I guess, but it's just as you know, I sent it to you. I sent it to the Scott. I'm like, what the fuck? I don't know why bothered by soul so bad. But I'm like, no, I can see, I can see why. What, I could see how you, yeah, I could see that. I can see that. I know, I just like desperation to me more than a service. You know what I mean? Right. It just makes you wonder who suggested it to him. Yeah, I don't know. And I mean, maybe he's perfectly fine. I mean, and he just making some extra cash. But I guess I don't see that a ton different than a lot of other things that people consider bad for doing, you know, that they never lived down. And I'll tell you, which I'm sure you, I don't know if you clicked on the link, but the fans are tearing them up on it. Oh, no, I haven't looked. Yeah, so it might be gone by the time you look today. Oh, because literally they were like, are you fucking kidding me? Like a lot of people read it the same way I did. So either they all see it like me or they need to work on how they present it. Because I'm not exaggerating 70%. Like every, you know, two out of three comments were not good. Okay. Maybe even more so than that. So yeah, it was definitely a toucher. Okay. Yes, I did. Oh, that's nice people who like it in that. Go for it. What do you season your ground turkey with? I use either highs, seasonings salt, or loury seasonings salt, depends on whichever one they have at the supermarket. But those are my two favorites. And then I put some Frank's Red Hot Sauce and while I'm cooking it. And yeah, that's my favorite blend. Yeah, my usual basic two. I sometimes I'll make it like a taco. We just use taco seasoning. Is a go to also I'll use the sloppy Joe mix and never tried that stuff. And I actually make it a little running or like you would with a sloppy donut running, but a little more. I think it's actually really good. It makes the point where I'm like, fuck, that's decent. I'm tempted. Okay. Yeah, so I think he's kind of questions you have. Oh, this is a good one. Do you ever negotiate your services for other services bartering like with your barber? He's asking me specifically. Oh, no. No, no, because I'm waiting for this nap. Your lapings are like, fuck, where's this going? I'm really like, I don't really like wanting anything for anybody. I don't know. I'm not I'm open to the idea like, like, I'm open to the idea, the concept, but I just like to keep things clean where I just pay you for your thing. And then you just pay me for my thing. Yeah, no, I do the same. I don't trade. I can see the benefits like taxes and there's all sorts of stuff. It was on a larger scale. Right. Hey, I'm going to buy $10,000 worth of your services. And I have this $10,000 thing that you want. I would be totally in that tax more sense. Yeah, nothing. Then it feels like nothing happened. But no, to answer the question for what I do, because I think it's probably also the way they see with my presentation on the internet is for my barber Courtney. I do her perhaps, but it's number one, it's two different things. So I just don't like bartering. I like keeping track, I like keeping score. I charge more per month than I use. Plus, I factor another things. Her business is younger than mine. I also overpay. So I'm purpose. She argues with me every single time. I pay her double what she charges, because I want to. That to me is, if I lived in where you are, I would pay for membership, even if you want me to. Fuck off. 50 bucks. I'm going to pay you. The only time that that gets different is friends with businesses that are on my level, where me promoting them is worth money. Where they know that. To have my name attached to marketing is worth money to them then we can barter that part of it, so they're not paying me directly. So when I had the dollar strain, that didn't pay for price. But I sold a lot of training for that. Right. When I got my truck done just barely, I've, you know, with that ceramic coating, I think he's gotten seven trucks out of me. So we do that, but as far as payment, I'm with you. I just like to keep it clean. I pay you. I mean, because she won't need my services and I'll still need hers. So we just keep going. You know what I mean? Yeah. She's not going to be in Prattpur. She'll decide she's got the office, isn't it control? Well, my beard is still a fucking mess. So help me out every week. Yeah, that's exactly it. I just say, I don't like keeping track of shit. Yeah. But I hate feeling like I owe someone that I struggle with. I would much rather, if someone has to be on the upside, but it's not a, you know, you're not getting fucked. I'd rather that I gave a little too much because I feel weird if I owe. I'm like, yeah, like I saw, like there's all these little things that I've seen, like, like I've seen, you know, Emily, I've seen my girlfriend, you know, maybe there's a girl I was make something up, so it makes sense. Like, oh, she does my nails. So I'm going to give her three sessions. Right. Two, I don't know what, whatever, two sessions. I don't know where the four nails are worth. But then the girl cancels one of the sessions. Because she can't make it. Is her kid sick. So now does Emily owe another session? Because I grow canceled like half hour before a session. Yeah. It's sticky then. She'd normally charge a client for the late cancel. She'd finger a session or a half a session or do something. Yeah. But now this girl doesn't actually have any money in doer. So she should, she have to give her another session. Like there's all those little things. And I get to keep track and it's just I fucking hate that stuff. Give me 50 bucks. Okay. I'm going to give you 50 bucks back. There you go. Like, yeah. Yeah. No, I'm looking at the same as like, especially with friends. I look at like going to dinner like, you know, Ron and I, we don't split bills. And we also don't keep track of which one's higher. You just rotate every time and and pass them. We forget. It's kind of fun. The lottery. Fun little lottery. And then everyone's in a while. You get a Wendy's bill. And the other guy gets a steak house bill. And you make a, okay. I'm not sure exactly. That's that's how you function. I think when you get to this point, it's like, I just don't want to ever be weird. You know, or because a lot of people too, if they feel like they are owed, they wouldn't even tell you. Right. You know, so it's like, yeah, I don't like to do that. Money and friends is tricky for me. So it stays all on the books. It's like the other day. Yeah. We went to eat and and, and, and I go to pay and, and I think it's my turn to pay. And I go, I'm taking the pizza home. So I'll pay. But that's coming with me. Yeah, because I was like, half of pizza left. I was like, I'm taking the pizza home. So I'm going to pay. And then you can maybe do two of the row or something. That's fucking gold. You're like, this is for me for later. I don't make it in the order. Yeah. But yeah, so that's, that's the answer on the, the business thing. Okay, let's see here. Ah. Fortified pound drop in a weight. And my strength dipped randomly with no change in my diet or training thoughts. Well, this is fake. I'm such a non-answer guy. My answer's like, bodies do weird things sometimes. There's a lot of variables. You know, check your water intake, check your sodium consistency. We're like, obviously your diet and your meals. Like, you know, what weighs a lot? Water, food. That's going to affect your weight a lot. Right. Which to a shitty bottle of drugs where you want like prescription testosterone and now you switch to a bottle of sheep underground that has a fucking wizard on the label. You know, like, well, good wizard. And they're probably good wizard. You know, for people in Mexican Tokyo, they would have like to rot while they're on the label. It's not as much crazy. Oh, man. Anyway, what was it? The city's group had the, um, the kangaroo on it. Good luck. I'm like Eddie on here. Yeah. Are Australian kangaroos juice up? I don't know what's happening right now. I got to do this up. Yeah. But no, it, it's, uh, I came up with what I was talking about. Now the image of kangaroos boxing just like, I just fucking ruined your world right there. Really ruined what I was talking about. Where am I right now? I'm sorry. I'm right now. I think I answered your question. Did I not? Yes. You suddenly answered. And then we went on a tangent like we do nothing shocking there. They're never going to let us have a real show. But just, oh, this one hurts. And what a great question. Yeah. Painful. Get ready. I'm just painful for me. I'm ready. Fuck, Mary and Kill. Pendulum squat, hacksquat, leg press. By the way, I love this game. I do this all the time. Fuck, Mary, Kill. That's extreme. That means one's gone forever, Mr. Well, so this is me currently. This is you right now. Yeah. Okay. Given the body I have now, given the lifestyle I lead, he's a BMXer. Go ahead. And all that fun stuff. I would marry the leg press. Ooh. I would fuck the hack squat. Oh, now I would kill the pen. And that's that's like sacrificing one of three equally hot playboy playmates. Yeah, you couldn't lose, but you couldn't win either. Yeah, to kill one of them. Yeah, and I guess I'm just sort of thinking because like the leg press and a hack squat are both more versatile. Yeah, it's funny because when I'm squatting, I'm just thinking of these two things in my head. Or these three things. The hack squat is my least favorite. I'm sorry, the leg press, my least favorite. But it's the most different. Yeah. It stays. And then it became down to the pen loom in the hack squat. And the only reason that I lean toward the pen loom is because no one's ever using it. Yeah. It's just the best gym blues. No one's stealing that. It's funny because I had a kid ask me yesterday. He's a good-built kid in the gym. He's like, can I ask you a question? I said, sure he goes, what is with this machine? It's the pen loom that kids got good legs and everything. He goes, I've never used it. I'm like, no one does. It's so nice. Don't use it. You'll hate it. Now, if I told him, you'll love it. I said, but it's bad too. I've seven plates stacked on it. And I'm like, yeah. But don't get confused. It'll kick your ass. So maybe start with one. I can't. That's easy into this. So yeah, so my answer would be, I would marry my pen loom because she's loyal to me. She's not using other men. I would fuck my leg press and I would have to kill the hack, which probably shocked people. But I've already killed the hack because I broke the one on the gym. We just had to fix it. There you go. There you go. Jesus. Sorry, we're on a roll right now. Love pen loom squats, but I get lower back pain on the heavy sets. Any technique tips. I'm going to answer this quick, it's easy. You are starting to squat up. And a pen loom is a natural arching movement. All you need to make sure you're doing is that your hips, IE, your upper ass, stays on that pad. So instead of pushing up, push your hips into the pad, it will go up and has to. We're also going to be stronger that way. Yeah. He's just doing something mechanically wrong with his pelvis. Well, instead of doing this heavy set, so I know what happens. It's something that happens with everything else. Somehow people get away from their form when it gets heavy, which is funny because it's contradictory to being strong. Do you think he puts his feet too high? And he's rounding his pelvis at the bottom. Is that what he's doing? Might be. So yeah, make sure that's in our factors. The higher your feet up, the more him, glute your arm, the more you're round. As you come down, that would make sense. Yeah. Basically, I don't think anyone needs to be any higher their toes than two thirds up. I put the ball on my foot in the top crack. Right. Okay. Yeah. So my toes are on the top third and the rest of my foot is on the middle third. Yep. I make sure that makes sense. Yeah. Yeah. And every pedal I'm pretty much has that. So that does make sense. Yeah. I find it's funny because I'll see people, yeah, but it's better for the glutes. But there's a squat would be better than glutes than the top. Yeah. Glutes are so easy to train. That's a thing. Like every like press and hack squat and everything hits your glutes. And then you get to the pendulum and it's like, you can't. I try to make it feel like I'm doing a leg extension. Exactly. Exactly. It's almost a, or, you know, if you're going, if you can troll it and you're mentally connected, I can make my quad fire, which is very similar to extension, like a Sissy squat. I can feel it stretch and contract in that way. So yeah, but that's funny. The two and a row were that, oh, that's so funny. You know, your mind is fucked up when someone says favorite acts in your brain. It was late. And that says to grow rear dust like exercise. That he breaks acts. I was like, well, what are we talking about? Yeah. Favorite exercise to grow rear delts and how often? I don't think rear delts are complicated. You just have to, first of all, be able to feel them, train them, load them. You know, I, I, I keep thinking back to when I started training. I remember everyone used to, they'd seen me in a tank top. Like when I was young, like from the age of like, you know, I started training 14. So like all the way up into my mid 20s. Right. Everyone who saw me in a tank top, you're like, you got really big rear delts. Like they were the thickest muscle on my back. Right. And I remember all I learned how to do was standing bent over dumbbell. Related. Lot of the lot of rules, but the style that I was taught was kind of like heavy. Like how a Dorian doesn't in the video. Where he's got a little bit of a fucking yank, but there's still a good negative. You know, and you see that that chunky movement as Leroy says. Right. No. And his arms weren't straight out. He wasn't using like 30s. He had like 65. I was or something, but he was driving his elbows back. Yeah. And almost like the, um, a fly. A fly. That I'm going to get like a reverse fly press. Yeah. But if you watch Dorian in a blood and guts video and he does those heavy dumbbell bent laterals, that was all I did for rear delts. And and I remember like at an early age, I had bodybuilders go, oh, your rear delts are like, they're, you know, they're fine. You don't have to worry about them. They're, you're not going to have problems with your rear delts. You know what I mean? So what it is is the same as a lot of guys is even people who ask, it's like calves. People are like, what's the secret to calves? And I literally want to say train them. You don't fucking train them. I know you don't. Right. Because people will push their calves for a little while and then they'll bail on them. Train your calves consistently really hard for three years. Don't get bigger. Like I know that sounds silly, but it's, it's literally so much thought blows into something. I'm like, if you want to hate your redduce, you just nail it. Do that to failure a couple sets every week. Yeah. Don't grow. Yeah. Because I don't remember. I don't think redduce are hard to connect with either. I mean, you absolutely know when they fire. It's like, oh, I don't remember. I remember someone asked, I can't remember who it was if it was Dave Tader or one of that was one of the powerlifting legend guys, you know? And and and someone was like, you know, really at the end of the day, what's the key to getting a big squat? And his answer was squat fucking heavy once a week. There's all sorts of other stuff to it. Maybe they're doing a light day, power day speed day, but if you don't squat heavy once a week, for 10, oh yeah, once that once a week for 10 years, as he said, it's about heavy once a week for 10 years. That's funny because it's so it's so similar. But it's so fucking accurate. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. You know, you have to make sure it happens. Make sure it happens every time a guy asked that the other day, he was like, how do you get stronger on your debts? Because he wanted like an or it no, it was rose. How did you get your rose so strong? Like I wrote the thing that a lot of people don't have the patience for. So we all go through it, man, it's nothing's linear. And so they're like, well, I want to get my incline dumbbell press up. And sure they have that. It's all fun in games when you're getting the hundreds for eight. And then the next week you get a hundred for nine. And then the next week you get the one tends for six. And it's all fun in games, but you have to be able to continue to train your ass off and stay focused and positive for the 10 weeks in a row where you are stuck at the one, 15s for seven. Yeah. You can't quite get that eight fucking rep. And there's other good stuff going on in your life. Maybe your row goes up a wrapper, whatever, but you just can't get that fucking. And then all of a sudden because you didn't skip and you didn't quit, you get the one, 15s for nine. Yeah. What I think is a particular, it's the patience of going. Because I had my peck issue, tear. I'd say using that works, I think it's torn off the muscle, but minor tear that took away all pressing. So we get in the new shoulder press. And I'm like, I think I'm healthy enough to do this. I would have to five plates and it was humbling because I haven't pressed and so long. Five plates only got six reps. And they were a hard six. And it was funny because a lot of people like, holy fuck, that's so strong. I didn't know how to say like, like, it's terrible. And I'm nervous slash curious on how long it's going to take to get that number up, where it should be. You know what I mean? So, but you know how it's going to get there. It's just how you set it. I'm going to do them again and again. The only difference is I have limited equipment in the general that. So I will use that piece again next week, but my low rep range will be higher. Right. And then I'll come back in two weeks down to that six to eight range. And I hope that I'll begin eight with, you know, five plates sets and six. But yeah, it's consistency, man. It's funny. I did just literally two weeks ago. I went through an old phone because I was, I'm giving it someone to use for a camera. And I wanted to make sure there's no videos. I wanted on there all the point out he had. But training videos. And I actually saw a video from 2018, where I was rolling with 315 for a set. Right. And I was like, God damn, I've got like, it was shocking to me because now I'm in a strap sum of 315. Like, I'm just kind of getting moving now. And I'm like, that, and it's funny because it's a long time. It's three years. But it's a short time to almost double the weight. You know what I mean? I'm like, oh damn. That's interesting. But you see, it's, I think it's funny when you get older and bodybuilding three years. There's a short time. Yep. If I told you, if I told you now in three years, you're going to be a beast. They're like, three years. What about tomorrow? I think, how, how do I do that in three months? So I'm going to take a quick break to plug my laptop in because I did that last week during the show. You guys just hang out with me. I've got to go find my plug in. Oh, she's nowhere to. What do you say? I had to go find Emily's power cord because she took my. 1% no, no lie. 1% I thought you, I was, as you were gone, I'm like, it's going to hang up while he's on. I'm going to grab the laptop on me. I've stepped up on me. Now we're good. We're powered up. Beautiful. All right. I want to get back to my question. I got distracted. I'm like a child. I have to immediately go see something else. We need to have covered that many times. You're all like no one's questioning your relationship. I'm just making it like a child. Just stop. I'm okay. I'm a boom. All right. I'm back. I'm back. I'm sure I'm strange. Hold the tread. Oh, this is a good one. And I love this kid. Thoughts are not holding the treadmill or the stairs, the handles. But the legends and bodybuilding have still come in reps doing it. Well, for me, I don't tread no number one. I don't let people hold on to. And the reason I tell them that it's really simple. Why do you want to do it? It makes it easier. The other thing is if I have it on an incline, holding it, you can literally take away the incline. But you're using your body. Pulling the tread no's nonsense. I could see like having your hands on the rails of the step or the whole time. No, there's like a little bit of a safety thing there for like, if you're not pushing off. No, it's not. I hold this on your top. The treestay. Try to keep it. Yeah. But yeah. So, and as far as the, here's the deal, I hate when people point out legends. And the reason is they're not the same issue. So, yeah, throw that out to window. I think that's a huge thing. And people always think that we're joking. But I don't even understand a logic when someone says to me, hey, you know, why do you dedelift that way? If Phil Heath never had to, I'm like, we aren't the same. And all. You know, or in reverse, they'll say to me, do you think Phil should have trained like you? I'm like, so he could have more than seven Olympias. So he could risk injury that he doesn't need to risk. The risk to reward for him isn't there. Right. Whereas for someone like me, it's a must. So, don't ever compare to freaks. Um, and quite simply, if you don't hold the handles of the treadmill when you walk, then if you have a good coach, you might find yourself doing less cardio. Because I, I adjust here. My cardio based on the results. So if I keep cranking it up because you're making it easier, and I don't know like, I was taught and I'm going to bet you were too, if you're on a treadmill because it's not the same as propelling your body walking. Uh, my old coach used to make me squeeze the glue to the back leg every single step. Is I want you to fucking fire that gluten-handstring like you're pushing off of the treadmill as you would be if you're walking on that in kind of a hill. Because it's totally different. If I put you on a 10% inclined on a hill and said walk up that fucker as three point four miles an hour, you go, oh, that's not what it feels like in a treadmill. No, you're not propelling your body. You're lifting your feet. It's very different. Oh boy. You're answering this one all by yourself. Y'all, I want to kill you. Bananas post workout. Do you think they're more beneficial than other fruits? I would never cross my mind. Those are the types of questions that never cross my mind once in my lifelong quest to be a pro bodybuilder. And of all the things that you've actually put thought into, and I'm teasing, I love this guy, but the reason I point that out is because it's such a common misconception. Like, I'll get questions. They're super, super deep about drugs or something else. And I'm like, what did you eat last Tuesday for lunch? I'm like, oh no, I'm like, I can tell you what I had 10 years ago for lunch on Tuesday. I could have had the same thing I had on fucking Wednesday. So here's a, here's an interesting addition to that question. Yes. The question was post workout. Also an interesting fact right? I didn't even catch because I didn't care. Yes. And that's why my answer was a wooden care. Prework out. If you were going to say pick a piece of fruit to have prework out, I would actually choose banana because it's high in potassium. Right. And that goes really well with a gramosodian on going to consume with that meal. And it'll give me a good sodium potassium pump. You know what's funny is, I'd be even more simple than that. Because if I was just a banana, that's a little heavier when I eat it. So maybe I'll be won't be hungry during the workout. That's why I use oatmeal before I train. Right. I'm in prep because oatmeal I can make a small when Chris brings it down like 50 carbs. I always just choose oatmeal because I can make it a bowl of oatmeal. Yeah, it still sits in here for a little bit. I want some volume. I just want my stomach to feel. Yeah, magic about oatmeal. In fact, I don't even like it. It's just the most filling option I have. So yeah, but yeah, you nailed it. It's funny. I get that all the time because postwork I'll take. I'll tell you guys, take 100 grams of carbs. Like a water boy. Okay. 100 grams of carbs. I know the laugh is remember that you probably didn't watch. But back in the day, these are drinks strawberry soda after I trained. And people were like, why strawberry soda in the truth, the matter was Chris told me to have 75 grams of carbs. And I found there was a bottle that fan to made that was 76 in the bottle. Right. Right. And I like the taste. People that were my strawberry soda, I'm like a taste. Awesome. That reminds me of NASA's NASA's old video, NASA on the list. Diet sun kissed. He's driving out. He's reach iselta, armenace, VZD, he's like diet, sun kissed. Drink the secrets. It's terrible that I remember that too. Don't tell him it's the secret. And he has that he's postworkout. And he's at giant container of papaya. Yeah. And he's like, I just like papaya. So I have it postworkout. And then I remember one time I was like, oh, fucking awesome. So I went and bought papaya. I was like, I don't really like papaya that much. Can I feed him a fruit? All you have this. You need a pound. I can't eat a pound of strawberries. I can't eat a pound of papaya all at once. That's a lot. But that's a perfect example. You said it. And he said it right in there. It's because I like it. Because I think that's the key. I tell that with my clients on there. When I say potato, they're like, which one? I'm like, which one do you like? Okay. Yeah. That one consistently. But don't battle the fuck. Close. Tato. Yeah. Get that one. I like the gold ones. Why? They're cool. Okay. Let's see here. What time is it anyway? So we got a couple of months. I don't actually know when we started. Can we fuck off for so long? Oh, okay. Cool. I have to do this one without you. Guys asking about humusling, which is a product that we have with condemn labs says talk about how it works. So basically, as you know, I've never been into these types of products that you take for carbohydrates, glucose, disposal agents and stuff like that. I've just never lost. Yeah. I've never bought a non-genency. I'm as important. Kind of back on the same line of what we were just talking about. I will say that I always put cinnamon in my oatmeal from day one because I remember an old school body builder said to me when I was really young. He's like, oatmeal is good for making your body use insulin properly. This was back in like 92 or something. Right. And so this is like, show us like, some of the old guys were smart. Right. So I put them. I was put oatmeal. I was put cinnamon on your oatmeal to good. You know, it had your blood sugar better. Right. Remember that's all I had to say. And I was like, okay. So I was there to put cinnamon on my own. So yes, it's a GDA. And I just, the reason I would tell people is it wasn't important in the grand scheme of all the things you could do. But what Michael the owner of condemned it that made his different where I went down and I told him, he was like, this is one of our best parts. And I don't need it. I'm like, it's not that important. Well, then I start looking at theirs. They have enzymes in there. Also, then of course I got to do a little reading. They're actually controlling the, how essentially the insulin is released in your system over time, which made it even more valuable. So now I actually use it. Every single carburetor I have over 50 grams, I use it. Because the end of the day, one thing that's changed in my career as far as a coach is I'm obsessed with digestion. Now it's like, okay, swallowing it's not the end. How do we make sure it's getting used? And I do play more and more with blood sugar levels now. It's something I like to just look with clients and see. So definitely helpful. But the big kick on that list specifically for me is the digestivates. And I can tell a difference. So what I suggest with people don't take my word for it, send me, I say, we're trying it, run it through and just pay attention to how your stomach feels and looks. If you're doing it consistently, I think you'll be surprised. I like it. So good option. What's a, here's a question for you. What do you think is the number one reason for, I especially female competitors, female clients, especially always hitting up with, I feel bloated, I feel bloated, I feel like I'm not digesting properly. And it's definitely way more common with the women. What do you think are the top factors? I mean, the first thing that I look at now, well, number one, I start with water. I make sure the water intake is what's supposed to be. But I'm actually huge now. It's something I do in the beginning with clients now is I do a lot of food allergy tests. Because I have found on accident that a lot of my clients are allergic to things I feed everyone. Egg whites, oatmeal, like mild allergy stuff like that. As far as across the board, I don't get a ton of that because I already have greens in their diets, I already have enzymes in their diets. So if they're doing their things right, I don't have a big mess. What are you running into consistently? Oh, no, it's just a very common thing with women generally, like how often do you hear it guy say, you know, my stomach is like, it just seems like female clients and not even clients. You're talking more about also not just digestion, but taking a shit. Yeah, all that stuff, all that stuff. So a lot of that. Yeah, just general gut problems is just so much more of an epidemic with females who are trying to change their physique. It's just a dressing. I know. I do. I do. I do. I do. I do. I do. I do. I do. I do. I do. I do. I do. I do. I do. I do it. I do it. I do. I do also not. I mean, I go into a long list of why that's stupid, but dehydration is enormous factor with that. Also choosing the correct range for your body is very, very key. I think it's fine that people blindly eat greens. And don't. Yeah, this is the how they feel. It's another thing like, I've, I've had. I've had people say and this isn't just women, this is, everyone but it happens with women. They'll be like, oh, I have this so much gas and so on. It's problems. I'm like, what, what are your vegetables? like, well, broccoli, broccoli, or something else. I'm like, God, like, you people have to stop eating this fucking stuff. It's terrible. And another thing too that is more common, tends to be more common with women too, is their belief that vegetables are super healthy, so we should eat a lot of them, right? Which is a lot more common with women. I run into that a lot more. Like, oh, I eat as many vegetables as I can. I'm like, okay, well, that's not always a good thing, because if you're eating the wrong veggies, you're just causing all this tons of distress. Oh, yeah. You know what I mean? And so there's just all these sort of factors, but a lot of it leads to overconsumption of things that they think are good for them, and choosing the wrong veggies and all these sorts of things, you know what I mean? And it's funny, like, Emily loves sushi with extra ginger, right? So she loves extra ginger, but she'll order an extra side cup of it, right? But then she's like, man, every time we go for sushi, I have like, really like some stomach problems. And so I start reading and I'm like, oh, ginger is like huge the ear, it's not the sushi. It's so obvious what the issue is, yeah. I just don't eat ginger, so I never looked it up. Yeah. So I went looking up and they're like, oh, it's, you know, this and this, it's really good for this, really good for this, but if you eat a lot of it, it can do this and this and this. I touched on though that people can't work backwards because so we were out of town and Nicky's like, I'm gonna get Brussels sprouts and say, cool, I love them. She's a cool, she's like, you know, I need to say, oh, I can't eat them. They taste amazing, but I will rip ass for the next hour and a half, if I eat these things. Like, I knew that, I meet this one. I used to be in prep, I would buy them sometimes, knowing full well, like, these are making me feel blah, but I need something that tastes really good and doesn't hurt me, but I'll definitely be gasy for an hour. So I'm like, I'll be by myself for the next hour or two. It'll be fine, the dog's like, fuck, fuck. He got the Brussels sprouts again, but people don't, like you said, they don't notice that. Like, yeah, just barely Courtney my barber. She literally, this weekend, she goes, decided to try it broccoli. Won't do that again. I'm like, finally, someone with a brain that realized they changed one thing and it went sideways. So she's like broccoli, this sucks. Yeah. Plus, I've never had somebody say to me, dusty, you smell like green beans, but I've never smelled some people smell like broccoli. And I'm like, bro, you stink like shit. I've had a lot of stuff. So someone asked me a good question, they said, what do you know about your body now that you didn't know when you were competing? And it really only happened like the last couple of preps, but as long as I just prep on white rice and green beans, I have no gas. Me too. Like the next snow gas. I can eat oatmeal, white rice, green beans, no gas. Like I am talking about where there's whole days where I'm not sure if I farted. Oh yeah, no, I'm saying, but you're wrong about eating anything. Potatoes, yams, other veggies, you know, throw in some rice cakes, change up the carbs, things start happening. I think I gotta pay attention to that too though. It's Jordan pushes that all the time on his Q&A. Just people go, what do you think about Deca? He's like, why is it fucking matter what I think? And people don't understand that he's not being a dick. He's being literal because that's how I feel about food. Like I can't have yams or sweet potatoes. They blow me. I mean, my stomach gets descended visually. Yeah, it's not a scientific fact of yams and sweet potatoes. It's just me, but a white potato, totally fine. Right. Pay attention to what you eat and what happens, especially when you're switching things. Like that's a one thing I hate as a coach. I'll tell people at the end, please don't change anything that I can't see. Don't suddenly decide you want green peppers and your meals. We got odd two weeks. Just eat the same. Yeah, we're almost there. You know what I mean? Yeah, yeah. When you change factors, you fuck things up. Like same thing, I'm like about the splendid question. People are like, aren't you worried about getting lean? Like not, I've been having this amount the whole time. But if I was eating two splendid a day and an allus and I went to 12, there might be a change that's visually seen in Chris goes, what's happening? Did you change anything? Nope, nothing. Yeah. Yeah, you know, you're all of a sudden bringing all these artificial sweetness you weren't doing before. Papa, oh, this is good. This is easy. Does broche blit wisely built make sense for a natto guy? I feel like push pull legs is too high of a frequency for me. Yeah, totally. It can make sense for sure. I mean, it's, there's so much fashion in this dusty. I've been around long enough to see these things coming around like, fashion can so true. Well, it's like the third time I've seen, I've seen keto twice. Maybe three times I've seen it come around. You know what I mean? Like, so everyone's like all the bro splits and the three, the push pull and stuff. Like this is all stuff that's coming around again. It's a general shift of who's currently really good and who's currently giving out good information and those people, their, their advices. It's just like how I mentioned, you know, everyone was training like Dorian when he was the champ and then when Ronnie was the champ, everyone wanted to do parking lot lunches. You know, there's so much of this comes around at the end of the day, what do they have in common? They're both trained real fucking hard super consistently. We had good mental attitudes felt acted and carried themselves like champions, right? Right. So, so I mean, yeah, the bro split can work, but it only works if you make it work. Yeah, I think that's you nailed so much of it right there that I think is accurate is things just swing back through. Like, I hate the term bro split because it's, it's just good bodybuilding. Yeah, it's just, it's like how many dates do you need to recover? That's it, split your body up. Okay, let's go. I mean, I am more currently, which I don't, I've no idea what Jordan's gonna have me do, but I've been more of bro split for the last couple of years because I was specifically trying to bring up certain body parts and so I wouldn't neglect other things on purpose to put the focus in the family. You couldn't do that on a push-pull leg. Now that I want in a huge amount of size, I'm sure I'm gonna be right back on a progressive overload plan because I told them straight up, I don't care where it lands. I just wanna get fucking big. This isn't bodybuilding anymore. Like, I'm doing something different. I just wanna get as big as I possibly can, let's do that. So yeah, you gotta find out what works for you. And then I don't even think it's a frequency. When someone says the push-pull leg frequencies too high, my immediate kickback to that would be, I bet you're volume of those workouts is too high. Yeah. Yeah. There's a, there's a, because happy, and it's a way to get to the same spot. The point is not even to these wrong, but if you're following a bro split volume, but now you're hitting it more often by doing push-pull legs, it's too much. And I tell my client, it's funny, but I send out a routine which you and I have talked with us before, about four routines, they're stock, that I start with on all my clients. I'm always really upfront about that because I, but seems cut and paste, it is, you're $195, you don't need anything special yet. I'll figure out what that is in six months, but I'll tell them right in the beginning. I'm feeling this out. This volume might be too high for you. It might be perfect. You're, we're gonna find out. Because when I send, that's a pretty common one for like, you know, intermediate body, notice I send out, I'm like, that would destroy me. The way I trained, fuck, I'd tap out sofa. That's like the volume just way too high. So, you know, it's definitely not the push-pull legs, the issue, but, you know, it is frequency. Oh, this is a good one. It's important to know. And I'm not really interested. What's your go-to drink at a bar? Oh, well, I mean, 99% of time it's this die-coke. I mean, I never order booze. If I had, if I had to, I would order a bond, could die it. There we go. Yeah. Yeah. Or, or I would have a shot of Jack with someone and then just drink my die-coke. Just the quick, I like that. I am a Mexican mule if I'm doing a drink drink. Obviously everybody knows a drink. Oh, okay. But, and all that is is a mosque on mule, but instead it's got tequila. Because I like tequila and I hate vodka. Ah, they got good thing. I literally just heard what I said that I allowed. I heard Alan on the hangover. Do you remember that when he was like, how do you even know that tires like pepper? They love pepper. They hate cinnamon. Yes. Why do you know that? I was like, every- Every- It's cinnamon. I was like, that was the greatest. Like that to me when we were on the footage point, that entire movie the way he's had it, like so absolute. Like they love pepper. They hate cinnamon. They tell you that. That's nice. Okay, good. That was good shit. You got one more? I have so many. Uh, but I know- Oh, here's a good one. We're going to give you one that I would like your answer on anyways that we'll call it a day. Do you use car back loading on your clients? On your self-andoi or your clients? No. Maybe. Yeah. I love it. That's my full answer. No. No. So, all right. I think with those questions, you guys, you're what you're getting back to is complicating something that doesn't have to be. Yeah, I had a client here today, asked me, um, this client has three different amounts of carbs. They have, uh, I can't remember what they are, but let's just say it's like 200 on days off, 300 on training days, and 500 on like day. Right. Yeah. Once a week or something like that, I've got, I've got them set up on three different days of carbs. And they said to me, hey, um, you know, things go on really well, and I'm getting leaner, but I would really like to start carbs staggering. You are. And I was like, oh, you are. And they went, oh, well, well, no, because there's, there's two days of week, come on lower carbs. And then there's four days of week, I'm on meteor, meteor, and then there's one day of week, come on high carbs. And I go, yeah. And they're like, well, yeah, but carbs staggering is supposed to be low medium high, low medium high, low medium high, low medium high, low medium high. No. And I was like, no, like, what do you people get this? Oh, my god. I was like, I don't be the laugh, but it's funny because I was really, what you said that, I mean, what's carbs saying? I'm like, so you're doing that. Good job. Yeah, it's not uncommon. It's not like it's one person I've had that conversation with. So people think carbs staggering is like a certain thing that has done a certain way. It's like, no, it's just a, it's just a varying amount of carbohydrate and take it could be done a million different ways. And then I had a client one time, it was like, there were the type of person that gets in shape like they can have a cheat. What are they like? Yeah, yeah. They can make it Sunday, it could be like a high day, they can go off or dinner with the wife, the whole prep, their glutes are shredded. You know, they're just one of those people. And he was like, oh, you know, I think I should think of it and I need to like do some carbs staggering. And I'm like, well, you're on like, X grams of carbs. And then on Sunday, you have like a thousand grams of carbs. Yeah. He's like, oh, yeah, but I thought carbs staggering was like, and I'm like, you're already carbs, like, it's just funny. It's just, it's just the amount of like rigidness that some people think they have to, there's a certain perfect way to do things. Well, you also have to like, so it's funny. I just saw this on Lane-Motans page yesterday, so I'm actually going to read it. It was very funny. Um, we're talking about why diets work. And everyone's got a magic done. On how they work. And this is the one where it listed listed all the different diets. Reduce is your calories by removing an entire macronutrient. Paleo reduced your calories by causing you to focus on nutrient-rich satisfying foods. And I'm at the fasting reduced your calories by giving you less time to eat. Zone reduced your calories by filling up with vegetables and low carb fruits. The point is, all these diets work because they lowered your calories. But none of them are actually boosting of metabolism. You're just eating less. Yeah. And that's the same thing as this where everyone's like, no, no, no, the best diet is this. I'm like, is the same? Yeah. You lower your calories. That's why you change it. I'm not saying a calorie is a calorie. Don't get me wrong. But to a point when it comes to gaining and or losing just the word weight, right, it is. So it's just funny because I love when he breaks. He's one of my favorites. He's such a dick because he's so accurate and smart. But the funny spot is it's actually also simple. Like everyone wants to argue it, but it's like, no, it's literally this easy. You lower your calories. Yeah. We're on their carb cycling. No, but you have three different carb numbers in a week. You are carb cycling. Forget everything else. Over-simplify. I think that that's the magic of body language. If you over-simplify, you generally lowered your calories over time. Yep. That's the, that's the, that's the, it's just complex that gets. But I think because of this and everyone's need to create a brand. Again, yeah, exactly. Yeah. Nobody wants it and that's it's funny because people last maybe like, how do you, you know, what would you say you do? I said I provide results. How right. Don't know. Help people avoid mistakes. Yeah. I'm going to get your three results and I can't tell you today how that's going to happen. Yeah. But I'll get you there. Yeah. You know, I have no idea what thing is going to work for you. Even if I've worked for you in the past, I mean, you know this, we've said this a million times. There was the second year I worked with Chris. I actually laughed because I realized I actually asked him. I said, uh, you don't keep track of what I did before, huh? He would, oh, no, when you're done, I throw away the paperwork. Yeah. Okay, cool. Because my diet's weren't even the same. When you look at, you think I had a different coach. Yeah. Like it was that different, you know, in the same reason because he'll ask and I know my clients get annoyed by this sometimes in a flash of a texture. Something I'm like, what do you want right now? I know like you don't know. I know, I mean, it's written down, but I'm driving in my car. Yeah. It could search. I could search through the chat and find it. But yeah. So it's funny because that's how Chris is, you know, I've had prep's. When I did the USA is the first year, I was eating 10 slices of bread a day. You know, you know what else? You know what else? Chris said to me, I'm ever, you tell me what that. Yeah. Remember what Chris said to me one time ago, I go, um, Hey, do you do sometimes just ask people what they're doing to keep them honest? And he goes, he goes, you know what? He goes, there's lots of times I ask people, what are you doing? And I kind of know what they're doing, but I'm trying to confirm and they tell me what they're doing. I'm like, that's not what you're supposed to be doing. There's no way I wrote that. I went and they go back and look. And it's like they're trying to pull the fast from there. Like, no, no, I had carbs in meal four. And then he goes back and looks as they night. It's funny because I'm wired so different. Like, I would never even think of that. And I learned some things, you know, back to the simplicity of it. And I'm sure Chris has told you this, but he has a theory with some people, not everybody, that when their carbs get lower, he thinks that their body might get into super prototype approaching synthesis, because randomly they'll start to improve and get bigger. Yeah. Well, I think that way. Oh, I hope today's that way where I'll start gaining weight. I mean, and I'm on 50 grams of carbs for weeks. I think there's some weird. There's a weird zone where your insulin sensitivity is so good. And you're still eating enough that you can be anabolic. Does that make sense? Yeah, well, and then you have anabolic. So yeah. Well, yeah, the drugs are sort of suspending your muscle building ability, even though you're on less calories in deficit or whatever. But there's like a weird zone that I feel like everyone's, everyone who's done enough shows at a high enough level has sort of been through that, like, you know, your hacksquats going up and right dieting and you're like, I'm very, very stressed. You're like, you're, you know, laying back with dumbbells and you're like, okay, this a good day, you know, like that weird stuff. And like we all go through that, but it's, or hopefully you go through at at least once, you can see what it's like. That pretty crazy. You'll love it. Yeah, it's pretty crazy. Just like you wonder, why can't life just go on like this, you know? I know what you mean, you know, that's class. So what do you think, Dusty, that's, uh, I think we did okay today. I think we did, I think we're going to keep at least five or atlessness for sure. I didn't put up a question thing because, um, we always do that, right? And I thought, you know, Dusty, I saw you put one up on like, I'm just going to leave his. Yeah, see you. The main text we'll do one. Yeah, there was a ton of it. Now what I'm doing, I think I told you, I answer all of these still or shouldn't say all that's why. I try to answer 50 is my, like, number of my head because it's, it's humbling and nice that I literally will get hundreds. I just can't, um, but it's good to see. And I do typically I'll answer some of the answer regularly. Again, again, again, because I realized that not all of my followers have been here the whole time. So it's, it's new to them. So yeah, solid episode night and I am going to try to get us, uh, I'd like to maybe make every third episode have a, have a guest. Yeah, yeah, well, we talked about a couple that were going to bring on. So let's line that up for, you know, I guess two episodes from now. Yep, you're just, uh, go ahead and get hold of your porn friends and let's get this going. I mean, yeah. Rock and roll. Okay, is that what you really want to see you want to porn friend? They do. They do. They do. They do. They do. They do. They've been asking. They're your friends. Associates. Associates. I'm sorry. I'm classic. Okay. Thanks. Uh, remember like share, subscribe, uh, comment, ring the bell, think big body building for the audio feeds. So remember to tell everyone if they can't find the show. That's it. Dusty and other episode number 87 in the books. Time to eat. Okay. Same here. Remember everybody. It's just body building.

Once up everybody, welcome to episode 88 if it's just bodybuilding. I'm here with Dusty Han Chum, myself big round part low and today we're going to go through Instagram questions like normal. Talk about our exciting lives and be in meatheads. The big came back and I felt much better. I threw it in there just to see if you'd notice. Of course I fucking noticed. It just didn't work for me last time. I actually thought I'd delete and I never watched the episode just because of that. Not that I watched any of the other ones either but this one was because of that. So we got to do the like share, subscribe, comment, ring the bell. We got to do that. We appreciate everyone so I'll put the little graphic up to remind you. So I thought I'd do something funny just because I could think of one and I thought there's probably a few. So we're episode 88. So I looked up famous athletes to wear the number 88. Air Glendrous. Air Glendrous was the one that came to mind because we're a hockey guys. Yes. Can you name anyone else that wore an 88 in any other sport like a big famous player? Try it. No, he was eight. I don't know. No. So Michael Irving. There was y'all. I was close. Yeah, you were seeing a team. Right team right there. Hey, Mara, too. Wasn't he thrown to us? Yes. Yes. And Tony Gonzalez and safety from the Steelers. So when they got that one. Oh, no, he's a tight end. Sorry. He's a tight end. 12-time pro bowler. Yeah. Sorry. How do you have mixed up with Paula Malu? Yes. Yeah. So number 80. Of that. Great air commercials. Great air commercials. They both could have done hair commercials. Spentastic. So how you been doing? Fentabulous. It's been busy. I finally started my, today's day one of my plan with Jordan. It's really nice. It's nice to hand over the wheel, man. I'm like looking at a piece of paper. No, but when I saw him, every time I talked to him, I feel like you're just, you're just, I'm done my first day. But this is mine with someone else. Yes. And he's fucking killing me with, you know, 100 grams of pineapple looks like. It's like four bites. Yeah. Oh, yeah. I was so sad. I was thinking, I had to finally, I need you to smaller plate and you're the fuck some of my pictures. Well, what's he throw it in? Because it could help with digestion. It's just doing with meals. I think because, I mean, we don't, you know me. Like, I don't even ask questions about the scotch. Yeah. I told him the beginning. I don't, I don't have a huge appetite. And I have eaten six meals in a day and fuck, I don't know two years. So I just told him that. So I have a feeling I've got fruit in every meal. We'll not every meal, but quite a few. So it's really about the volume down. So the nice bass particular meal was just 100 grams of rice on cooked. And then that in the 100 grams of pineapple for carbs. So it's easy to not down. What is 100 grams of rice on cooked turn into? About 200. Oh, okay. So what do you call that for carbs? What in that be you? 60 something. Right. Okay. Yeah. We're on the same page with that. Yeah. So it's good. It's funny. I had a lot of people ask why would hire someone that it's this exactly. Because there's no thinking. There's no alterations. I spent the money and I'm a cheap bastard. So I'm going to follow this shit now. And yeah, that's it. It is nice to not have to do the thinking. Yeah. I mean, I've already worked Jordan. So it's, I'm, you know, there'll be a few things I'm sure I'll grab from this, but primarily, I've kind of seen what he does. I like to hire people as you know, I've hired a ton of people and I work with him for a month or two just to see what they do. And then there's my little education and move on. But this will be, we did six months. I prepaid six months. Gonna go try to be able to at least 1806 pounds can be monstrous. What, what he'll weigh right now. Are you three hundred? No, I was two 92 this morning. So okay, so you're 300 at night with pizza. Yeah, which I had, which is funny. So that pizza last night for my final horror. Oh, there you go. I think good, no, just don't want to suck. Okay. Okay. So same also we have to cover this because you know, I got inundated. Good word. Apparently, Jay Coller will also whore out himself for birthday wishes. Have a good workout. Whatever people really wanted me to know this. Now, I'm stunned, I'm saddened, but then I thought of something. I didn't know about this. So maybe he doesn't push it out there too hard. Because for example, Ron, that was telling Scott this, like I don't sell dirty socks or posing trunks. But if you want to reach out and ask me for the creepy shit, I'm not fucking selling to you like sure. You know, woman in the shore, fuck it. I'm a horror. Let's do this. But I don't have like a spot on my website. I just do these dirty socks. But I mean, you want to ask me 25 bucks. Sure, done. You really, really not a fan of this concept at all, are you? No, that's why I went with dirty socks and underwear as a comparison. Yes. You want to listen to why, though? Oh, listen, people will buy it. So why wouldn't you sell it? I understand. But this is how I look at it. Hey, Ron, will you wish me happy birthday really quick? Sure, happy birthday. Oh, my God, it means so much to me that you said that. That's exactly what's happened. You're paying someone. So I guess what it would be is if I hire J to wish you happy birthday, I'm saying happy birthday to you, Ron. But I'm not nearly special enough. So I'm going to let someone you give a fuck about, say it for me. Huh, I'm finding this fascinating. So the Ronnie thing, I wasn't nearly as bothered by it as you were. I thought it was surprising. Yeah. I thought it was more expensive than it was surprising. I was like, oh, that's $300. I like these are a small fee. I thought it was pretty good money. $300 a lot of fucking money. So then I thought, oh, maybe that's just how it works. And then I thought maybe I'm just so like jaded about all this. I don't know. And then, you know, J's doing it. But what's he charging 75? That's what I heard. I haven't actually seen it. But yeah. Because I mean, I like, yeah, I don't know. I mean, maybe it's just because I'm sort of surprised that there's a market is maybe what catches me off guard. Yeah, I'm stunned. There's a market. I mean, I get that it's, I guess it's a thing. Yeah, I mean, if it's a thing and people do it, people, but I understand. But I don't know. Like, I had somebody on my Q&A, last week I wish I might have heard them. Like, fuck yeah, done. I don't know. At no point in my life, am I going to think that my happy birthday should come with a fee of 75 to $300. What if maybe J's getting like 100 people a day asking for them, though? It's like, oh, well, this is just maybe. Yeah, and maybe he is. I mean, knowing Jay, it's probably printing money on the deal. I just, you know, Liz is everyone's got their own things. And I just, I guess what it is is at some point, I feel like the cool thing about violence we are, you can't read just verses. I always say like, you know, you're not reaching out and getting, you know, Brian Erlocker to shoot you a quick taxter answer your Q&A fast. So I think it's just in my brain. I guess I just, I don't view fame like normal people do on any level. Like Jay is a cool guy to me. He wants my lamp is got a cool job. You know what I mean? So it's just, it's so hard for me to fathom that, but I guess, I mean, I guess people buy a baseball cards, I don't fucking know. It's just a week comparison to me. It's really hard for me to understand. But again, I like money. And if there's a market for it and you've got to spend 36 seconds saying, happy birthday to me 75 bucks. Okay. I mean, I guess, yeah. You know, but I think I could, I could have can do it for topless for probably 100. And now we're getting into my kind of fame. Right. Right. Yeah. As I have seen those videos available. See, and Jay was in his underwear for his career, she went without them in hers. Right. Right. There we go. Something to think about. Everyone, when you're thinking, well, you want to wish your child to have birthday. Kind of the last one. So here's, I have a question that that begs itself now. Yes. You raise your cup and it's not a quad espresso with to change. No change. No change, dude. What do you drink in? This is a salted caramel nitro cold brew with two splendor. So what's all is that whipped cream on top? But the fuck is all that foam? They put foam on the top. And then they put my splendor on it. So when it comes through, I get hits of splendor. Crazingous. What's that? Eight dollars? Five something. Yeah. Yeah. That's good. No, whenever something was smart. You're upset. That J's make it 75 bucks. And you're spending, probably almost six bucks on it. I'm supporting people rich. Democrats. Oh, Dusty. You know what? They even try to make me wear a mask in there. So I have to them bring it out to me instead. I, I, I, the mask stuff. Man, everyone's just so over it. It's funny though, like, you know, I'm around people. I'm around a lot of people that, they're like, yeah, I just wear it because I have to, because we have to do this. They'll dance right now. Like that's what 90% of people that I engage with seem to say. They're like, yeah, I guess we got to wear these masks for now, but you know, whatever. I can't wait to not wear it. But then when you go online and you read the comments on some of the stuff. Oh, yeah. And you read what like the insane mask for life or type people, say, yeah. That's when I'm like, wow. Like there's people out there like this. And, and it's, it's, it really, they really bother me. I think they're mentally ill. Oh yeah. And I'm not talking, I'm not talking to someone who thinks it's a good idea to wear a mask on a pack train. That's not what I mean. I think you're talking about the people that are losing their mind on my videos and when the best buy alone. Yeah, they're, they're losing their mind. Like I saw someone, there was an article about gems in the, on one of the new sites. Right. And there was a picture of like a 70 year old man doing incline dumbbell flies. And he had a mask on. Everyone in the photo had a mask on. But his mask was like half like half off like, it was like blocking half of his nostrils. It wasn't like down here, you know? Yeah. And the comments were 50% of the fucking comments were. His mask isn't even on properly. Right. Like that gems unsafe. I can't believe so much is shut that gym down. That picture was taken. That's evidence of them not following. Oh, right. Right. Like there's people on their commenting like that. And I'm just like you people, you people are deranged. Fucking deranged. And so now I have this little battle in my head. When I see someone who's outside with a mask on, like walking on the sidewalk by themselves. Yeah, you're a kid you. And like I'm talking isolated. Yeah. Like there's bike pass all by my house and shit. So you're driving and you see people walking completely alone. You know, wearing their mask? I think okay, don't get like I try not to get fucking angry. Because I think you fucking psycho. You brainwashed psycho. But then the other half of me goes, maybe they're just really busy and they forgot they had it on. And they just walked up the store. And they're on their phone because they're like in a hurry. And they just forgot they had it on. You know what I mean? So I'm trying not to let it bother me. But fuck, like this, yeah, it's really weird. But I don't seem to find none of them seem to ever engage me. I don't think many are going to engage you in general. I actually got, I got paraded going into AJs one time by a lady. As I was walking in, she was like, not even wearing a mask during a goddamn pandemic. And I was like, are you talking to me? Obviously you're not wearing a mask. I go, oh, all right, well talk off have a good day. Like it blew my mind. I was like, your blood pressure went that high. Maybe you go that high when you yelled at me. That's like so. So I want to, yeah, I want to be clear. Like it's, it's not healthy for a baby. Us to be so angry at one another in a multitude of ways. Like we are right now. Over here. And that's what I don't care what people do with them. Like I'm going to do your fucking rock and mask. And where I'm not saying, yeah, I'm also not even saying that I'm right. Because I don't want to be angry. Right. Yeah, I'm not like, I'm not like arguing for my, I'm like, I don't want to be angry. I don't, like, you know what I mean? So it's, it's a really weird situation right now. But yeah, we, we got to, fuck, we got to get back to normal soon. I just prefer the same way I look at my Instagram. This is just how I do it. I got to tell, I remind people when they jump on and scream at me for my training or my eating being wrong, I'm like, where did I try to sign you up? Right. What I do or my program or oh, no, where? Yeah, because this is just a little intro into my life. And right, if I'm doing a dead ass wrong, that's okay. You can know that in your head and right, the fuck along. Yes. I agree. Oh, yeah. Very interesting. So I know you got a lot of good questions. Why don't they go to a lot of questions for sure. You got a lot of questions. OK. I want to be specific. I have to look to the side if I think they're good. But of course, they are. Might be, but actually, we've had some interesting questions. So I'm going to say, let's see. And I did it early, dude. So there's going to be a lot. Yeah. There's a lot. Let's see. Jesus open. Is I can go first? Please do. Here's a good one. Now there might not be one, but if there is or more than one, tell us about one. Have you ever wanted to quit bodybuilding? Just walk away from it. No. But my know is bodybuilding. I'm not somebody who thinks you have to compete to be a bodybuilder. Right. So no, I have not. But I definitely have gotten sick. It's kind of similar to the conversation we're just having of the industry and of the sport of bodybuilding. I think the amount of ass kissing that goes on in the ranks is fucking embarrassing. I'm blown away at the amount of people, for example, and I'm sure if I gave a fuck, this would get me in trouble. Tyler Manning has a birthday. Okay? Every asshole that hears about it, posts about it. He don't know you. Stop kissing ass. You look at a fucking moron. That's telling us. Is that like a real example? Yeah. It's awesome. You don't know that. That's terrible. This is Jim Manion's or J.M. Manion's son. He's the vice president of NBC. And one of the head judge's all approach shows. But my point is, I was like, I was like, you guys actually think that he's like taking note of that and making sure like, oh, dusty handshot. However, the reason I don't do well in bodybuilding, which type of Manion fucking happened birthday, is something that was a wide waste. Right. I find that part. So that part of the sport. Yes. The competitive side, I have trouble really caring about. But by myself, no, I will buy it on some level until I'm dead. Right. Sure. In my head, you still buy it. You follow a guy. Yeah, I still go and you train. I have some complaints for figuring it more. You know? People who aren't like, egg whites for breakfast, you pretty much said, so bodybuilding. You did what? You know what I mean? No, no, it's, I agree with you. So I thought long and hard as I kind of think there's ever been a time I've even considered like from day one to when I officially finish competing, there was not a single break mentally in there of not wanting to do it. Right. Do you know what I mean? I had, I had some like, you know, had a couple of shows where I was so disappointed with not winning. That I was like, fuck, I don't know if I can do this anymore. But it was all competing related. It wasn't like I didn't want to train or anything like that. So yeah, I don't know. It's kind of interesting. And maybe that's a requirement to do it as long as I did. You can't have second thoughts. You can't be constantly, you know, but I don't know about this, you know, that sort of thing. You know what I mean? But I think you actually enjoy bodybuilding. Oh yeah. I didn't say enjoyed. I said enjoy. Oh yeah. That's why you keep rolling. You know what I mean? And it's the same like, when I think of stopping competing, I don't think of quitting bodybuilding. Just stopped competing. Like, I didn't make an active decision to not compete for a few years. I just didn't. It wasn't like the driving force anymore. And that was it. You know what I mean? Like, there will never be a day of an announcement of retirement. Like, I'm not the extra Jackson. It only gives a shit. You better remember why I won. My one buddy. He wrote this guy that I know he wrote like a retirement post. And then like his training partner came on and he's like, you never turned pro. You can't retire from something that you didn't turn pro at. He's like, is this the hobby? And then she had a pro card. Is this the hobby? He was like, bugging him. He's into a perfect. Yeah, because that made it funny because we, we as a group do that. And it's fine. I'm never used to do what they want. But it's like, could you imagine if I was like playing, you know, softball every year? And I just put the peli like, hey, guys, it's time to walk away from the game. I'm gonna hang him out. You know, it's just time. I have like a picture of my glove that I throw in the trash. This is a pro. You're like, you're like, you're like, you're all with your wife. Get your wife to take a picture of you walking away from the outfield. Like holding your glove from behind. It's just your number. The sun setting and the, you know, and I mean, like, field of dreams. It's that field of dream shot. Walking away from the game. It's just to know. Why do you just can't take it anymore? It's very similar, right? I mean, I know that people like don't get it. But it's like, that's how I look at even myself to be honest. You're like, the day that I like decide not to compete anymore. It's not like you put up an announcement that you were retiring from competing. You're just like, I've had people now that like, when's wrong? I'm going to compete next to my dude ever. Follow us. Even like, all that. Also, there's like, I think sometimes people taking too seriously, because I do use the word retired, but I sort of always feel whenever I type it. I always feel like I'm sort of making fun of myself. For using it, like it's kind of funny to me. And then I know some people that'll talk to me really serious. Like, oh, how was your, how do we need retired from bodybuilding? I'm like, I should have just got busy. We opened a jam and I was like, fuck that. I'm really happy to sit right now. You know, my leg was still fucking hurt. We're busy opening it running into a jam and thought, oh, shit, you know, life goes on. You know, that's kind of more what happened. But yeah, it wasn't like I had this like night where I sat down and cracked it the bottle of whiskey. Like had a little talk with myself about the future. You know? Wait, it's quite a racket. It's time. It's time. Oh my God. Oh, oh. Okay. We're going to ask this in both directions. Because obviously, I never put up that these are for the show because I get better questions and then I answer them on the show and then I also answer them on my own. So the question is, what is the favorite thing that you've learned about Ron from the podcast? From the podcast. This is tough because I have to remember like, I only people understand. I did you know a lot of a lot of a lot of the fucked up stuff from personal. Yeah. I mean, I mean, it's it's not a thing I learned from the podcast. What's definitely highlighted on the podcast is that I truly believe that you might know more information about everything than anyone I've ever known. You know, there's there's there's people Ron and this there's a difference. I have to satisfy this because you don't you wouldn't understand this. But sometimes you'll talk to someone and it's like, they have something to say about everything, but they don't know shit. Right. You actually, you're like, oh, yeah, I was reading in the 1926 journal of medicine. I'm like, why were you reading that? Nothing. I mean, I don't know how to that fucking happy. So yes, I find that that's fascinating because I'm an expert in like seven things. Right. But if you add an eighth thing, I'm like, huh? Right. No, I've never read about no like, jeopardy or whatever those fucking games are. Well, who wants to be a millionaire? Like the first question I've like, I call Ron. Like, seriously, it's we're asking you your favorite color. I'm like, and I'd call Ron. I'm not certain if it's red or black. Well, I appreciate that. And then I've always had this like horrible fear of being the person that someone turns to when they need that. And I can't help you. You asked the one fucking question. I don't know. So I used to be really good at trivial pursuits as a kid. So like when I was like 12, 13 years old, I would sit with my parents and all the adults because they'd have like all the farmers over for dinner and they'd all be drinking rum. And they'd play a big game at trivial pursuits like eight people, ten people, you know. And I would always wind up on somebody's team and like, I was pretty good team eight. I was gonna say in the beginning they're like, fuck, we got the thing. I mean, they did stuff I did, stuff I didn't know, but as like a kid, it'd be some stuff I'd rip on, you know. Like a science question that come up and I'd fucking nail it and everyone would be like, Oh, Lee shit, you know, I remember that. You know, it's pretty funny. I remember, I just had me get drinks. My favorite trivial pursuit memory is actually I was actually at an ex-girlfriends house. We were really, really close friends, but, you know, we had dated previously, but we're really close friends. And I didn't have anywhere to go for Christmas that year. Right. Because it's like just a weird year, my family wasn't really needing on Christmas, you know. And so she's like, well, come over to my, my dad's house or whatever. I'm like, oh, okay, cool. So I go over there. Family feeds me big turkey dinner, we're playing trivial pursuit. And I think it's like, you know, guys versus girls or something, right? And I'd had a couple of hockey pops, right? And I probably smoke some weed with her because we're big stoners at the time. And so, you know, I'm feeling pretty good. And I'm loose. I'm cracking jokes. I got the adults laughing, right? I'm about, I'm about 24 years old at this point. Okay. I got people laugh and I'm like, you know, I'm having fun. I'm trying to make her regret not dating me. Nice. I'm just kidding. I'm just like it. So anyways, we go to win the game. Right. We need to pink pie to win the game. And we land on the thing to win. And I say, go on for the pink pie, story in my life. And run in the dad of the end. And she just looks at me. This is great. It's totally, I would say. And I realized that it was my outside voice that said it. Because I was in your mind. It just came out, like just proof. It was like, oh, flock. And it was funny because I have to people kind of laughed. And then half of the old adults were just like silent. Fucking comes up. Pink's entertainment. Right. Star Trek question. Get the fuck out. Star Trek question. Yes. What is the nickname of the doctor on the original Star Trek bones? We win. I'm the champ. I looked so fucking good. Anyway, that's all I think. By the way, I just want to throw that out there. Don't forget to think pie, story in my life. My god, that's great. I just like to see the awkwardness of half of the room. Yeah, you know what adults are like? You know what? Do we not? Pretty funny. We're doing this situation. Good stuff. You're up. Okay. I don't know how I got to that story. This is what we do. This episode already doesn't make any sense to me. This is how we make it like four questions and two hours every. So sometimes all I do is I pulled the episode just to like, you know, and and I'll look at the timestamps because I quite often can't remember. Right. Time stamps are like, you know, I'm like, oh, yeah. And then ever once while we get an episode of timestamps are like, tie hookers. Best tie widened. We've been 40, five minutes on tie hookers. Best volume for high percher fee. And then the next question. Crack. And then the next like, and I'm like, how do any of these coding together? Like some of the topics we've flowed this disaster. Yes. Okay. So that was, yeah, isn't it your turn? I mean, I'm going to get someone that turns right now. I ask you the thing I learned about you from the podcast. Oh, so now I have to say something about you that I learned from the podcast. That's a short lived one. But go ahead. Um, you learned I had a new drink. I learned that you secretly travel. I do. I knew. I'm always on the move. But it's not like Canada. We don't travel for $7,000 to go across the country. Yeah. I mean, 50 bucks and a, you know, stick a gun. You're good to go. You travel a lot and you don't put it on Instagram. Yeah, you know, I have a, I have a very, don't always put it up. No. Or if I do, people will catch a different gym. I'll tag the gym, but I won't even say it on the town. That's, that's half the time the only way I know that you're, and then I'm not sure, is that a throwback? Yeah, I just filmed that last week. You got to look, you know what I think you've got going for? You know, I've got markers of tattoos that help people. They're like, you fucking liar. Shoulder shoulder tattoos not there. Right. And another thing too that I got to give you credit for, because it's like a trait that I like. Is, um, it's very obvious that you have a really hard time with like, fakeness. Yo, yes. You really bothers you. Which is good. You know, and I'm not talking fakeness like you like nice watches and stuff. That's not the same. Talking like this stuff that you're a Sam like, you know, doing things just to get in with people and, or it's sort of stuff. Really bothers you. That's an Aussie eating situation, which is very common. You know, I had, you know, it's funny. It's on the similar subject, when I got into bodybuilding, and I started getting myself in the game, Dante told me, he said, listen, this industry, people will use your face as a stepstool if they can. And I was like, eh, you know, glasses have full situation. I'm like, yeah, it's not how it is. Yep, that is how it is. Right. You know, and I think that's why maybe some of the fans don't realize why there's such close this amongst some of us, because the core group, if you see me with someone, they're not one of those people. Right. Not to me or anyone else, you know what I mean? It's cool because the range of who those people are is pretty lengthy, but definitely something I know won't be below. And I'm like, hey, if you got like thin skin, or it's going to hurt your feelings that people fuck you over, probably should do something else with your time. It's funny. And I don't know why this came up, but I'm just going to blur it out. This reminds me that I was just talking to Rob Bailey last week. I haven't chatted with Rob for a while. You know, and it's sort of, it's sort of chat about, you know, fake people and bullshit and stuff. Just remind of me like, of a real, every time I talk to Rob, he's one of those, he's one of those fucking, he does not give a fuck. Go. You know, at all. Like, it's, it's, it's refreshing, and it, Rob, Rob's an example of what can happen in your life when you just focus on you. Right. And I don't mean that he hasn't, like helped people out and done all sorts of great shit for people. No, you know, everyone's like, worried about other people's business. He doesn't give a fuck. All that time that you might spend, like the average person spends thinking about, with this person thinks, that person thinks or this person did that. I can't believe they would, he wouldn't, he just, you know what I mean? He wouldn't spend a second of time thinking about your bullshit. No, but isn't it funny to you? It is to me that so many people look up to people like him for being real, but then they're not. They don't recognize that that's one of the things they have to do. It's like that. Yeah. And whatever that is, because at the end of the day, it's so tight, but it's very true is, you're you, no matter what that is. So just own that shit. And the people who are around you will be the right ones, the people who are turned off by it. That's fine. Yeah. You know, I don't keep score. I can't imagine, if you have a strong personality, people are not going to like you. People are also going to like you. But, you know, you're definitely not going to be that person that everyone's like, oh, that does the answer. It's a good dude. Like, nah. You get no good 50, 50. He saw, he saw one of my bike vids. Right. And like we haven't chatted in a while. And he message being, he's like, how the fuck did I miss this? Because it, but imagine that. Like, so you've been doing this for so long. And he's thinking Ron, like, like, and all of a sudden he's like, wait, was that actually wrong on the bike? Yeah, it's just funny. He's like, if I can miss this, and he's so chatted. But yeah, just, you know, I had a moment about you yesterday actually coming into my condo. I'm pulling up. And it's kind of funny. But I live in a, people here I wouldn't, to have money. Well, you live in an affluent city to begin. Yeah, like whole city, yeah, yeah, like my zip codes, averaging come in silly. Yeah. So the reason I'm pointing that out is I'm pulling up. And I see this dude on the back of his decked out range, putting his bike like yours on there. And I'm like, so I pull up. I stopped. I'm like, fucking, I got to know. I'm like, hey, that flat land bike, he was, yeah. I go, cool. I don't know shit about it. But my friend does. I can't, he kind of like, like, like, oh, that's pretty much. I was like, what you do is like, no, I'm going to turn him like, also odd. Okay, see you later. That's what I'm about to be a view because I'm like, in a turning, that's in your, you know, mid 30s, strapping your, you know, 2000, our bike to the back of your 80, 2000, our truck to go somewhere to ride your bike. I was just like, I probably would never notice that with not to you, but I could see that it was like, very similar to your bike. I'm like, that's probably expensive fucking bike. That's funny because I was riding in a parking lot. I was riding in a parking lot. I did, I found a new parking lot by the gym. I saw that. It's like, pre-mode was not raining, but it's like pre-mode. So, because it's industrial. So there's no traffic after five because everyone's closed. Right. So it's just a parking lot. Yeah, from five pm to sundown. And sundown is going down to like nine o'clock here. So it's pretty good. So anyways, I'm riding and, um, this police car drives by and like loops around and comes in. And, and the, and it just so happened, I actually pulled off a pretty cool trick right is there. Pulling up. So then I like circled around and I just sat on my bike and he rolled his window down and he goes, and he goes, and he looks and here's, I got my brand new truck is sitting there. Right. Got the back end open, music blasting. Right. And I'm sitting on my bike and he goes, you just hanging out. And I go, yeah, and he kind of like, you could tell he had to do the math. He's like, as like 40. He also very large men. A brand new truck and he's got a little bike. He was like, just a fight could just see that he was just like, I'm just gonna leave. He goes, okay, I'm just drove away. But it was just funny that it's watching him do the math in his head. Oh yeah. I mean, it's probably similar to what I just, I think it was just funny because you ever noticed like, for example, when you bought, when you bought your truck, you start saying explorers everywhere. Yeah, that's a funny egg. So I know. So that's what happens with the bike. Like, I want to driven that bike a hundred times, but I know, I have to ask questions. I don't have any idea what I'm asking, but I had to. Even as I stop, I was like, why am I stopping? I fucking here we go. It's a podcast with me. He's like that fucking meathead from the third floor as a real moron. He's funny. He asked me about my bike and he didn't know shit about it. Hey, what's going on guys? Thanks for watching another podcast here. Think Big Body Building Media. And thank you to our great sponsor, True Nutrition.com for making this all possible. True Nutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudel, the creator of DC training. You wanted to create a supplement company that offered high quality third party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders, just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors, plus health and performance supplements. Check them out, True Nutrition.com. And hey, if you use our code, advices, you directly support our podcast. Thanks guys. Let's get back to the program. Oh, Here's that easy one. You think it's you think it's sorry, when people write poor they have a hard time. Do you think it's able to lose muscle for not training for a week? Or is it just mind-fuckery? A possible lose muscle. That must be what it means. Right. So a week off the jam or a forced week off or has to go to work over time for a whole week and can't train or something. Yeah. Yeah, I mean, I mean, if that goes in the category of like, if there's nothing you can do about it, you just stick to your diet and just, you'll just get back in the gym in a week and you'll be fine. And you can't worry about muscle loss or anything. It's, I remember I read something about 10 days being the actual length of time it takes to begin detraining. I remember there was like an interesting thing that I read once. Who's like science article and it was like, you know, muscle fullness is one thing, right? But to actually start detraining. Right. So really starts at 10 days. You know, it might start earlier for some people, etc. But when you start actually detraining, that's about 10 days. So, you know, it wouldn't worry. Right. You know, I have a big thing that you know, of also is if you can't control it, wouldn't worry anyways. I tell my clients all the time with something's weird. We've found that into life happens and we just keep moving. Yeah. So I tell them, the whole client's I have that have kids. Yeah. I've got a little time. I fell down the stairs. Yeah. Don't. Yeah. You just have to deal with shit, you know. I know what it is. Yeah. Okay. Here's a good one. Have you triumphed over any insecurities in the past that you can think of? I don't know if I would call it. So I didn't. I was trying to figure out the word. Something that bothered me was when my hair fell out, which was starting to fall, which is for the record was going to happen anyways. My mother's dad was bald. It bothered me because it was when I shaved it right away. I got one of those people was like, I didn't fight it. I'm like, I'm fucking going bald. I could shave it. But I would wear hat all the time because I didn't like it. If my hair started to grow at all, it was a very blatant spot because you got dark hair. Yeah. And it's like boom back in my head that I hated. So I just, I mean, literally even if I went to a nice restaurant, I wore a nice hat. Like right. It was something that bothered me and no one else gives a fuck. You know what I mean? But it just bugged me. But then I had my head tattooed and now it doesn't bother me at all. I had that micro pigmentation, which just means tattooed. And now it doesn't bother me. But no, it's funny that I still always primarily wear hats anyhow. But that is the only thing in my entire life that I can absolutely say, bugged me. Like actually was something I was self conscious about, which is I love because I always think about that. When somebody tells me something that's there's self-conscious about it. I laugh. I'm like, no one cares. So I know the same in reverse. But yeah, I wouldn't really say I triumphed over. But I just fixed it the best way I could. You know, and I have people ask all the time that know that they're like, Oh, will you eventually get like hair and plans or something like that? And like, well, now I'm not gonna go that far. I care, but not that much. Right. Right. I know what you mean. Ha. That's a good one. You know, I think a lot of guys have that one. You know, a lot of guys have that hair thing at some point. Yeah, I'm just glad the Bruce Willis made it cool to not to be bald. Yeah, it's funny. I never. Like I was had thick hair and I kept my hair right up like I never had to shave my head until I was like 39 or 40. Right. But even then it wasn't like I had to. I still kind of like had spiked your hair or whatever. Yeah, I just didn't. Yeah. It was just thin and back, you know. But it never really bothered me. Like I never really gave a fuck. Right. So I don't. I'm in a day's gonna come because I I remember shaving my head when I was like 21. Right. And and and and I remember people saying to me, this probably went helped. I remember people saying, Oh, you look good bald. If you ever after shave your head. Right. You know that you look good bald. So I guess I just that just they never had the the worry. You know, right. Let's see those anti steroid posters hanging up and like the the wreck centers. That stopped your hair will fall out. Hair will fall out and I like. Yeah. I had somebody asked me that the one time, too. They were like, if you knew your hair would be like, if you knew your hair was going to fall out, would you do this on? Yes. Yeah. I like I didn't say it like it ruined my fucking life. I just said, Oh, it's all right. Yeah. And it might just sped up really. That's the one thing I think is also a benefit. I'm like, no, let's go any other way. I just did it faster. Plus I've been 29 for a decade now. So, you know, whatever is going to happen. Twenty seven to the younger age for me. Yes. Yes. I would say, I mean, I've had a lot of little ones. Like, you know, bodybuilding, the bodybuilding industry is pretty good at like generating insecurities in people because, you know, it's like such a high expectation for everything because it's so staged and prepared, especially the magazine era, you know? Right. Yeah. I remember always being really self conscious of how white I was. Like, I remember from like the get go like, I remember people be like, wow, you're really pale. Like people use a word pale and it makes you sound like ill. Like if you say, so you're really white, right? Like if someone says, oh, you're really white. I'm like, yeah, I'm white super white, British Irish Scottish. We're really fucking white. Right. But if they go, oh, you're really pale. I'm like pale, mother fucker. I don't have any iron deficiencies. I'm not pale. I guess any date time. I love to get specific about the word. What it means is the same, but the word pale is I'm not sick. Right. It's like a word you would use, you know, it's like a word you would use to describe like, oh, you know, he was homeless. He was very pale. You know, like. No, I get it's like, it's it's it's it's funny, but Tommy, my training partner is leaning down for a show and one of my clients is in town and she was in town in his offseason. And she goes, man, you're looking skinny and I'm like, I took a deep breath. You know, he did him and he cried and it was a right. Yeah, yeah, the tears, the tears all that tears. I looked at her and I go, you can't say skinny. Yeah, that's not a word we use, especially at 230 pounds. Yeah, I know. I, I, yeah, I've always been white. People that I was holding their arms up like, you know, you hold your arm next to someone they'd be like, oh, fuck. They're like, like, it's very big. People always do that. And my, and also too, like, my forearms get plenty of sun. So they're actually hand compared to the rest of me. Yeah, then they think that's why you're like, Thank you. Well, I remember I would wear shorts once in a while when I was a kid and people were like, why are your legs so white? And I remember just like, bothered me. I'm like, fuck, why can't I tan like normal kids? And I can never tan like, I would just turn red and peel. You'll then wait again. Right? And then pen and then. And then you know when I, I remember in 2013 when I, I had some skin cancers removed off my back. I don't know if I told that story. I did that. Yeah. Yeah. So when I had those removed and she's like, okay, well, you can never tan again. I remember just being like, oh, what the fuck? I never could tan before anyways. I did work for me. Yeah, I'm just so now I'm just super white. And then every once in a while, like mutant called me, you know, like a couple weeks ago, and they're like, hey, we need some shots. You know, those pictures, pictures you saw that you liked. Yeah. Yeah. So I went and got like a quick, realistic tan. You know, where you just tan in the booth, like you're running. Yes. You know, I love that thing. And I almost need to get two canisters because after one canister, I feel like I miss spots. But, but I, I went and did that and everyone at the gym was like, you look fucking awesome with some color. Which is code for you. You usually look like shit dude. It is code for your super white and totally great. Good. Most of the pale, most of the, yeah. So I just got a lot of it says that. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, right. Definitely great. Oh, okay. We haven't talked about one single important thing yet. It's really important in the world. Okay. I'm trying to avoid all the things that are right out there on the table that just burn my soul currently. Right. You know, so it's a plus plus, you know, what's funny? Some of the things I would like to cover. Everyone's out and talking about it. I don't need my opinion out there. You know, Dusty, let's talk about that for a second. It's, it's difficult to do the show. Like, I mean, the show comes, the, the actual recording in the show comes naturally for us. Because we're just having a chat. Right. But, you know, there's times when I'm driving and I'm like, you know, should we be talking about training more? Should we be talking about should we be giving them more quality information? Right. You know, like, you know, you start to, you wonder like, because, you know, half the time I can't believe anyone even fucking listen. That's the problem, right? Still shocked. Still shocked. So, so, yeah, it's just funny. You know, you get, and, and I listen to the odd episode of other shows that I'll check in on stuff. And, but I think that's something that everyone who does a show wrestles with. I think I've actually heard like I've heard food at talk about, like, topics like how did they even get on these fucking topics? It's fun. Yeah. Yeah. I call them, we're ants, half the time. We'll stuff that we really get rolling on. Like, how did we even get here? Yeah. It'd be like waking up in Iowa one day, you know, like, what the fuck? That is our show. We wake up in Iowa all the time. You know what it is though, too? I think I have realized that I get a lot of people to say, get a ton out of the show. Like, a good good information. And I'm like, oh, really? Because I don't always know when it happens because I, I think it's because, when from jump, we had decided we weren't going to overly think. Right. And just let them take it where it goes, you know? Because I think outside looking in, like when we're having our conversation, I'm more interested in the random pieces or your view on something already know. Right. You know, like, even for you, like, I already know your opinion a lot of stuff. But when you explain your view and sometimes you'll catch something, I go, oh, that actually might even alter mine a little bit. You know what I'm saying? So I think people like that, you know, it's off the cuff a little bit better that way. Oh, here we go. That's a good one. I got a good one. How did Jay color get his biggest heated without train to failure? And they put in parentheses as he claims. Why? I think that that's just semantics and misunderstanding of each other's language. So Jay trained to failure plenty. Like, you know, so you'd watch him do those set to T bar rows. And you know, the first six reps would be explosive. And then maybe the last two were kind of sloppy. Mm-hmm. That's training to failure. Right. Because form degradation equals failure. So you allow a certain amount of form to go out the window to complete one or two extra reps. You know, it's just like doing cheat curls. So, you know, there's all sort of that one arm dumbbell rows. I mean, you could pull the first, the first aid or perfect. And then the last two have some even. And that's still training to failure. Right. This is a dumbbell didn't stop moving. Doesn't mean you're not taking them up in the muscle to mechanical failure. And, you know, that's, and Jay had that style of training. You know, he seemed to do in the press downs. And he's banging about, and then the last few were like, fuck, you know. So I would argue that I think Jay is just sort of interpreting like if you were, if, if, let's say that's an actual question that was posed to them. And he responded, no. I think he's he's just thinking like Dorian style training like with the four straps and all that stuff. Yeah, or the bar literally he's or the bar literally stops moving. Yeah, I try to put it off him. Yeah, I can. You know, you got a factor into his Jay's volume like, yeah, muscular failure in my brain is also an overall thing. Like you could train a set to failure, but not the muscle to failure. You're soon saying like if I walked out after one set of failure, the muscle's not really done. It was just done in that moment to time, you know, Jay, I think took his muscles further than I did or do because his volume was obscene. And he still trained heavy. I love people. Jay didn't train heavy. I'm like, I've seen Jay in 245. Like what do you talk about? Right in front of my eyes. Like, yeah, Jay was squat five, played all the time when he was younger. Yeah. I think that you, it gets forgotten also that by the time you're watching most of these guys that are really, really good, they're already there. Yeah. And now they're refining, you know what I mean? And I think that's one thing that gets a little bit detracted as you follow someone like me. And it's like, this is the only thing I, this is what keeps me functioning. You know what I mean? I have to train this way, whereas you know, a fill he doesn't. I hate the comparisons to the greats because people really don't understand they're not like us. Okay. You know, like all of us, you know what I mean? And some of them are, I mean, like I find like Sean Clarita's a great example. Like he has to murder it every single day to be as big as he is both at the table and in the gym. You know what I mean? Like he is genetically awesome, but he's got the fighting thing against it. His body wants to be small. You know, so he has to overcome that. But when he does overcome it, the picture, the end result is much better than me overcoming it. Right. You know what I mean? So, right. I know what you mean. I know what you mean. I know what you mean. Okay. I've got a TV show one. Oh boy. Yes. Yes. So, I'm not, this could be any girlfriend in history, but you know, it's posed at me. So it says, what has your girl made you watch that you ended up really liking? Hmm. So overall made you watch. Well, I have a few. Obviously girlfriends and shows. Yeah. Um, have you on Got Me into Daxter? Which was top five all-time shows for me for sure. I can't wait for that to come back. And then, more recently, I love, I watch home shows, like when they build houses and shit. Right. Um, but I recently started picking up this one where people win the lottery. And then they have to go buy a house. And it depends on how much money they won. What the house looks like, where they take them to like three different houses, show them the plus and minuses. That is where my world is now. Is I watch freaking real estate shit. Really? The base piece, like, you know what it is, I was explaining this the other day. You know, I haven't kicked off still with, um, uh, what is it? Yellowstone? Right. And you know why? I can't commit to something where I'm going to be back to it. Within the next couple of weeks, even. Right. So literally the thought of getting something going where I'm like, Ah fuck, what's happening again? Doesn't work. Anything I watch has to be, start and end today. Right. If I happen to watch, you know what I mean? Like to give an idea last night I watched television. There were four, four games last night, hockey games. No, five games, five games yesterday. And I watched each of their, um, highlights. Because I get the NHL on the band. Right. That's all the tellers know what's yesterday. Right. I guess that was good. It's two in the morning. I need to go to bed now. Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I don't have TV. So, you know, we watch. We usually watch one episode of something every night. That's kind of our like chill out, turn the phones off, watch an episode, eat a meal, you know, and then we get the rest of the night, you know, chill out. What was your show that you've been that Emily, well, Well, Emily, Emily's the one that wanted to watch American Horror Story initially. Right. So that was her pick like way back. And so I mean, now they're on like season 10 or whatever, right? So we've seen all of those. And then she also picked more recently. Like, um, we watched that show Ratchet. Oh, right. Are you, do you talk to her that one? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, she picked that. That was cool because it was like twisted and fucked up. Right. You know, and then she, you know, you know, how your, our trend is we'll be watching like a big series. Right. And we'll run out of episodes. So then you're waiting, right? Right. So, you know, your donos are, you know, we finished home land in their Donohle lands. So there's no more common. And we finished this. We finished that. And so you're in that limbo period plus with COVID. Yeah. So everyone's going to limo period about a year coming up here. There's like this big stretch where we've been like, there's, you know, there's no Ozark, there's no, you know, we're just waiting for stuff, right? Right. So we watched a bunch of stuff like, you know, those little, they'll be like a, a netflix show that only has, you know, two seasons. And then it's right. So we watched it's you of those. And some of those are like, actually pretty entertaining. So she picked a few of those that were good. And then I actually recently just, because I was wanted to watch it because I heard it was, I heard it was really good. So we started watching Banshee. I've never seen it. I've never seen it. I've never seen it. No. So it's on HBO. We had HBO. So sort of watching it's four seasons. And then they wrap it up, I believe. And I'll take this season five. Right. But it's, it's basically about a guy who gets, about a guy who gets at a jail and to try to evade these people that are trying to kill him. He steals the identity of a small town sheriff who just happens to get killed. Right. So he becomes a small town sheriff. And that's kind of the basis of the show, but, you know, he's an ex-con and all that stuff. Right. So anyways, turns out it's wildly entertaining because it's really trashy. There's like, there's lots of sex. There's like four, right now there's currently like four or five pretty attractive women in it that kind of take turns being naked. That's a lovely show. You know, there's like the one cop. There's this like younger, Amish girl. There's this, you know, Amish girl. How do they pull that one? Wow. They're in the small town Pennsylvania. Right. Right. So there's this. There's these other people involved. It's, you know, it's kind of like yellow stone, right? Right. And so there's all these characters and they all kind of and he manages to bang all of them. And then there's grit, who it is violence? Like, you know, when someone comes to try to kill him, it's not like bang bang. It's like, you know, broken femur sticking out of the leg. Oh, you know, throat ripped out of the neck, you know, blood everywhere. Like it's fucking bloody and messy. It's, it's, it's so it's, it's trash. Like there's one point like, I don't know, like season two. Emily looked at me after an episode. She's like, this shows almost too violent for me. Right on the edge. Right on the edge. So they were right on the edge. This shows almost too violent for me. Like that. That was a little rough, you know, great gun fights. Like it's, it's, it's, it's, it's out of hand. It's even worse in sons for being like kind of unrealistically violent. That makes me want to watch it. Yeah, I'm enjoying it. I like, you know, it is, I like any show though, where the writer commits to an end or writer writers to the end before it's happening. Right. Because for example, sons, it didn't need to end. And in fact, the way they made it end was kind of like they just fucking cut the script in half and just said, we're done now because. Right. You don't even, but that's how life ends. But I like the fact that they did that because other shows like I really feel that suits got drug on one too many years in the last season sucked. Right. You know, which might have had to do with Megan being a bitch and leaving but whatever. Um, we're not personal. It's not personal, but she ruined my show. Um, Thank you. Uh, but, let's see here. I'm trying to get a, these are, oh, so many of these are directed right at me. Well, that's obvious. Oh, now we're getting into the deep stuff. All right, run. You got to replace your penis and your balls with a fruit slash vegetable. What do you choose? Why? I think I would go with a banana for the penis. I mean, I mean, I mean, you want some curve. You don't go cucumber with zero curve. Do you want lightsaber? You don't have those, they have those one cucumbers and have like other little. Yeah, yes. The long one of the English ones are stress. You can get like some plenty big bananas. Like it's not like there's size and she with a banana. You can pick out a pretty decent banana. It's going to be more than you'll ever need because remember. Yes. Yes. You got to do it. You don't want to be too big for anal. Right. You could, you could, oh, you could, oh, wish yourself into trouble if if you go too big on that. So, and then there's only a certain type of girl you can hang out with. That's just going to cost problems. So, so I would, yeah, I don't know. Good old banana. Can't go wrong with that. I think that's pretty decent. And what do you pick for for testicles? Because you don't want them huge because then we got like press issues. I don't have peace with the same size. What I actually have. It's just going to be. I just think, I just think like a, a good size, great for a small plump. See. I was like, well, drug problems, that'd be sort of used to. We're good to go. It's all the space issues run. I want space. Right. Right. I guess you'll. I guess you'll. Bad for a normal man. I'm like, What does he do with that shit down there? I guess the issue with the banana is is that it's not actually that that hard. Like, Is that a problem? Do you need to go with something like a more like a and egg plant? The egg plant, like the one at the end is so. Yeah. That's not going to work. You know, tricky. It's funny that you said that about the size. Do you follow God? What's his. I got to look up his last name before I run this because it's important, which. Yeah, make sure because when you said Tyler Manning, you didn't say Tyler Manion. Manion, you're right. Sean Walland. Do you follow him? Sean Walland. Yeah. You know, okay, we should. But somebody asked him a question about like a 12 inch dick. And he literally just went on a rampage. He was like, no woman wants a 12 inch dick as a daily driver. So don't even wish that on your. He's a daily driver. And I died. And I got and I had had a couple women send that to me laughing. They were damn right. So your banana is very accurate. You don't want to. You know, too far with this, you know, but I think it banana because you get the outside too. Is plenty. You know, do you want to grab one or do you want the visual? You're good. Okay. I don't know. I don't know how far we need to take this. Do we need to. You can see, but this one has a little curve never mind. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm going to I'm going to side with you on the banana. And like I said, I'm sticking to peas. So just don't want more than I'm used to. Same as ridiculous. I'm not trying to lie here. Exactly. I don't want to be confused. What's going on here. Okay. Oh, this is a good one. And I like that you would answer this one. So I'm jumping ahead. You only have 10,000 to invest. What are you investing in and why? Right now this second. Yeah. And I can just pull it out whenever I want. So you're just saying like right now today. Just $10,000 to invest. Yep. Well, I mean, 10,000 is not enough to bike by property or anything. No, no. I don't know. I mean, you know, it's and so does not much you can do with 10 grand. If that's just your like be all end all. But I can tell you that Bitcoin's cheap right now and Ethereum's cheap right now. Everything just crash. So I mean, I lost some money last week, but I don't it's it doesn't even it doesn't even face because it's not real money. And I know it's going to go back. Yeah. Yeah. Yes. Because like everyone's crypto plummeted last week. So it's actually get time to buy. And and it's going to go up again. And you know what's going to go to a new high. So if I had 10,000, I'd just buy 10,000 of Ethereum or Bitcoin, one of the two or three most stable ones. And I just wait for it to go back up to like whatever a new high is. And I'd sell it. Because you know what's going to go to a new high again. Yeah, actually there's one now that I bought a ton of called Cardano. Oh, yeah. That I would I would probably put a big chunk to that because it's so cheap right now. Yeah. And they're looking at that one blowing up significantly the next five years. And I consider five years to be a short term investment. You know, it's funny because like you said. When when when it tank because of Biden being a moron and what he's thinking about doing. Um, my first thought was okay, good. I'm going to buy some more. Just going to wait. Right. So it dips a little bit more. And then because it was funny, I had bought another three grand of it that day. And then I went to the gym and I came out of the gym and that happened. I was like, you deck. Oh well. Right. You know, so yeah, I would do the same. The other answer I was going to say is for 10,000. Um, the other option that might be a faster turn for me would be I'm investing myself. So I would. Buy another website. I would you know, I mean, something that I'm big on betting on me. Right. Because even, you know, the coins and all that it's not in our control. Whereas if I invest 10 grand into one of my online businesses, that's a ton. And I can really make some cash on it. Like we just I just popped up on a website last week. Because we had an idea and it's like, oh, you know, $15 later. That'll that'll make me a fortune. You know, so 10,000 and those types of things is a lot. Um, let's find out a couple of questions like this. I put up a post about your goals and having a specific goal in mind. Uh, and one guy asked me like he asked me on there, which I had an answer yet. And then he asked me in the questions again. Um, other sources of income. It's hard for me to answer because I wanted it like in my brain. I'm like, if you can't think of one other way to make money. You're fucked because I can think of a million sitting here. Right. You know what I mean with the internet, like I really feel like it's limitless. What you can come up with, you know what I mean. I want to I tell people like, what do you into? Like what do you passion about that's fun? Not like I'm not saying I'm going to career, but you want a side income. Right. Oh, you're like poking on cool. There's probably a way to make money on that. Yep. Yeah. You know, you know, it's like, I think some people forget when they're in a dead end job and they're not. Or should it say dead end, but they're checked to check. If you're making 50 grand, if you brought in another 10, that's a ton. You know what I mean? Everything is based on how much you make. I read an article a long time ago about the amount of money it takes to change your life in each phase of life. So like when you're making 30 grand, if you can make 35, that's life changing. But like if you have $2 million, there's nothing you can do with 5 million, you can't do it too. Right. A cash for things. But I mean other than that, it really doesn't change your life. The jumps have to become enormous, you know. There's been several studies now and they keep reinforcing each other on the happiness threshold. Have you seen that one for income? I haven't. So they say once you make and this is I think based on like, you know, North American standards like with our money. Right. Once you make $65,000 a year in most of our area, your happiness doesn't go up anymore. Because your happiness is affected largely by security, having shelter, food, water, and water, having all the important things taking care of and knowing that you're not going to be homeless or starving. Right. And once you know that you're secure, money doesn't really buy happiness after that point. Right. So that was very interesting. Yeah. So as like once you're out of like the risk, you know, sort of area of life and you're making about 65,000 a year. Obviously there's certain places where 65,000 goes farther than others. You'd be fucked if you lived here, but yes. Well, yeah, but I guess for most people that's still where the happiness threshold goes. You know, the stress goes down enough that the happiness like doesn't really go any higher after that. Well, don't you think there are a lot of that too? I mean, I think a lot of that comes with the fact that most people when they start making more, start spending more. Yeah. That's a number of things. It really becomes an issue because they don't have any more money at 150. They do it 65 because they bought us dumb shit. Yeah, because you know, I always really, really like the saying that's not how much you make it. It's how much you keep. Right. And I always, because you know, I mean, somebody would just spend their money on crazy shit, you know. And I honestly think like, you know, that Gary Vee, and remember when he was talking about how he didn't buy a new car until he was already a millionaire. Right. Right. And I remember just thinking about just car payments alone. So like just the fact that I never bought a car on car payments, I only like paid cash for decent vehicles and then drove them into the ground. I did that for most of my life. Right. Just the money on I saved on that that I was able to put into other stuff is like huge. Yeah. Things that things that were were not depreciated. Yeah. Yeah. I don't even like use word assets, but after depreciating, it's come like, but no, yeah, I do find that interesting because it's, it's something that comes up a ton just because I've been really fascinated on the flip of. When I read things about lack of money that people have, I'm not talking about being fancy. I'm talking about like a shit happens. They don't have a thousand dollars. But most people that are in that scenario do go shopping for Black Friday and do have two of our pictures on. And I'm like, wow. Like it's it's, you know, it's just odd to me because what makes me happy is that I'm not worried at all. Like my lifestyle is so below where I'm at, but you know, if money stopped coming in for a year, I'd be fine. Right. And I also have like, nope, like my food bill still isn't. I still don't spend much on food relative to how much I eat. Right. I still buy no name brand oatmeal. And so like I don't give a shit, you know? Yeah. I buy good, like, Emily buys the expensive tuna because we've been through tuna before. Yeah. You're in the bag, sorry. Are you in the bag? You've had like, that's like, like, good meat and everything like that, but certain things I don't like, you know what I mean? Well, the difference and things that you had are like who we've talked about before. We just ages that I buy all my meat from. They do a half price sale every year, well twice a year. When they do that, game on. Yeah. I'm like, okay, I mean, I think I spent a thousand bucks this week, but I eat it all the time. It's not an option. So it literally in my brand, I'm like, no, I spent a thousand and two thousand. Right. Right. Right. I don't eat more because I haven't. So, you're all good. So, all right. Well, you got one. Okay. So did you see? You didn't see any Joe Rogan the past week? No, other than the fights. So he had a guest on, I can't fuck remember her name now. But she brought up a topic and she went off on estrogens and plastic. And how the plastics and the petroleum's in our environment and in our food and in our ecosystem have been affecting the development of males. Right. Because the zenoestrogens and all that sort of stuff. And yeah, so I see just everyone go listen to that clip. She talks about, and I don't want to get this shit wrong. I don't want to get too detailed. But how, you know, over the last like 40 years, you know, testosterone levels are dropping. Average male testosterone is dropping. Average male sperm count is dropping. There's even evidence where she talks about how they measure. Like, I think it's on, I can't remember whether it was the babies or the feeduses on, on all the, but they measure like penises and stuff like that and that average, it's actually shrinking the average. So we're talking, you know, might be tiny, tiny amounts, but the data shows it's actually trending downward. And she talks about estrogens in our food and, you know, microwaving food in plastic and all that sort of stuff. So I'm asking, do you, do you consider plastics in your daily, like, do you use glass containers in the microwave, is it for that reason? You know, does that stuff cross your mind? It doesn't. Now, of course, I have the, the plastics that won't kill you from cancer and shit like that. Right. The beef. Yeah. But I don't think that affects what you're talking about. I don't think about that, but coincidentally, because I'm always home, I don't use plastic much anymore. I mean, aside from, you know, something like that. But it's interesting. I feel like in some ways things are just naturally in my life going in that direction. Like, now I drink out of those ice shakers all the time, because that's what we have. They can them made, you know, so it's like, a lot of it's happened on accident. But yeah, I don't, I don't consider it, but on the flip, I am obsessive about blood work and estrogine on all that. Right. Right. I think I default, but I don't think of it. Maybe as I should in that way, you know, she, she really was sounding an alarm. She was like, this is a downward trend. And it, it's very clear. The, the, the dad is very clear. So if we allow it to continue infinitely, men will become sterile. And that would end to human species. And we have to get our fucking heads together and make sure this doesn't happen. And it was fucking nuts. Because there's a movie called Children of Men, which I think I've mentioned before as Clival and in it, great movie. 2007, I think. But in that movie, the women have become infertile due to environmental pollution. Right. So there's no more kids being born. So like the societies just like coming apart at the seams, right? That's the fucking end of humanity. So it's, it's a really crazy concept. But here we are. She's like, she's saying, hey, this is coming. Right. We have to stop this poisoning of ourselves because it's fucking up our hormones. And it's gonna, it's gonna, you know, cause dire consequences. So yeah, it was very interesting. But I've, I've been into the, kind of the glass, Tupperware. You choose glass ofwear, remember that? Yeah, I always do. Yeah. And, and I've been into that for a long time. And that, that was actually something that I remember grown up as a kid. My mom would, would always be like, don't microwave in that. Microwave in glass bowl and put it in a plastic container. Like, she would say that to us all time. Right. So I just grew up around being sort of aware of microwaveing with plastic. And, you know, obviously as a bodybuilder, I sort of got like reckless and didn't give a fuck for like a while. Right. You know, because in the 90s we weren't doing that. But I remember when Ben, if it calls, he started to kind of make it fashionable to talk about plastics. And, and he was using the glass top where I remember thinking, oh, I'm already doing that. And then I remember reading about Evan Centupani talking about it. Oh, yeah. Evan's just he was big on it. And Evan was big on the stainless steel shaker and stuff like that. Yep. Yeah. And at the time, I had switched over to stainless steel. So I was like, oh, I'm already doing all that. So I, I've been to that. I definitely think it's something that we should consider. Right. So there's your free, there's your free plug, I shaker. They're coming out with a 36-ounce bottle in May, so I'm pretty stoked about that. We just did a shaker for West Coast. It's awesome. Did you? And it made me one for me. It's funny that it reached out and said, you know, want to make your shaker. So I literally was like, oh, that'd be awesome. Can I, but I want to buy some also, you know, they're like, okay. And I said, I want to get the big one. They're like, what doesn't come to May. So I thought it was pretty amazed that the guy was like, oh, I'm going to make you one for now. Anyways, and literally I sent him my logo in the next morning. I got a thing from USPS. It's on the way. I was like, I'm sorry. I sent you the logo like last night. What the hell. I was, they're all happy. They're really good. It was, it was funny. I heard that Rogan episode and then the very next day. One of the guys from mutant drop by the gym and gave me, they do it as they did a stainless steel shaker. That's all that. He dropped it off. I was like, oh, this is hilarious because I just got mine like the day I heard the interview. So you said you were making them for West Coast now too? Well, no, we just got a big jug done. Okay. Yeah. So yeah, we like it. It's cool. So, okay. You got another one? I have a Julian other ones actually. Let's do a training one. You got to do some training. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Okay. Because I have less and less training, but here I actually, I have some that'll be really good. This dude just asked me about the natural. I love when they do that. I do think they're being cute. Nadi? Of course. Yes. I haven't taken anything since two days ago. As whole. Just a dumb fucking question. One second. Okay. I want to get to it because I saw some people asked about push full legs. Yeah. I've got a couple people that I just started on a push pull legs. Well, fuck. Ask one of you've got them because I need to find this specific one that was good. Okay. Okay. I got a bunch. What's your favorite chess press machine in the world right now? Yeah. Oh, but. Prime. Incline. The. They're in climb chess press. Okay. That's cool. Yeah. I love that one. Yeah. I love prime in general. Like where do you put the plates on it? How do you load it? So it's funny, but I always start with one on each. Right. You know, as I'm getting going, but my weakness right now is at the end of the range. So I'm actually purposely weighing that more. Okay. Okay. Because I've trained so long. It's actually the woman that's helping with my stretching. Megan. I have like no strength in the beginning. And then the end of movements. Like not here. Because I don't. I don't train in those ranges. So I can literally. Structural like just. See, I fix position squeezing my hamstring to where my heel would touch my glutes. I can't do that with no way. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, which I think every single person's listening is probably it's got size. Can't do it either. But if you get stronger in those areas, you'll be stronger across the board. So now I'm purposely trying to load areas that I'm weak. Which is kind of fun. Right. Yeah. I love that piece. What about you? Yeah. That's cool. Well, we have the Atlantis. The seated where you're like not laying on your back. You're seated. Yes. We have the Atlantis flat press. So some people think it's a bit of an incline, but it's a flat press. It just it sweeps up on you a little. The way of Bench is supposed to. Yeah. Anyways. I love that piece. It's it's that one come together or no? It's it's it's converging. It does. Yes. But it it's not drastic. Okay. So it's more like your handling dumbbells. Like it's not a fake. It's not like your hands come like right together. Like, if you use the flat one, um, that's it golds vines. That's plate loaded. I don't even know what brand it is. But it's all the way together. It's a sidebex fly press. That thing will embarrass you. Yeah. It's it's a really it's a really tough movement. Like people put it in it too. Yes. Tricky. That's why I asked if it like converged. Good word. I didn't know that even exist. Because like if it's too much, I find I'm focusing too much on the machine. Trying to go all over the place. Yeah. I know you know versus like a press. It I've really. I don't. It's funny. We push I push on my my people all the time. I don't like to do a lot of things where I have to worry. I just want to push the weight. That's why I like Smith machine is why like machines. Like I just the best way to grow. You know what I mean? So you wouldn't have that before. Is that newer? I've never used that. You're joking. Yeah. You've never seen it. We got it since you're here last time. We got we got that. But it's it's great. And one of the things he did is it's. So you know how a lot of hammer stuff. Get heavier as you push out. Yep. So it's the opposite of that. It's heaviest in the stretch. So it's super loaded in the stress. So as it comes down. Fuck and loads on you, you know. And then as you come up at D loads slightly. And it's heavier. It's heavier. You're strongest. Yeah. So that's from natural strength curve. And then what they did is they put band pegs on it. So if you wanted to flip the strength curve. You just. So that's awesome. So it's, you know, it's it's a dual dual purpose. You know, you can do both. So yeah, that's a great piece. And got one buddy. That's a. Yeah, good. A few here. Pump, pump, pump, pump, pump. Jesus, this is something. I had this one. And there's how much of a mind fuck is it. Well, down sizing. I had a guy that just said the same thing. But he was asking. He wants to do what you guys are doing. So explain that a little bit. Because I don't think he would be at all a bit. Go ahead. So I mean, obviously when I first. You know, started downsizing. You know, there was a little bit like a fucking all wonder how. You know, the the odd dad put a shirt on. Right. It was like fuck. It's not tight in the sleeves anymore. Like, you know, this shirt used to be tight in the sleeves. You know. And so then like maybe that shirt doesn't get worn anymore. You know what I mean? Like I just switched my clothes a little bit. And and then there's a couple of hoodies I had that were four acts. And the day came where I was like, Oh, this hoodie's too big for me now. Which kind of socks? Because one of my favorite hoodies was my giant black and red metro flex one that he gave us when we were there. Yeah. I love that fucking hoodie. It's like super warm in the winter. It's just such a sharp hoodie. And it's too big for me now. It's a four acts. It's fucking tent on me. Like fuck. This was good. Yeah, like you got to be 300 pounds to wear that. You know, like it's it's big. So I that was a little sad. And I had to take that off the rotation rack and put it in the put it in the drawer. It's here. So yeah, there's been some wardrobe changes and some clothing where I was like, Oh, that shirt's got to go fuck. I like that shirt. You know, have you found? And I mean, this is a quite legit question for me that. Because the goal isn't to be bigger anymore. It's intentional that it's kind of like all the benefits you're having. You kind of forget. Well, that's helping now. Like, because also when you're so lean that now, like, I could say on the flip, you know how it is when you're heavy. Like, as I'm progressing and pushing into heavier, like, I know I don't look great. Right. And yeah, if you look smaller when you're heavier, you don't want to take your shirt off because you're like, you know, it's great for anyone else. It's a bodybuilding. I'm fast fuck. Like, you literally, it's like, there's somebody's like, Oh, right. When you look like right now, like, peel out of my fucking mind. Two, four, seven. Always grip. You know, you definitely have to like appreciate the other stuff, you know? Right. And then, of course, like writing the bike is really helped because now I actually have like a benefit of being lighter that's obviously presenting itself to me, you know, and them, you know, that that, you know, adds enjoyment to, you know, quality of life and all that stuff. But yeah, there's a little bit of a head fuck, you know. There was certain there was, there was a lot of stuff in the gym that didn't bother me. And then there was a handful of things that did. And that was interesting to me. So like, I didn't give a fuck that I started using the last one, the preacher curl. Right. I didn't give a fuck that I used a little bit less on the leg curl. And I moved the pin down on this. I didn't give a fuck, but when I dropped down below the 120 pound dumbbells on in client. And there's like days when I use the 110s now. Right. I'm like fuck, those aren't the 120s. And, and, and then I had a long think the other day I'm like, why is it 120? Why does that number? Why do 120 pound dumbbells on the in client? Mean something to me. Why is it 130 or 140? Right. And it's because the gym I started at, the dumbbells went to 120. And I remember using him was the thing. Yeah. And if you could incline the 120s, you were like a monster in that gym. And I remember I was pound in the 120s by the time I was like, 1920 years old. Right. And I was like, so that just kind of like, that's why that number's well. And then I was like, why that number's woven in there. Right. So there's days when we do like incline dumbbells second or third. And you're like hundreds, hundreds. And you're like the 110s or something. You know, and I'll break them did the 130s the other day. So he's like big, sick, the big boy now, right? Right. So yeah, it's just kind of funny. So there's certain exercises where I was like, man, end of an era. I can see that though because, you know, people will ask me about like hockey. When you know, when there's the last time you skate on like it's the last time I played for real. I mean, technically it's not true. I did one one game. There was like a celebrity game for a cop here that got shot. And that was the game where I was done because it was no checking or nothing. And I was fucked. I have no interest in doing things. Once you've done it with this level, I mean, I got, I will not be dead lifting for high numbers in my brain. What I'm done. Right. Something like, I'm out my deadlift. It'll be like, can I get, how many, how strong am I for 15? Right. You're like, I have to get out of that game and do a different game because if not, it's kind of same. I know a lot of people are like, oh, you don't, I love men's. Like it's so much fun. I'm like, those guys suck. I don't want to play with shitty hockey players. Right. You know, it's so it's the same with Biden. But I think for me, I will have to change the direction pretty drastically because, and it's funny, has nothing to do with anyone else. I don't even pay attention to the gym to who's watching or what's happening anymore. Like, doesn't add it to me. But the day that I'm, you know, getting on a hack and squeak in at reps of five plates is going to fucking piss me off. Oh yeah. You don't have to say I'm winning warm up late because it's funny. Like you said, when you think about strength, like, I do fly presses with one 30s. And you're right. There's going to be a day where I'm grabbing the hundreds of getting ready for a fucking working set. Like here we go for presses. Yeah. Yeah. Two for six. One of the things that helps me a little bit, I have to admit, it does help a little is, you know, like, I get on the hacksquat now with five plates and pound out my set. And I could go up and wait. But I always choose not to. I'm like, nope, I'm going to do five plates. I'll make them a little slower. I'm going to stretch, you know, make this set harder. Maybe I'll get 12 and set a 10. So, but then I always think in my head, I'm like, fuck, that's pretty awesome that I can still do this and also do this other stuff now. Right. You know? So yeah. So there's like that, that helps too. But yeah, downsizing to head fuck, you know? Yeah. I think there's some parts, but though that you could definitely dig, you know, like, I, I, I love to point it out to guys because they're just young guys are so obsessed that somehow it's going to help them with women. And I'm like, I've never dated a woman who was into the fact that I'm my size. They just accepted the fact. So it's I have, I have, and I will tell, I will say this. I've had more women casually tell me I look great. Like you look great. Like how you doing? Have a 10 for a while. You look great. Like I've had more women, casually tell me I look great. Since I downsize, then then like ever when I was bodybuilding. I have to tell you this, you'll laugh on that note. So I'm in a fiber nutrition one day and those are the stores that I used to own. And we're standing there and he used to always play our videos right in there. And so we're standing in, I love Lance. He's mocking me in whatever because I'm, he's like, you own the TV, but you're in the stores, give me shit. And I'm just rollin' my eyes and this lady stand there and she goes, I've never really been into like really big dudes. And I was like, oh, she goes, but I'd like to try it sometime though. I mean, just to see what it is. And I kind of like looked around. So she leaves, it's just casually ask you to sleep. I'm like, yeah, she's probably like the heart of my life. I was like, that was different. So we're both customers at this guy's story. When you figure about that, but I laugh because I always bring up because I think about that with guys. I'm like, that doesn't happen because even her answer, I'm not into big guys at all. You know, I like it. I like it. I like it. What does it try it? What do you mean by try it? Do you like it? Have it a bite of food. Try it? I'll try it. I'll try it. I'll stir it. Let's see how the things are like holding the dick. It's just sample. I'm like, you're not done here. She was like, try it. It wasn't that great. Fuck. Do you want to come in the back and try it? What do you say? It was literally, I was died of like, that just happened real life. Okay. All right. Found a training question. Basically. Do you think shows things to show with a training question? Or trying. Do you think shoulder presses are necessary for the doubts or the incline pressing for chest enough? So my answer to this is no. And the reason my answer is no is because I think that I don't like absolutes. Right. So I don't like to say that you must do something. Right. Because I think there's always another way to figure something out. Muscles grow by overloading them. So no, I would say you don't need to shoulder press. Now, that doesn't mean that he doesn't need to shoulder press. Right. We're saying that not everyone always needs to shoulder press to grow doubts. There's probably someone out there who can get awesome doubts without pressing. I've known lots of body builders that have had too many injuries and they've stopped shoulder pressing. And they still have great doubts. Right. I've known a lot of guys like that. So but of course, you already had them and they just kept them. So there's that, but you know, just like Dorian's thing about squatting, you know, I mean he's quadred a lot. Then he got hurt and he never squatted again. And then he went Olympias after that. So, you know, I've had little phases where I stopped shoulder pressing just because I couldn't do them. Like I had injury issues and rotator issues and stuff. But I was returned to them because I felt like, I felt like my shoulders were always bigger when I was able to press well. They are the main overload exercise. But you could also do a high-enclined press and that would load the front delts. Load the like if you did like a little bit higher in fine. That loads a shit out of the front delts. So I'm sure there's a way that you could find a work around to not press. Yeah. So yeah, I mean probably most people should press if they want big doubts. But I'm sure there's a way to do it without. Yeah, I think two one thing I liked factor is I think barbell pressing in general sucks. Now I do it. But when I'm talking about across the board, like I would much rather get on a machine that allows the bar to cut right through my head as it should. And go straight up, which is of course an arsenal shoulder press, you know, a prime shoulder press. I'm going to want some of the machines. You know what I mean? These are all great options that I think are superior to a barbell shoulder press. So my problem with looking back on all my years is that now, anything I do with a straight barbell, but there'd be curls, skull crushers, bent any kind of pressing shoulder pressing anything done with a straight bar. Hurts my elbows my shoulders, something fucking hurts. Right. And that tells me that those movement patterns aren't that natural to begin with. No, right. But there's something you have to do. If you had an injury, which we all have to one side of your body, then either during the injury or like in my case where it's a permanent thing, my left half of my body does not move the same as my right half. Yeah. So if I'm stuck to a bar, then my left elbow is actually moving completely different during a press than my right elbow. Yeah. That's not good. You know, pretty simple. So, all right, I got one that we're going to finish the show with because I think it really matters and it kind of keeps us on point. What city slash country has the hardest women on the planet? Well, I know I have a big, I'm sorry, buddy. Funny. So, well, I mean, I don't know the actual stats. So I'll tell you something funny. I have heard many famous people who were quoted as saying they had to go to Edmonton for some reason. Like where I'm from right where I used to live. Edmonton had to go there to shoot a movie or they did something. And I had to go to Edmonton for some reason. Or even like hockey players would get traded at Matent or something like that. But there's a bunch of famous quotes of people saying they're like, it's a cold northern city. And there is so many hot girls here. I just remember that. And I remember being from there and going, oh, maybe it's not too bad to live here where it's minus 30 half. It's sort of something that maybe give you a little bit of like, stick around this town. Yeah, but, but no, you know, just, I mean, I think there's beautiful women everywhere. I've never, I've never found it difficult to find the beauty in the surrounding environment. Because I have appreciation for all sorts of ecosystems. See, my answer was going to be a lot more simple, which was whatever city, the current giant body building expo is that. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Well, that's the same. Maybe that's why every city I go to. It's really hard for us to just like I think about like, well, the man on. It's every woman come with us has whole bunch of fitness girls at every hotel. They're all the same. Yeah, I've never been to a hotel. I didn't have at least 40 rock-and-body women walking around. I'm a bunch of meheads. I just, it seems like that's how, everyone in the world. That is fun. Thank you. Thank you. I, I will say that there was, uh, so as far as, you know, traveling where the expo's are going, that's such a skewed view of the world, right? Yeah. So, so if I think about not going to expose and just travel itself, I, I will say that when I went to Chile, I remember thinking like, just like walking around the normal part of town and trying to find a gym and stuff. I remember being like, oh, like, everyone here's all the girls here. I'll attract if you have a naked shape. And, but then there you go. I know it's South America, but it's got that European thing to it. Everyone's walking everywhere. Nobody's awake. It's like, you go to order a meal and it's kind of small. Yeah. It's just, it's just that different feel. It's just a different, different, you know, way to live. And so yeah, it was, I did notice that. I got to get chili some props. You're looking to you guys over here. Yeah. I love that. I used to say when I was a kid that I thought Utah was, was up there for sure. But I like read a one women. Yeah, but I was going to say I thought it was mathematical because everyone has like a different, so the odds of popping out a hot chick were just high at least one in every family. I remember I used to think that, I'm like, well, but if you do the math, I mean, of course. Right. You know, they're popping out kids. No problem. They're not, they're not eating out of plastic. That's for damn sure. Oh. That's good. I like that. And it's a funny reminder of how skewed your vision of reality is when you travel with the expose. Oh, I found that in life in every single way that I have no, I like remember the question about the 225 bench. Yeah. What I think the world is is so not paid. That part of the problem of being at my gym. Right. I just like that gyms just told me, right? It's just a couple. And then there'll be like a new member will join up and I'll go up to him and go, hey, you know, how's it going? I remember and they'll be like, the all the girls here are amazing and all the guys here are like monsters. Like this gym is nuts. Oh, okay. Yeah. Like, oh, yeah. I guess there are a lot of people here that are pretty serious, but it's just normal to me. It doesn't even occur to cross my mind. Yes. Yeah. It's funny because that is literally how life is when you when you live in a certain area. Because, well, don't you have the most fake boobs per capita in the United States? In Scottsdale? I assume so. But for example, Nicky wants a Range Rover, right? And I happened to see one that was death out. So I took a picture and I sent it to her of a black one and she goes, it's a sign from the universe. And I laughed. I said, we're in Scottsdale. If that was a sign from the universe, you get them all day. And literally, right when I said that, I said, for example, I took a picture of two or three Rangeovers all taking a right turn that were right next to me. And next to me, one, two, three, I was like, she goes, if I live there, I wouldn't want one. I'm like, no, you wouldn't. That's like out here in Vancouver. We all have them. The Joe Karen Vancouver, as you'll see, you'll see a Lamborghini with an L sticker on it. Well, because when you're just starting the first two years of your license, you have to have an L where an, I think it's an M. I can't. I'm going to need your specifying. I don't know what that means. But it's, you have to have this sticker on the back of your car. It's like you're like a new driver. So it's like a driver. I don't know. So we can't drive in a lamp. But didn't you know how to fucking drive? It's true. But if that's all you know, it's home. Like, the lambs are normal. Yeah, lambs are normal with fucking nands, tickers on the back of them. It's crazy. Okay. Okay. Thanks, everybody. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, ring the bell. I'm excited. I got shoulders today. And I'm looking forward to it. Buddy, the shoulder pumps have been really good lately. All right. Get your plan. I'm off today and tomorrow's day one push. Okay. Program that I have not even read yet. So I want you to post like the actual workout. I'm going to. And today I'm posting everything I pictures on my stories because I haven't started my log yet. But I just want people to know like, this is the start because I am going to actually point everything. I had somebody sarcastically put on my questions like, what's the side? Why? Why? Why didn't mention the thousand and a draw a day? Yeah. Why I always leave that out. You know that. Just a bottle. Just a case. Okay. Thanks, Dusty. Remember everybody. It's just bodybuilding. Thanks Dusty. Remember everybody. It's just bodybuilding.

Hey everybody, welcome to episode 89 of It's Just Body Building. Dusty Han Chom myself, Big Ron Parlo, we got a lot of Instagram questions, we're happy to have you back on It's Just Body Building. Here we go Dusty, I got good news. What is it? The channel has 10,000 subscribers, which is a good milestone for the channel, we're pretty happy about that. Absolutely, I mean, those other shows won't be doing really really well since we've already discovered no one watches this one. We got 10,000. I mean, everyone's got 10,000. Yeah, it's a group thing, and we just kind of fall into it, which is a cool way of. It's drug along. It's like when Bitcoin goes up, it drags the other crypto's up with it. We're the other crypto. Yeah. Yeah. It's like the other crypto completely based on another meme with no real value whatsoever. It's fine. It's a perfect, no, I think it's awesome. I love seeing that many people are rocking with the channel, and I've slowly ventured into some of the other ones when I'm flying and stuff. It's my new thing. I just download and listen when I really learn a lot, but I enjoy it. Oh, your secret flying. Remember, like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. We appreciate that, and then we get to use our little graphic. I like, I can't. The bell has a good stick or something. That's why I do this. Well, when you do that, that Scott should have a ding. Yeah, it's a least you could do. And then if, well, if he adds the ding, we'll know that he actually watches this. Which if he doesn't add the ding, we'll know that he just skimmed through the episode. He's not even one of our followers. Yeah, he does the same thing. He's not even subscribed. He's not even subscribed. He's not even subscribed. He's not even subscribed. He's not even subscribed to the channel, but not these two. Yeah, I'm trying to figure out. Yeah, no doubt, no doubt. It's been a good week. How you been doing? Awesome. I'm, I'm, I'm, what's it, four? Today is day seven on my new program. Oh, I'm, I'm celebrating the fact that I still live in the only part of Canada that hasn't completely gone insanely tyrannical. Yes, I can't believe, listen, I mean, it's bad. It's bad here. The government has this. No, it's the first perverse idea of what they should have the ability to do. They're just blows my mind. But the rest of the country, I just, I don't even know what to say. Are you stunned? And we are, this conversation just the other day that people forget, strengthen numbers. Oh, yeah. Well, if the, if the, if the majority, if the people who think this is dumb all said fuck you, all of them had the balls to take a stand, that's why I think people forget like, even government, even the US government, any government. Okay, let's say that's, I don't know, let's give pausing. 2000 people run the top of the government. We'll give them millions of us. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah, yeah. Fuck, we tell them if we take control. Yeah. It's, there's all this video on Instagram. If you want Instagram and you look at like some of my friends who live in Montreal, where they've had curfews in just insane, insane shit going on for a while now. The videos, they're pumping out of like, there's like 500,000 people in the street. There's like, they're just like, they're pissed off. None of that video. Let's see, get seen anywhere on the news. Yeah, that's further control. That's why the news is bullshit and every country. Canadian, Canadian media is especially insidious at its cooperation. And yeah, it's cooperation and how it's become part of the government here right now. It's just such an insane thing to watch. I mean, uh, uh, uh, some of the provinces, they just, they just closed down gyms again in another province. They were open for two weeks. They were shut, like, shut for four months, open for a month, shut again for four months, open for two weeks, shut them again with no, it doesn't. It doesn't. It's no, that's not even enough. They're not even open long enough to collect data. Right. You can't even get a number, like, like, you know, it's one thing to say, oh, well, we had, you know, a hundred outbreaks in gyms this month. Like, it weren't even open long enough to have any problems. Right. It's just, it's ridiculous. I don't know what to say. I'm definitely, uh, I'm definitely anti locked down. Um, but I don't want people to think that I'm, like, I think one of the problems. And I don't want to get into this too much because I'll talk about this shit. Right. Basically real quick on my end. And then you can run with whatever you want to do with it. But, um, one of the main problems is that a lot of the people that are anti locked down are also anti vacts, um, or kind of along those lines. And I'm not an anti vaxor. I'm completely pro science and huge believer in the medical community. And my brothers and infectious disease doctors. So I hear all the inside stuff. He tells me the latest on, like, before the Pfizer Vax came out, he's like, oh, Pfizer's got one coming right away. You know, that's genetic. It'll probably be obsolete soon. And then this was going to come out. And my journey has got one coming like he, you know, I heard all that stuff before. And he's pretty excited about the newer ones and this and they're definitely good. And, you know, he's, he's up to date on it. And I'm, I mean, I'm booked to get mine this week. I'm not going to post about it. Um, you're gonna put the sign, the celebratory. No, no, the reason I'm getting mine is because my dad's 81 years old and I want to go to see him. And, and, uh, I really am, you know, I am concerned of around hundreds of people a day. And I just want to make sure that, you know, I get this done and get through this. He's already had his first shot. So, uh, you know, um, and we're also seeing that places that have high vaccination rates are opening back up without problems. So that's coming. And I'm not saying everyone has to get it. It's just that that threshold, you know, what is it? 30% or 40% of the population, all of a sudden you have kind of hit that threshold where everything's kind of okay. Um, I can't, I'm not a scientist. I can't remember the number. Well, it's all just, I mean, you know, it's whatever the, whatever circus they're trying to put together with people. And I'm, uh, I'm not the anti, but I'm not fucking doing it. Yeah. But I also do a flu shot. And I'm also like, yeah, oh, I don't need it. But I look back at things. I think this is the, the, the sticky part. People should do whatever they want to do. So saying thing I feel about mass and they're, I don't, I don't look at me who gets the vaccination or wears a mask and takes anything. Although I, I, I, I will say that I, I'm slightly talking at both sides of my mouth because I do get irritated sometimes when I go into the grocery store. And I see people still doing things because that's what they're supposed to do. Right. Verse, like where you know they're stance and they're like, ah, I'm like, that's how things get fucked up. Oh, yeah. Yeah, you don't mean. Want to absolutely. Oh, good. I think it's shit. What's going on up there. And it's now been proven essentially in my opinion that the only guarantee of lockdowns is fucking a time. Yeah, it's the only thing that people still dying. Yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy, yaddy. So, but whatever, they're doing their thing. My client's a pest, but I, we found places to train houses and, you know, the resilient ones just seem to find a way. I got a guy that just, how she meets up with a buddies place secretly, like, co-op to train his house. I'm like, that has to be a secret to. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. No, it's supposed to take your buddies house. It's funny because no one seems to want to talk. What was the, I can't remember the exact number, but I was watching the show. And they said Jeff Bezos lost 38 billion in his divorce. Right. Made it back in a month during the COVID. Of course. So, anyone who says it, there's not a wealth transfer involved with this. And I'm not saying intentional or conspiratory. I'm just saying massive opportunistic wealth transfer because people weren't thinking of the consequences of all this until it was too late. So, very interesting. I don't think Bezos is going to take all that money he made by crushing everything during COVID and and distribute it to all the people that lost their small businesses. Yeah. I'm going to use up that plan either. Oh, you were selling t-shirts in the government closed your little store. That's too bad. I sell t-shirts too. Yeah. You're so buying for me. Yeah. The world of the world. Yeah. No, it's good to be here. You know, and I'm actually finding here everywhere. Like I've been South Carolina as a North Carolina over the weekend. North Carolina is Democrats still. And they still have the mass laws or whatever regulations I should say. But I found I'm not the only one that wasn't wearing. And no one said shit. Walk in, high, boom, sit down. Do you think? Which is cool. It just tells me that a lot of citizens have had enough. Yeah. What you want to do? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And yeah. So I guess, you know, people ask all the time. And I know we avoid some of it. But people like, what's your opinion on all this? I guess my opinion. Sorry. I think it's my opinion more. No, I guess because I, you know, I don't like to talk about this stuff a lot. And I don't like to, I don't like to, you know, like I'm not an absolute artist, right? And I love statistics. I love looking at real data, you know, like, um, the only problem is there hasn't been a lot of real data supply. I've got to implement for all this bullshit. Exactly. That's exactly. That's the, you know, so basically my take is I definitely don't ever trust the government. I, I do not trust their intentions. I do not trust the people in it. I think it is completely loaded with horrific human beings and a lot of social pathic people love the power of being involved in government. And unfortunately, that's where rat. A lot of people in government also are super fearful of losing their position and they're all about the votes. So if they're getting calls and letters from people, of course, it's the the the loudest whiney-list, bitching, moaning people that send letters to politicians and make a big deal out of shit, right? Yeah. When they hear from them, they get the grease and everyone else gets fucked. So that's that's generally the gist of what I think is happened. And a lot like I said before, I don't believe in conspiracies. Most of the time, I think that incompetence on a mass scale is much more believable. Fear panic and absolute incompetence by the people in these positions is far more likely than conspiracies. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I'm definitely down with that fact. That's not even right. What what did he odds? What did he odds that that everyone involved is just real stupid and fucking scared or that they all are involved in a brilliant plan to, you know, come on. At some point you have to put look at the obvious. Now I look at always that's why it makes me laugh. I think we know what I was growing up as a kid and you're watching like gangster movies. I would have never guessed that the most gangster person that I would know when I was an adult would be Hillary Clinton. No question. She's the most powerful best there is like, that's pretty funny. Well, no you kill people and they still can't do anything. Yeah. Yeah. Because the most powerful gangsters are the ones who can smile and wave at the crowd and walk in front of the press and get it dored and loved by what we have all of you. No. Yeah. But it's still just roles forward. I think it would be kind of new. I was up the stage. Should I be in jail in two seconds? Yeah. You know. No. So, but no, are you, did you happen to see the list I sent you of the indie brothers we can? Well, first of all, how cool is it to have a show to talk about it? I show that people are going to. Yeah. Live. I know. So, we got to interview Hillary. We're going to be here. I'm not sure if no show is to talk about it. And no, I know there's a bunch of people probably missing off this list but we're just looking at the one off the Instagram and it's not complete because you said John Jewett isn't on it. Yeah. And there was actually some back and forth with Jewett and day-ballyers productions. So he is entered. I'm sure they're going to work it out whatever didn't get through or mail or whatever. So he's in. But yeah, they got the two 12 in the open posted that are at least in already. Now today is the official whatever will go up by the end of today is the actual sheet. Oh, kid, the final list. Yeah, of who's in. So assuming they're going to post that, but sometimes they forget to want to start. Well, let's talk about on the open here. Let's talk about the names we see. So the names on here just for you guys. We got Morgan asked that giant dude from Europe. Chris helped. That should just stop by the million being actor and like millions of dollars go ahead. He's fucking huge, man gets dude. And then we got blessing. Carlos Chapa. Now do you follow him on Instagram? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. He looks great. Yeah, he was really good. Um, there's a few names I don't know in here. So I apologize for not following everybody. James Culver send you know him. You're not. I'm going to have to check him out. Camilla Diaz Mohammed El Amam. He's good for sure. I don't even know who he is. Yeah. He's coming from oxygen. No, I'm just he's just not going to take. We don't know. We don't know where he's coming from, but he could be coming from there. Seth Engman Roy Evans. Steven Fraser. I know him. Yep. Good to see him on stage again. Dorian Haywood. Um, he's on his best run ever. So he's still training at at arm brist. Yeah. Yeah. He works at his carer practice. Yep. Yeah. Justin Rodriguez, of course. Yep. Massive threat to win the show. For sure. Sean Smith, super free. We've talked about him. That he was nuts, nuts. And Dwayne Walker. Yep. Now, obviously Justin Rodriguez is named jumps out there. Yeah. Justin and blessing are the on paper. If you know people who's coming in. Now Justin is tried and true and then tested. Blessing where we're going to see. I'm always, this is what's funny. I know blessings of monsters human. But the one thing I've learned about body relays, you have to see people next to each other. Yeah. Now, one more thing about blessing hasn't he only done like a couple shows? Yeah. That's why I said I don't really know. I mean, he looks nuts. But you know about that. There's a double ed sword. And I know you know this is, you know, once you think in experience being an issue or being advantage because they just execute and roll through and don't think, like, yes, you know, it's just another show. Just another diet, no big deal. He seems he's so lighthearted that I have a hard time imagining much works him up. I don't see him stressing and not doing well other than the fact that I do not envy somebody who has that much pressure going into a show when before your battle tested. So I've seen the odd person where their pro debut is literally their fourth show. Mm-hmm. Ever. So I'm going to feel he's, yeah. And it's almost an advantage because like, you know, when you spend a long time at a certain level, knocking away trying to break through and then you break through the next level, it's like a big deal. Like, oh, can't go in a national's finally, you know, some guys do six regional's before they ever get a chance to go to national's, right? Yeah. So it's like a big deal that like, I'm going to national's and everyone around some is like, oh, you're finally going to nationals and it just becomes this giant thing. Yeah. Well, when you're just like boom, boom, boom, boom, it's like you're at the, you're at your first pro show and it's like, people are just getting used to the idea of you competing. Exactly. Even, you know, yeah, no one, you are, even like hundreds of broads and look at him, you know, no grand, it's a little different with his name. But he actually was first pro show to win. Mm-hmm. I had no one types of doing anything else and no one really expected to do anything else. And I think to a point, no one's going to be stunned if blessing wins. Um, but if I'm, you know, if I'm a badding man, my money's on Justin because it's tried and true and I know what he brings every year. Yeah. You know, yeah. Just the thing with Justin is you've got to, to the thing about blessing is we know he's got tons of muscle and he's getting to be in shape. That looks of it. But I haven't seen like a full round of mandatory photos. Right, no, no, no. I was just in, you can just Google them and you're like, oh, he looks good from all angles. He's got a beautiful shape, structure, small ways, you know, above all the bones of the right length, yada, yada. Right. So we'll see what happens. Yeah, look at what about the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, the, uh, to 12, uh, it's, uh, it's, you know, it's a pride. I mean, I should have this about both classes first is the, how few of the big name you do in the show? Yeah. Well, so there's New York pros, like the weekend after isn't it? Yeah. But for me, and I mean, I understand too that everyone's fine. It's so different. But like, if I'm doing the or for I'm doing this one too. Right. Right. Like I probably live in the West Coast. So I'm probably not going home. I'm gonna hit this one and hang out into your cheaper than I'm gonna go to Florida, New York. And uh, you're pro. But, yeah, so looking at this lineup, which I don't know enough of them to really wrap through the one who I'm looking really, really forward to seeing that my throw people off is just in Randall. I don't know if you watched him the last season or so or even know who that is. But he's a beast and he's like, five feet tall. Oh, okay. Okay. Literally, uh, just he was one of those guys. It was like in shows and doing them, you know, not long time. It's not like he's been around forever. But he had one of those meteoric jumps last year. And now I wouldn't be standing if he wins. Oh, okay. Awesome. It's a prime example for guy who are you where like, who? I'm like, oh, he might win the whole thing. You know, he's not. He's just he's like a Jose that's shorter. Well, this whole year off from COVID thing has, uh, it's funny. There's, you know, all these guys that got their pro cards, maybe, you know, 2019, 2018. And then COVID hit and everyone kind of forgot their name because they didn't get to compete. Right. But now this year, we're looking at least, listen, names. And like, I don't know how much of any of these guys have them in on stage for maybe two years almost. Yeah. And, you know, I mean, like, obviously, uh, Derek Olson's another one that's, I've seen his picks as of three, three and a week ago, uh, nuts. So, you know, he is definitely a possibility to win this thing as well. Um, if you, we just looked at him so if he'd been who hasn't seen him take a peek, uh, he's, he's a, he's a nutty one to. I think he qualified to Olympian made top 10 last year even. And, and of course, like you said, uh, you know, uh, John Jewish should be in there. Yeah. It needs to 12. So what do you think about John, Jewett in that class with that sort of conditioning? What is he actually going to weigh? I don't know what he will weigh, but I know that. Tard to tell from those pictures. Yeah. And, and you know what's crazy too is, I mean, I've never really known what John's had to weigh. Um, I assume, basically, it's height in the amount of muscle he has that he's at the top. Um, but he is peeled out of his head. I could be wrong. And I also know that John is one of the people who does this, the solid of constantly putting up pictures, which I love. Um, my question is, uh, when he fills back out, not that he's flat, but you know, everyone says they are, but I've got his quads. We isn't just crazy that used to be, but his conditioning is 100 times better. So I'm not sure what the overall look will be with everyone next to each other. And his legs were so good. It's not like you're talking about me and my legs come down and you're talking about a guy with insane legs who might be slightly smaller. I don't know. But the who knows maybe is more balanced with the conditioning is nasty. Well, plus his thing was always the side like, I mean, hamstring. It just, yeah, it really looks amazing. Oh, great. Now, I would love to see him winning it back just because he did so well. Do you limp in 19 and then 20 just didn't pan out for him? So I'm hoping that he gets himself right back in there again. How are you looking at that to New York pro? Everyone's talking about everyone's at people at the gym or like, what do you think? Bless your nick. And I'm like, there's a lot of other guys in that show, you know. Yeah, well, here's the funny thing. And I don't, I don't believe to say this. I, um, I would feel really confident with the just where I read as it was. Both of them. Right. You know, if somebody said me, you have to bet your money on one or three of them for the win, I would say just, right, um, you know, again, battle test. He always comes in. Yeah. You know, and not to say that they haven't, but he always does. And I know that for sure. So yeah, I don't, I'll be, I'll be curious to see. I, I appreciate what they've done to draw attention, but they're not in my head who's winning that show. I, I just jokingly was talking to another guy and, and Justin's name came up. This is when we were talking about the show that Hollings had won in England. Right. And, and Rodriguez's name came up and, and the guy was talking to goes, who's that? I don't know who that is. And I go, oh, he, he reminds me of Victor Martinez. And the guy goes, oh, okay. So top five and every show he does then. Exactly. And that is exactly what it is. So it's like always that threat. Oh, he kind of reminds me of Victor Martinez. Oh, wow. That, you know, he's happy in the mix. No. No. I'm happy. I'm happy that some shows come in, you know? I'm excited like, because that was unlike last year. I actually love looking back at the show too and seeing, you know, who came in, who did and, you know what I mean? And then we're going to see some guys that we aren't thinking of who spent the last year hidden. You know? Yeah, they kind of off. Yeah, they're some guys that have a post since COVID. They still been training the whole time. Yeah, you know. So that's the curious thing too. I think this year we're going to see everyone back, you know, versus last year. So we shall see. Okay. Okay. Hey, what's going on, guys? Thanks for watching another podcast here. Think Big Bodybuilding Media. And thank you to our great sponsor, True Nutrition.com for making this all possible. True Nutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudeau, the creator of DC training. He wanted to create a supplement company that offered high quality third-party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders, just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors, plus health and performance supplements. Check them out, True Nutrition.com. And hey, if you use our code advices, you directly support our podcast. Thanks, guys. Let's get back to the program. So I got some good questions. I have a ton of questions and I want to find out how many of them are good while we're doing this. I'm going to find out how many of them are good. I specifically asked for good ones, so I'm hoping that they listen. So I had one here and I don't want to go back to conspiracies, but we go as a conspiracy question. And it had something I wanted to mention just so everyone else can like look it up if they need to. Mm-hmm. Or is it here? Well, it was, are there any conspiracy theories that you think are more likely to be true than others? We've kind of had similar questions in the past. But there was one that I wanted to mention that I want everyone to like just be aware of in case they have only heard one news channels version of it. But I've been carefully following for the whole year since last year. I've been carefully following the claim that COVID is possibly from a lab instead of from the wet market. Now, I've been following this topic closely because it was interesting to me because there's a guy that I really like named Brett Weinstein who's an evolutionary biologist. And he's not a crazy person. He's a very sane person. Right. He's like a university professor, a very sane person, pure scientist. And he's been saying, well, well, well, people, this isn't a crazy conspiracy. The problem was, is that Trump kind of backed the possibility of it being from a lab. And that made the media push against it as an insane, impossible concept that only a racist or et cetera, et cetera, fill in the gaps, right? Yes. So that's, yes. So the lab leak theory was was completely discarded by most of the media and a lot of sane people because they're like, oh, lots of racist ideas. Just Trump trying to be a dick. But that was just, you know, for those who hate Trump here, a clock in a broken clock is still right twice a day, right? Right. And so just because you hate Trump doesn't mean he was wrong about absolutely every single thing. Right. And he was just casually mentioning it. Like he probably doesn't even fucking know all the details, right? Yeah. But now that Trump's gone, there's the conversation around this concept is changing. And now the former head of the CDC has come out and said, the lab leak theory is actually very viable because of what we've learned about the virus now. And so when you listen to Brett Weinstein talk about how, when you look at the virus, it, it a lot of these variants that we're seeing, that should have already occurred in the virus's evolution. Right. But because it's now just exposed to freedom, we're seeing these mutations in variants happening. Right. And he said that that's one of the things that you don't see in something that's already been free already. Right. So it was pretty interesting. And Pleises talk about how the virus is constructed. If you look at it, there's like exactly this much bat, exactly this much, you know, all these different animal strains. And that's what they do in labs is they do this gain of function theory where they, they make the virus stronger. And then they see what happens. And then, you know, they're playing with this stuff. So the lab leak theory is is now being given a lot more support by some sane people that aren't screaming, you know, crazy stuff about it. And I listen into Brett and some of the scientists talk and some of the people that I've heard speak on the lab leak theory, it's actually sounds a lot more plausible. And a lot of people don't realize there's an institute of virology in Wuhan. So there happens to be a lab there that does experiments on coronavirus. Of course, there's one in Shanghai as well. And there's one in other cities. Well, like it's the only one. So there is also the coincidence factor. But it's there. So, and of course, this doesn't mean anything intentional. It's just a very, that's where people get throw. That's where they're mixed. They immediately think you mean intentional. That's not what that is just saying that. No, man. It's just, it works. Yeah, shit happens. And so it's a lot more plausible than me. And I definitely don't think it's a conspiracy theory anymore. I think it's a very valid theory that needs to be given credit. And we don't want to be stupid and discard something as important as that just because the wrong person liked it a year ago. Right. I think so funny about when things get discarded or whatever, I lack. It's like, it doesn't, the one thing is interesting is it doesn't change that it's here. So other than hopefully getting even more advanced for cautionary things and in place in these labs, other than that, which I can't imagine it could be much more precautionary than it is, but assuming there was an issue, it also doesn't matter. But that's the only thing that I always bounce back to is like, you know, those things are great and it's definitely interesting to know where somebody comes from and it probably helps the scientists figure out how to knock it down. But that's why it's important in this case. Yeah. I think you and I, it's just here for them, it matters because they can probably learn more get ahead of it. Yeah, the other, you know. So very possible. I'm sorry. What about you any conspiracy theories that you wish weren't called conspiracy theories? Not a ton because I don't really, you know, I don't get into that kind of stuff. I have a pretty term, like I pretty well know what I think about a lot of things and for it to become a conspiracy. Like even all the way down to like UFOs or you know what I mean or things like that. To me without too much thought, I think it's arrogant to assume where the only living things in the universe. But I don't think you have any further than that. I'm like, I'm sure there are. I don't know if there's been here, I'm sure there are. I'm actually like, I'm not surprised because I always wondered what would happen when this day would come. Right? I thought that when you know evidence of UFOs, for example, real, solid, acknowledged by the government evidence of UFOs happened. I thought it would change the world. I thought it would happen and everything would stop. You know, like you watched the movie where, you know, the news, news update comes across and obviously everybody's like, oh my god, they just confirmed, you know. And it's so bizarre how it actually happened. They released the release footage of F-18s chasing down, round lights that they can't catch that changed direction at 90 degree angles and vanish it. Right. Second. And hover above the water perfectly still and then take off at 500 miles an hour. Yeah. Or 5000 miles an hour with the fuck. They released footage of F-18 fighter pilots being unable to keep up and track these. And then the Pentagon releases more footage of more things doing crazy shit. And everyone just kind of goes, oh yeah. Well anyways, my restaurant's so closed right now. You know, I laugh because to me that is, I know this is a worldwide thing, but this is why I pick on Americans and myself included is like, if it doesn't affect me directly like, fuck it. Right. And I'm blowing away. Like, unless they're going to come here and buy pizza for my closed restaurant, right. Really good. Right. So yeah. I mean, and obviously some people are like, well, you know, just because the Pentagon acknowledged these unidentified flying objects doesn't mean they're from another, you know, they could be technology that we don't understand from another country. Well, they put it this way. If China has that technology, we're fucked. This is a, I prefer the option. I prefer aliens. I don't want another country to have this tech and have everyone else so oblivious. Yeah, that we don't even know that it could be anything. We're thinking UFOs is China. That's a problem. They're time traveling and altering the economy. Let's, yeah, they do. And he's driving over the helmet on. He's flying. Yeah. Yeah. Just, you know, human, no biggie. Yeah. I'm with you that, I don't want it to be something like, let's keep it safe. And it's the aliens. I'm just watching. They haven't stopped yet because they don't like what they see on the news. I think what they're seeing right now, I wouldn't stop it. I'm rolling here. Just get a water sample and leave for another thousand years. Why don't think like, the pace we're going at, I think they probably looking like, let's, we don't need to take over. They're going to fucking up themselves with some take-a-all's empty. Yeah, yeah. They're just going to come back when we're all fucked up. We're all dead. It'll be, that'll be a good time to jump in. As soon as we're all lighting campfires again, we'll see all the shit planned. All right, I'm going to, I'm going to start light. I wanted to go to my throat. Real quick. We've done, we've done Lablique Theory UFOs and anti lockdown rhetoric. And we're only 30 minutes in. Yeah, it's perfect. All right, I'm going to get anybody below. Let me get pausing. Okay. Hunter, Sergio, a team, and Brett, all at Chicago. Who's winning? We're in our own good-looking way, but go out. I assume they're all at their very best. Yes. I have to go a team. Me too. And that's just respect for the mass. Whoa, I mean, he's the biggest one. He's the top six at the end. Yeah. He's the, he's, yeah, I guess, got to go a team. There's just so much there. You know, I mean, you can look fucking amazing, but then you stand next to a team and you're like, oh, there's just, yeah. He finds me out that people don't, that the sport even can't put into understanding is, for example, you know, in Romney, first came. And it was the biggest thing anyone ever seen. He was dwarfing everyone. And all I remember was the day he stood next to Kai and looked normal. This thing's right, because everyone, I mean, because Kai looks like a gasp-posed, or a pro show. It's a similar thing like, and again, I'm not saying a team is to that extreme, but the point is, visually it changes. Like these guys are all phenomenal bodybuilders, but a team at his best, to, okay, conditioning is on what is missing. Yeah, half thing. Oh, you know, so yeah, I would go a team. I mean, I'm not afraid to go all the way down an order. It would be, to me, it's a team hunter, Sergio and then Brett. But if I was going to put those, you know, four in places assuming we were going to go on the show. Sergio and Hunter haven't been on stage together, they have to have a, no, no. I just think that, and you know why I say that, and I love Sergio's look, but Hunter is, for whatever reason, to me when he gets up next to guys, he's more dominant all by himself next to everyone else. Like he does look a little more out of place, even when Sergio wins, you know, he's kind of like the other guys. And I felt like Hunter when he was dead and that's on, you know, just he was pretty head and shoulders above, even against, and I know he wasn't dead and that's on, but you know, even against Ian, it seemed pretty drastic between the two. Then obviously you fast 40 Olympians, they flip flop. So we'll see, but everyone at their best, that would be my guess for sure. Okay. I got one for you. Weirdest situation where you got paid to be a bodybuilder. Like have you ever guessed pose that a bachelor at party or anything that turned out to be sort of weird? Ah, ha ha ha ha. That's a great question. I mean, the old, the weirdest thing that I've had offered that I didn't actually follow through on was I actually got offered in Scottsdale to, because I was in prep and I got off, I got offered paid to come to a party and just be there as someone who like hangs out by the pool and bring people in and out for rich like soccer mom. Right. But she want like to have a handful of like not just great for these crazy things. You know, she wanted to buy a human for the night. You know what I mean? And I just remember the only thing that was funny is everybody probably thinks I have like this pride issue. I should remember thinking, I don't want to say to people and I don't want to since weird. Right. You hear, she's paying me this. I don't know. I'm kind of the entertainment, but I'm not doing anything. Yeah. Well, it's like, if I was pretty, I would get it. I'm very, very happy. Wow. Kind of look here. Yeah, like I'm like am I going to wear a bag? Just walk around with a paper bag on your head, like the unknown comic. Remember him? Actually, really that that famous singer, the sea, or whatever, that keeps the hair down. But I was like, yeah, I think if I was like a really like good looking dude, I'm like, why the fucking model, duh, look at me. That's funny. When you're kind of average, you're kind of like, no, I want to do that. Yeah, you have to be an asshole, because I'd be like, oh, those rich bucks that literally they purchased me as a human. So yeah, but I think she's done it in cool. I'm actually more blown away like when you get to do, back in the day we used to have guest poses. That was exciting. Yeah, yeah, I know. Yeah, I actually got to guest pose at one point. I didn't feel like them. And we basically don't do that anymore. We want money for our time, shocking. Yeah. I have a funny one. I got a call once. This one I lived in Edmonton. And there's not a lot of filming that goes on there, but the odd commercial, the odd TV show, like for example, remember legends of the fall Brad Pitt. Course I remember, Greg is filming. I was filmed in Alberta and the Revenant with the Caprio. Yes, that was filmed in Alberta. So like, yeah, so like the odd big movie will come, right? Right. So I like New at Casing Agent Darren. He would call me once a while for commercial or whatever. And he called me once he's like, hey, I got this gig. It's short notice, but they're looking for a bodybuilder and I know you're dieting right now and they want you to like, you got to be ripped and have abs and they want you to be as big as possible. Right. Oh my God. Well, it was perfect timing. I looked fucking crazy. It was like three weeks out. Right. Because yeah, it's for some commercial. Right. I like all, okay. So I go down and I get there. And everyone there's really weird. Like they're super weird. Like I don't know how to explain it, but they're just like, you know, you just sort of take over. Everyone here has kind of got a bit of like an odd ball thing going on. Okay. No, it's normal. And then they start explaining the commercial. And it's for like this. This is like years ago, but it was for this, was like a marijuana substitute. Like it was like this dream herbs stuff that you smoke, but it was legal. But it wasn't pot. How do you go again serving your suit for a good? And she's like, yeah, I knew we need the big guy to do this. And then you're gonna like take a puff and then blah, blah. And they explained the concept of the ad to me. It was like kind of like an infomercial. Right. And I was like, I can't be a part of this. I don't smoke this stuff. Right. And it was at the point where I was no longer, and this just kind of happens. But I would've been sponsored by mutant for a while. Right. So I wasn't just an absolute unrecognizable face that could just do a commercial. Yeah, with no repercussions, possibly what you're doing. I was actually being paid to endorse mutant products by that point. Right. So I was like, well, I don't want to be like endorsing mutant products and endorsing gas. And then appear to be endorsing this, which I don't endorse. I don't endorse. Because it's just sort of like, I mean, it's different if you're just an actor who's just trying to get any commercial you want. You don't give a shit. It's going to pay rent. Yeah, you're like, well, in 20 years when I'm on the tonight show, we can play this commercial, and that'll be funny. Right. Yeah. It's like, well, it's kind of weird, because it'll seem like I'm actually endorsing it. Right. And I don't know. Maybe that was all on my head, but it just felt fucking weird. Because it was like kind of creepy too. Like, I want to meet where it's a little tie. Like, I was at like a party. Right. But no shit. Yeah, of course. And then I'm like smoke it and add this decorious dialogue. Right. Like, I was reading, I was reading the lines. And I was like, this isn't funny. This is fucking stupid. Like, so I finally, like, we took a little break. We were about to start filming. And I was like, yeah, you know what? I still feel comfortable doing this. I know like, what? And I was like, yeah, you know, because I didn't audition for or anything. Yeah. You just, what you were there for just now. Yeah. Yeah. Like they called me to like, we need a bodybuilder. And like I sent one photo and they're like, send them. Right. You know, so it's funny. If you didn't do. So I was, I was, I was, I have my cast in the casting. I called me like, what happened? I'm like, dude, that was a fucked up situation. And he just started laughing. He's like, oh, okay. Well, those happened. It's crazy. Those are the glad that you said that. Because I wish more people to understand that. The importance of that. I think a lot of people might think in their head. Like, well, that's dumb. You passed away money for no big deal. But I look at this huge because whether you were thinking this forward or not, you've chosen very carefully what you've branded yourself with. And that allows you to say, X, Y is good and you're following to believe you. J. Right. How's you said it? Like when you endorsed mutant, the assumption is it must be good. Even before you said it, because Ron wouldn't get with them if they weren't. You know what I mean? And I know I've had that as well. I just had it barely. I sent the owner of condemned labs a screenshot because you guys said, hey, I just ordered these two products from them purely because I needed new ones and you're with them. Yeah. Are they any good? Like, yeah, didn't look at them. You know what I mean? And that was funny was when I described the ingredients. He actually comes back from the shit, I ordered your him means separate. Didn't realize it was in there could have saved some money. So the point is like, if you endorse every company that wants to throw money at you, when you get to mutant or whatever, come being a future, people are like, I Ronald fucking endorse me, but it pays him. Right. You know? Yeah. Yeah, that's why commercials were always weird for me. Like I've done a bunch of them, but the ones that were easy to do were like, you know, where it wasn't any sort of like crossover in that way. Right. I like so. That'll be fun. You know, like I did a commercial for a demolition company. Right. And it was like, you know, you call guys and they come to your house and they fucking tear down your third bedroom and clean it out and you know, get in there to rebuild the, you know, rental the room, right? Right. And it was kind of a goofy commercial where they had like the cheap demo team. And it looked like a bunch of X cons, you know, with hammers and they're like smoking. And then it had their demo team and it was all these like calendar firemen that were like, you know, really clean. Yeah, clean wheel barrels and like nice tools and they were going to do a good job. They had plastic wrap up to protect your house. And I was want to like this this shitty guys. I had like a two gone and I had a big beard and I had a cigarette hanging out of my mouth and I had a shovel and I'm like, that was fucking hilarious to me because obviously I'm not myself. Right. That wasn't a bodybuilder. I was actually completely covered like a thug. Okay. That's just the fact that you were a big guy. Big guy, they wanted a 300 pound guy to beard. So there was. Right. And the other team was the shirtless fireman. Well, that's even better. You were not. That's because when you were saying I was like, oh, you were the, oh, no. Bad. You were like, I picked this one to like the ugly, rough looking dudes. Yeah, yeah, I even had like a bit of a black eye. They gave me some makeup. It was funny. And then they had these fire guys. And when the fire guy showed up, I had trained and died at two of them for shows. So they, they showed up and they're like, Ron, what are you doing? And I'm like, oh, I'm one of the fucking scrubs. And they're just laughing because they're all there. They're like shirtless and stuff. It was funny man. That's so it's because I wasn't a bodybuilder. If I would have been shirtless in that commercial and representing myself as a bodybuilder, it would have been, you know, maybe it would have been different to me. But because I wasn't. I know problem, you know. No, that's all we make sense. So okay, your turn. Okay, let's see here. Ah. Favorite short bodybuilder. Black, sleep, priest, Franco, Pugila, Pugila. How short is short? What was counting the broader? Okay. You got flex in there. He's freaking five six. So I've flexed Lewis is the best short bodybuilder in all of history. Right. So fast. Favorite. Right, favorite. So, um, so we're talking with physics. Favorite short bodybuilder. You got to say Sean Ray. He's in there too. I mean, come on now, that's one of the most amazing physics ever developed and the consistency of his career and how good he was and how he battled the big guys and, you know, whether or not you like Sean Ray is a person. You just look at all of his photos from the late 80 Olympia is all the way up till he retired and it's, it's hard to believe that you could keep a body that clean looking and injury free and, you know, just beautiful, round, strided muscle head to toe. Absolutely astonishing physique. I think Sean Ray is is just one of the most perfect physics ever and he has to be on the list of greatest short bodybuilders of all time. But I'd say flex Lewis is without a doubt the greatest. And, you know, everyone else is behind that. Danny Pidea was ahead of his time. Yep. The conditioning that that guy brought. Those guys died at hard man. If you ever listen to Danny talk about how he got that shredded for like the early 80s, hmm, they're dieting on like they're doing 1000 calorie days man. Right. Like they're not fucking around. They're just like at all costs. But I think it's fun that has become right around the time that the whole macro crazy started happening and the idea that no, you don't have to, you don't have to be so crazy with your diets, you get in shape and people aren't getting in the shape they used to be in. People will say like, well, I load a package going in prep on what you slow as they have to. Yeah, I've done lots of 2000 calorie days. I've never, I've never even bothered to add it up. But I know I do laugh because I have clients even, they will say like, you know, I mean, I got to go to just this week is a cab. I could definitely tell I'm, I'm getting a little tired. And he's new. So I'm picking on him because I'm getting a little tired from the diet and this night and we're actually he can be fat enough. I'm getting a lean to start the off season. Right. Hold on, I said, listen, no disrespect. No, you're feeding off of fat. You're fine. Like you're counting, you're bringing 400 grams of carbs right now. It's just not all junk you were having before. I'm like, man, I go 50 grams of carbs for a month and don't think about it. Yeah, you know, so yeah, as far as me and that department, I would go, I'm always loved the freaks of size and in nasty probably because it lines up with what I try to emulate. So my answer is easy. So that is because it just doesn't get much freaky or plus. I just love to Jose's. That's ultra short. Yeah. Yeah. That's another category. I want to call him short. I want to call him vertically challenged. He he he's he's a fantastic one to add to the conversation. Because when when people ask me who's a great bodybuilder, I'm not that impressed if you were amazing once. Right. I'm not that impressed if you were a great pro for three years. It's awesome. Like it's amazing, but it's there's something about longevity and repeated winning and repeated dominance over and over and over and over and over and over and over. Like you know what I mean? And so when you when you say that, I mean, then you know, obviously, Jose is like, fuck, he's one of the top guys of the on the list if you want to talk about the career. Well, here's what's funny too that I think a lot of people don't realize. It's funny to me because the sport moves so quickly. There are guys that are into it now that don't realize who he is or who he was because he didn't push social media and stuff. But according to today's standards, Jose would have turned pro eight times. Yeah. And the only reason that was a different place. Well, and what he used to do, what's funny is, so Jose won and I want to be caught on the classes, but I want to say lightweight on up. Like what do you say? Then goes and wins it nationals. Then comes back to the USA's the following year goes up a class wins. Goes to nationals wins goes back to following year to USA's goes up a class wins. Like that's what he was doing because there was nowhere for him to go because they only had open bodybuilding. He had no intention of ever taking his pro-court. Those two shows were his shows that he was competing in every year and what's crazy. I just pulled it up because I wanted to be able to list it because a lot of people don't understand this. So Jose, when he finally accepts a pro car because the two 12, he's still natural. Yeah. He's one of the sound and a lot of people didn't believe that, of course, right? So this is what's crazy. He did the New York pro in May of 2009. At 100, let's see what it says here. Three month transformation, 184 pounds at the New York pro in late 09 to 202 pounds instead of 10 1st of 09. Because he went on. That's for the gas hit in three months. He's like, oh, this is how this is done at this level. In the pictures on his page, it's, and what's funny, he was already great. But just yeah, he's already a pro. Yeah, I mean, yeah, and he'd already won so many things. So I always love that. Plus, you know, I also love just, had he done social media the way I wish he would have. More people would realize like the comments. Just have to you remember when he did the bearded lady routine at the press conference? I just remember thinking only Jose thinks of it that quick. You know, he's like at the end of the day, it's like the circus. Everyone comes to see the freak and I'm the bearded lady. That's that. His best quote. His best quote. There's there's endless ones, but yeah, so that would he would definitely be my favorite. And when I wish that more guys that are young now would realize like, even now he's back training the other day, watching he's back on the incline and bench doing a drop set, starting at 4.5, like six reps, 230 pounds in fine. How old is he? 46? Yeah. Oh, I know. It's funny now. I know what 45 feels like. Right. And it feels great. Don't get me wrong. But there's just things you're like, there's certain joints that have had enough. There's still good. I could still use them. You know, I can still 12 rep to failure and train fucking hard, but I'm not going to have five rep to failure with those joints anymore. Yeah, I was saying like, I actually, I, because I don't, you know me, like, it's very rare that I comments on things and it was a story. And I literally text him, I'm like, you're back. And he said back, I'll hear you respond with you because I don't even know one speed. I don't know one step back. I'm like, too. That's true. That's bad. Val, you're up. What do you think constitutes a good leader? Hmm. Geez, this is this could be an endless one. But the simple stuff for me, the first step to being a good leader is leading by example. So I don't consider a leader to be the one that points to work. You know what I mean? So I find that in, I, why I think leader to be at this point in life, I think sports and business. Um, everything, the shit falls from the top, meaning when, like, for example, when I own my retail stores, everyone knew that like I had an example, which was if the floor ever needs to be cleaned, we're in trouble, meaning cleaning every fucking day. But that's how I live, it's what I did and such what happens when I had sold it. My friend Lance is very laks with stuff like that. My same employees, bathrooms got dirty. I remember I told him one day, I would fire you if you worked for me. You own the stores now. Like, you know what I mean? So I'm, that's the first step. I'd go on for hours. But one of the biggest one is leading by example because people mimic what you do not what you say. Yeah. Yeah. Very true. I think, um, in, in my, you know, I mean, anyone can just Google a list of what makes a great leader and there's, you know, a bunch of stuff that makes a great leader. But I think when I think of people that I have thought for great leaders is, um, they, they showed gratitude first of all, right? Because I always found the people that that would, you know, show gratitude to not only their staff, but their customers, the people around them, just there's a different vibe about being part of that, uh, type of, you know, I'm taking business or whatever. Of course. You know, so showing gratitude to big thing, um, you know, the ability to delegate is really important. Obviously, can't do anything, everything yourself. Some people can't let go of the reins and then they just wind up micromanaging everything. And that's, that's difficult. So I've worked for people that couldn't allow their staff to just work. Yeah. But meanwhile, they selected their staff with the assumption that they would do their job and they don't want to do it. Yeah. And that's hard. I can say too though, and you know this, because you do it, it is hard to do. Because you have to allow them to do it and you have to give them enough rope to hang themselves if it happens. Yeah. I remember, I remember one time working at one of the clubs as at, you know, the really busy night. We had a new bartender on and he'd worked like day shift. But he hadn't done a busy night yet. And I remember my boss was like, well, you know, he knows how to do the job because he's worked here during the day. Right. He knows how everything, he knows how to do everything. But there's only one way to work Friday and Saturday nights. You just trial by fire. You just let him. Well, just see how he is Sunday morning. We'll see if he still alive. Equipped. Right. But but that guy like stepped up, you know, Friday night he was like, holy fuck. And Saturday night he was like, I can't believe I made it. And then the next weekend is a grizzled veteran. And then I love that like when I think of those opportunities, this is in really leadership. I just reminded me of like I think of the the first time the line loop you played at the garden or not the garden knowing in Boston. I'm sorry. He very first game as a professional first shift fight. Yeah. He's like, this is what I'm here to do. You know what I mean? And I love that shit. And I know where I'm going to badge, but you will say he's so up to it. She part whatever. But I just remember looking back at that and being like 18 years old day one. That you know what I mean? Like you said, trial by fire and he's like, I'm going to fight now. Because this is what I do. Like you know what I mean? I was going to find out if I can hang at this level. You know what I mean? Yeah. I also remember I think in Boston the crowd was like, so we like this kid. Well, he's given them what they paid for. Yeah, exactly. You know, one of the one of the traits that if you do like a search on good leadership or whatever, one of the traits that comes up all the time is good leaders and Gary V says this too. Good leaders are people that are always working on themselves. Like if you're not doing any personal development, if you're just standing still, you can't expect everyone in your underneath you to move up. Right. You have to always be moving up in some way too, whether you're trying to get better with how you manage your time or better with how you, even if it's making sure your personal time is used in a way that makes you a positive person to be around on work hours. Trying to develop yourself. As soon as you stop everything else below you notices. Yeah, and also be able to see talent. You know, like when I worked at the supplement store, I got a job there working for nothing. And it wasn't until the business sold that that I'd like I was like the low man on total within a month of the new owner I was the guy. He was like, okay, you get this. You know what I mean? And it kind of went full circle almost immediately because he noticed I fit what he needed, which made him a good leader. Because he came in. It was funny. I learned a ton of my priorities, probably one of my best mentors. But for the first two or three weeks, he didn't even come this door and say and do nothing. Just watch. Right. How the business ran already before he made any alterations? And even let us do things that he probably thought I was a work terrible. But he's let it go. I'm going to watch this role. You know what I mean? Until. Which is also why low man on total goal became the GM because he watched and he's like, oh, but the new kids actually the best employee I have. So you know what I mean? Right. There was no up pre. So I guess I just slide over now because of course I'm stuck on these. Ever since people have realized I did hockey, I did a lot of hockey questions now. Oh, excellent. But you can hang on this one. This one I know. The greatest moment in professional hockey ever. The retirement of Wayne Gretzky was a moment that I'll never forget as a Canadian. Right. Yeah. The official like ceremony where they had him come back to Edmonton. Right. Right. Like I'm he retired as a Ranger. Right. He gave his wave played his last game as a New York Ranger. It was all great. But then they brought him back to Edmonton. And they hung his jersey up in his banner up in the Edmonton Coliseum. And you know, and do you remember who Joey Moss was? Yeah. Of course. Yeah. So Joey Moss just died. You did not know that. Yeah. He was in. I believe he was in his 50s or 40s. But 50s maybe. But Joey Moss just passed away. For those of you who don't know, back in the 80s when Wayne Gretzky was winning all the cups with the Eminton Oilers. The Eminton Oilers had a man named Joey Moss who had the time was just a kid. And he had Down syndrome. And Joey Moss was the stick guy, the stick boy for the oilers. Yeah. And he would take care of all the sticks. You know. And, you know, he stayed with the oilers for like 35 or like, I don't know how many years he was a stick after the oilers. But he stayed there. Yeah. And yeah, for ages and ages, he was there for ages. Anyways, Gretzky and Joey did a whole bunch of like awareness campaigns and stuff. You know, because Joey had Downs. Yeah. And sort of this sportsmanship campaign. They did. I can't remember the details. But so he was kind of famous. But anyways, they brought Joey out and Joey raised the banner. That's awesome. I remember that. Yeah. They just got a tire his jersey for everything. They were tired his number for the whole week. Yeah. No one can't remember that. You can't be that. Like, that's another level. It's like, no, no one. You know, what you need to jersey. You got a lot of team numbers. Yeah. Yeah. So, so that was awesome. But um, personally, I also had, I think, as far as like being had, just so stoked for a guy was I was a huge Bruins fan. Mm-hmm. So I was a Ray Bork fan. Right. And when Ray Bork went to Colorado and won that fucking Cup of Sackick. Right. That was awesome. I remember just being like so happy when they won. And I remember they called Joey out because he's a captain to get to get to get to get to the captain, right? Yeah. And he and he's like, I've already raised this cup. Right. He's like just someone here who hasn't. Right. He's been here for 23 years. Yeah. Kind of a burned situation. Yeah. So Joe took the cup, gave it to Ray, and then Ray skater took the first skate with it. Right. That was awesome. And then, you know, those moments are for me, huge moments. I also think, uh, to me as a Canadian, I don't know if it counts as professional hockey because it was Olympic. Right. Sydney, Crossby's Golden Goal in 2010 to beat the US team in over time for the gold medal. That was probably like the loudest goal in Canadian history. Yeah. Because literally, if you had your window to your house open, you heard the whole city go wherever you lived. Yeah. In every city. It was good. Yeah. Yeah. We were watching the Olympics and we were living in I was living in townhouse at the time, right? So I had neighbors in a complex and we're watching any scored. It was like, I think it was like noon. Right. And we're so sitting in bed at noon, like watching the game, and he scored the win the gold medal. I can't remember where the Olympics was. To always invent Kooper in 2010. Yeah. Yeah. So it's here in Vancouver. But you just heard the, an amitani just heard like all my neighbors, like the whole neighborhood just got stuck. Like you all were happy because like, Holy shit. Yeah. Like neighbors are screaming like everyone is screaming. Yeah. That was it. We now know that we are all wanting to be the same thing. Yeah. So those are just a few that come to mind. But I mean, there's, it depends on who your team is, right? Well, I like to, you went with the personal because that's the funny is. So I think that one of the most like iconic is of course, uh, Bobby Ores, the goal. Cooper in the goal exactly literally, the goal. Yeah. Most famous photo, most famous hockey photo ever taken. Yeah. I mean, that for sure is the moment I think. For, but I, but just like you like for me, um, when Steve Eisenman won game six on like I don't trip over time or whatever against St. Louis to go to the Stanley Cup finals with it with a shot from the Frick and Blue line just to rock it. I remember that game because it was like the first time where essentially, you know, pushing an adult at that point, I remember almost feeling like I was emotional on the win like I was there. I was like, oh, he's like, you guys happening. I'm like, I have nothing to do with this game. This is really impacting my life right now. You know, so it's, it's funny. And I have he's like the guy if you're a Detroit guy. Yeah, personally. Yeah, even if you're a Canadian Olympic guy, Steve, why was the big part of the Canadian Olympic history? Yeah, gold medals and he coached the team at one point, you know, like, but that's amazing. That was one of another question that I had was someone asked me because, you know, obviously he's Detroit guy when he went down to Florida in the lightning, obviously won a cup with him. And now he's back in the office as Detroit and they're like, isn't it only a matter of time? And my answer is of course, because he's a winner. Yeah, he's a winner too. Like they went, you know what I mean? Yep. Yeah, that's 100% true. That was a great question. Yeah, I loved it. I saw that I was like, oh, I held it because of the first question. I needed a minute to get ready. So my answers were reliable. I'll it. But see, that just, this would be a real issue. But there's nothing about being in the US like hockey with Canada. Like you're not an obsessive hockey guy, but you're going to rad them off because by default, you are part of like culture growing up. Yeah, you know as much about hockey is a lot of Americans who think they know hockey, don't know. Right. You know, yeah, just default growing up, you know, hockey night in Canada on TV. Don't you know, I was part of it. Part of it. It's part of it. Yeah, yeah, you bet man. Rock them sock them 13 and you're stalking for Christmas. And then next year, Rock them sock them 14. And you know what you want for the following year. And it's following up with that. Rock them sock them 15. Yeah, you know what you do, Dad. You know what you do, I mean, Santa. What a great way to just guarantee sales every year. Yep. Release the the the rock them sock them at Christmas time and just I got them every year. Hands away for the money to roll in. Yep, no, just more kids now will make more money. It's fun. Yeah, yeah. Now fighting in hockey is on cool. You saw my ranta. But I would tell like, you know, you know, like, something will knock you in a direction. I went down a rabbit hole. And I took Tommy with me. And I didn't know it because he doesn't sleep either. So he saw my post. And then next thing, you know, he's literally sending me quotes from other sports that were like, from hardcore days. You know what I mean? Uh, I was dying because I had so many people that told me I'm just about talking about about because I was watching. So I have the NHL centerized package or whatever it's called. So every night I watch every game in a five minute review. And the very first in the puck drops and they all here we go. And they look and they show two guys drop the gloves. And then they skip it. I'm like, what happened? I literally thought something happened in my computer show. I went back. I'm like, are my phone. I clicked backwards to watch it again. I was like, oh, let's skip. But they just don't show it. Right. I got the rumble out. Yeah. I was like, so then I end up down the rabbit hoax and I go online. So I'm looking at old fights. And I'm like three hours later. I'm like, well, I should probably try to sleep. Yeah. You're watching, uh, you're watching, uh, the semincal highlights from the 80s. So what's funny? So it's over. But tell me, it's not the time. It's been to me. I have to read this for a quick. So maybe laugh. He goes, he goes, the old days were a different time and it were different man. And he sends me this Pete Rose quote. It says, I'd walk through hell in a gasoline suit to play baseball. That was like, you don't think people say that anymore. That's funny. And if you knew Pete Rose, you're like, yes, you would. Yeah. Yes, you fucking would. That's funny. I remember I dated a girl once and her mom hated hockey. She would buy it. Oh, it's unprofessional boxing. That's all it is. There's just a bunch of violent, maniac animals. I'll touch you to talk about hockey. That's painful. And I remember just being like, oh, God, I can't stand you. So fun. You can throw out the country. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Why are you deported? She talks to you about the sport in hockey. Totally. What's yours? What do you got here? Number question. Well, I had someone ask me if I, if I didn't open the gym, what business would I start? I'm curious. Well, if it, I mean, the gym is the only business I can think of that I had like the passion to give into. You know what I mean? Because of the, obviously, I loved the gym. So, you know, like, for example, if you have something else, you really love. But you know, it doesn't make any money. But the gym's one thing where most people tell you most gyms fail. Like, yeah, but some don't. So there's a chance. Yeah, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a, it's a chance. It can make some money at this, possibly down the road. Okay, I'm in. But, you know, let's say my other passion is, oh, I don't know, these silly bikes. Yeah, that's a tough market. Bro, you're going to open a flat land BMX brick and mortar store. Yeah, that's, I'm always amazed. No, it's like that. That's an online, that's an online shop and it's already done. Don't try to fuck with them. Yeah. Yeah, and it's like, you know, guys that have been in the industry for 30 years and have the loyalty of every single other person that shop off them. Yeah, exactly. Not random x-bodies. So yeah, yeah, so if I was going to do another business, it wouldn't be a passion project. It would be pure money. Right. I'd look at where's the highest profit margin and the lowest entry barriers. And you start looking for something that's four sale in the area, possibly. You never know you might get someone trying to get out so they can liquidate for a divorce or something. Never know when you get a good deal on a business. That's already up and right. Yeah. And then some businesses, you don't want to buy a one. You just want to start one. Oh, for sure. I would never open a gym, I'd buy a gym. Right. So there's just all these different, you know, things, but it would be purely money and profit. And it would be all numbers. And I would not give a fuck about what I was fucking selling. It could be fucking this little, fucking scented oil vaporizer thing that my girlfriend has to make the room smell pretty. I wouldn't give a fuck. It would be pure money. I love that because here's what's interesting. Those are some of us. A passion that I have is buying something for it all and selling it for two. But they got that to passion and the fucking money. That's it. But I mean, because you are providing a service for someone, this particular spoon that I'm selling for yours, but I bought for one as a value. You know what I mean? But I totally feel like I do tell people by default because I just, I don't know why very lot of people ask questions like, I had a guy who literally just said to me, how do I make more money? And I'm like, yeah, so really broad questions. I was like, do you have any questions? I can't believe it. Yeah, that's the first question. Yeah, that's the first question. Do you have any passions? Because there might be a passion you can properly exploit. I mean, share with everyone else to make a buck. You know, it's a possible. Remember, it's like, you know, I think the one thing that throws people off when you think of a business is even though we're saying, you know, make money. You can be extremely happy, make it 40 grand a year to do something you love. I don't, I couldn't, but I know a lot of people could. Well, maybe you have something else that maybe you have something else that makes you 60 grand. Yeah. So the, the, the, the fun business that you super love that only makes you 40, it's still worth it because you just love the fact that you get to give people that service and you're the best at it and you love your thing. But you have enough money coming in. Even if it only makes fucking 20 grand, if it's still worth it to have it, it's going to be your favorite. Yeah. Well, most of all these costless money. So you find one that makes you one. That's a, yeah. When, you know, to be. Yeah, yeah. You know, you got to start with your passions. So you go, what will get me out of bed? Yeah. Well, I love, you know, what will keep you working after work? Yeah. Yeah, yeah, exactly. You know, like I was up. Yeah, we have these people like this guy who tells us to me and I'm like, and he literally, the reason he asked me said, I have no extra money. But then when I tried to get some conversation on what he could do, it was nothing. And I, I'm like, well, then you're fucked. I don't know what to say because you come, everyone gets their day over and, you know, we know you're wrong. You have kids, you don't have kids. Whatever your response glues are. But there is some point where it ends and you have a choice of what to do with the time. And you can either become an expert, make some money, go sleep, watch TV. What do you want to do? But yeah, a lot of people fall immediately to the victim. And I mean, I have a hard time watching shows because I have too much shit going on. Right. I know you mean. Yeah, it's a weird fact because I wanted to help. And I still do, I haven't heard how, but it's like getting someone to understand, like, if your answer is just, oh, what then you fucked. I'm just trying to guide you. I can't hand it to you if there is an easy way to make money. I'm going to do it. Yeah. Yeah. There's a lot of interesting stuff. Like, for example, you know, as far as like passion and work and paying other people to do stuff, I don't know if you saw a man'sogram, but I got some new bike parts this week. I did. And I built my front wheel. I had to take the hub out and replace the hub so I had to take all the spokes out, you know, take the tire off, take all the spokes out, take the wheel apart, take the new hub, lace all the spokes into it, lace it all into the wheel. And then I had to true the wheel where you spin it and tighten the spokes until it actually goes straight because when you first put it on, it's kind of wall wall wall wall wall wall. And you get it all the even and then you take it off, put the tire on it, true it again, you know, like, and I learned it off from a YouTube video. I just said, well, can't be that hard. It's just all these parts and there's threads and things screw in each other. It's got to be like building Lego for adults. I'm sure I can build a wheel. So I just follow the YouTube video and just and then I watched a second video on how to true the wheel. You know, so it goes dead straight when you spin it. And I just took my time and did it. And the next day Emily's like, how late were you up last night? And I went to bed around two and she's like, you worked on that. You started working on that wheel at 11. When I get, it took about three hours to build it and true it and get it perfect. Right. And she's like, could you have paid someone to do that? And I'm like, yeah, I could have, but it was actually fun. Like I enjoyed it. Right. Like learning a skill. And now when I look at that wheel, I'm like, fuck, I built that. We all know how to do that. That's cool. I can do that. Right. Because I was found that to be like, for most people, it doesn't matter what type of bike you ride mountain bike, whatever the fuck, lacing a wheel is like a really intimidating thing. Like most guys don't do it. They're like, oh, lacing wheels. That's the bike shop. Right. I can easily. Like, oh, it's 50 bucks at a bike shop. Fuck that. Get them to build it. Right. But for some reason, I really wanted to. So it's kind of interesting. So if you have passion for something, you know, the old saying, it doesn't seem like work. It was fun. I found the whole thing fun. I totally get that. That's that's fun. It's it's I also find an interesting because you can see. I've I've friends with the kids when they've grown, but it's funny. I watched one of the guy who showed my store that watched his his twins when they're kids, and it was so funny at one point. His son was, I don't know, one and a half, right? And he was opening a cupboard door, but he was looking and because he wanted to just like, you'd really realize he was trying to figure out how it was opening. Right. He's watching the hinge. Yeah, and he's watching them come to the outside. And I literally became home and I'm like, do I don't know what he's going to do? But it's it's going to be something because I've never seen a. If I could, I'd like, why I'm slam walk who gives a fuck is already. He's already starting his engineering degree. He was literally analyzing how it was working. I'm like, you have don't care and never did by the time he's, by the time he's eight, he's going to be in a serial one morning and he's going to go look up and he's going to go, you know, dad, I think I can do a better hinge. That's what's funny. I mean, that's it. That's what I did. That's what I told him. I don't know how he's going to change the world, but I can't wait till he does. And if I go, they're not on the investment. I would really appreciate that. Yeah. What was that question, Eva? It was what business would you have? Yeah. And I mean, for me, I couldn't even possibly answer because it is, you know, this is true. Now that you're in business and people know your successful like them, opportunity to kind of come. Yeah, been offered a lot of things. Here, would you look at this? Would you look at that? Would you look at this? Would you look at that? Yeah. Yeah. So that's the same with finances in general. Like, once you kind of prove in yourself, things pop up. So it's a little different from me now. Like, I literally, I look at every opportunity and see. And sometimes it's just the money needs to exercise. And sometimes I might need to, you know, right? So definitely fun. Definitely fun. Okay. Your turn, buddy. You know what, though? I'm going to take a bathroom break. You and you. Because I got this new look at my West Coast jug. This big fucking thing. I do like it. Oh, by the way, I'm out of town. But I was told that package came to me from West Coast. Package may have, you may have mail. I'm very excited to see this. You know, that, that piss was so big that I actually thought, hey, you know, one liter is 2.2 pounds. I don't know why that number came into my head. But it did. Why are you laughing while I'm gone? What's been going on? Because you leave in like a typical person of this day and age, I had to entertain my mind while you were gone. I can't just sit here like a normal person. And I happened to pull up J.P.'s stories. And I have to bring this up because it drives me nuts. I'm annoyed as you know, once I'm annoyed by something, it's fucking earthshattering. By the bands that people choose to use on a reverse hack. Oh, yeah. It drives me crazy. Right. Because they're not quite the right setup. Yeah. They're way too tight, way too powerful. Like there's, there's a friend of mine. I don't think throw that out there. It's a girl that changed my gym who hasn't gathered the fact that she is using the green ban that's this thick. Might have something to do with the six plates aside on the hack. Right. So anyways, happened to just glance while you're gone and Jordan put the stories as I'm quite fond of the idea of simulation theory. I certainly don't dismiss it. Whoops, that's not the one I want to shit. Run one. One day soon, the reserve band that's being used to lift too much on the hack. And then you parentheses and not for its intended purposes of a just new resistance profile on the left is going to snap. And I'm going to enjoy watching that video. I just read that of like, yeah. Yeah. So let's talk about resistance profiles quickly. So here's the rule. If you have whatever weight you have on the hack squad, whatever weight you have on there be at four plates, five plates, six plates, whatever. It should weigh 100% of its weight for at least half the rep. That's a safe. Yeah, even a third, even a third, the top third of the rep. Totally deloted. Or sorry, totally loaded. That band should be nothing should be like a loose guitar string where it's like kind of got some sag or your pull it and it goes. Blood a little like yeah, you can easily nothing. It's not until like a third of the way down like your knees are already bent like that much. Right before the band is even like aware it's loaded. And then now it's stretching a bit and now it's actually pulling right. And then as you drive out of the hack, it does it out totally slack. No, is it now it's full load. Right. Right. So if the band is still tight at the top and deloting, it's too much bad. Yeah, it just, it's, it's funny because I understand it doesn't matter. But the reason it matters to me is because you're actually not, it's, I'm not concerned with how much weight you're using. It's not doing its job. Right. The jobs of flat in the strength curve. Exactly. And, and it's funny, you know, I, and being, and I'm going to bring this up because we don't have a chance for the weekend. But I learned it from Luke. Because it was something that he and I discussed because I, I had asked him about it because I'm like, why do you use a fucking band? Like, you're a strong or stronger than I am. And I don't do this fucking band. And he was like, no, it's, it's not for that. He goes, there's a little point in the body. He goes, where I swear, there's no muscle involvement. It's my joint. It's my knee. It's taking all of that weight for just a split second. He goes, and once I put that band on there, that really light band, I take away that point. I have no knee pain at all. All right. I thought to myself, I was like, you know what? I'm gonna try it because I don't have knee pain now. But I'm a big believer in how you never have knee pain stay ahead of it. It's a fucking, I'm gonna throw it throw it one on. I tried it and I immediately said two things. One, yes, my knee feels better. Two, one of these plates isn't really there in my mind anymore. Because at the hardest point for me, I feel like it actually pulls a 45-plan plate off, even the smallest one. So when people say, oh, you did 11 plates a time, wait, what time? Yeah, why off the bottom of the wrap? Yeah, yeah, yeah. You know, you're wrong. Like, I'm very, I can do exactly what I'm doing. But I would lose a wrap if I didn't have the band. A good test for everyone is put your band on and then drop the sled. That would, yeah. Right. So when we put our band on for hacks, we dropped the sled. It goes right to the bottom. Right. And the sled weighs about a hundred pounds. So we know that the band doesn't de-load a hundred pounds off the bottom. It de-loads less than a hundred. At this strong, we pointed the band. Yeah. And then you grab the sled and pull and it's pretty light to get it to lift. And then obviously it immediately starts getting heavier. And then by about halfway up the sled's about a hundred pounds again, we got a racket. So, but yeah, imagine some of the bands these people have, they could unlock the hack and drop it and it wouldn't hit the bottom. That wouldn't move. Wouldn't even go past the stopper. Because I saw I had a meal with her packs. So the girl and I could say this because she wants me to show it and I'll pick it on her. It does it. Not only does she use the big band, but she actually wraps it around where the weight go. So it goes from the weight to the top around the back to the other hole of the weight. Right. So it's really, really, really. It's already just pulled the shit. I'm like, to get it down, I think I have to pull it down. Right. There's no weight. I think I have to physically use my body weight to bring the weight to the bottom of the line. Yeah. I have like, it's not point because so this you'll love this and you know, let this go because I've wanted now. So the other day we're training up here in South Carolina and I said, we weren't using a band. My knee was bugging me and I'm like, this is just not have a band. And they were like, I don't know, it's look. So they were the front desk and they had one. They brought it out and it was, it was almost last like I said, I'm gonna put it on. I'm like, I'm gonna put it on the, to where if it breaks, it hits me in the arm. I'm gonna keep my hands up the whole time. So they're like, okay. So I did my set. It worked. One of my training brothers, he went for it broke during his set. Literally, doesn't happen. But he was strong to finish the set. Right. Still within the wreck range I wanted him in. I'm like, see, that's how that's the right band. Right. He still was in wreck range and he missed it broke like third rap. So he had to bust out nine more rap son of his own. Got him. You know, I'm like, and I told him because they don't use him. I'm like, buy another band because you guys should be using this for longevity. And I'd like to use it anyways. But that's the right way. If you're adding plates because you have a band. Right. No. No, I agree. Sorry, that was my moment while you were away. Okay. Is it my turn now? Yes, because I went on a rampage. I'm a rampage. Someone's asking, remember last week we talked about plastics? Yes. Yeah. So did you watch that Joe Rogan clip? I think I sent it to you. Yes. Yes. Yes. Pretty fascinating. Make sure think. So this guy says, hey, do you are you avoiding all plastics? Or are you just avoiding microwaving a plastic? And I have to admit, I'm not avoiding all plastics. I do put an effort in. But like, for example, this jug is plastic, but I would never heat it like it's obviously it's got the correct number on the bottom for, you know, the stuff you're supposed to be able to drink out of. But I never microwave plastic ever. Just so people know, I'm very big on that. I really, really, obviously if I was in a pinch and I had no food at a meal and I would, you know, heat it up a bit, but I really try to avoid that. I haven't microwave plastic in my house for probably 15 years. Yeah. I used to not care. And to be honest with you, can't even bullshit. I don't now, but it's because I'm at home all the time now. So I've come heating my food on plates and things. Yeah. So yeah, that's the real reason. But now with the amount of information I have, like, if I was traveling and planning on using liquids, I just glass containers now. Yeah. I definitely put in the effort. And it was cool because that mutant came up with a stainless steel shaker. Right. And they have, like, a regular size stainless steel shaker. Yeah. So for people that are sensitive or, you know, worry about that, there's options, you know, so a lot of companies are doing that now. For sure. That's it. That's it. I like the people who watch that and then they get to thinking is, like I said, especially after you said that over, I was like, we've had multiple conversations with people who don't watch the show about it. I'm like, I've heard about the disappearing functioning where I mean plastics. If we want to have a, you know, human race, we should probably use up on this shit. It's pretty frightening, no way. Oh, it is. That's why it's funny because when you, when I mean I'm joking when I say that, but it's like, that's actually a literal progression taking place. And I can't help but I think it's because I'm an old angry man now to see that correlation between our earlier conversations of what athletes and sports used to be. And now everything's getting so soft. It's like, right, it's on accident. Some of it's like, you're like, oh, yeah, it's all society's getting soft. And then you actually look and the test out from profiles dropping. Yeah, you're like, oh, yeah. Okay, my bad. Yeah, directly linked. Yeah, yeah, yeah, I need to do something to do with it, you know? That's that's one of the big kicks. And I don't want to go off on this nonsense about this stupid, all the stupid conversation about toxic masculinity. You know, I run a lot of that phrase to me is just so laughable. Anyone who says the phrase toxic masculinity to me, they're completely oblivious about how man even survived long enough to get here. We're going to go to fucking Mars. We're going to put a human on Mars soon. We've already fucking been there with robots. Right. The way that society progressed that far was to be aggressively progressive. Right. And the only reason why any women and children survived was because the men around them killed everything to protect them. Right. Yes. Oh, what, 100,000 years? Yeah, it found ways to kill things that were stronger than them, faster than them. Man or men are horrible in violent. Yes. And every woman and child ideally should have a violent man in their life to protect them. When you've got lions and tigers and other tribes and other cultures trying to constantly murder you and take everything, you need a very loving, violent man in your life. What? That's just how I don't give a shit what you say about society now. Society now is a blip on the screen as to what humans went through for 150,000 fucking years. And to survive that length of time, you needed. That's just how it was. You didn't have, you didn't have warriors in your tribe. Your tribe is forgotten for a reason. Exactly. That's like, well, long. You know, it's funny. It's time I had just sent me a clip that I don't know if it was Rogan but it was a podcast type thing. You know, a very professional looking where a guy is talking about that. He said, you know, the thing now is that men should almost be dociled and that's not he's like, no, no, no, no, you should be a monster. You should be a monster that can tame that. Not be harmless. There's a difference because if that's thing gets called upon, it needs to be in you. If it's not in you, you're fucked. So Jordan, that's actually, I think Jordan Peterson talked about that. Okay. A harmless man is not a good man. A harmless man is useless. A good man is a man who has the ability to be very violent if needed. That he chooses not to be. Yeah, it looks there. Yeah. And people, I think people that have a hard time with that sort of speech, they're just detached from the reality of what it was to be a human all the way up till this very moment that they are currently living in. Well, plus people will as I mean, an example like, um, we're going to a festival in the summer just to see some bands and with a Nikki's daughter who's 12th, her things are birthday thing. And her literally she said to me, just, I'm a little scared though because of all that goes on and her mother's response is dusty. They're fine. She goes up. Good. Like, I mean, her brain immediately goes, oh, that's valid. Like, don't. Yeah. What if you can't say that? So 12th. Yeah. Oh, fuck. We are, fuck. We're going to a scary place. Yeah. Yeah. You know, it's the same thing with the, uh, the, uh, O' Manor Evil because they've controlled all the wealth. It's like, no, no, no, no. Uh, a tiny decimal point percentage of people control it all. Control all the wealth for 100,000 years and everyone else, including every man lived in abject poverty. Right. Like, what do you think life was like in the 1700s? You think man had it easy? Exactly. Jesus, fucking Christ. These people are detached. The men were working 14 hour manual labor field jobs and in, in, fucking coal mines and taking all the bullets and bayonets. Right. You know, it's, it's, it hasn't been easy for anyone. Everyone lived in poverty. Everyone was poor. It was only the elites living in castles and it wasn't just the men, their families enjoyed that, that luxury, yeah, from the top to bottom. Yeah. You know, the, the war on the current war on man is, uh, very, very, you know, well, war on man, I'm not, I'm just saying that that term, they get thrown around right. The toxic masculinity in the talk of the patriarchy and stuff. It's, it's such a skewed snapshot of how they view today's current society. It, it, it, it doesn't reflect the reality of what it was like to live in 900 or 1200 or 1500 or 1800. Yeah. The, they have no idea what they're talking about. The, the suffering and the violence was, it impacted every single person who wasn't wealthy and part of the, the royal family or the elite. Right. Yeah. That's a, it's a, it's a comical thing that I just think it's fun and gets pushed because when you, when I ask or discuss this with any woman, I know they're like, not one of them. Yeah. Reality. Yeah. He like period. The end. You know, like, now, I don't want someone breaking in the front door and, and Emily looking at Ron and Ron looking back at Emily like, who's going to do something? Hey, here's a question for you. Have you ever been in a fight for a violent situation because you were protecting a woman? Yes, and it wasn't, it wasn't anyone I knew. Oh, interesting. Okay. I, I can answer yes to that question as well. Yeah. Yeah. What was your situation? I came out of a safe way and literally saw a guy tossing around his girlfriend and just took care of it. Okay. You know, it didn't even, it wasn't like thoughts because you could just see it wasn't, it was out of control. Yeah. He, he, he, he, you know, did what needed to happen and then, you know, the only thing that was funny. And that's what's interesting about the way the world works is everyone wants that. You can bet your ass. She was happy when the cops came and I had to deal with all that. I was on my way. Nope. No, because the world still says, oh, she was getting her ass beat by this botto kid. Right. Right. Yeah. Yeah. I was in a, I was in a world is how often now we see the video of the guy beating his girlfriend by a guy holding the video. Yeah. Yeah, I was in a bar in Australia. It was actually the night before I flew home. Oh, God. She was going to rest in the neighborhood. Almost got arrested. So this is a funny story. So we were in the bar and uh, by absolute coincidence, these two girls that I went to high school with happened to show up in that city in Australia because they were backpacking. Also, and they, and they heard that I was there. So they contacted me. They're like, Ron, we heard you, you're here. I'm like, holy shit. I haven't seen you guys for years. So we went out and we went party and they got some guys with me and we went out and have had fun. And we were at a club and I was, I was drinking for sure. And I was just walking through the club and I was like, going to good mood, you know, I'm walking through the club. And she's in front of me. One of the girls from, I went to high school with his in front of me. And this Australian dude, he just leans out in front and just grabs your tits. She had really big tits. And he just fucking grabs him and squeezes him. And she's streamed. She's like grabbed his hands and she like pulled on his hands. Right. And they were like locked on her tits. Jesus. And I was like a bit behind her. But I saw the whole thing. And I was just like, what the fuck? And she starts pulling at his hands and took a few pulls for her to get his hands off. Right. And then I just came over and just fucking smashed him in the face. And he had his head hit the mirror behind him and shattered the mirror. Right. And then right away his buddy bottled me in the head with a beer bottle. Right. So this bottle of beer coming towards my face and I just put my head down and it just fucking exploded on my forehead. Right. Cut my head open right in my hairline. Right. So right away I just had beer and blood in my eyes. I couldn't see a thing. Right. But I had a handful of the dudes here. The dude that bottled me. I grabbed his hair. Right. So we were wrestling and I felt some dormant grab me. And all I remember was finding his head and then just head budding his head buddy. I was like, man, he fucking time. I was like, man, he could never do it. Door guy is pulling me off. And I could hear that one door guy was going, run, run. It's us. It's us. We got you to security security because I knew them. Right. And I just remember I had the guy that bottled me. I couldn't see anything. And I was just head buddy, head buddy. And of course I was strong enough to just pull his body. Yeah, of course, body is head with him. So I just headbutted him as many times as I could until the bounce was separated us. And the next thing I know, I was literally being carried by all the door. It was like all these security guys. But they were all like pat me on the chest. We got you around. We got you. Don't worry. We got you. Right. And I'm like, okay, okay. And I can see anything. And the next thing I hear a door. And I'm in an alley. Right. And there's two door guys with me. And they've like wipe and blood out of my eyes and they're helping me out. And I just had a little cut on my fucking head. But hold me. Shit. Blood. I had a reservoir dog's t-shirt on. The shirt. A white reservoir dog's t-shirt. And it was just fucking covered in blood. Right. And I was worried that my head was just gashed open. Like, I thought it was blood. Yeah. No, it was just I thought it. Hi. So anyways, the clean me up. The guys went out front. And then when I walked around the side of the building, there was like that dude and his nose was bloody. And then his buddy who has had blood on his face. And this big group of them. And they were just screaming for me. We're gonna fucking kill you. And they're just screaming. And there was like a bunch of them. And I'm like, well, fuck that. Right. Like I got these two normal girls with me. Right. Like a couple dudes like from the backpackers. I'm like, I'm not fucking. So we just walked down the alley. The one dude had t-shirt and like a button-up plaid shirt. Right. So he gave me his t-shirt. Because I did. And then we just went for breakfast. That's what Nate brought me for. He just put his camera. And I had this super tight, this super tight like large t-shirt on. Eat in my pancakes. And then backstage. You have a dessert. This is the best part. The best part. The next day. And I'm not like this. This is not the type of thing that happens to me normally. It was just a just a crazy situation. The next day where I'm on the plane, I'm flying home. Right. And I'm sitting next to this dude and he hadn't said a word. Like he was totally quiet. He's kind of his older guy. And I remember I was like, pickin' like, I was like, kind of picking up my scab. Right. As a public there was like a big bump on my, because that's scab. And then this fucking brown piece of glass came out of my head. And I like pulled it down and I was looking at it in my fingers. And I was like turning it. And I was like a brown piece of beer bottle. VVVB for anyone who's asking is a VV bottle. Little stubby. And I'm looking at it. And I'm like, holy fuck, that was in my head. And my fingers are all like kind of, I'm not bleeding. But my finger tip is a blood on the right. Oh, yeah. And I'm like, huh. And then I look over. And he's just leaning against the window. But I keep staring at my fingers. He realized he's full of pieces of glass on your forehead. And I go, I think that's beer bottle. I just can't believe I just can't believe. That was just a crazy, crazy, it's just a crazy. So that's the only time I could think of where I got violent to protect a woman in my mind. I was doing the right thing. I just, I'm just grateful for the end of the story. Because I can just see that's the end. Is the reason I told the whole story. Because I don't like telling gratuitous fighting stories. They don't make you sound cool. No, but I just think that guy, I mean, if that was me, well, maybe not me, but someone else, I would kill home of like someone on the flight, right? Hey, shit. And he actually never even explained to me why there would be a beer bottle as head. Yeah. Let me know that's probably what it was. I remember just as soon as that guy bottled me, I remember fainting like, I'm fucked. I can't see a thing. And I realized after I punched the dude, I quickly realized that like the entire group around him was with him. Yeah, there were all his friends. And I was like, oh, I just fucking just smashed it. Fine, and you're fighting 10 out. Well, at least I'm going to look like I tried to save a check. You know, I'm like, this is going to be bad. So that's why I was just frantically headbudding that dude. Because I, you know how that mentality, like, well, I'm going to take somebody down with me. Yeah, I mean, no. They're going to beat the shit out of me. This guy is going to have no teeth left. You remember, that's the rob, the rob Bailey story. With the Dana's ex. Yeah. Yeah. I didn't win my ass, but not before I remove all of your teeth. Yeah. That is my weapon I asked. But one of you guys, someone's going to lose their face, man. Yeah. I'm going to see the door with that first of all. It was like, I can see that. And I can also see them going. Yeah. They were good. I go down. But one of you guys going to lose a fucking eye. I think because those who don't know rob, it's like, I can see that. Because you're like, he's, yeah, he means that. Yeah, he understands. Big ass, man. So OK. Oh, yeah. So toxic masculinity is a terrible thing. Is that about our conclusion as? Yes. I think I, I, I got a degree. And I'm going to up my ass. Yeah. OK. OK. Oh, boy. I never told that story before. Well, they got told A-ma. That story. I have never heard. Which means you've not lived never told A-ma. And I bunch of that stupid shit like that. I'm not, not a lot of fight stories. So I'm not like the type of guy that like, that's really rare. Right. Well, that was brought up. Yeah, no choice. Hey, what, what is the Chris Getland 38 challenge? Do you know? Well, I know who Chris Gethan is. So why? So I assume he's, I assume he's doing like a 30-day challenge of some kind, you know, like Instagram thing. I want to do something baby because someone asked my thoughts about this. Was there something weird about this? Yeah, I'm not sure the details of it. OK. OK. Now, we're not answering that. Because the answer is I don't know. Yeah, the answer is I don't know. I've always gotten a long well with Chris. I met him when he worked for Bodybuilding.com back in the day. Right. He's a monster now in the game. Yeah, no. Plus I get all year long with all the dudes that have the accents, you know. Of course, you'll stick together. I'd get asked, I mean, how long I can last printing nonstop. And my old thought is until the hamstring tears. So between seven steps, somewhere between 10 and 50 yards. Literally, that's what I was reading. These office were going to look like, I wonder how I want to take for my hamstring tears. I don't know. Right around the stage to be the end. I don't know if you like these ones or not, but here's one. Who would your rather be? And who would your rather feed? Godzilla or King Kong? Oh, oh, geez. I would rather be Godzilla because Jesus. Hello. Godzilla has like laser beams and shit doesn't he? Yeah, plus he's just like, my, in Godzilla's more supernatural than King Kong Kong Kong Kong's just big. A monk in the giant, yeah giant gorilla. So that the strength is multiplied by magnitudes and all that. I feel like extra tricky shit. Jump-blown fire out of the eyeballs or anything. Yeah, but Godzilla has like powers of electricity harnessing and, yeah, this is in shit. Yeah, if all of my thoughts on that are correct. And yes, that's my answer for that. And feed? Oh, yeah, and that's a lose lose. But I'm going to assume, since again, it's some supernatural thing that maybe Godzilla doesn't need as much. Yeah. Because King Kong is literally a giant monkey. How many bananas do you feed King Kong? I don't think he's even eating bananas. It's going to have to go up. He's got up the dose. He's eating bananas at trees. Oh, exactly. Lots of fiber in a banana tree. I think like those ones when they're creative, because I've never even heard of that as a possible question. You can good like people come up with some thoughtfuls. Yeah, so I get what do you, what's your favorite cutting side for? Okay. Oh, I thought I thought you didn't want me to ask that one. I was right here. Exactly, you got that too. I am always blown away though, too. I'm going to parse the answer. I hate, I actually just had a client set to me, because I'm dieting. Why am I not taking a antibiotic? Help shred me. Like just diet. I was like, no, no response, no. I don't know. I don't know time to go into the back of that. Here, people want to talk bodybuilding. This is a bodybuilding question. It might actually apply to some people, because they're wondering, is it jumbo box of minute-made rice good for carbs? Or do I have to use other kinds of rice in order for them to be better? Then should. The same shit. All minute rice is, is they've already cooked it, and then just re-dehydrated it. It's already been cooked. It's just re-dehydrated and you're just hydrating it. But it's exactly the same molecule. The polysaccharide is the same polysaccharide. It's still just rice. So I have no problem with that. I know guys that only eat minute rice. Like for their whole life, they're just eating minute rice. That's all the eat boxes and boxes in minute rice. Yeah. Yeah. I think that goes right up there with when people will ask, what potato, or I say that I go because, oh, why goal? They taste the best. Right. In my opinion. I used to use a certain type of potato and people would ask why and I go, oh, well, because it comes from my neighbor's farm. There you go. Yeah, let's say logic though, literally. It's like, okay, perfect. You know, we're wrong. So as he uses these red potatoes, and I'm like, well, yeah, because if you look at the bag, it says made in Canada, and my dad actually knows that guy, and I know they come from his farm. So. It's a polysaccharide. It's a business basically. Yeah. Well, here's what I'm talking about. Five best exercises for triceps. If you had to just simplify tricep training, I want triceps like Kevin LeBron. Close grip bench. You name one. Well, you need a stretch exercise in there. So when people talk about exercises, I don't think that way. I think about positions. Right. True. Oh, you need a stretch load position. So something with the arm behind the head. Where you put a stretch load on the triceps. So that could be dumbbell behind the head, two handed dumbbell behind the head, any sort of pulley from low up behind the head. Yeah. So all that stuff applies. And you just have to find one that you can load that works well for your body. I love, I love hammer strength, the machine. I love that for triceps. As long as I have someone to can push it down enough for me to get my knees under the pad. So here's the thing. So the hammer strength, that machine is a good example of one of many. It's a great machine that isn't made well. Exactly. It's exactly what you mean. It's like guys like you and me figure out a way to use it for our bodies. But it's actually not like if you just sit in a hammer strength dip and lock into it exactly the way it's made, I don't like it at all. No. Yeah, I mean, my train park has to put all this weight because I'm also using way more weight than I weigh. All the way down so I can get under it. And usually another person will push it down on my knees on locked in. Right. Sorry. See, I don't even use the knee pads. I like, I hook my foot under the wall behind me. And then I put my knee under the seat. I drop the seat down on my knees. And then I tighten my abs. And then I get on to it. And I fucking crank out as many reps as I can. I'm like, glutes firing and my abs are tight. Yeah, it's funny. It's funny. It's funny. Yeah. So it's funny because there's a few machines like that. You know, I'll tell people, oh, I love that machine. And then I'm like, actually wait, I hate that machine. But I figured out a way to use it where I love it. I can't remember that. Exactly. Yeah, there's a few of those. So yeah, so you got to compound. You got it. So basically, I say, you need a debt movement. You need a close grip press movement. Mm. You need an overhead stretch movement. Right. And then you need a skull crushers or like a fantastic overall mid range loading exercise. If you have already. Yeah, yeah, it's a two plates skull crusher. Yeah, I love those. And when you were out with people, though, I never post. But I also think that any good tries of regime needs something where there's a ton of blood at the end. So I'll do some form of a super set where it's like 20 and 20 reps just blood. And then also technically, I think you need a shortened position. So that's where the hand is past the hip. Right. But like a single arm press down. Mm. So that's how I think. So you got stretch midway and then shortened position past the hip. And then you have the two compound positions kind of a pressing outward and a pressing downward. Yeah, that's why I like the, I like taking two ropes and doing a row. Right. So that it goes, elbows are pinned backwards instead of going out. We're bringing them behind me. Right. Yeah, right. Yeah, it goes. There you go. See? One same page. Same page. Boom. Boom. Okay, your turn. Let's see if boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom, boom. I don't know anything about that. Well, this is the same simple one. We'll answer real quick. Do things like oatmeal versus cream rice matter that much or is it over thinking? Wow, for most people it's over thinking. Yeah, unless we be odd person, it might be important. Yeah. Some people, some people say they just don't tolerate oatmeal that well. And also to another thing that I think is important to remember is people say stuff like, oh, I can't eat oatmeal. Oh, I can't eat that food. And I'm like, no, no, that's not true. You totally can. You just don't do well with the large amounts required for bodybuilding. Right. I don't even. You know what I mean? They're like, oh, I'm sensitive to oatmeal. I'm like, no, you can eat oatmeal just fine. But you're like getting ready for you doing off season and you're eating a fucking 300 grams of oatmeal a day. That's when you run into problems. You know what I mean? So I love, a lot of us have just switched over. My dieting is so basic. And typically tell people right in front of oatmeal. I have a memorized as far as what it is. Sort of be like a cup of dry. Oh, just 50, and I'll write it next to it. AKA 54 grams of carbs and they can be any breakfast. So you want. Right. You want maltomune. Have it. 54 grams. I don't care. That's part of me. I should say. Yeah. Not of weeks. Mm-hmm. Yeah. And that's where that's why creamer rice is popular with some people because uh, light rice in general is extremely easy on most people's guts and you can eat large amounts of it. Yep. You know, you got to remember that white rice is one of the only foods on the extremely strict list that they give to like Crohn's patients and kaleidospacions and stuff. Yeah. So if you're worried about any sort of irritation, white rice has already passed the test. Right. Which one? I think someone is default to it. White rice is only carbide. Eat pretty much just yeah other than breakfast. Because I'm also lazy and I can make a huge amount of the thing of machine. Oh. That's time for we got time for a few more dusty. Yeah. As long as you got some solid ones do it now. Oh, oh. Do he? Guys trying to decide whether he should go to his first concert post COVID on weater mushrooms. That's a good question. You see. Well, I'm not going to get any other ones but yes, five to two is a B mushrooms for those lead doesn't count. I do my taxes high. I don't know. The world has changed. We doesn't really do. I wouldn't let's dead serious though. You're not experiencing a concert any different on we. No, no. By the time I know. You, you might be happier and less upset about your day. Yeah. But it's not like it's, you know, you'd have to okay, there's some caveats here. Let's say you eat 100 milligrams of THC. Good. Different. You, you, you, you, you. Yeah. Now the concert might be might be different. Yeah, we're going gummies. That's a different world. Yeah, I pretty. I mean when people say when I hear their term, we need to understand the smoking. Right. You know, which negates all THC. So, do you believe in, okay, you know, the D load question? Yes. Basically, I got a few D load questions again about how to D load and all that stuff. I am not an expert on D loading because I was always terrible at it. I appreciate the people that can D load saintly and I appreciate that. I have clients that are very good at it. Right. Like K, I want you to do a week where you don't train to failure on anything and just do 10 perfect reps on everything and give your body a rest. Right. And they're like, okay, I did that. It went really well. It's kind of boring. I'm like, oh, wow, you did that. Really? That's amazing. I couldn't do that. I just don't go to gym. Everyone knows that. Yeah. There's no go. That's not an enjoy it. And I know the purpose. I'm not gone long enough for to matter. Like we discussed about how long it'd be gone for to actually change your body. First, don't go. I had no joy in what I can do with that time valuable, including watch a fucking movie. Yeah. Take a look at that. I just don't go to gym at all. I tell all my clients everything I go look. If I need them to take like two weeks, I'm like, here's my two cents. Take a week off and then take a week of California for training. And either way, I don't really give a shit. I would probably do my week off first. Then do my little pumps to get ready to get back in the gym, get the joint movement. That's it. You know, because yeah, training is too much of my love and what I want to do. The idea of going in there and doing 10 reps and stopping. The problem is this and I know you've had this before because I've done it. I've went in the gym before told Tommy, man, I've got to take it easy today. Chris or whoever saw you, they're kind of whatever. I started doing my rows. I'm like, that's a good day. Next scene on my put another plate. Yeah. It's not good today. Yeah. Every time. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm just not mature enough. So I just don't go. Call the gym or do not let me in today. I don't know, sir. Turn my card off so the key don't know. The door doesn't open. Yep. Yeah. That's it. That's it. You got another one? I mean, for now, no one's beyond. So if you have one more, let's blast it out. I've been scanning the whole time you're talking. Been scanning the whole time you're talking. Listen to your Jesus. So there's a bunch here on splits. I know we talk about splits a lot. How long have you done the Dorian split, the four-day per week split? Wow. I'd say at least 20. We're just having a decade. So we're talking about these here too. Yeah. I'd say at least 20 years of the 30 years I've been training. I did like the actual just four-day Dorian out of the video. Right. And now I'm doing it again. Now that's my current split. So it's just, it's always just been home for me. I just comfortable. My body recovers. My joints feel good between workout. It's just, I don't run into issues, you know? Yep. You know, I had an arm day, a fifth day, which was an arm day that was how it changed. For a long time I had that, you know? And I'm not gonna say it actually who knows. Like, I know I had ran into problems with elbows and stuff and had to like work around. So I don't know if that had something to do with it. But, you know, you never know. It's just a great split for me with the two days on one day off. Now I just, I feel like I can just train infinitely. I got to the, if I was gonna say anything about splits, the only out really pressed to people is, resist the temptation to go to the gym more than maximum three days in a row. Yeah. Like, yes, you can't, you're not, you're not training at a high enough intensity. If you've been training five days straight, you're either the workouts are suffering or you're just training like a bitch. I'll put it this way. I've never known a champion body builder who lifted weights every day. No. But I've known a lot of wannabe champion body builders who trained every day. Yeah. And I always say to it, if you're training hard enough as much as we talk about loving a gym, I need to knock on the gym. But I have time to, tomorrow I'm off. I can't go. I don't want like, these thoughts of going to the gym, I'm like, well, I'm going to be sore from my head to my toe and I'm going to train like, you still want to? I feel like I got hit by a car after my last leg workout. My whole day off the next day, I was just like, like in a fog. Yeah. So that's how it should be. If you're training four or five days straight, you're still desiring going to the gym. In my opinion, you're working out. You're not training those are difference. Yeah, you're working out. You're not training. You're exercising. You can exercise every day. Yeah. But you can't train every day. I can't train every day. That's a difference. That's a difference. That's a quote for the week. Dusty. Just like that. We made a difference. We're out the door. Exercise is something you can do every day. Training is not. Thanks. There you go. Thanks. Any words of wisdom you want to leave people with? What Ron just said is key. And we have 10,000 subscribers. So I feel like we've already said our words. I'm like, I get in a trouble by telling that little fight story. Am I? I was only like 20, was I 20 years old? I think it would trouble a reversal. No. Yeah. No, no. I just, you know, I don't want the culture wars to come after me. I'm not excited unless someone's mad at me. Like I like, you know, the conversation with Turner Rida, which by the way, I'm having a lot of fun soon. When somebody finally leaves, I always wonder when they unfollow me. I'm like, what did it? I'm just curious. I don't want to change it. I just want to know, like I've been an asshole this whole time. What finally nudged you over the edge? You were like this guy's a bitch. Hi, you know what? You know what it's funny? I have to say this before I go. Because it's just so fucking creepy. People don't do it. Because it makes you look like a psycho. Like a fucking psycho. Are you ready, Dusty? What? Okay, so do you ever feel like Instagram follows people for you that you didn't follow? No. The odd time. The odd time I'll be looking through my feed. And I'm like, I do not remember following this person. Okay. Like it might have been a fat thumb thing. Yeah, I have done an accident where I'm looking at something. I actually take a follow, but I leave it because I'm like, I don't know if you're weird. Yeah, yeah. So, so there is this one chick. And like, I just, I don't remember following her. I just, I don't remember. I was okay. And I just left her. She came through my feed and I was like, oh, that's interesting. I remember following her. And then she was coming through my feed like pretty often. Right. Because, you know, the more they come to your feed, the more you see them and then the more they come through your feed. And then probably didn't, it helped because every time she came through my feed, I would stop on her photo. Ah. And I would like, how did I, I don't remember following this person, but whatever. And I looked and she seemed like cool chick. I just, I don't remember following her. And she was like, from nowhere near here, like another country somewhere. And I just don't remember. But I unfollowed her. Right. Because I was like, you know, I just, I don't know her at all. She did not catch that in text, you message you. And she didn't seem like she was like a huge fan of the show or anything. It wasn't like that. It was like just some other person. So I unfollow her. And like the same day I get a message. Why did you unfollow me? And I'm like, okay, that's why. I rest in my face. I'm going to do the decision. Yeah, it is makes you the crazy. Like, I'm sorry. I don't fucking know. I don't remember like, who knows? Let's look at my Instagram. I'm following 3600 people. What do you know what's funny about the, I probably remember following a thousand of them. Well, it's funny that those are reverse. Because I look at the stats because of marketing. I lose hundreds of followers a week. It would be impossible for me to know. Particularly someone I don't know. I would probably, I probably wouldn't know if you won't follow me. Because I don't, I don't look at who likes my pictures. Right. So I don't actually know if you liked my photo. Like, I, you know what I mean? I never think there was a food like my picture. I don't give a shit. So, I feel that, that I guess that begs the question or begs the topic before we realize that you won't follow her. Well, because they have those apps that tell you, why would you care enough to upload? Right. That's the problem. You have the app that tells you reports to you how many people this guy I'm followed you today and this person unfollowed you today. I think that's a problem. You have to let that go. You can't, you can't be afraid of all that. That this, the unfollow me is like a week hundreds. Let me know. Three hundred foreign people unfollow me every single week. Well, I mean, I've been stuck at the same number of followers for like a year straight and I get dozens of new followers every day. So that means dozens of people are unfollowing you every day. Yeah. And now that I'm posting BMX stuff, I probably pissed a whole bunch of people off and that's fine. I don't care. But I can't imagine staring at that app and who unfollowed me, oh my god. Oh, like, that's just, you know, that's just, can't live like that man. That's fucking terrible. You know, and I don't want to know. Like, let's say it is someone you know. Like, you know, Jason from the gym unfollowed me today. Wow, I wonder what I did to piss him off. And now all day, I'm like, oh, and then I see him. And I'm like, oh, and the way it doesn't like me anymore. You just can't live your life like that. I imagine this is what I think. Maybe he's tired of bodybuilding and he's unfollowing pro bodybuilders and he still loves to see you in person. Yeah. He likes you. Maybe maybe this guy from the gym, awesome to see me. Hey, Ron, good to see you, man. But he just doesn't want bodybuilders in his feet. And he worries had enough. Yeah. Maybe maybe they see me row enough times if they don't want to see that shit. Okay, I just just posted the same video again of a 500 pound row again. Okay, I'm just nervous. I already see shit. You can buy. Yeah. Yeah. Anyway, it's that's my take. I love it. I didn't realize they had those apps. So I know I did. Easy. Crazy world. You know, like, you got people like there, like Gary Vee and and successful people giving good advice, like stop giving a fuck. What people think of you. Right. And then you have people that are sitting on these apps all day. Oh my god, dusty unfollowed me. It's like, don't do that to yourself. Don't do that to yourself. That's a bad, that's a bad spot to put yourself in. I don't see any benefit and live in like that. Exactly. You know, that's a great story. If you actually reach out to your neighbor, you don't actually know me. Yeah, I'm a little sorry that, but it wasn't like, it just was like, you know, picture of her with a drink. I'm like, oh, I don't know. I'm follow. I don't know. I don't like Mojitos. I'm done with you. I also, I also unfollowed like a whole bunch of hot chicks recently. Yeah, just polluting your feed. Yeah, polluting my feed. And when I say hot chicks, I mean, like the ones it like, that's the thing like they have 200,000 followers. Yeah. They don't do anything else. They can contribute. No other content whatsoever. And I'm just like, I don't need this. I don't need this. I'm following follow. Just clean this shit up. Yeah. So, okay. Try to be more cerebral. Love it. Tell me about that. Until next time, I think we hit the two-hour mark, man. Remember everybody like, share, subscribe, comment, ring the bell. Yeah, so the sound effect comes in. But it's always in. Oh, a dick. Yeah. Okay, thanks. Remember everybody. It's just body building.

Hey everybody welcome to It's Just Bodybuilding episode 90. Of course I'm here with Dusty Handsha, my self-figure on part low. Today we got a bunch of Instagram questions and we're going to shoot the shit on it. It's just bodybuilding. Dusty my friend, no hat, no hair. I did a fresh shave. Did you just see my camera? You got to tilt your camera bit. I don't want it to be cut in that clean looking head off. It's a valid point. I need that. I need the whole dump. I got the lighting situated. I still got a little dark that way I'm better looking in the dark. So how much of that hairline is tattooed all of it? The whole thing. Yeah my entire head is tattooed. I have no hair right now. I've just shaved it. So where do you actually have hair left? Why have hair here but I don't have any back here. That's all tattooed. I think the whole head is tattooed but this, so they even tattooed where you have hair that way when I shave it it's even. You're more at your port dependent on that part of it. I think what it is, I didn't really think about this but I think the heat coming off on my halo as an angel is probably what caused that. That's a short word. So I actually speak in a body and being an angel. I noticed yesterday we were training and we were training really hard. That's nice out here. It's not hot but it's nice. The doors all fans on. We're training really hard and I noticed it. I'm not sweating like I used to. I still get sweaty. Unlike damn sweaty and stuff but like how like I'm sweating. Where you're fucking disgusting. You know what I mean? And that's how you're doing. That's how you're doing. There you go. Actually I know what just happened. I have a huge issue inside my freezer right now because I blew up a drink just now on positive. It's awesome. I don't want to open it. No, no, I don't want to open it. It's way too fast. I don't look. It's not there. But actually I was sitting here and I'm like oh something fell in the freezer and I'm like oh I put a glass drink in there. Well that's gone. Anyways. Okay. Yeah. That goes back to my diet coke story. Remember the pop can I left in my truck? Yes. And it's fucking popped and painted the whole inside of my truck with brown phone. I just love that I. That number one, my dogs are fucking fierce. They hear a shotgun and they go towards it which is impressive. Number two that I actually immediately was like oh yeah. That's uh. And then you'll piss me off the most about it. That's $2. Got damn it. So fucking wasted drink. Oh, oh. Yes, that was. Now you know two things. Apparently five hours and a freezer is too long for a peri-a. The reviews are fierce mother truckers. Yeah, everyone knows the second part of that. Yeah, obviously they've seen Donna. So yeah. So I was just saying that I don't sweat as much as I used to. And I mean it's I almost like I still sweat. But it's not like I used to like, you know, body weight. Number of calories being eaten. Body fat. That's a danger of lean to yeah. So you know how like near the end of your prep when you're really really lean. You're like just not as sweaty. Yeah. So and I noticed like I still run really hot at night once in a while though. Like I'll wake up like the other night. I don't know unless to just had like extra food that day or something. I don't know what triggered it. But I woke up middle and night and I was fucking soaked. They had to put a towel down. And in the next morning Emily's like, you had to put a towel down. I just changed the fucking sheets. Like what happened? I'm like, oh no, I just fucking melted last night like brutal. But for the most part, I'm running a lot cooler than I used to run. I remember just being hot all the time. I'm at all times no matter what. Right. And you live in Arizona. I seem to always be hot. Yeah. That's it's a I mean a fat b weight and yes. All those things they just listed. You're like, yes. You know all the things that you've listed as a reason you've cooled down. They're all the reasons I'm getting hotter plus it's a million degrees here. So yeah, you know those like studies they do where you know how people have like, why I mean, it's not not just generically truth, everyone. But generally people have this idea that like a marathon runner has a higher metabolism than a big fat power lifter. Right. But then they put them in those those like bio chambers. Right. And they realize they're like, holy shit. It's not it's completely opposite. The marathon runners just small because he burned so many calories running. Yeah. So his activity level is so ridiculous. But the power lifter is one who changes the temperature in the room and altars the gas like the gas ratio in the room of oxygen. Oh, my oxide sucks up everything. And but one one giant strong man in the room in the oxygen level drops of CO2 level rises. The temperature spikes humidity goes up. I was in I was in Chicago of. It wasn't dead winter, but it was winter enough that there was snow on the ground. And we were walking from a restaurant to a place to get dessert in the started raining. Maybe freezing like one year. Yeah. Yeah. So you know, now we're walking from a restaurant to a place to get dessert. It's about three blocks. You've already eaten it. You're going to eat more. Yeah. So we get there and we get inside of this. It was like the side of a building. But but they just had it enclosed. And a guy looks over me goes Jesus Christ. You're steaming. You're a steam coming off of me. And I'm like, what? So I take my phone out to look and you could literally just see steam. I'm like that is the temperature of me walking outside in a t-shirt in the winter. Yeah. Yeah, it's funny. I you definitely don't run as hot when you lose like 60 pounds. Yeah. But I'd like. But you do start wearing tank tops. I have to point out. But you have a tank top on. You know, I have a sleeveless shirt. I cut this. Same shit. Yep. Not on a tank top is, you know, you got to cut. You know, that's how that's a vest. I believe they call it. It's in Australia. Yes. It's a vest. It's a vest. So you were going to leave this. You were a sleeveless shirt. Now that you're not 320 pounds. It's very interesting. And they call the tank top in Australia as a singlet. That's right. You know what I mean? Yeah. Singlet. That's right. And when I think it was singlet, I think of wrestling. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. Hey, so here's a question I had. Cause this is exactly what I was thinking of. We might have my dog barking a little bit cause they're watching the fucking Windows in the condo. That's what you're firing at. You fired on my end. Fired or man outside fucking bang to bang bang bang. Yes. I'd be more word if you if jed. If jed wasn't pissed. Yeah. Yeah. So so think of all the body building outfits that you've ever worn. Yes. That's the worst one. Do you remember like trying to wear a guy? I'm going to wear this. And then you're like maybe even wear it again. I kind of wear this. And then you're like, ah, wait a minute. I decided I can't get away with that. Um, well, Bobby. I mean, the truth. The truth of the worst one was for me, I missed the baggies. They were like, they were like, they were coming out as I was coming in. Like the crazy wears and all that stuff. Yeah. But I did. I mean, you were there. Witnessed the stage that I went through, which was the I'm going to wear Peter Panpants, aka my girlfriend's tights to the gym as a man. And I'm not going to wear shorts because that's gay. Sorry. It's not literally gay. Relax people. Right. Right. Like literally. I'm like, no, that's not cool. I'm going to just wear these with my, you know, frank and beings just hanging out for everybody. I did that for a while. And I remember like, truthfully, even though I didn't like, I knew I didn't. I thought it looked stupid. But I wore long shirts. Like I still do my giant shirts. So you're not saying my junk number one. But it was truly because of the fact that training, it was great. Like when you get on a leg extension, you're not pinched up your pants. When you're squatting, you're not stepping back as my pants are too big of course. So you got stepping on your own shit. Plus it looked good for videos. Well, let me rephrase that. You could see muscle for videos, but it's still a guy I would thought I was Peter Pan. Right. Yeah, but in hindsight, there was in my opinion nothing okay with wearing tights. So you don't wear tights anymore at all. I didn't realize that you'd removed that. But now I'm just, you know, Liz, I've just accepted the fact that I am a sloppy human. And I wear my giant gas pants everywhere all the time. Wow. Okay, very interesting. This is a little, I just learned something about you, Dusty. That we never go to the square. Yeah, well, because it's probably a tough subject for you to bring up like there. You still wearing tights. Where do you know I just, I just, I just, I just, yeah, I didn't really even notice that they disappeared from your feed to be honest. Yeah, I wear shorts now sometimes because it's hot as shit. Yeah. So I've been doing that, you know, and then the other day, I trained without a hat on, which actually, I posted video, I delveded 15,000 pounds and the only comments where you're at, where's your hat? You were like, 50, you know, took your money to the same way as going with that. Like, it wouldn't matter what I did. Yeah, every guy who saw that was just told that. Oh, you're, you're, you're, you're a, you're a, you're a 100, you're a 100. I'm pretty raps, you know, 3,500 for 30 raps. Yep, no, it was 50,000 on the bar. How is it found? Yeah. Oh, man. Yeah, yeah, that was the, the comment, but it was funny, because I actually wore a hat to the gym. But I wear the exact same West Coast Iron Hat every single day. It is my chin. You just got to a new hat. Well, I'd, which by the way, my shirts are in the dryer right now. I got shirts. How are they? Can you wear them? Oh, yeah. Yeah, they're awesome. Yeah, they're, they're, they're, they're tight, but they're tight the way that you're supposed to wear clothes. So like, I wear shirts like that when I'm not in the gym. That would be like a go-out shirt for me. It's form of wear. Okay, so the one is a four XL. Uh-huh. But it's the tri-blanned sort of meant to spit snug. Probably looks great on your arms. Yeah, that's what I, that's what I, I sell mine as to, that's the same. Yeah, awesome shirt. Yeah, and then the other one is the big T, but it only come in a FIX, but it's a pretty big three. So I assume that shirt fits you and then is probably snug in the arms. Yeah, it's, what it is, and you know what the difference is for, um, is the shoulders and a three versus a four, you get inches of width. So it's still, I'd wear a three technically. Right. You know what I mean? It makes stuff, but I like it to be, I like just falling off of me in the gym, but I actually, that one is, which I'm going to find out when I come to the dryer. But I think that one I would train in still too, where I could buy one. I, you know, I don't train in, right. Even mine, it's funny. They look good, but I literally have been wearing loose clothes so much. I feel like I'm like, any time there's material in your armpit, you think, something wrong. Yeah, I'm like pulling my shit around, you know, we're just funny because I gave, I give Tommy, uh, I ordered for him 50, 50s like mine, and then when they all came in, I forgot, and I gave him tribunes, and I was like, shit, I got to give you other shirts too now. So now he's got like a collection of all my new shirts. Oh, well, you already have those two. So it's fine. That's funny. Now, I do remember when you decided to wear tapered pants for a short period of time. I just got that separate. That's a separate from the tights. That's a separate. I don't even count that because it literally was, those were almost joggers. Yeah, you were kind of wearing joggers. I've gone to the joggers now because I, I guess I have to. I'm a jogger's guy now. Yes, I like them, right? Or because this is where people get confused. Okay. I think that the jogger look is cool. If you're like a cool guy. Right. I am not. I put a lot in it. I wore a few days and I just remember looking in the mirror. It's how I feel when I put a flat rim hat on forwards. I'm like, so I'm not fucking old guy trying his best to be young and cool. And I am not. You're one of those will-ferromes. Exactly. Right. He's like, hey, kids, you know, like that. But he went or that Steve Bouchemi one where they're like, when the knock shows up. Exactly. And he's like, and he's dressed as, hey, cool kids, what are we doing today? I show up with the hat like that and those are people like, oh, who's the cop? Yeah, yeah, yeah, exactly. Like, I'm the undercover cop that's trying so hard to fit in because I'm 40 years old and pretending that I'm cool. Well, here's the thing. I tried to wear joggers at one point when I was still really big, right? When they first liked became cool, like someone gave me a pair of Nike joggers. Well, they're triple XL, they'll be huge. And I put them on and they're like, form fitting sweatpants. Yes. And that was just too close to tights for me. Yes. I could never do that. I was so far from tights. I could never ever, ever do them. And as I off fuck, I can't wear their two form fitting. They're like tight pants. So I would just want to wear tight pants. It just blew my mind. So I put them put the joggers away. Stayed big for a few years. War the baggy gasped. Thank you. And now I've embraced the joggers fully. You know, what do you think about this though? And this is actually still where my brain functions. I see a dude like like, like, Jose, okay? Henry Blancery. Henry Blancery. And he's wearing joggers. And his legs look small. He's like your huge. Joggers are amazingly deceptive. Like, I'm training at Guy right now. I was like 33 inch fucking quads I bet. And when he wears joggers, he's like, really athletic and big. Yeah, but so think about that. You're me, okay? My upper body is no one. And I'm in a big baggy shirt. So I looked gigantic up top. I look at a goddamn martini glass by word joggers. Yeah. High green looks big in joggers. Yeah. He's the one. Like, there's just not many people, you know? I remember, I remember Quinton was out here from pure muscle. Yeah. He was out here training for a week. And he can wear, he's huge right now. And it has like huge calves and legs. And he's wearing like normal sweat pants. He had like, I don't know what brand. There was like norm like a deetus or something. They look like joggers. And they're like tight on the calves. Like snug. They're going to pull it the seams. And I'm like, okay, well, you have those calves. Because I'm so calf and Vs right. Right. So I'm like, oh, I've got calves like that. I mean, just cut them off with the knee. Do you know this? Do you know this? What shorts forever? Or pull them up, you know? I got a body who pulls them up because he's got huge calves. So he wears joggers, but then he pulls them up a bit, you know? Yes, I tried that too. I went for that look. I'm not for that. Yeah, I'm not. It's cool. And I was like, yep. I'm still not cool. I've actually succumb to that now. So it's fine. I don't need to try anymore. But speaking of the tights, you remember when Kai Green did the honor. They went to Venice to get ready for it with Charles Bass. Yeah. There's a picture that I literally, I can still, I can still see it in my head. But he's wearing red pants with two white stripes. And he's in Venice golds. And I owned those pants. They make my biggest black pants that you know about that I used to wear the X-portal time. Look small. That's how big they are. I can fit two of my legs in each one. And in the picture, they're tight. Yeah. And people don't realize about kids legs are huge. I'm like, no, no, you don't understand how huge. I own those pants. Yeah. It baffles my mind. They look like I have no legs when I wear them, which I don't care because they're big. But literally, I remember looking, when that picture came out, it just immediately I was like, so you have 72 inch quads. That's cool. Wow. Yeah. And I developed it's 15,000 pounds a day with a hand off. But so back to you because I know your story is way better because you had all the ages. What did you walk away from on the clothing? So I, I, I got the really great like early 90s mid 90s stuff, which I was like, you know, the the boat neck that shirts with the tank tops under the tank top strap with the trap stick. And out, you know, and I thought that was cool. Oh, yeah. That was awesome. I love that. I'm back. I would, I would embrace boat necks with tank tops underneath totally because even even now that I'm smaller, I still got good traps. Right. But I could like rock the traps out, you know, I'd even do extra shrugs in the my old age just to keep the traps popping, right? So, um, but the big trap shirt, then it was good for me too. That was my pair of shorts for a guy with calves. Right. So, you know, the guys with calves were the shorts. They had traps in like high school, like they popped up right away. Boom. So I was like, oh, boat neck shirts are for me. So I used to have my traps out all the time with a giant neck fucking yeah. Yeah. So that was good. That was good. I love the boat neck shirts. But I had a singlet. I had the NPC, the Flex Wheeler Wrestling suit. Oh, wow. With the shorts, but the straps that go that Flex Wheeler wore in like some of his photo shoots, you know, those like Chris Cormier and those guys. And mine was black and bright, like bright blue, black and blue stripes, like turquoise. And it had the NPC go on the leg. And I got my hands on that. And I remember I was pretty young. I was probably like 18 or 19. But I wore that with a big boat neck, Gators gym sweatshirt over top. Right. Because, you know, my rule has always been if you're a guy and you're going to wear a tight. You got to wear a long enough shirt that we don't have to stare at you. Yes. Right. So I had to remember long, long, Gators gym sweatshirt. And a few other shirts and outwear them like long enough, you know. But I would wear that fucking singlet. I think I only wore it like three or four times. And I was like, ah, I can't do this. I got to see this is my problem with a singlet with the Fanny pack. When you have to piss, you have to get undressed. Yeah, you got pull one strap down at least. I mean, that's the logic of me. Like, because I go to gym. Like, I'm on those morons like drinks seven hundred gallons of water a day. Like, I take a piss and I drive to the gym when I get there. I take a piss. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I'm saying? It's like, I don't want to have to get undressed every time I need to do this. Yeah. Yeah. That was I I had that outfit. I wore it a few times in the gym. Like it was okay. And wasn't real life. It wasn't. Yeah. Yeah. That's been a few things. Did you ever have the, did you ever wear the overalls like out in public as a kid? No, I never had overalls. I had a good friend of mine who was a very stylish mother fucker. Mm-hmm. And he had a pair of overalls. We would get dressed up to go up for dinner. And he would show up with the overalls with the one strapline. One done. Yes. One done. Yeah. That can expense of shirt on. You know what I mean? It's the, the mistakes that we have made. Oh, yeah. I think it's a Tommy Hill figure overalls. Oh, yeah. They were. Oh, yeah. You know, I mean nothing really beats my, my blue plastic pants that I posted with the truck that day. But no, I also remember I, there were these Levi jeans back in the day. I can't remember the number. You know, there's a, the number for the idea. Yeah. Yeah. But there are the ones at the body builders would tell each other. You got to buy the, you know, the five, 18 silver tabs or whatever the fuck they were. Right. Yeah. They got bigger legs, bigger legs, right. But they were, they were still pretty tight around the ankle. Right. But so you would, we would fold them over and roll them up. Roll them up. Yes. And sometimes, you know, there's businesses of no idea what we're talking about. Sometimes, sometimes I'd wear my big 12 hole dock martin boots over top of them. Of course, well, so I have jeans on with dock martin boots kind of floppy at the top. That were like, like, not just high tops, but like boots. Yeah, yeah, bull boop. Yeah. And then the fanny pack with like a tight, like, light. T-shirt. And we go out to the, we go to the club like that. We go out to the club like that. We're like, they were like, they were like ribbed. Remember those shirts they had like, yeah, yeah. I never had a rib one, but I had some like, or two. Big gold chain. Did you leave any vagina for anyone else? And that love. Oh, no. It's just an opera myself like a vagina farmer. He's just out there spreading seed. I mean, damn. I just go to the bar to turn girls down for fun. You're all. Maybe you didn't see my tight roll. Yeah. I don't know if you noticed, but I got the tall docks on over my jeans. Oh, God. I'm just, I'm just glass glass. When these stories of someone who gets it, I was, I was telling my wax lady. We somehow came up about like terrible things. I was like, I wore hypercolor shirts. I don't want to hear your shit. She goes, what does a hypercolor shirt? I'm like, when it would get wet, it changed colors. She goes, so if you sweat your armpits would change colors, I'm like, hmm, she's like, well, that's a genius idea. Yeah. Yeah, yeah. I never had one, but I remember those. Oh, yeah. I was fancy. I'm like, why were we so certain we were going to be getting wet all the time? I don't even know what's happening. I know the whole tie-out I think that was great. The amount of people that are Googling and pausing this show, tight roll, what is he talking about? If they're still listening. Hypercolor, yeah, they've left it's valid. So I wanted to say, we have, I show we can talk about that just happened. Like a television show. Oh, wait, an actual bodybuilding show. I'm so an actual bodybuilding show. What did you think? I thought it was awesome. I thought Justin looked really big. Yeah, I had no, I told you already that I knew he was winning. Yeah, that was not a shock to me whatsoever. But what's the guy in second place? What was his name? Oh, was that the guy with the Arab guy or the other dude? No, so yeah. And yeah, Dorian Haywood, we talked about him. I don't know if it was that off the year. We talked about Dorian. I think it was off the year because it was Scott Bratimop. Yeah. And you know what's funny? And I have to say this out loud because I love when I'm wrong out loud. I didn't say this to anybody, but when Dorian turned Crow, and when he was competing, he kind of reminded me of me. And I don't mean the way he looks. I mean a guy who's squeaked in got his pro card. And that's kind of the end. You don't mean any kept going. And I always respected that because he's got a good career. He's a, you know, he's a character. Our practice, our practice, got a good business, got plenty of money. But I was always kind of like, wow, you know, it's chasing a personal goal. Like almost like, I shrugged him off as he wasn't going to where. And then every year he would move up three spots, two spots. You know what I mean? Right? And then it's just so to see his last couple of showings and realize it. This is, this is no longer like an upward swing. This is, this is where he is. It's really impressive. I think that for me, he was one of the highlights of the show. Yeah, he looked really good too. I'm having a hard time finding pictures. I can't remember who where I was going to go. Well, I saw the picture about it. I don't even know the guy's name, which makes me feel like an ass. But whoever he is in second place, that I cannot possibly find his name. He's looking great. It would be on Justin's page because he was posting him too. But it was not a walk. Oh, no, that other guy was good. I thought, yeah, this, I'm pulling up. He's got the mayor. Super annoyed that I thought I knew where I was going. That's insecure. I'm going to call you though. I've clearly, it's cool we're doing it live. It's a humble fuck around. And then it's, you know, you're looking for somebody. And you can't remember their fucking handle. That's why we're people just use their names. You put their real name in and sometimes it finds them. But sometimes their real name isn't really anywhere on their page. So you put the real name in and it doesn't come up. Fuck. And it's because there's like two hyphens in a period. Well, like, even Justin, I mean, is, it's in his thing. But nowhere on his page does it actually say his last name. Yeah, so what is his Instagram? Because I know I fall. Oh, there it is. Justin, D-I-F-B-B. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. But he has the pictures and once again, I was wrong because he did not at the guy's name. But anyhow, guys, second one. Yeah. Pretty awesome. It's unacceptable. I did not know that Sean Smith had dropped out. Yeah, I was looking for him and I didn't see him anywhere. Yeah, I went back and saw on his page. He had actually pulled out a couple weeks ago. And he knew it. Yeah, he had some sickness. I mean, nothing major. Just some things where he knew he couldn't come to his best. And he really did not want to come in. Okay. Mohammed El-Amam. So yeah, that's, that was a dude. I don't know if you remember when we talked about the show. I remember seeing photos of my couldn't remember which guy he was. And I was like, oh, he sounds like he's from Kuwait or something. You probably would be really good. Right. Anyways, I'm not sure where he's from. I'm going to research him more. But he's, he looked fucking awesome. You know, his dialed right in. That was, he pushed Justin hard. You know, he looked good from the front side in the back. So that was a great battle. But, you know, Justin is Justin. I mean, what do you do? Yeah. And I have to say this because I feel like no one else says things you're not supposed to say. But us, I feel like blessing was an interesting spot. And the reason I said that is because phenomenal bodybuilder. Awesome first showing completely clouded by the fact that if you go in talking too much shit to win, suddenly fifth place is a loss. That's really well done. Right. Yeah. And to me that sucks because that's a great showing in my mind. You're, you're, you're gave you to come in in fifth place. Um, I think it was fifth, fifth or fourth. Um, but whatever was awesome. It might have been fourth because didn't, um, what's his name coming? I think that's right. He got third and then Dory and got bumped down to fourth. I think Dory had him in the morning and then I think Dory had it faded. Yeah, you're right because um, thanks for that Scott for some reason I thought Doryn was in third and I think that's because of the morning call outs and sign Instagram. Yeah. I was like, oh, Doryn's going to get third. That's fucking crazy. So yeah. Yeah, but in Carlos Scott, uh, fifth. That's why. Yeah. Carlos looked great. And it was so funny when we mentioned Carlos. Remember last week on the show, I was like Carlos. I forgot that was Carlos it. We know from LA. Because I just like, I know, you know, how many Carlos is there, you know, about. He's from Texas, but yeah, he will. He will check this. Yeah, but we work with someone that wasn't at the LA FedEx, but we worked for them. I can't remember what expo Arnold Arnold Arnold. Okay. So anyway, he looked great. And as soon as I realized that was him, I'm message him and I'm like, Holy shit, you know, good luck this weekend. Right. And then he wound up looking great and coming in fifth. So congrats to him. So we have a back to the blessing blessing. I think it sucks that you come in phenomenal because the reason I say that it's a failure is not him. It's that that's how the internet is reacting because of the jump. Now, I don't, you know, I don't think people just get confused because there was a lot. If you talk too much, including other pros, making comments like, well, that's what happens when you, you know, there's levels to this shit. Because I knew the entire time I had said from jump that the Justin would win the show. And I think he's win New York as well. But I also think now that I've seen blessing and he is unreal, we will see been wrong many times before. But I don't think that he can, I don't think that he can beat. What's said, Jesus, my brain, who's even going back and forth with Walker. Yeah, with Nick Walker. I don't think he can beat Nick. So, you know, now that I've seen him in a lineup, I don't think he can beat Nick. So it's an interesting strategic move to get your name rang like that. But I really do think it sucks because third place at that show in that lineup as a first show is awesome. But the internet's kind of like, eh, see, wasn't what you said. Which is crazy. You know, I mean, because in the same sentence, you got Carlos, who took fifth and he's competed before. And we're like, fuck in right dude, that's awesome. Good for you. Yeah, versus third, I mean, eh, see, now it's good for you thought. Yeah. Yeah. You know, so I guess that's why I like the old school, like show up, see what happens. And then people would be like, damn man, third of your debut is incredible. Another thing I wanted to mention was, um, Big Morgan asked in six place. Yeah. You see his conditioning from the back? It's always nuts. The last couple shows. So he's a loose man, like, they're just fucking insane. I don't know what Chris is feeding him or not feeding him. He probably just not feeding him. Exactly. He doesn't need to actually. Yeah. Yeah. So that's, uh, that was, that was good. It was just good to see a pro show happen. It was almost weird. Right. Right now. And then, uh, and then the two 12, did you pay much attention to that? Yeah. I did. I skimmed through it a few times. And I looked at the top three. They had some, I can't remember who I was looking at. But they had a bunch of top three, like all the side front back shots. Mm. And, uh, I mean, to be honest, I, I kept looking at you. Right. Like, they were all great. And you know how that two 12 is. They're just, they're all really tough to compare because they're all similar sizes as well. Right. Like in the two 12, like no one's six feet tall. You know, you don't have a dentist wolf in there looking at it like changing how the line-up looks. Everyone's kind of, everyone's kind of the same size and everyone's definitely around the same weight. Give her take the odd Sean Clarita. Right. And, uh, and, and so it's, it's tough. You're looking at three guys that are all, you know, two hundred and twelve pounds at five foot, but six or whatever. Right. And, um, and it's, it's like, wow, man. You know, I imagine that the judges were pretty much the only ones that can really say that when it's when it's like that, you know, I'm not going to sit here in armed, armed chair judge from Instagram, especially that class because it's so difficult to judge in the first place. But, uh, the only thing that I would, would definitely have said, um, that I would love to put out there is, uh, the winner, um, which is Tony O' Burton. Yeah. I'm happy with it. Awesome. But I do think he needs to work on his presentation because he has a tiny waist and from the side shots, he was really having a hard time holding his stomach in, um, lower abdominals. I don't know if it was a digestion issue or a posing issue. Um, but I actually thought that it was enough during pre-judging, but in still comparisons, I thought it was enough to knock him back. Now again, I have learned from myself and I tell clients this all the time too. Still pictures don't tell the story. Yeah. Um, I know like in 2013 when I did North American, they got fifth. And I remember thinking there's no way I'm worse than third. How's that possible? I mean, I'm better than these guys. And then I watched the video, eating through my stomach all prejudging. So it's like a pregnant woman. And it's like, it looks so bad. Oh, God, I'm glad I got fifth. Not seventh. Like. Yeah. You know, so sometimes you have to see that, but, uh, from the stills that was the only, the only knock I had on him, his physique is nuts. His shape is nuts. The size is nuts. I have no issue with him winning, but I think if, if he polishes that before the Olympia, Um, it'll take him up even further. Right. And I've seen a bunch of pictures of Nathan Appler floating around. He was the, the doos of the beard. Yeah, he looked good, man. He's got a real nice physique, you know, very like pleasing lines and everything. Good, lat spread all that sort of stuff. So he, he was good and, you know, you got to give those guys credit because John was no, I think that was his debut too. Oh, yeah, might have been, yeah, but John looked, fucking awesome. So I don't also just, so everyone knows we got John booked on the show. So he's, he's going to be joining us in a couple of weeks when he's done the New York pro. And it come out and talk about his year. So we're happy to have you do an ounce of guest coming soon relatively. Yeah, no, for sure. And you know, while on the subject of him at some of the week cover or the week, it asked all the time is like, how to, how to learn more, how to be a better coach, things like that. He has a coaching school, if you would, that I think people should really look at, that's the J3 University. Guy should look at it. It's very inexpensive. I even have a few guys that I know that are actually coaches that I told them, like, hey, this would be a good thing for you to do. I want to say it's six, seven hundred bucks. And it's like super cheap. And the education that'd be worth it in a heartbeat. So I've been kind of letting people know that they're asking a bunch of questions and maybe can't afford to hire someone straight up. I'm like, there you go. Or the amount of people in the ocean that just fucking shouldn't be. Yeah, I really like John did some great videos leading into the show. Just detailing his water and carbs and, oh, yeah. And it was funny because I, like, I just found myself nodding. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, the whole time. And then I love my favorite post was he put up a picture of his jug. Right. And he had like, with the juice, the juice, the flavor drinks. Like flavored iced tea in there is something. Yeah. And he goes, it's something like, oh, and you look like this. You don't have to cut you, you know, no cutting your flavored water out. You know, if it's, you look like this, it ain't just keep it in. And I was like, there you go. That's that too. You know. So, no, that's how people are like, hey, maybe the artificial color is what's holding you together. Yeah, I always find it funny when people want to change something when everything's going perfectly. I remember I said to Chris one time, hey, do I make a cut out my, my crystal light and he goes, what flavor are you drinking? And I was like, oh, I was strawberry lemonade and he's like that, that red 92 holds the cell together right now. You're just, you're just drugs and salt and red 92. We have no carbs in you yet. Once we get the carbs in, we'll be okay, but for now, it's better part of what's keeping you together. That's basically duct tape in this situation. This is your duct tape. So, if I could funny, you know. Hey, what's going on, guys? Thanks for watching another podcast here. Think Big Body Building Media. And thank you to our great sponsor, True Nutrition.com for making this all possible. True Nutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudeau, the creator of DC training. You wanted to create a supplement company that offered high quality third party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders, just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors, plus health and performance supplements. Check them out, True Nutrition.com. And hey, if you use our code, advices, you directly support our podcasting. Thanks, guys. Let's get back to the program. I enjoyed some boxing this weekend. You enjoyed some boxing, you put gloves on and let's see what he in the face. No, I haven't been hit in the face in quite some time. No, I watched the Canelo fight this weekend. Okay, which is, you do pay per viewer. Did you go to one of those famous bars that are open in Arizona? Uh, you know, we actually go out and do things. We breathe oxygen, the whole fucking bit around here. But no, I don't like people. So we did it in the house. Like all this. Yeah, ordered it home and it was, it was classic. And I mean, I'm sure some of you people don't even know, but he's trying to Unify and win all of the titles. Right. So that he can essentially truly be the best. And this was the second to last. It's one more fight to do. But it was just awesome because what I love about these phenomenal athletes is they call the shot. Like he literally had said coming in. He was like, I'm going to end this somewhere between the six and eight Round and it appeared to be a pretty solid fight the whole time. I felt like I sometimes I feel like the the announcers. Angle based on not wanting to show that they're favoring the favorite. They go the other way. Yeah, they're really picking up the other guy. And I'm watching go and like. He's busy, but they ain't shit happening. But in the eighth, he hit him with one shot and it was funny. They asked him after the fight. The guy didn't come out of his corner. Afterwards after the like round. So they like threw the towel in. Yeah. And then it was funny because they said, were you surprised? And he said, no, I went to my corner after the eighth round. I said, he's not coming back out. I broke his cheek. Like he do. It turns out I don't know. I didn't follow up. But they felt it go under the glove. Yeah, they said that that he had a brief broke his orbital. Yeah. So it's just funny to me to think of the size of those gloves. And for him to be like, no, I knew it. That'd be like a little subtle pop at the end of that punch. Exactly. Why did it, why did it keep going when it should be like that? Yeah, why did it? There's that little bit of pop there. It's something something's now. I still love boxing like real boxing. It's just it's such a it's an art that people don't realize and compare to it. I love MMA, but it's just a different thing. So seeing one of the best in the world, the only person he's ever lost was me whether. Right. So which, you know, that doesn't say much of anything. So what what weight class is he? Super middle. So there's three main federations, right WBC WBF and IBC or whatever. IBC or whatever. IBC F. What is it? I don't know them. I don't know them. Yeah, because I remember Tyson used to have all three, right? Mm-hmm. All three heavyweight titles. He had three belts. He was like the Undisputed Champ. Oh, he did. I just, I just go with a real quick. Yeah, he, he had a surgery following that punch. Yeah. Yeah. He put things. A quadrupaud fracture to his orbital bone. Damn. And it was funny. It's seeing it in full speed. Like these guys. They, I mean, they're not big men. He's 160 somewhat pounds. But I mean, when you're, when you're watching the shot, I'm like, I don't want to take one of those body shots. Like, I mean, my, my, my cheek bone is not necessarily any tougher than that guy's cheek bone. You know, right. Right. I shot. That guy's used to getting hit in the face. My bone might be thicker because I'm a bigger guy. But what is that? I just say, I just say, actually your cheek bone is definitely bigger and stronger than him. And I know probably think of oral surgery I had once, but I had my friend as a dental surgeon. I had to get a tooth removed. So she was going to pop it out for me real quick. You know, I'd go into her office and it starts out as like we're talking while she's going. And then she's working a little harder than she's pulling on it. Now she's drilling it and cutting into sections to pull it out one piece of the time. And finally she gets the fucking thing out and she's we've ruined a drill bit. We've, everything is a mess. She literally said she's like, I've never in my career worked harder on someone like this is an easy thing. And she's phenomenal. She does. So we get through the whole thing. No big deal. And I was like, I don't know. Maybe it's the gross. I don't know. And she, she's like, well, I don't know. But that was fucking terrible. I'm not taking any more of your teeth out. Right. And fast forward a few months. And she has another very famous Arizona body builder in there. And I get a texture to go. It's the gross. I was like, oh, did he need a two through moves? She's like, mm-hmm. Oh, damn. That's funny. I remember your bones are not the same. Yeah. When I have my quad removed that member of my surgeon after he's like, yeah, your bone dent, your bone densities very impressive. He said, it was hard. He was, I drilled, because he drilled extra holes in my kneecap because I guess I can't remember what he said. It was normally three holes and he drilled five or is normally two and he drilled four. I can't remember. Right. But he said he drilled extra holes because, you know, he knows I'm going to load it again and all that. And there's a lot of muscles. So, but he said that he had a hard time drilling through my kneecap. Relatively hard time compared to someone else's kneecap. And he said it just took a while to get through the bone. So, that's the knee. So, that's definitely like the loading that's caused that. Right. Yeah. So, but I think it's a combo. Yeah, it was just, it was funny to hear. So, yeah. Good news, Ron. Your face is actually different, but I still don't want him punching you in it. No, no. Definitely not. Definitely not. Definitely not. Do you have any questions? Did you do a question thing? You are sure. I sure did. I have a million of them. So, we've just been around like, but we have things to talk about, man. We're like an hour deep without even digging into it. Let me see here. There we are. I have a lot. Okay. Okay. Let's get some questions. Where are you going? I mean, what do you think? What do you think about sling pills over real slim? I don't even know what a slim pill is. They can oral form of insulin. I don't think there is such a thing. I don't even, I wonder if you're talking about, like, glucose management more than insulin. Right. I think he's probably just talking about, like, like supplements or whatever, they're supposed to make your, or is he talking about metformin? It would be the closest thing to a slim pill, I guess. Okay. The answer to the question is, there's, there's, there's no replace. No rinse thing that's a so here's, here's, here's a good way to put it. Insulin will kill you if you take too much. Slim pills will not. Exactly. Let's show them. Yeah. Yeah. So, nothing compares to insulin for, you know, insulin insulin is, is interesting. You, you take 10 I use your guaranteed to need to eat. Yeah. You'll know. You'll know. But you know what's funny, and I know we've covered this before, but at least one more time, say it. Like insulin is not what people think of as debotic building. No. Like, here I am. I'm doing, you know, I'm doing this push, that we, you know, we're, and I'm up 12 pounds so far, and there's no insulin. Right. I mean, eating more. I'm going to do way now. Are you over 300 on the regular? No, I was, uh, 297 yesterday. Um, I was 285 when I started with Jordan, and truthfully, the only tweak is we lowered the test. Um, we increased another thing. Um, and then I do have growth back in my normal, at four I use, and then there's no insulin. So that's it. Nice. It's, and then my, my training volume is up. I'm in the goddamn gym, like I own the place. Literally, I've, I've see like a, I see people come and leave, and then new people come while we're working out. So, when you say your training volumes up, how, how, how much? Think a few more work sets per workout or what? No, it's ridiculously up because we're doing, um, I'm, so, for example, for back, how'd, I'll tell you what I did for back to the, uh, because it's a pull day. So it's not just back. So I start off with lying like girls. See what my hand's going. Then we do deficit Rd else. Then we go over and we did a, uh, reverse a unilateral, reverse script pull down on the hammer strength. Then a T bar row. Then a high, a high handled, uh, hammer strength row. Then a wide grip lap pull down. Then shrugs super set with face pulls and then two by set movements. Right. So for me, that's like moving in because I would usually do like three things and leave. Like I usually leave the truck running. I'm like, just it's fine. I don't want to see the air conditioning doesn't stop. Yeah, I want to get hot. You know what I mean? I leave the dogs. I get my drink when I leave. I don't even sip between sets usually. So what's the split then if you got a pole day with some hamstrings on it? What's the, what's the week? So that, so it's, it's push pull legs, but pull includes that. I think the only reason we're doing the leg curls is to get them ready. Um, well, you might as well do them if you're doing deficit Rd else. It's your sentence. Yeah, I'm still. You might as well just do them. Yeah. But then when I come in now today, we trained on Saturday. We had yesterday's leg day. Uh, I will do a leg curl again, hamstrings again. Plus quads. Oh, okay. I thought maybe you meant like there was no hamstrings on the on quad day. No, no actually, just because we can. I'm just going to read it because it's funny. Everyone wants there to be a secret I found. So, and I haven't actually gotten my, um, site up where I want to just put this. I was going to put it on his site, but we haven't talked a bunch and he's just super busy. So I just had someone build me a website instead. So I can, uh, put all this stuff out there. Uh, so legs, add actors. We're doing, uh, one set of 10 to 12, one of seven to eight. Then I seated leg girl, a set of seven to eight, a set of 10 to 12. A hack squat, a set of six to seven, a set of nine to ten. A leg press, a set of seven to eight, a set of 12 to 15. Those were doing a two count pause at the, at the bottom. The leg press. Yeah, which is awesome. And I need it because our machine couldn't hold enough weight from a new seven reps. Um, leg extension, one set of 15 to 20 with a full one count to peak. Uh, a glute bridge, two sets of 10 12 reps. Um, two second hold at the top. Uh, on the first set, no hold on the second set. I'm going to do a 45 degree hyper. Then we do leg raises, just abs. But we're bringing the hip flexure. Obviously like that. Uh, then we're doing one more, a dual arm dumbbell curl, just leaning into a bar behind me, hitting those and then calf raises. And that's it. Wow. Yeah. It's like I said, I'm moving in. I come in, I change the music. You alter the temperature of the gym. How are you finding like, your body taking time to adjust to that long of a workout or as your mind. Do you find your mind was like going to wander or anything weird? Like, that you're used to? I mean, I thought it would. Well, number one to be honest, even when I looked at the first workout for chest, uh, or a keepsing chest for press, um, I had no idea how long it was going to take. But I forget like, for example, think about how long it takes to me. How many sets on a leg press to be doing eight reps? Oh, you got to do like five sets to progress up to your work set. Yeah. Same thing with hacks because I'm still going up to 10, 11 plates on the hacks. So it's a say, I mean, the workouts are literally pushing two and a half three hours depending on which one it is. Oh, damn. Because like, you know, leg press and hacks takes 45 minutes and then the rest of the quad workout takes me like 20 minutes. Yeah. That's kind of how it would be. But the only the only tweak is, and I shouldn't say that. I've get there at I do 20 minutes with the gun. Get my legs ready. Yeah. So it's, but it's a good two, two and a half hours for the workout. I'm not having a hard time mentally, but I will say that the the importance of my. Yeah, he's during training is nuts. So about halfway through the workout, I slam all at once 20 grams. Yeah. And that's enjoyed. And that's that's what he wrote. But it does help. So like, I'm starting to fade. I just slam all of it at once. And I sit one on the whole time, but I actually have a full two and a half servings actually. But I do all at once, right in the middle of the workout. I go get this down. Well, the longer your workout, the more. Inter, you know, intro workout, nutritional. Liquid drinkage. Yeah. It's important. Like if your workouts are 40 minutes, you probably don't need anything. It's not going to even make a difference. You can just eat as soon as you're done. But if you're training, you know, 90 minutes, two hours. It's like, yeah, you start to like, you know. Well, and I'm doing a pretty shake right now. So I do 50 grams of protein, 100 grams of oats, dry. 100 grams of banana, 20 grams of honey, and then 10 grams of sunflower seeds about an hour before you go in. Right. And that's actually, you know, it's funny is I've never, I haven't done a pre shake and so long. And with these workouts, it's a game changer. Like it's, it's a must. How far out is it? How far out is it? I do that an hour out. Two hours out, I eat a meal. One hour out, I have that shake. And then I train. And then like I said, intro, I don't do any carbs. It's just the EA's, but it's to me. Yeah. Okay. So fuck that's cool. And yeah, it's fun. I like it. You know, a lot of people are asking like, why would you hire someone for off season? Because, you know, arguably off season is kind of the easy part. You eat more food. And the answer is, you default or I shouldn't say you. I default back to what I always do. And I have a tendency if I want to push for more, not for a client, but for myself. I pretend I'm a different thing. And I do too much. I'll try, I'll find myself wanting to train six days a week, knowing full while that's stupid. You know what I mean? It's so nice. And for the biggest reason for me, what I wasn't eating, I'm not going to pay someone a few grand and not follow the damn diet. Yeah. So, you know, my cheapness overrides and it's been surprising. The food has been so easy to get down to. I went from three to four meals a day to six or seven and they're just going down. It's been easy. Right. So that's, I want to see, I want to see three hundred. Right away. Oh, it'll be, it should be by next week for sure at this. So, been easy. I told Todd was like, man, it's just cranking up. And I'm like, oh, it'll pause at 305 like a slam break. I've done this many times. I just shoot up and all of a sudden three or five. I was kind of like, I'm going to hang here for a little while, you know, especially knowing I'm not doing everyone's secret source insulin. That they think is so magical. Right. Well, just wait. It'd be, you know, 350 when you start the insulin within a week. As long as I train with a hat on. I've got one. Shoot. What's your earliest memory of one of the most important things of wanting a career? Like, what did you want to be? What's the first thing you remember wanting to be when you were a kid? 11 years old, Professor Noggypler. Right. So that was, there wasn't anything before that. New. Yeah. No, I mean, prior to that, it was a kid. And then literally the moment I saw that. Prior to that, I was, I was pretty busy just being a kid. Yeah, secret. Doing doing man shit. But yeah, no. And for me, the hockey was a light switch. A light switch thing. Because people told me instead of I telling them, and that's why I was like, oh, I guess this is what I'm going to be doing. Right. I see what you mean. You know, I think that's the difference. As most kids have like a dream thing. And that's where they come up with. I'm going to be a firefighter or whatever the hell it is. I started playing hockey to 11, which any Canadian will tell you. That's like seven years late, eight years late. But I, my parents like Americans in football. Yeah, exactly. Like, wait, you could walk and you didn't have skates. What's your own idea? But no, I, so they, I told my parents I wanted to play. We bought equipment. They put me in a learn to play league where they teach you how to skate and shoot to know that shit. I got moved out of that to the B team in a week. And then we played one weekend tournament. And they were like, you can't play here. You have to play on a traveling team. Like, the next week. I was like, what is happening? My dad's over here going, if you ever done this before. I was like, right. Oh, that's awesome. You know, I know. What about you? I, I vividly remember, well, I remember a few careers. I remember wanting to be an archaeologist because I think I thought Indiana Jones was like a cool job. Because I, I think, you know, I saw Raiders of the Lost Art when I was like seven years old. And I was like, he's an archaeologist. He gets to look for treasure. Like, that's amazing. When in reality in archaeologist is like a professor job. And you're like, like, brushing with dirt, like in the desert for like six months trying to find something that no one else cares about. You know, there's not a lot of action in adventure. You don't really get to kill any Nazis, which is bullshit, which is fucking bullshit. If I'm brushing in the desert, I want to get to kill some Nazis. Obviously. So I remember wanting to be an archaeologist. And I remember like saying it. Like, I'm going to be an archaeologist. And I remember people being like, oh, you're going to have to go to like college and get a, you know, I don't know what you get a degree and anthropology and some other stuff. Maybe I don't know if I'm a fuck science degree. I don't know if I can get anyways. So that was one. And then I remember which was so funny because years later it became a joke. But I remember wanting to be a marine biologist. What is with you? Because I was obsessed with sharks. I was like, I remember being a little kid and I would draw sharks all the time. And I would buy shark books and I would ask for shark stuff. So like for Christmas, I'd get like a pillow with a shark on it. You know, I like love sharks when I was a kid. And I remember I could identify all the sharks. I could look through a book and go like, oh, that's a Threshold shark. That's a six-fuel shark. That's a black shark that's bubble, and I would name them all. Right. And I wanted to be a marine biologist. And then I remember laughing my ass off years later when that sign fell that the sod came out. Where George is like, I thought it was wanted to be. I know where he's at the beach and he goes, I'm a marine biologist. And he saves the whale. That was a fucking funny episode. And he's laughing myself about that. So he caught George too. You too, buddy. Yeah. And then I remember when I was a kid, I met a camera member as name now, which is a shame. But I met an astronaut, a guy who was like the only Canadian at the time. I can't remember his name. I was at Mark R. I know I can't remember. But he stood on the moon. So he's like the only Canadian that did or something like that. I can't remember. Anyways, he did like this appearance at our school. And I remember I wanted to be an astronaut for a while. And then I remember someone told me they're like, if you want to be an astronaut, you have to join the military. Because that's what you get astronauts from. Right. You just go to astronaut school. You don't get to skip all the shit. You have to like fly jet fighters for a while or whatever. You know what I mean? So I remember thinking, I don't really want to join the military. So I gave up on the astronaut one. Mark, Jarno. Mark, Garno. Yeah. I know. Yeah. There's your guy. I had a look. 1984. Yeah. So he came to our school and gave us like a presentation on being an astronaut. So I was pretty cool. And then what did you do? And then I started lifting weights. And I four four went all further education and forward momentum of life. I'm going to disagree with the education because you still have the king of useless information. And I decided to be a bodybuilder. Yes, that's how I kind of looked at it is when I was done. So when I realized I was done playing hockey, I was like, why don't want to be normal. But literally that was my thought. I don't want to nine to five. I don't know what the fuck I'm going to do. But I'm not going to punch a clock. That's terrible. No, no. And that was it. Literally, that was the game plan. My dad's like, you're fucking idiot. This is your grand plans. What you're not going to do is get a normal job. Yes. Right. That's gold. Yes, he's all years. He's always had like a thought process, some good educational reasoning. I'm like, why don't you do anything? I thought it was going to be like an adventure that was possible. That's gold right there, man. You're welcome. You are welcome. I was answering someone without access to the question. Oh, this is important. Ribs are breast get. Brisket. Of course. I agree. I've never been a ribs guy. Not a lot of use for ribs. There's a lot of work and mass involved for ribs for what I get. Yeah. So let's get into something that I have that might some people might. Some people might think that I just already. Let's get it. Oh, shit. Where are we going? I some people might think that I'm a fucking something's wrong with me. I don't like messy food. I don't like messy food. I eat pizza with a fork and knife most of the time. I just do. It depends on the pizza and it has to be the right temperature for the cheese to tear when you bite. You don't want to stretch. Yeah, I don't want to bite and have like everything slide out and hang and then this is bread in my hand. Right. There's there's there's a lot of things that bother me with that. I I need. I want like equal distribution of meat and cheese on every bite. I know it's fucked up, but I'm not I don't like messy food. Some pizza you can just devour and it's like easy, but other times now. Fork and knife. That's forget I've just I'm just happy you're weirdness. That's why when I ever the only ring the only wings I ever get are salt and pepper wings. Oh, dude. I don't like sauce on my wings. It's fucking messy and disgusting and it's just too much. Do you know that the greatest wing in the world is salt and pepper wing? No, you were very close. See salt and salt and vinegar. Yeah, like the chips. Right. They're at a grocery store here, Matt of all people. Kofora. He's like, you've got to get safe way wings. I'm like, what's your ghetto ass doing getting wings in a safe way? Like I was so right, right. That's like a certain specific restaurants you do wings. I was like, wait, what? So I I risked it. I risked my life. It's wrong with the other way. No, they're they're ready. They're just well back in the day before the. Terrible sickness that would kill you only if you knew you got it by asking someone. Um, it, uh, they used to just be out and you would just pick them out of the thing and put them in a little box and take them home. Number one, they're like a third of the price of wings here. Oh, they're at like the Delhi part. They're just sitting out and dude. I literally, I'm smelling them in my truck as I'm driving home. And I was like, well, there's no sauce on them. That's reach over there and try one. Take a bite. I called them immediately. I was like, you have saved my life, sir. And he was like, what? Like this is the greatest we've ever had. He's like, oh, he's shit. You went immediately. I was like, yeah. You told me this because I used to go to a place called Zips to get wings. And you would get a dozen wings. So I think I've told this before Dante used to tell me if you can't eat. Yeah, yeah. Yeah. But I checked in wings because you can always eat them. Yeah. So I would get 36 wings come home, sit down. Eat. Watch sports. There we go down. So I don't know about two years ago. I called them and I was like, alright, can I get, I want to get 36 of your wings with ranch and I go, well, they come in 10s now. I'm like, 10 wings? Yeah. I'm like, alright, whatever. 30 wings then. It goes, okay, 43 dollars. I'm like, what? We went up and down at same time. Yeah, 43 fucking dollars. So more than a dollar a week. 30 wings. Yeah. I was like, do you offer financing or that shit we do with supplements or I can pay for three months? Or what's going on here? Yeah. So that was that. But yes, to answer the question, brisket is the right one. And moist brisket if we must know. Oh, yeah. I don't need that dried bullshit. Sorry. So I have, I have just a short story about me. Almost losing my mind in rage for split second the other day. Um, the other day. So go, go. I thought, I thought, so I was, I got up and I was 248 one morning. And I was like, holy shit, and back down under 250. Okay, I'm really, like, light. And then I wrote my bike that day for like two hours. Right. And I thought, you know what? I'm going to get some McDonald's. Like fuck, you know, fuck, I'm getting some McDonald's. I haven't had McDonald's for a while. So when I got a big bag of McDonald's, like two double cheese burgers, some nuggets, fries, apple pie, it's all in the bags. Put it on my seat, going and pulling out, driving down the little side street. And this car just like shoots through a stop sign because it's a four way stop. And he just shoots through a stop sign up ahead. So like three cars slam on their brakes, like suddenly. And I slam on my brakes. And also in my new vehicle, these like alarm goes off. Yes. I like surprise a shit out of me because I ain't gone off yet. It's like, BPP, BPP, you know, it's approaching too fast. Yeah, it's like slam on the brakes. The agamic Donald's shoots off my seat. And hits the dash flips upside down and just, and as it falls to the floor, it just everything hits. And so it lands on the ground and I see fries and nuggets sticking out out of the bag. And I'm like, well, fuck, how do I pick this up? Right. So I try to like scoop the bag up so I could turn it over. Right. And like as I'm doing it, I see cheese from the burger, massing up the whole. Like the burgers were like everything came open. It was like the impact with the dash just popped every box open. And as it hit the ground, like there was nothing I could eat in that bag. Wow. I mean, I've eaten dirtier things and nuggets off the floor mat dusty. That's good. It was a later question about it. Yes, but I'm blind. We'll get to the eating later. But I was just super pissed off and I had this moment of like, fuck. And then I thought, well, back to McDonald's. Took a deep breath and went back. Deep breath. I went back. Everything except the Diet Coke. Just like 45 bucks in McDonald's that day. It's awesome. I told the girl, I go, I lost my bag of food. She's like, what do you mean? I'm like, it fucking, I can loss it on the floor. And she's like, oh, it's too bad. That's all the reaction I get. It's actually actually I get. Well, I actually to be honest, I don't even think she remembered me. So I was like, talk into her and she's like, why the fuck is this guy telling me is problem. Thanks, bro. I have no idea who you are. Yeah. Just tells little moments in life where you just have to like gather yourself and go, this isn't really that important. You know what I mean? Okay. You said you had an acid in question. So now I'm like holding out like, that was the question. Do you read that? That's it. Oh, question. And I don't even feel the need to answer. It's like listen, kiddo. The things that we were doing before you were born long before it was cool. Oh, these people that think they're the first acid or Jesus Christ. It actually is funny because I'm like, what's that? I'm in a funny question anymore, but whatever. Everything we were doing in the 90s trumps that. That's like what somebody else. I'll get that question sometimes. Why don't you worried? All that sweetener that you're taking and you're going to get sick and I'm like, do you know? No, I'm going to get into all the things that I do that you should know about. Let alone the ones you don't know about. Hold on. What do you think? Yes, it's what put him down the doc like Splenda. Yeah, the Splenda. It's a little too much for the system to handle. I forget about not knowing that you weren't supposed to have two of those bills back in 2015. Anyways, it's a hell of a pool party. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Fed, ex-noc, now I'm a door. How does that my dog take care of that? Well, speaking of, because I'm not an expert. I'm going to be, say this out loud since no one likes to admit they don't know everything. Met a foreman. Give a breakdown of that. If you, if you know. So, the met foreman Jesus. So, remember through an A and they're just randomly met a foreman. But go ahead. Yeah, yeah. Okay, so I remember back in like 95. When I got to Australia, I remember there was a couple of guys that were like, yeah, I started taking a bit of that foreman like, and you know, you have to eat like little more carbs and bubble, bubble blasts. They were talking about was kind of like insulin. And then I saw I remember like, you know, looked into it and they're saying, they're saying, oh, it makes you really sensitive to insulin because that's what it does, right? It's like super, it makes you super sensitive to insulin. So, anyway, so, guys that I knew taking it back in the 90s, that we're experimenting with a bit of met foreman. I've never used it. But yeah, and I haven't even, it's been so long since I read up on it because to me, it's like old news. But I know it's kind of come and gone a few times in fashion, you know, sort of like walking lunges and, you know, various pieces of clothing. They come and go through out to enough about sequence. Yeah, you know, this is, this is, this is, this is, this is it coming go in the bodybuilding industry. And I know met foreman sort of like resurfaced a few times because there's always like, you know, 10 years ago buying, then someone will kind of start pushing it in articles. So, I actually probably have a, have a lot to catch up on regarding met foreman because I'm not sure what the latest is about it. But what's your, what's your take? Well, I mean, you, you covered literally everything I know because I, here's the thing I think a lot of people that have struggled with is I don't dig deep into things that we don't use that aren't necessary. And I think a lot of times, not to say that it's completely useless, but that we're searching for the secret. And, and I don't know any pros that use it. Right. That's another thing is like, you know, people say have a use like, have you used met foreman? And I'm like, well, I worked with Chad Nichols. And the goal was to get as fucking biggest possible. Like, that's all we talked about. I was like, let's chat. I don't need anything, but to be bigger. Like, we got you bigger and he's like, okay, that's everything we got to do to get bigger. There was no met foreman involved. He didn't even mention it. And then I worked with Chris for years, who's and Chris is really into like, you know, any like, you know, just dieting hard, getting shredded and any, you know, the stuff that makes you more shredded. Like, he's really into into that stuff. And you never ever, like, kind of even know if Chris knows what met foreman is. Yeah. And that's kind of what I wanted to present here is the same exact thing, which is, you're looking for secret that's not there. I mean, I'm doing the exact thing right now with Jordan and the insulin's not there. Not saying it's not going to be, but it's not there. Met foreman, I know will not be there. And literally, I told him, I don't give a fuck about bodybuilding. This has nothing to do with ever competing again as big as humanly possible, just because I've never taken that approach before. Right. My health is phenomenal. Got a full panel, everything which great. And you're not seeing a bunch of tricks with weird obscure drug resource, up and so anything. So that's kind of why I brought it up because I have such a very weak overall understanding because there was no reason to dig deeper. There's nothing sexy about it to me. And I've researched enough to know it's not changing the game. So fuck it. Right. It says, it says here, I just did a quick and go, make your body more sensitive to insulin. Right. I don't know. Which is, that's, that's why people take it. That'd be the number one thing I like, oh, it'll make my body's insulin more efficient. I guess it also decreases the absorption of sugar through the small intestine. Right. So in a way, you're not getting all the carbs you're eating. I guess. And then number three, it says it lowers sugar production. And there's a lot of glucose. Is there a lot of glucose? Is there a lot of glucose? Is there a lot of glucose? So your body will, liver will make less glucose out of other stuff. Right. So, you know, those all sound interesting, but I'm not sure it's what degree they actually impact the physique or, you know, because it's one thing to say, oh, it increases this. But then you look at the data and it's like by a point one percent or something. So, but I know Matt Foreman works well enough that it is a very popular diabetes drug. Right. I think that the body will cross over as the, the question mark. And I think that the big thing to push on, I don't ever want to downplay drugs or the advantages at the highest level. Guys are willing to do anything. Yeah. You have an edge. Anything, even dumb shit to have an edge. So, the fact that I literally don't know anyone who uses it to high level tells me, you guys don't need to worry about it. Unless you have those issues already. Now, if you have those issues, then absolutely. But as a healthy male, trying to manipulate the way his body looks. No. Yeah. That's my answer. Yeah. And there's also two like, when it comes to blood sugar, like blood sugar, really impacts you. Like, it can ruin your day, can ruin your workout. It can fuck you up at work. It can take you out of any task that you're doing of a bad blood sugar episode. You know what I mean? Yeah. Like, it is, if you have a blood sugar episode, it takes absolute priority over anything. I'll show you doing at that point in time. I don't care what it is. Oh yeah. It'll stop you. So, so, so, so I always tried to like avoid. Stuff that has the risk of being that disruptive. You know, so stuff that can mess with your blood sugar a lot. Like, I don't know, maybe take too much metformin and you're like, Holy fuck, like, you got any sugar, like, who knows? I don't know how it feels. But I'm just saying that that's my general take on all drugs. Is like, if you're going to add a drug into your repertoire, it can't be like a fucking nuisance. No, it's the same. A lot of people ask about insulin before training. And then my answer is always. You have to go what you're doing. Yeah. As long as it doesn't fuck up your training. Yeah. You get anything that alters the training for a negative in my opinion. Doesn't, doesn't work that no matter what it's doing. Yeah. Yeah. This one guy at my gym actually had that talk of them. He was like, comes up to the counter, like half way through his workout. And he's like, I need a gatorade really bad. I'm like, okay, I'm a gatorade. He's a can of pay after him, like, yeah, he pays me after. And then he did that a few times. And I'm like, are you like, take it to a chance? I don't mean, like, oh, I must be. I'm like, well, then quit doing it. No, it's not. Get off. What is amount of stock one day? He even told me he's like, yeah, I have like a 50 gram carb drink. I'm training and I was like, it's just not enough. And I'm like, I don't even want to know how much you're taking. Just fucking cut it down. Cut it down, wait down. Like you shouldn't be able to. It's not going to go out in my gym. You, yeah. I mean, I appreciate you buying a gatorade every single time you come in here. I love you over part of the clinic. As gatorade sales have never been better. But you may be mad at your blood sugar a little better than they. Look at this, dude. This is how legit it's getting. This is my, my pre workout shake. It's already ready. It's awesome. And I was going to say listen. Okay. Stainless steel shaker, you know. Let's go. Me too, but this is the, the ice one. I shake it. These guys are awesome. The ice shaker company is badass. And they're looking you guys are using free property now. They're coming out with like a 30 year old. They're going to be a 30 year old. There's probably a 30 year sold out. The. And it's a 30 year old. They're coming out with like a 36 ounce or the suppose to be at this month. And I, and I've already got on the order. I'm likable. Because my only downside that I drank with these are intranet in. You with the fucking thing. I'm not doing the plastic anymore. I did mean to root. So that was really beautiful. That did my life. A lot of people really upset. You're like. Fuck, how to go buy a bunch of glass. Talk of wear. This is my drink right now. This is my free workout drink. Oh, okay. Damn it. I know. I had a lot of people message me because I put that on. I put that clip on my Instagram too. So everyone was like, fuck. It's so funny because that you know that shit never fucks with me. And for whatever reason this time I'm like, Yeah, but this one guy told me it was like sitting eating his meal out of an old scratch up red stained like this is what passed it. One. Yeah, top of where it dish. He said he was sitting eating out of it listening to the podcast. He was like, oh, like he said he's like instantly just was like, he moved his down. His penis was shrinking because that's what it does apparently. Yeah. He was like, I changed my life. His wife's like, I knew it. Yeah. So he message me is like, thanks, bro. I had to go with by a bunch of fucking glass top of where. Yeah, I didn't point hours later because he watched you finish my meal. These companies should be so happy with you because now they're everyone's going to buy these things. No, I know. I know. No, okay, you saw that. So that's my intro. It comes out of the I put it in this now. But I'm laughing because I'm like, well, I have to bring a couple of them because I drink too much. So that told you, I've got the full serve in the slam and I have essentially like the one I sip on which takes two more bottles. So I have three of these 75 pound shaker cups in my fucking bag every day. That's that's how I think. Because of you, my right shoulder from my bag being on it is going to have an issue. Yeah, the only downside to glass top of where is I remember when time we're in the London airport and I had my my my moutin cooler over my shoulder and then it like slipped off my shoulder and it hit the ground and I just heard a pop. You know, I'm like, oh, fuck. So then I get up to the front and they pulled me and I never get pulled in London. So he goes, okay, I'm just going open your bags and I'm like, just warning you that there is a exploded glass top of where that one. When you guy looked at me like, like, that's like, he probably never just damn what I know, like, what are you talking about? And he like unzips it in his glass. Shards just fall out all over the counter and he's like, oh, so he holds it over the garbage and shakes it out. So you were being very literal with this exploded. He was luckily I eaten that meal though. The one above it's fine. The one above it didn't break. That's a bottom of my. This got to make sure you just gotta make sure. So I figured out a safety for that actually is if you have two meals in glass because the lids are plastic. But I put the man upside down. Makes sense. It's funny that you say that because I literally, when I'm out town last week, I brought my condemned bag, same double bag. I usually want to take one bag, but I took two because I knew I was going to train legs. So I needed all my shit. And in my squat shoes, my bell, all this stuff. So I brought that extra bag while I put food in it also. It was frozen to just fly. You know, I was going to check it and then I get out of my truck. I throw it over my shoulder and when it hits it, weighed so much, it snapped the plastic piece and the whole thing hits the ground. And I'm like, yeah, this is broken now, but at least there's nothing in there. All frozen and ziplocked, but literally I was like, okay. So there's a weight limit on this of 49 pounds apparently. That's funny. You had to go. I've broken some bags before. Okay. Where are we looking at here? Is it my turn or your turn? It doesn't matter, but I have one that I want to ask because I want you to answer this because I really want to kind of somehow drive this point out to people. This is the question. Well, eating at maintenance on trend and pre-mo give good re-comp. Oh, God, it's just an impossible like who knows. Like, I don't know. Like it's just, it's just a question that has no answer because there's so many other variables. Okay, you're eating maintenance calories on re-comp. But are you training like a madman? Do you have good genetics? Have you been on the juice endlessly for your whole life? Are you just doing your first cycle? You know, there's just so many factors like what does that mean? You know, right? Someone coming off someone who hasn't done juice in a long time or whatever. Fuck yeah, they'll probably recomplete crazy. If they're obviously doing everything else right. But you know what I mean? Like someone who's just bodies just so fried from taking trend all the time, like this. Get a state of sane or whatever. You got to worry. I guess the reason I'm glad you answered that way. It's funny that I cannot tell you what I'm trying to get and you always seem to grab it. So I was watching a video yesterday of Phil Nicholson, the golfer. Yeah. And he goes, yeah, well, people last in like how far do you hit your wedge? And they'll say something like 120 yards. He goes, well, maybe not in the morning, but it's cold or what if the fairway is built this way? Or you know what I'm saying? Like, he basically listed literally like 15 variables that would change that. Yeah. Yeah. He's like, did it rain? Is the water? Is the ground wet? Like literally he started bus about. Is the grass that had gone going against the grain or four? And he starts breaking that what that does. And he's like, so you don't hit your wedge 120 yards. Not every time. And that is this question, which is. Yes, no. You don't have any. So yes, sometimes you hit your wedge 120 yards. The main thing that most people don't get when it comes to body building is you have to pick somewhere to start and then you have to make adjustments. You literally nailed it because I'll have people ask that all the time as well as, what are your macros? I'm like, I don't know. Yeah. I just know what I mean, I forgot my macros a long time ago because I'd be adjusted them so many times. Yeah. Well, I don't even start. I mean, truthfully like when Jordan sent this over, I, here's what I know we're going to do. Okay. You did bother asking food. Yeah. And we're going to need more or less of all three things. That's it. You don't, you don't have to ever know your macros and you don't have to ever know your calories. You just have to know like what am I eating and this goes up or down. Yep. And that's why it's so important and it's something that we should drive home with people as well is that's why you need to know what you're eating. I literally just had this conversation and I'm going to tread lightly because it ended up ending the client relationship and I'm not talking about the issue was this. I'm losing too much weight. I'm getting smaller. My pants that used to not fit are fitting. And I said in the waist. Yes, you're getting leaner. You're not getting smaller. No, no, I am. I'm getting smaller. Should we add more desserts or something? Right. And I'm like, I'm trying not to get frustrated, but I'm like, you're literally asking me to feed you bullshit to keep the scale up. But that's not what we need to do. You're actually looking better. But the scale is telling your small, your pants fitting. I mean, for God's sake, that's great news. That's like saying, I'm losing weight, but I'm down three notches on my lifting belt. Well, good. You know, so you want to be looking at what's actually happening. And the only way you do that is by adjusting food accordingly, like you don't necessarily need more calories if your love is a musket. I already are going up. You know, and it is possible. A lot of guys just can't get it through their head is it is very possible. It's some points depending on supplementation to be losing fat and getting muscle. Yep. You know, it's a magic zone. It's a magic zone. It's a magic zone that you can get into occasionally for various reasons. And one of the things is I think the guys that the guys get where they want to go with their physique and then the ladies together, they want to go with their physique. They recognize when those windows are open to that. Right. You know what I mean? You know, they don't like mentally. You know, some people just are mentally. They're own worst enemy. Oh, it's most fabulous. Like the way they talk is just so brutal. Like I had one client. He's like, my legs are shrinking. Why do you say that? And he's like, my pants are loose or am I legs? So this is like very sets why I mean the story just told. And I was like, okay, well, you've dropped. You've dropped like eight pounds in the last month. And some fat in your letters. You have fat in your legs. It's where a lot of fat is. And we just talked about how you squatted the most you've ever squatted. For the most reps you've ever squatted it. Like two days ago. Right. So what do you upset about? Like they're just mentally not able to keep it together. Right. Like you're clearly getting better because you're stronger than ever. Right. And your pictures look better than ever. But yet you're going to choose to focus on this one weird thing and be negative about it. Right. And that's one of the most difficult things about trying to help people. And and it's one of the things that if you want to be a successful body builder, you have to be able to get past that mental bullshit. You have to be able to take control of your mind. Right. And that's why a lot of guys don't get in shape, right? Obviously, do we have to feed me more desserts, right? Right. Well, if it's also why you, that's why it's nice to hire someone because I don't I don't suggest people blindly follow. Don't get me wrong, particularly with all the more on coaches out there. But if you do your homework and you trust your coach, when my brain starts to flutter, I just Chris has got it. Right. JP's got it. You know what I mean? And there's there's only been literally, I think I know I've talked with this with you before. I don't know what's on the air. There's only ever been one time in my entire career that Chris made sure that I have listened to him. And the reason was we were getting close to a show and I did three high days in a row. Yeah. And I just remember like a truthfully it was so fun. He sent me the email. He's like, and he did another high day. Make sure you have two double cheese burgers with meal five. Do this, do this. And I remember reading it. And I told Abby on. I said, I think I'm just going to do ground beef for that meal. Like I already started undoing it. Because it just in my head, I was like, we're like 10 days out, you know, and literally as I'm talking to her, I get a text. I need you to just do what I said. And I'm like, fuck, you know, I can't knew I was going to have a hard time with another high day. Yeah. So I did fall through. But the point is, you shouldn't, I shouldn't have done that. He knows the goal. He knows what we're doing. And he's had me for a decade. We're going to be fine. Yeah. You know, so I do understand that moment. It's just for people like you and I either obsess with being shredded. It's probably opposite of most people. I'm never worried about being big. I'm like, I got that. But I got to be peeled because the physics ugly. If it's not sliced out of its mind, it's not good enough. I always had to be, I'm not quite big enough. So I have to be sliced out of my mind so that all the nukes and crannies are deep enough. That my, you know, muscles look rounder. Like I just, I'm so funny because you are the reverse of most people. They say I'm not quite big enough. So I need to be heavier. Which just makes them look smaller. Yeah, because I knew that when, so my take was if you're a tall guy and you're not peeled, that means there's a like a larger area of, you'll be some area on your body that's not peeled, right? And it's bigger than the other guys because you're bigger. True. So you've got a bigger area that's not shredded. It's visually- It makes it very obvious that it's not shredded. Yeah, you know how like if Jose is peeled everywhere, but doesn't have his glutes like ripped ripped, they're, they're a lot smaller. Right, yeah, because the glutes are smaller. Of his ass is smaller, so. And everything's big on him. So it's like, well, he's pretty shredded. But if like a tall guy, it doesn't have shredded glutes. It's like a, you know, a foot and a half long. Right. And it just, I don't know, just to me, I was like so much more visible. It was always like more of a red, big, bright red light. Like I'm not shredded. I think too though, you can, um, it's so funny. It's that, uh, so Chris used to work with Troy Alves. Obviously. Yeah. Yeah. And Troy's legs are small. They're just small. Like they just are. Troy was a big and all. But, uh, I mean, he was 211 pounds on stage at the Olympia. That's like five. Yeah. Yeah. But you'd watch his progression. He was never fat ever ever ever. But even in the beginning, his office is legs of tiny. By the time he's on stage, you forgot because there was so much detail everywhere. You were too busy complimenting him on how shredded he was to remember his legs were a little little thin. Yeah. Yeah. You know what I mean? And I, and I really believe that. It's like, you're too busy noticing all the crazy shit. And it's like, uh, everyone's like, you're a little bit small. Like, that's fine. So it's because it's the only guy that has that detail. So the word busy, I actually like, I was like, you want your physique to be as busy as possible because it distracts from issues. Right. Like the more you have going on, you know, there's a wild party there and a wild party over there. Like, you know, it's a pecks are jumping in his lats are strided and everything. It's just conditioning just, it, it, it, it distracts from all the things that might be wrong with you. You know? JJ Marshall back in the day. His, his thing was that he said, listen, the judges have a job to do. They have to look at everyone. But the question is, who do they want to keep looking at? Where does their eye want to go back to? And when you are shredded, once they've glanced across at all of you, they're going to want to, oh, uh, and then when you're moving and shit's moving with it, he goes, they can't help it. And that's, it was fun. I guess he was explaining to me how a guy like me can win because he's like, odds are you're, you're going to have one of the least superior genetic physics as far as structured that's up there. So you have to have so much detail that they forget. And I actually understood that so immensely because I've been to enough shows where you see it. And it's like, this guy's, I have friend that he came into a show and he was so peeled. I forgot in a torn pack. Right. Right. I was literally so busy being like, how the fuck did he do that? And I'm like, oh god. That's right. Your pack is like gone. Right. Right. Yeah. That's fun. A busy. I'm stealing that. That's, that's now been stolen. I will, you know, give me a little credit every time I use the word. I've, I've got one here for you. True. What is the biggest mental hurdle that you ever had to overcome as a bodybuilder? I would say, I mean, here for me, I, it was tricky because this is weird because I didn't really feel like it was an enormous hurdle. But so I came on the scene quickly. I won junior nationals. I took fifth of the USA's and then I had a fluke of a tenth place finished at nationals the following year. It was a fluke and I knew it was a fluke and it was a fluke and then the following year I got a tenth place finished again. And now the question is was the USA's a fluke or is tenth place a fluke? Because I have two tenths in one fifth. So it was overcoming that. Which wasn't extremely difficult because I knew I wasn't my best. But I'd be lying if I didn't say it made the next show enormously important. Like I think if I wouldn't have placed in the top five of my next show would retired. Right. Because it would have been like, oh, I was wrong. Right. You know what I mean? And I never had a bad place in like that again. But yeah, that was, I will admit and no one knew that. But for me it was like, oh shit. You know, like the first one I was certain. Like we died at two far it was that. Then the second one was kind of like, I'm getting dusted here. Right. Right. And I think I was a little added pressure kind of similar to the blessing thing. I saw about earlier only it wasn't self induced, which was I was getting paid. I was the probably the only guy there making real money. And I was getting my ass kicked. And it was like shit is that just. It's a five. Then you're wondering, yeah, is this gonna end? Yeah. Yeah. Should I be getting paid or you know what I mean? Like because at the time social media wasn't one of those now. Like now it wouldn't make me blink. Should I be mad or not? But right. Then it was kind of like this might all come to an end. And then it was a significant place in my income. So yeah, that was definitely the time. How about you? Yeah, I mean, well, one of the biggest hurdles obviously was rehabbing my quad and dealing with my quad tear. But I I was already done competing when that happened. Generally. Yeah. Yeah. So when I think of like challenges a body builder, I mean it would have been just having to deal with you know they say second place is like the worst place to get because you know you're the first loser. Right. And you're like if you're a third or fourth or fifth you're like okay, well back to the drawing board. But if you're second or like if I would have done like one more carb low carb day, would I want that show? Right. Like if I had not carb loaded, would I want that show? If I had like just done some different or thought differently or just thought differently at six weeks out, would I maybe one that show? That is a huge like that's tough. And it's it's it's also to like I'm going to talk about this for a while because it's like old news. But you know, I was second 10 times at pro qualifiers. So so like I watched the guy in front of me turn pro because he would usually win the overall or at least get the second card. Right. Because it's super heavyweight would either get the card or get the second card. So it's like no matter what the guy in front of me was pretty much gone every fucking time I got second. So you were next in line so to speak pro. Pro and I was like fuck. So then you start to think like well you know Most body builders either got it right fill he No walks into the USA. Scott it or they don't got it which is most body builders. They don't got it to be like a pro. Maybe the reality is that you are just 1% off that cut off. Your genetics are just 1% not enough or your work ethic is 1% not enough or your decision making is 1% not correct enough. Right. And maybe it's just a decimal point of effort that you think you're putting in but you're not that it could have changed the tide on like you could have beat that guy. If you started your diet over again right now and did the same show maybe you would have beat that guy. That that starts to add up and it gets really tough and I'm not really honestly people go how did you get past that and first of all I genuinely loved body building and competing and pushing for my I love the process. That was one of the major things like you cannot do that if you don't want to do it. You know it'll it'll you'll find a way to get out of doing it like you can't do that many shows and come that close. If you don't really really really want to be there. Right. And then secondly is I'm super stubborn. So there's like a stubbornness that most people most people are probably bad or off not being that stubborn. Right. It's not even a good quality maybe. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not necessarily saying it's a good thing. Yeah. I mean because you have that type of stubbornness and direct it towards like a toxic relationship and you wind up spending like 20 years with the wrong person right. Like you can like that type of stubbornness where I'm like no fucking doing this. That type of stubbornness can destroy your life if you pick the wrong thing and apply it to it. Right. So then you start to wonder like all this stuff starts to like like is this my greatest quality or is this my downfall? Yeah. Yeah. And I'm I and I get you could see yourself. I mean from if if someone didn't know I mean I imagine people in your life who would have never guessed your life if you were to now could have thought that bodybuilding was your toxic relationship. Yeah. I'm what I'm wondering with your life. I've asked if you like. I'm like really. Yeah. I've asked a few of my close friends like hey did you ever did you ever come close to like stepping in? Which is it's a valid question that's a very like to a true friend. Yeah. No. So people would know the line though because I could see Ron like you come to me after your second second place and like are you out of your mind of course you keep going. It's right there. After your seventh I might be like you are seven years older. Well yeah plus the odd I plus I got a fifth and a sixth and a third and a fourth and there so your 10 year. That's 11 years older. So when you're looking at that you're like okay I have to early and then I had the win and didn't get the card. Yeah I could see how it would be at some point if I'm in your shoes like a definitely I know and you and you are a logical person you don't do you don't wasteful and you are there's a reason you're aware you are financially in life and so because you've made millions of dollars because you make sound decisions. So your passion for bodybuilding is why you kept going. It wasn't even about the card anymore. I don't think it was. You love bodybuilding. Yeah and then there'd be the odd time like you know how people can say shit and you you're pretty good at like moving. Past it and like I would ever the fuck that guy says I'm gonna be shit. Right. But then ever once in a while somebody like you really respect will you know openly say and they're not talking about you. Right. But they'll open they say something like wow I mean yeah I mean you know some of these guys are just so delusional about turning pro I mean they just don't know when to call it quits like they're coming back to I'm seeing them in Miami at Nationals you know five six seven years in a row. Did you're like I'm a 10. I knew I think in your 14. But so then you have these moments like oh shit you know so sometimes that like invades your mind and then you have to like deal with that like how much does this really weigh is this like you know this this thing and and so there's like that there's that stuff so it's it's it's tough to manage and you know you have to like make decisions and then it did get so that like I wasn't just automatically like renewed for another year every time you know like right because most of the seconds like the first half of them I'm like Kate got second a day Kate fuck it let's go prep starts tomorrow. Right and just like you know just but then you know I remember 2010 I remember I said to my girlfriend at times like I don't know I think that might have been it and she's like okay well let's you know let's go eat you know and so it wasn't as automatic. Right. So but you know at the end of the day I always wanted to prove something to myself and that was one thing that kept me going was like I know I always believed I could I could earn a pro card and I just I just didn't want to quit and I just had fuck you know so but yeah that that's tough mentally when you're when you're close like that like I think about how hard that was for me and and I think about Jay because you know that's the Olympia yeah and obviously he's like in a position where there's a ton of more money involved so it's still financially worth it to like keep pushing all that stuff but I know that Jay didn't care about the money at the time he wanted to be Mr. Olympia. Yeah that's what that's a drove that's what drove yeah yeah it wasn't there for 100 grand. Yeah back then the hummer yeah so so you know I think man that's you know I so you know at the end of the day I mean whether or not that was you know long-term a worthy use of my time and energy I try to be proud of of the fact that I was at least able to like close that chapter properly you know may you know maybe not the way I dreamed of as a kid you know but just like you know at least make it like you know so then it's like it's a book that's like finished right like it's not like chapter 10 and there's like pages missing right that was always my always my like fear but I think of the same I mean you can have a finished book and I bring this up not for you but for the for the everyone listening is I think that the chase for a pro card or for the fame or the money of body willing some of us have forgotten that you just love doing this not yet all of us there they're on here and you gotta remember is had you went eight ten years whatever let's say the year before you turn pro you stopped you would not look back and regret it because look at the memories look where put you look at the world travel yeah and forget I'm not saying I know everyone won't have those things but I really think people need to remember because on the flip um you know I don't know if I take a bass fishing when I'm done with this I'm gonna go buy a hundred thousand odd boat I'm gonna go buy all the shit and in five years I might just I don't really like bass fishing that much and sell it and lose money but if I enjoyed it for those five years it wasn't a loss like I think that yeah there's something that I can't stand about our world in general which is if something doesn't play out the way we thought it would we say it wasn't meant to be and it's like no maybe that's exactly what it was meant to be yeah what it was okay you know the old thing about the rock he said not making that a fell being a football reject is like look at him now haha it doesn't have CTE yeah yeah and I know he's made a hell of a lot more money than it would have planned football so you know yeah and and and all the things also to another thing that was weird for me that I don't know if I've ever mentioned but when mutant first signed me and I first started traveling with rich because that was kind of how it started like I started traveling with mutant and like right away rich was added to the mix I think I only did like a couple of things where we didn't have rich right you know and um I remember like just the pandemonium about rich and all the stuff and I didn't have a pro card yet right as 2012 I never pro card and and then also too you know like they were sent me to the Olympia and Arnold and I had a little bit of imposter syndrome but I don't even like I remember like standing at the booth I'm like why am I here like and of course there's people talking to you and it's all like on the outside it's all fun and cool there's people chat and you're sign and stuff but I remember I just sort of had this feeling like no one's really here to see me like I could just leave and the booth would still be the same and like no one would really notice right and so I remember feeling like that a little bit like a little bit of imposter syndrome you know like I'd see I'd walk past the other booths and I'd see like you know Seth and Flex and I'm waving it guys and they're saying hi and then I get to the booth and I'm like I'm not a pro right why the fuck am I at this booth like I could see rich he's like an exception but like what do I have like I'm not a pro and I'm not rich so if I'm not a pro and I'm not rich like why I'm even here like but I just better smile I want to keep my job and keep talking to people I remember there's a little bit of like awkwardness on I don't know if I'd ever showed but I was like I remember feeling it right now and that's just because you know sometimes we don't let ourselves enjoy things as much as we should at first or we you know put too much pressure on ourselves to like you know be more than we you know it would ever I don't know how to word it yeah I don't mean but there's why it's important that people see like I love a lot of bodybuilders are very against where the industry is and where the world is and I'm the opposite I look and not and not just because I cash in on it but because I really think that's the way the world works you got to adjust you got to move you know rich is a prime example he's bigger than bodybuilding he's bigger than the IFBB for sure his lines and his I don't even want to say popular but his reach on impacting people is as high as anyone you mean I mean what what's the last show Rob Bailey did so here's a funny thing there's a funny thing that you just sort of pointed out which is the the lesson of the whole thing is rich taught me so here I am at first I have imposter syndrome right like why am I here I'm not a pro and I'm not you right rich yeah he showed me he's like guess what you don't have to be either one of those things anymore be you right like you like why the fuck not like why can't you be the draw without a pro card and without tattoos like you're not to be me and you don't have to be like it's just all about way you handle it and present yourself and you know I remember he used to show me his phone all the time and he'd be like none of that stuff fucking matters anymore no that stuff matters anymore you know you don't you don't have a pro card no one on here even cares no one have the people that are on this don't even know you don't have a pro card I remember him saying that to me you know when I when I turned pro it's fine it was a realization I had when I turned pro and I I've not somebody who put the IFBB in my name I shouldn't care but I remember like I put up a post somehow just saying because it wasn't exciting it was a relief yes I finally did it so I put put that up and I had like multiple people literally comment I didn't know you weren't a pro yeah yeah because because not only do they not know but they don't know that the US stays is not a pro show like they don't know they follow me because I'm funny at Costco right and then you try to find it I mean truthfully and and that's why it's funny but you make jokes and stuff and they don't even know that you're not a great bodybuilder like I'll tell people like I'm like I'm not a great bodybuilder and they're like what are you talking about and I'm like well I mean in the world scheme yes I can win any show in town easily but against the berry very best I'm terrible I guess and they don't know that yeah that's another thing that the expose taught me like exposure to that taught me because coming from where I like I was a guy that knew everyone's placing and everyone's story and all the guys in the order with which they started and retired and the history of like I just I was one of those kids that knew all the 90s and 2000s bodybuilding trivia right so I assume that you know the other people at the expo that ended in line to get a shirt and a and a pitcher with who are the same but then I quickly learned at the Arnold I remember my first Arnold with Rich he like kept pointing out to me he's like how these people don't know who anybody here is they're just here because he expose like the biggest event in town and they to drive up every year from their tiny little town to states away and they get some free merchant hope to see Arnold and they're just they don't even like they don't even necessarily know me they just see the line and they just want to get in it. Yeah or they say the freak factor I mean the freak factor would you not want to go picture with yeah so he just kept saying like all this stuff that you have in your head about your your where you fit in in the levels and stuff a lot of these people he even even aware of the levels yeah you're just here. You know there's levels you know and they don't have a fucking clue I could tell them that I'm gonna be Mr. Lempian they'd be like oh fuck like you know like Rich was great for that he's funny. Yeah really helps so no I think it's awesome but I like that people realize that it's it's funny and I know we're closing in so we'll let this go yeah I'm actually 4% something that I the time when I talk with you they he's getting ready for his first he's gonna do the junior nationals in the USA's and Todd my video guy said man you think you think you'll go to improve this year and Tommy goes gotta hope not and and I laughed I knew what he meant and he's like what and he was like well hey I'm not ready and that would be the worst thing to happen to me because it would be over when he went over he goes hopefully I'll have years of chasing that I'll get to enjoy and the funny part is Tommy's wired of it he's not even talk to you talking about getting it years to chase it and have fun and be in the mix and it's funny because I would love to take credit for that as a mentor but just he's always had that mindset is he loves to live the life and grind he reminds me of you then yeah like yeah I mean sure at some point he'd like to check the box I'm sure but he's never actually told that to me ever yeah and I fucking love it because it's it's about the grind and he gets it like it taking me years like I remember in 2011 had I come in the way I looked three weeks out I would turn pro yeah and you got I wouldn't be on the show right now and no one would know my name well so it's a good thing to keep in mind everybody you got to embrace a grind and I'm on three percent so we obviously had a good grind because that a full battery when we started I live on an American plug-life but yeah that's all good buddy I'm just gonna go I gotta go try it before thanks everybody and yeah we were looking forward we got another couple of guests that we're gonna confirm dates with like I said we got John Jewett booked so we're looking forward to this stuff and thanks for joining us and thanks for supporting and like share subscribe comment ring the bell and I love the crickets last episode great touch okay and thanks to Scott for piping in on the indie talk there when we were Instagram dumb and helping us out with some of that stuff he's right there when you need him it's every time okay thanks everybody and remember it's just body building

Hey everybody, welcome to episode 153 of It's Just Bodybuilding. Of course, Big Ron Parlo, our producer Scott McNally, and our very morally flexible Dusty Han Chau's back. He's not wearing the same shirt for a whole week. He's only wearing the same shirt for one day. Right? So we have two of those, right? Yes. So we got like share, subscribe, comment, comment with the question, and and ringer though. There we go. That's what we need from you so that we can continue to give you this, right? And this is our YouTube question episode of The Week. Apparently. Yes. Right Scott? Yes. Here, let's do this. Just tell, because I always try to time it whenever it's time to like bring the next question. Just tell me when you're ready for a question and then tell me when you're ready for the next question, I shall put them up. We have a lot of dozen of them. There's a lot of people who took part in the last episode. I appreciate because that stuff helps to boost the show up, helps other people to find it. And the whole ring the bell thing, I think that's important too because we've had people who say, hey, I'm not getting notifications. I didn't know when there's another show. If you don't ring the bell, you can be subscribed and you'll never see another show again. Possibly. Yeah. That was so important. That's great. Yeah. It still comes through your feed if you're subscribed, but it doesn't. You don't get notified. Yeah. Like it just drifts through the feed. And if you're not on the feed that day, you know, you know what I mean? How YouTube works? Whatever. You know? Right now my YouTube feed is all messed up because I kind of went down a weird rabbit whole the other day. I've done that. And I'm like YouTube's like kind of sketchy. And I'm trying to like, you know, reclick on other things. In case I die and someone goes through my YouTube. Can't have that. Treating that in my phone. It's rude. Damn, search is so. Yeah. Yeah. You know how it works. That's okay. So we got some YouTube questions Scott. Let's get one roll in. All right. Cool. Get the party started. Question for the next episode. When we're starting out, we pick up a lot of habits and believe a lot of training and nutrition principles that aren't nearly as true as we thought or complete bullshit. Sometimes we end up holding onto some of these principles just out of habit. Like Annaballek, Windows, high rep versus low rep as law, static stretches, lowers, strength, etc. Do any of you have any of these that might not be true, but you still do out of habit. Anyway, love your content and thanks as always. Sorry to think. Yeah, okay. You go ahead, Dasty. Well, I still believe these do be true. Even though people argue with me to the death on science, I still think fasted cardio is the best cardio for getting in shape. And I still think that going on like a pure fish diet. Oh yeah, it's a good one. Change is the way you look. It just does. And it's one of those things where there's nothing scientific about it. If you're looking at macros, it doesn't make sense. There's no reason for that to be the case. And same thing, I'm also a firm believer that I don't give a shit when you eat your food. As long as you get in today, yeah, I'm telling you that somehow it's magic to do cardio before you eat. But in my experience, it's the best form of cardio for losing fat. And that does not make sense scientifically at all. I see what you're talking about you. I'm just trying to think here. Well, they have this science now that says it's static stress stretching. Drain's you of strength and explosive power and all that stuff, right? But I still really like to stretch a bit when I'm warming up. People are saying don't stretch at all. I just, I don't feel good about that. I've trained without any stretching and I've trained with a bit of stretching. Like, you had opened up and loosened up and stuff. And I don't know, there's a feeling of, feeling of safety and a feeling of like, freeer movement and more ability to bang things out without feeling like I'm not. I don't know. If I don't stretch a bit, I just don't feel like I should be loading things like that. Like, you know what I mean? He's feel tight. And I don't know if I'm just not flexible enough by default. Maybe people that have really high default flexibility, who aren't tight at all. Maybe they don't have to stretch it all when they warm up. I don't know. But I like a little bit of stretching. You know, I don't go crazy. But, you know, I'm a believer that you should get things opened up. With more of a pump in there, you know, helping blood in all that sort of stuff. So, you know, I know the post workout window is supposed to not be true, but I sure as shit don't want someone who's dieting for a show to not eat for two hours after the train. Yeah. You know, so, yeah, I don't know. There's a few of those, you know, like they say all the science proves that it doesn't matter what rep range you're in. It's still get high-purchy feed, but I'm like, yeah, I know. But I still think like this six to, you know, six to 15 ranges were like, what all the Mr. Olympia sandals are. So, you know, that's sort of stuff. I think you got to break in with something like that too though, training to true failure, muscular failure at six to 15. I think you can do that easier without error than you can when you're in that 20, 25 rep range where maybe it's just burning, see, stop. Or maybe you're getting fatigued cardiovascular, see you stop. So, that's the, that's why I'm in a different to those. You got to be pretty advanced because I train in really higher, brain just sometimes, but I don't think that would have worked for me 15 years ago, because I would have been stopping before I really had to. That's a good point. Yeah. Well, you're scouting. Well, when you were saying the fasted cardio thing, the fish thing came to my mind and then you said it. But I agree with you, man. Like 110% on that. And I don't know, maybe I believe it's true that things like white fish, like cod or tilapia don't have a rack of dynic acid in it. Maybe there's like an inflammatory thing that's not happening. And I know that fish is going to be really high in protein and even lower in fat than a lot of other lean meat sources. So, I don't know. I'll tell you what. Let me ask you this. Like if you sit down and you eat a bowl of chicken and rice versus a bowl of fish and rice, I guarantee, at least for me, I'm going to be starving like in 45 minutes. I don't care how much food it was. I know that in that tells me something. If I'm able to process something so fast and break it down so quickly, there's something to that. And then I've seen it in my own life, too. If we switch like half of the meals to fish, it does make a difference. So, I know that everybody who's last now know that. Oh, yeah, fish, good things to the skin, you know. But I do think there is something to it, too. I agree with it. Well, I have never been one to believe that it's the fish. I'm not like, I'm just saying, in my experience, I feel the same way about, about just really low fat, low calorie diets. So, like, when I've gone to a lot of egg whites, that's another one. Yeah. I've had egg whites like three meals a day and then fish it two meals a day. Yeah. So now, but yeah, the thing is, is like, you know, they say we need a certain amount of dietary fat for healthy function of the brain. You need some saturated fat to create hormones and you need this. And, you know, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. That sort of thing, cholesterol, blah, blah. But sometimes I had success going to like, is zero fat diet. Yeah. And just like, well, you're not living the body. You know, no, it's not like you're living your life that way. But yeah, like, and so when a lot of guys would go to all fish, I'd be like, Oh, I get it. Like, you're going to know fat. Like, your meals just dropped in calories. Like, then ads up for the whole day, you just dropped like 300 calories. Yeah. You know, that's gonna add up. So, but I would always do egg whites instead of like all fish. One of the main things that concern me about eating fish five times a day is that I was around several people in my life that smelled like fish because they were eating fish five times a day. I've done like coming up with them. Yeah. Like they're in the gym training and they just stink like fish. And I'm like, dude, like, you're fucking hard to be around man. Like your family's dying dude, like go home eat something else. Like, take a break. Like, I don't know what's going on in your body, but you got like fucking so much fish in your digestive tract. And it's literally coming out in your sweat. I thought I never wanted to be that guy. I thought you were going to like say something health wise. Like, I'm afraid of the mercury that's in the face. Like, I just don't want to smell like it. I don't want to fucking smell like fish everywhere I go. That was just a crazy man. Which I remember the first time. Yeah, you ready? Which way? He said, which I back. I back. Not. I never delayed. Yeah, yeah. So yeah, I just, um, I would never want to stay like fish. I was just be so brutal. Oh my god. So, but yeah, I've been around people where like they come into train one day. And they're two weeks out, right? And they come into train one day and they're warming up on the lake press. I remember my buddy Rob, where I went on the lake press next to me one day. And I just looked over at him and I was like, oh my fucking God. That's coming out of him. Yeah. Was that coming out of his breath and coming out of his sweat. And it's, I would love to hear from someone like who knows exactly what's going on. Like, how come they smell like fish, but yet, you know, I could eat a lot of chicken. And I don't smell like chicken. So what is it about the fish? Is it a digestive thing? Is it coming out of their sweat? Or is it like, what's happening? You know what I mean? Yeah. I'd like to know. I think Dusty's on the lake. We're, guys, we just don't have the best internet. Yeah, my friendship for Dusty today. What's up, buddy? He's just froze. I was about to sound. Oh, there we go. Do you have any other devices that are connected to your, to your line right now? No, thanks on. No one's here. Okay. Now you got one, I guess. Is your phone. Yeah, my phone's on. I'm just okay. Hmm. Don't know what it's slow right now. It's exactly the same box. I love it's just how it pulls into this apartment or what? Oh, weird. Okay. When you move into this new studio, we'll get you hard wired. Ethernet. Yes. Yes. That's a must. Yes. And I want my own, we've already discussed this. I'm like, this is just my internet. Everyone else, fuck off. You guys have your own. I'll buy you any drone. Yeah, you need your own. Yeah. What's it called? Receiver? Whatever it is. Well, if you get like the good, like I have like the 1.3G or something like that, like then you can do everything. Be downloading porn in the background while you're watching porn over here and doing the podcast all at once. Yes. That's all I do. Okay. Yeah. All at once. So you knew what I was doing in 4K this. I was like, off work. Hmm. I've known you guys saw me looking over. I didn't know why. I had a feeling. Yeah. I need that for sure. I'm going to get that before I leave. I can't do this for 4 fucking months. But any who. No. Okay. All right. Another question. Yeah. All right. Yes. All right. Brian Murphy, who is a subscriber of the channel. You can see that little box right there. Show see subscribers. Another great episode. Thanks guys. Question for the next show. Best ways to approach bringing up a legion body part in theory. I would just like to just hit arms a lot harder and keep doing everything else the same. Work should I take the approach of dropping everything else back while focusing on arms. How to each of you approach this. Thanks for everything. Keep up the great work. Good question. Well. First saying I say for lagging body parts is to make sure they're prioritized in the workout split over the week. So it doesn't mean they have to be first in the workout like you don't have to do biceps first and then chest if you're trying to bring your biceps up. It just means you have to make sure that when you do biceps you have a hundred percent of your energy that you can really really give her mental focus is big thing. So let's say you have. Really good packs and you need to bring your biceps up. That would be a good match. Because you can reduce your volume a bit on your chest. Because you don't need it. If your chest is a strong point and you could put more into your biceps. I do think you have to do more total volume for body parts you're trying to bring up. But I don't think that necessarily means it has to be in more than one workout. I think there's other ways to do it. But usually that's how people do it is they'll you know keep there. They're heavy normal day or whatever and they'll add volume at another point in the week. There's a bunch of different ways to do it. You could just do more volume on that body part day if that's what's best for your schedule. But I mean mental focus is a big thing. If you've got something that needs to come up you need to have your head in the game. Because then that's where you correct all the other stuff. That's where you think the form and that's where you you know really work on the contractions. And that's where you feel the connection best and all that stuff. So just really making sure that you're mentally like zoned in on that body part and you have a little bit extra. You know focus on it as far as what you're going to do. So I think that's probably the most important concept for bringing up week body parts. Yeah, I agree. I would say the thing that I had to do personally with bicep growth was I had to realize that I couldn't train biceps the same way. I train a lot of weather muscles which was. It was unaware of the obvious which is how easy this brother body parts to help. So for biceps I really had to take a step back and say okay. I'm moving a lot of weight but what's moving it. And then you know it was really simple for me. I cut my weight in half one day for a set. And just said I'm going to execute this set perfectly and see what I feel and I immediately realized I wasn't training the biceps. I was hitting them but they might have been getting a percentage instead of all the work. Yeah. Now I train them very light. I think it's key. You know people ask all the time they'll say what's the best way to train x or what's your best way to put on muscle mass. I think that if you were to look at my training especially at this stage of my career. It looks a lot like my music selection. It's a little all over the place because for one body part it's just you know it's just it's just get you know just get after it doesn't fucking matter. Pull the weight full heavy call today and then bicep. When it's death now I laugh one day is Andy you know it's yeah I'm obviously I'm listening to sling the on training biceps with a 20 pound dumbbell. So I can really lock into it you know there's no death metal on back on on bicep day that's the key right right okay get a little too hyped. Yeah really did though comes out of just the focus for me I did not need to add volume I needed to train better. Yeah train better. Okay only think that I would add just one thing and that's that we only have so much recovery ability in our body. In our week you know so yeah I met guys who are like oh man I just love training legs and leg training is my best day you know when I train legs and and they just like. I'm not really annihilate their legs and they've got great legs too but they need to bring up their back in their chest you know upper body is lacking by comparison. And it's like well maybe we need to back off a little bit and sometimes it's a psychological thing where they're like oh man but no like they identify like legs is my day you know if I don't get in there just like destroy legs. Yeah I don't feel like I'm getting good workout and it's like okay what do you want to keep destroying your legs I mean you got great legs or do you want to grow your chest and back because sometimes it's like maybe you didn't need to do anything more you might need to do something. Less and it might not even be that body for you to be into something else. Yeah that's great point. Yeah there is a certain amount of sets you can do at the end of the day and you will eventually if you're if you're you know let's say you're doing an experiment. To see how much volume it takes to get something to grow you are eventually going to have to take sets away from something else. Yeah you know you can't just wind up it you know 10 sets for body part except for by steps for a do 50. You know you don't have to be like a cape maybe I've dropped to eight sets for body part. Yeah by steps can still get you know 15 sets or whatever you know whatever you have to do. So. All right. Another question. Let's see. The podcast. What was the one prep that you each had that went horribly wrong and if you remember what was it that caused it going into detail from coaches mistakes to your own sabotage etc. I've been in the past 20 13 I've talked about it before but that was my worst year of prepping. And it was all just started with an injury early on in the prep. I had a tear and tear in my upper quad squatting. I had a pop and like a rip sound up in the high upper quad. And my leg was super sore I couldn't really put any weight on it if I bend my knee you know and my leg got all purple. And this was like like four months out from the show but it took like it took like six weeks for that leg to clear out and look better. So by the time by the time the leg looked better I was like under 10 weeks out. Another I tore my fucking quad again. I tore it at the top of the tear drop on the inside where the tear drop in the doctor touch the sartores and the tear drop touch. I tore it there squatting with chains. And it popped and I felt like a rip and it turned bruised and turned purple again. And I turned on my fucking leg and at this point I'm like under 10 weeks out. And the first one took six fucking weeks to go away. So I just and beside myself at this point and you know the stress and just and then you know just it just was a rough prep. And my leg didn't quite clear out in time for the show so I had one quad that was dry and and had strations in it. And then one quad that was a little bit foggy with a bit of a film on it. And I mean what happens I mean the judges look at you for a second. And if they look at that if they look at that quad they're like going around shape and it just cost me so badly. And then and then obviously like I did stuff that was dumb at the end trying to fix the leg like I thought maybe if I'd taken extra dioratic. And then I just pull really hard like you know I rapidly gave in satin with sauna and then I thought I'll take an extra dioratic and just see if it pulls and it did I felt like it did pull a little bit but then I was flat. And I thought well I don't look good I just I got to come and full as a fucking house so I just filled up like drank like fluid and I ate a bunch of shit and I just got as full as a fucking house. And I went on stage and I wound up in sixth out of 30 which was my worst placing ever in Canada because I didn't make the top five which is the first time I'd ever not done my posing routine at the night show. Which was like I huge blow to me because I was always posing at night that was a thing I never didn't make top five fuck that. And this time I went home you know without posing at the finals and I just fucking was just it was the worst but that prep was just doomed from the start. I looked back on it after I'm like what a waste of time and money that whole prep was just fucking puke. Oh so yeah you know sometimes you just got to know like this is not happening. Yeah you know I mean I still looked like fucking you know I so got some pictures from the gym that look crazy you know like I mean I was big like I took you know I took the off seasons all serious that point. I mean I was getting big off season and I was like 275 really lean coming into that show and I just everything just kind of fell apart because I was trying to pull all the water out of that leg and I wound up like you know 267 on stage without strided glutes and it just was like the fuck is appointed this. Right. What a waste. Well you got you give you that. But I made my own mistakes I would say I remember the third time I competed I remember so I did middleweight and then the next year I did another another prop I took like I competed in the I think the spring and then I took like a year to grow and then I competed in the fall that next season so like in one year when it was like you know good off season and I actually came in lighter and tighter and harder and was one of my. best looks at my second show ever one lighter so it's like 177 it's the first show and they still let me on stage pound over and then I was 172 at the next year and it was my favorite looks still one of my favorite looks and then from there I took two years off to grow and then I came back at 194 195 and at that point I still had a few pounds to lose like I bet you if I came in at like 189 I would have been solid there. Right and then my coach said like what do you think about doing the Michigan State championships because that's coming up in six weeks and he was like let's try to hit middleweight by then and we're just like pull all the food out. And try to hit middleweight and see how that goes you know when I was like crazy you know when I do 55 I'm going to hit 176 in this period of time and I was like well I believe in it you know let's do it so I tried it and it was just I didn't feel good and then I honestly started cheating on the diet after a while like it was just the food drop. Was so crazy it was the only time that I ever really struggled on a diet but like we went to like nothing just like protein only and I don't think it would have been a good look anyway. I think the smart move would have been like hey why don't we do the Michigan and try to get you know 56 pounds lighter but we are going for way lighter and then I still did the show. And it and it wasn't like a failure I still got fourth and it was like you know was a big lineup like like heavy was like there's a cross I can't remember how many guys but there's a cross the stage I still got fourth but it wasn't a good look it wasn't the look I wanted and I remember still to this day. Having my girlfriend shooting my pictures for me and just standing outside my backyard the morning of the show. Tanned up hitting my poses and sending him to him I just remember feeling I don't want to fucking do this because it wasn't like the look I was proud of you know so. I would say that you know maybe I was done that season maybe I should have or either either not done it at all or just tried to shoot for a better version of what I had done at the first show so whatever. Right. Yeah. Now for me it was real simple I think I would definitely share this to people. I 2012. 2010 I got fifth of the USA's my first pro qualifier. 2011 I was phenomenal but we dialed it too far and took tenth so 12 was supposed to be like that redemption show you know I had a whole year of like obsessing about it. And my personal life was a complete fucking train wreck and I probably should have pulled from that show like before I started the prep. By starting the prep I had a pseudo was doing everything right and was pretty in hindsight I had been denial the entire time because I remember the night before the show taking pictures for crest to set them to them. I remember looking at the pictures being like this light is terrible let's shoot over here I kept moving around to find light that made me look in a way that did not look. It's like wasn't a light fat fuck you're not in shape. I was brutal and I remember because I ended up taking tenth that year which I took tenth year before but the difference was. I looked terrible and I knew it and then when I saw the pictures I'm like I don't know how I even made tenth I mean it had to have been the weakest line up I competed in the pro qualifier because how that was good enough for tenth I have no idea. And it was a double smack because I knew what was wrong Chris felt terrible I remember he came to my room the day after and he's like. He knows me he knows I'm not cheating I'm not making mistakes and he kind of looked at me like what are we gonna do you know I said. This one's on me like I knew what the problem was it wouldn't matter who was prepping me I wouldn't have gotten ready wouldn't matter what drugs I use nothing was gonna do the job. It's too much background noise but it was also a double whack because when you nail a sheet you know I'd one G and assholes that I got fifth USA is a super. Then you get an off show where you're tenth and people go oh it's you know I mean he was the yellow is fluke. But when you get two back in a row was the fifth of flutcher with a tenths of food because the only out one of those and you got two of the other so that was definitely. A shot and the only thing that it did in a positive note was I wasn't waiting a year I was like when is the next pro qualifier we're doing that. Which was the USA's angel I the following year and I took third and was definitely back you know so. If you're not I think it's something I read the other day it was pretty cool. Somebody put up a thing it was just that it was a story but I got shared a few times they basically said. If you can't remove twenty five hundred dollars from your bank account today you're not financially ready to do a show like without it affecting your life. And I think that's accurate but I also think if you already have stresses in your life viewing your wife for your girlfriend or whatever fighting. It's not time to start a prep. Yeah like you know or business troubles or like any of that shit because you can't have it you know it's just not a feasible thing. And in hindsight I look back when I was my best and when I was at my best there was I mean I had life shit that takes place me you're going to have flat tire going to have works problems or something but my house life was phenomenal. You know what I mean like yeah there was there was five people getting me ready for the USA's you know Chris my wife my training partner we were all getting ready for the show and the year that was bad. If anything I was using the show as distraction from how shitty my real life was and that's just not how it works so if anybody ever catch themselves in that position. Saviour stuff the time in the money pull out handle that shit do another show. I've mentioned this once before so you you touched on a very important thing when you sat down and you looked at Chris and you said this one's on me. I've been in that situation as a as a as a trainer and as a client. Where like it doesn't matter who your trainer is or how good they are what they do or how well they know your body or how great they may you look at your last show or the show before that. If your head is not in the right spot your body will not follow. Yeah and and and that is a lesson I've seen over and over and then I've experienced it too. You know so 2012. I did like a robot prep of talk about this perfect prep. You know right on my game I'm in my prime my a game I'm fucking prep master not a single word I'm the best client Chris is he does ever gonna have. Right that's my attitude like pictures are on time they're clear they're perfect you know like. I'm in that zone you know I was I've been second to bunch of times at this point so I expect to turn pro anytime now. And I go to Edmonton and I get second to Antoine. I had some first place votes when I get second to Antoine and I'm fucking. You know I saw that I had first place votes and I'm like fuck just not enough again you know. And then you know a couple months go by and and I message Chris and I'm like hey you know do we want to get role in doing to keep some offseason pictures come into you and he goes. I'm only gonna help you again. If it's not like last time. Wow and I go what like I haven't already was talking about. I'm just like what are you talking about and he's like glass prep is brutal man you were a disaster you're off the off the payer or up beyond the pale. Your your mental state was. You were no fun to prep you were super fun in 2010. How to blast 2011 we offseason then it was all fun and games and then 2012 came and you were just fucking brutal brutal client. And I was just like what because like to me I did a perfect prep. Yeah and then he goes he goes what do you remember about the prep. And I was like because that's when I went through a big break up and everything. Oh shit and I realized I realized I didn't actually remember any of the prep. Like I do not remember that prep. No memories, no stories of it. Nothing. And we'll remember a single thing. And I realized I was just like using the show as a distraction because I didn't want to deal with my own personal shit. I just would oh yeah shit happens I'm prepping. Yeah. You do that. And I wonder you know I I wonder after you know if I would have been the same client that Chris had in 2010 when I was all fucking. Mental attitude was perfect and it was all great and he thought it was fantastic. Maybe I could have won that show. I had first place votes and it was beyond the pale the horrible mental attitude apparently. So you just wonder like what could I body of done if I was actually willing to let it go there or lead it there. Or might could mentally lead myself to a better place. So you know. I've had clients say that to me too. I've had clients go hey man just like you know this fifth place I got today or this fucking whatever you know my prep was a bit of a mass and you did your best and like I've had people tell me that. And I'm like oh I appreciate that you know it's good good that you can take responsibility for you know some people can't take responsibility for their preps at all. Yeah right we've seen the coach play him and coach jump and this didn't work and that didn't work. And I'm like oh are you broken maybe you're broken maybe you've got some stuff going on you got to deal with and no prep is ever going to go perfect for you until you know you're really ready to let it. But I've been there on both sides of it you know but if your mental attitude isn't good. Then you can't expect to have a glorious outcome of your mind has to be in it in a positive way. So I see that a lot. Yeah that's a great it's great thing because it's I think that that you said the attitude is the magic. I remember my would you said the memory remembering perhaps. I remember 2011 still because I remember having those days where I was so tired and just doing getting up on the step money. You know you're a stamp at the bottom of the step money to look up at it you know like. Fuck fuck here we go you know and but I remember I used to always think to myself like. You know when I'm on it and I was struggling I would remember thinking like they're not doing this and being happy. Like you're in hell and you're happy about it because I'm like they keep these other guys can't feel this bad. You know and and that was something I knew I needed. We actually talked about this over the weekend when I got into bodybuilding. It was a conversation I had with by wife at the time I'm like hey for me to do this successfully you have to be in. Like a hundred percent because I'm not as good as these guys so I can't have anything pushing me in the wrong direction. So simply are you in or not. And she's like yeah absolutely and it matters you know because it really you know I knew from jump I didn't have an inch to give so. You know I needed I didn't have any ounce of help I could have and I was kind of you know I kept trying to send DMs other guys wives get them in trouble I've never mind sorry. What it's poker I'm just trying to win a game here. So what do we got we got more stream man. Oh see here yeah and this is actually not a question but a comment from Scott Weston he says. Oh boy one of my close friends eats pizza with a knife and a fork not only is this serial killer mentality it's actually worse than finding out your friend is a turn the radio down kind of guy. Disgusting behavior. Scott Scott is not alone in thinking that my knife and fork pizza eating is weird we got a number of comments right let you know so. Just letting people know the other night I had some pizza and I used a knife and fork. But then about an hour later about an hour later I walked past the box and there's a couple pieces left and I just grabbed one up and folded it made it. It was all it was okay nothing. Well so here's the thing is very technical was that before after you killed the hookers. Well one of them was dead the other one was still technically alive. A little more pizza. I'm a little after you know I worked up an appetite. So when the pizza still really hot really really warm that's when you run the risk of uneven topping distribution with the folding and fighting. Right because it cheeses poles and the other toppings pole and then you get the mass and they hit your shirt. And I'm fucking got to change my shirt. Now I got a fucking change my shirt. So this is one of my the things that I really upset me. So good job. When the pizza's cooled down a bit right about an hour after you know an hour later after the movie's done and you got those two pieces and they're not cold they're not the fridge. You're just sitting there room temperature. The cheese is like firmer. And now you have more of a secure and you don't get the uneven topping problem. I just that's the little thing with me. I started through that. All I heard was excuses got on the floor. A question for the next episode. Which one which one was your favorite episode? The funniest you can remember. I remember one episode that had been crying because I was laughing so much. I think it was the one where Ron told a story about the guy from the army at the bar. That was a good episode. Those are some good stories. So he's asking us what was our favorite episode of our show I guess. Oh, geez. I don't honestly don't even remember any of them. I remember having like Chris on. I remember having Jay on. I remember like Hollings head mountain climbing story. That was good. My brain is just mush. Just a mush of like, you know, I feel this 150 who episodes. Well, you've done like a thousand podcasts dude. Yeah, but still. We've had a lot to fun on this show. And I will just throw this one up here too. I think Chris. He says I'm a thousand percent here for a seat. I don't know. Since he mentioned him. I'd go talk to Chris. Chris Face time me the other day. Nice. Yeah. Did you have a drink though? Yeah. So I'm going to give you a little light. I didn't tell you guys this Chris Face time me the other day. And you know how I see it's a Face time. So I'm like, okay, driving. So you're going to get the driving like, like, this is the you're going to be review. Right? So it's driving and you're going to get this shot of him. Right? And I answer it. And he doesn't say hello. He just says, What percentage of the current crop of body builders do you think are mentally ill? Oh, God. Oh, wow. And I'm like, oh, we're doing this conversation. It's 10 in the morning. It's a little early. I'm on the West Coast. I'm on the West Coast. Different 90s. One game for him. He's seen a lot of updates by then. Yeah. Yeah. And then he was. He was very happy when I told him how popular the potato story was. Dusty. Yeah. Yeah. He was like, I got to bring this up because you guys will love this, especially You, Ron, because you understand. So he, I said, I said, I said, I get interrupted one sec. He said, he said, Dusty doesn't answer my stupid calls sometimes. He's like, this is bullshit. I'm calling with randomness. You're not answering. So yeah, what are you doing anyways? So so Daniel starts with him. And the other day, I saw his Tuesday before last, I was at town. I said, how's it going? He goes, it's weird. But I go, weird. What do you mean? He's like, everything is so simple. But I'm changing so fast. And I said, that's why I wanted you to train with Chris. I wanted to understand just how much mental masturbation these coaches have. You know, trying to make it look really complicated. He's like, and he said, we're in touch almost every day. And he goes, I don't even know how he has time for it. And I'm like, that's every client he has has that same question. I remember the day I was trying to figure out why he cared about me. But he's just been blown away at the simplicity and how well it's working. That's cool. Yep. That's how it works. I mean, the other thing which you will love, I told him day one, Ron, I said, Hey, when you can't understand attacks, just send it to me. I'll let you know what he said. And I've gotten about three of those, where he's like, I need you. I just get a screech out of like, oh, that was not hard. What's that even? Well, it's a little bit of a question. Well, we just don't. Why don't he doesn't fix any mistakes? Oh, okay. Okay. So you're reading like a sentence, but then there's a word that doesn't make any sense. And in the sentence continues, and then there's no punctuation after time. Yeah. You have to be, it's funny because actually he sent me one yesterday. And I missed it on the flight, but I guess he called Chris back and he got a explanation on it. And I finally read it and I go, I'm glad that Chris answered this because this is a seat of level beginner and I'm going to see you. Don't bother with this. Okay. I'm going to see if I'm going to pull it up real quick because it was pretty funny. Let's see here. There it is. Yeah. Trest day is carbs go to meals one and two only. Cardio 45 trained day 30 cardio picks Tuesday. And he sends me, he says, uh, uh, music channelation here. The first line is what I'm unsure of. Does that mean trained day and rest day carbs only meals one and two? And they says, uh, so I read it real quick and I'm like, yeah, training days, the carbs go to just meal one and two. And then on the, you know, obviously cardio drops on training days. Like, that I get that follow up. It says, uh, I got translation from him. Ha ha. We're good. But I just love it. The spelling is also the key because trained days is TRR EST days. And then, uh, picks Tuesday is all caps on Tuesdays except for the wise lower. It's like, uh, it's fantastic. I just love it too. Because I like you know, it's great when you pre-worn someone. You're not going to understand how to this ship, but I got you. Yeah, yeah. So, I'm thinking what Chris did. He accidentally, he cap lock Tuesday or he accidentally cap lock Tuesday. And he got all the way to almost the end of the word. And he's like, uh, cap lock soon and took it off. Then he'd provide. But didn't delete the other four letters. I have letters. Those are already there. Fuck off. I'm busy. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think you just gave a few of his that were funny because, you know, I showed an off-friend to mine a couple of a C. Those texts before. And I was like, this means at 50 grams of carbs. This means. It was like, can you just stare at me? Wow. How did you get that from that? You need a safer. You need a safer. Okay. Decoder ring of some sort. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. That's it. What do we got? All right. Hey, Ron. One episode. Can you please tell some stories about your time in Australia living with Nick and Alice in Jones. And just your experiences of the Australian bodybuilding scene back then. I believe Nick may have brought you a car to use. Love the show guys. Keep the great work from simply. He's laughing. Hey, I've been friends with Nick for a long time. Nick did a whole bunch for me. So I met him in 95 when I moved to Australia. And I was a John Davy who owns all the world gyms there. If anyone else, Australia knows John Davy. Yeah. But I was living with him. And I met Nick at the same time at the same gym, archers gym. I've talked about this gym. It was a crazy shit hole hardcore dungeon. It was so cool. It was upstairs. It wasn't a dungeon, but it had a dungeon feel. And but it had a wide open wall like wide open just vented glass. Like a lot of Australian buildings have. So there's you can't really ever prevent the fresh air from flowing in, right? And the ocean breeze just went right through the gym in the front wall right out the back wall. And it was just awesome. And anyways, Nick was just one of those guys. Nick and John took me under their wing. And I was just a kid, 19 year old kid at a gym bag that was it. So, you know, Nick was a sales rep from a saucy. So he would give me like if there was like a return protein that had a broken lid or fucking crooked label or a box that was half open or someone returned something like someone would buy a product and say, Oh, I don't like this flavor and return it. Nick would like give me like all these supplements out of his trunk. Like it was pretty awesome. So, you know, I was getting free supplements and you know, I was getting picked up and driven to the gym by these guys because I was training with them. And it was just it was just a blast. And the car, Nick let me borrow his car a bunch of times, but John actually gave me a car. Because John had two cars. He had this like shitty old $400 shit box car that was still in the garage that he just hadn't gotten rid of yet. And then he had the decent car that he'd bought, you know. So he's like, hey, you can drive that one while you're here. So I had a like a shit box car to rip around in and, you know, they were just awesome. And both those guys didn't end this amount for me. The two years I lived in Australia. Like an endless amount of stuff like just very, very extraordinarily generous friends, you know, help me get a job, help me move, come and live with me. Stay with me if you want it. Car, blah blah blah. I'm just free supplements, you know, just all that sort of stuff. So yeah, great, great guy. That's cool. You know, that's cool. There. I'm gonna bunch more here still. And his and his wife's name is Angela, not Allison, but he wasn't with her back then. He wasn't with her back then. Another one for Ron, real quick here. Where can I buy West Coast Iron T shirts? Love to have one. We do get that question from time to time. West Coast Iron T shirts. Well, we don't have a online yet. We got a whole new new giant batch. I would be happy to mail someone out if they wanted to IG me. Okay, personally. I'd be happy to mail them a shirt. We got some fans that want shirts. They will eventually be online. That's been a bit of a headache. I know I've been saying that for a while, but they keep selling so crazy at the gym that we're having like, I'm like, fuck, if we put these online, we're going to have inventory issues and we're going to, we don't have anywhere to store more inventory. It's a good problem to have, but this is having figured it out yet. You know what I mean? So yeah, they can IG me. No problem. Be east. Ask you guys or us doing push poll legs while cutting low calories are affecting performance. Should I switch to a bro split or add an intra workout sub? Any low-cal intra workout recommendations? I love water. Yeah, it's pretty low calorie too. It's my favorite. Yeah, it's the best for it's the best intra workout. The reason I said that's our casthas because the intra workouts are going to add calories if they're going to do what he's looking for. Um, I find, and this is, I only know what happens with me, but something I work on with my clients a lot in prep is, I'm a pretty firm believer that people walk into the gym tired. They've decided they're tired, they've decided they're feeling their diet and they are tired. They're feeling their diet, but you need to leave that shit in your car. You don't have time for that in gym. So you literally have to just figure out a routine that before you walk into the door of the gym, you're not allowed to be weaker, you're not allowed to be tired. Um, I mean, I used to train the, when I turned pro, I was training at 10 o'clock at night after a full 12 hour day working and stress and everything else. But I would go, I would literally go home, go in my house for short amount of time. I would change, I don't know what it was, but I always felt clean at least if I just, and kind of relax. I would walk in the house, put my feet in my pool, which was cold at the time, put my feet in the pool, and then change socks. Sit there at my table, go over the workout, read it, look at the numbers from last time, write down what I was going to attempt to do to beat them. So I kind of had already put it through my head and then go to the gym and do those numbers. I think a lot of people walk into the gym both tired and they haven't looked over their workout. They're, they're finding out what they need to do while they're there. Like, my log book, because if you don't push full legs, I mean, you're keeping track. My log book was filled out before I got to the gym. I already knew what, I already knew what I had to do, I had, what I had done the previous week, and I would put in small writing what I was hoping to do that day. In some days it was there, some days you'd be, some days you realized during a warm-up, it wasn't fucking happen in the day, because you had a tweak or whatever. But I really think not enough people have a pre-workout routine to get their head in the game, because I don't consider myself superhuman from a physical standpoint, anyway. But I think from a mental standpoint, I am, because I was beating numbers my entire career up to two weeks out. But here's a better concept. People need to focus less on their pre-workout drink and more on their pre-workout mindset. Right? What's more powerful? 200 megs of caffeine or 10 minutes of the right type of music with the right type of visualization, and mentally rehearsing what you're going to do. You know, I'm buying with Keremem or Grimit. I just can't find it. Yeah, it's a nice thought run drugs. I don't necessarily believe a word of this bullshit. Just throwing out the rules. Because either concept that I'm just introducing to the listeners, they ask the style around the world. I was just out the dose of caffeine and hit the gym, but... Well, I just, you know, I'm just thinking, you know, you see people they come in the door, they pound their pre-workout, and while they're pounding their pre-workout, they're having a conversation with their friend. And the conversation goes, well, I girls are the fucking bitch. I don't know what she's talking about. I fucking called her back. Yeah, her friend said this, yeah, but her brother's going to be fucking doing this, and then he's going to sell the house. Okay, fuck him too. And then they turn and they go into the gym. Yeah. And then they go, Keremem, you had to pre-workout, but you're not ready to train. True. And we all do this. Now, this is not like everyone has life. Everyone shows up and their training partner goes, how's the day and you go fuck today was rough at work. My boss was a fucking dick, but we're okay. You know, I'm gonna get, you know, we're on chest day. Let's go. You know, like, yeah, of course you're here where I'm humans, but you got to be able to like, you know. Everyone's got their, their day where they talk a little much. They can't get their mind right, but you know, you still can. Like, maybe it's not till like the second exercise where you finally get your mind right, but just don't give up on that. It's important. I think you too, it's also if you have that. If you got the right training partner, it's helpful. Um, very helpful. I had that happen before. I had a training partner that came in one day, and we always had a great relationship. It was like training with Ron, like we don't really talk a lot. We just, what are we doing next? But, you know, because we kind of just create workouts together, but there's no conversation when Ron and I train Little some week in the same way. Yeah, you know, it's really inappropriate things, but nothing else. And, uh, this, he made a comment about something along in his life early. And I kind of just let it slide. And then he did another one. And on the third one, I said Andrew, I do care. I just don't care right now. So either wait till after we train or fucking go home, because I'm not doing this. And he was like, all right. And he looked me and goes, give me five minutes. I said, okay, he went and did five minutes on the bike and came back. And we had to work out. Oh, yeah, I like it. You know, he understood it. But he knew he had to get there. Wasn't going to be a light switch for him, like flip. He's like, I need a minute. I'll be here. And I think that that five minutes is what Ron is talking about too. It's like, there are those moments. You get a phone call. Rise your walking to the gym, and your kid from school. You're like, fuck. Well, okay, hang on. I'm sorry. I'm not going to take two. Yeah. Then you just reset. Take those couple of minutes. Get back in that mindset. Do not walk over and get under the bar. Thinking about little, little Timmy smoking a fucking vape in school. That's not good. That's douche mentality. Oh, sorry. I don't know. I know. I have to say the rest of the big face rant. What a little more feedback. I had so many people. Here's one. I couldn't believe I wanted people thought I was talking about them. Oh, you're kidding me. Like the messaging. Like the messaging me like, The messaging me like, I'm real sorry. I didn't say hi to you the other day. I was just going to go, I'm like, I'm not talking to you, man. I didn't even notice you were grumpy. Like that's amazing. You know what I'm saying about that is a Joe Bennett. He put up a post one day. And some guy goes, I'm not fired. And Joe responded back and I will seal this for the rest of my life. He goes, I don't shoot shots. I drop shoes. It's not up to me who they fit. And I was like, that's amazing. So that was you. You drop this shoe. And that guy picked it up and said, I'll have fucker fits me perfectly. And shot you a message that said, I'm sorry. When I had a lot of people thinking I was talking about like, people that just look serious in the gym. No, we were talking about that too. And I'm like, oh, someone I'm talking about. I'm not talking about looking serious in the gym or anything like that. I'm talking about that. What was the phrase? People who take a bit of a bit of strange pride in having toxic behaviors. Yes, right. Yeah, that sort of thing. You know that people that are like, they wear their resting bitch face with pride. They like, no, it's on. And they, they hold their chin up with it on and they give it to everyone. And I guess a lot of people message me saying, like, oh, well, I have to have my resting bitch face so that people don't talk to me. And I'm like, I understand a certain look on your face as like an armor. But you also have to be aware that when you then go to interact with the girl at Starbucks, you should maybe smile at her or to your coffee to, you know, keeping your resting bitch face on that has been your maybe public transport armor. You got to remember that it's on your face. And now the three people that you have to actually talk to at Starbucks are, you know, you know, you know, is not making anybody's date better. That's all. Yeah. So it was just sort of like talking about that, you know. When I had somebody comment on it when I put it up and so I'm like, I love when people try to call me out on my post. By the way, it always makes me laugh. But a guy, a guy commented on it because I, I shared that and he goes, yeah, like the reason that you're, you're not smiling and the pictures you posted today on your, on your trip. And I'm like, the thing that makes me laugh is a, you're trying to like call me out. And I'm like, I don't smile in pictures like that because I'm incapable of smiling and I'm like, I don't know how to smile. I'm like smile. It doesn't happen. My brain don't connect to what that looks like. We hold on. Think I got to see it, Dusty. If I were to ask you to smile for a picture right now. I got to see what it looks like. I just gave it. It's like, I mean, it's like I put the soap in. I'm like, and then I'll see it. It was funny because Mickey shot a picture of me. Oh, the camera goes. He's getting more in the picture. He's getting more in the picture. Oh, the camera goes. He's getting one. Holy shit. He's getting broke from the, about bad news. This is going to be fantastic. He's got some. Oh, this is great. Now I'm excited because he had, you like, ran out of the room. He knew. Yeah, this is this one you know. You have a real friend. By the way, let's see. What is happening? We're on. That's no idea. There you go. Watch what we know. Oh, we know what's happening. You're your core. We thought you were going to grab a picture. I thought you had like proof of what it would be. Oh, God. So yeah. So it was. That was the shot that someone tried to unravel me with. And I'm like, Oh, no, I just don't know how to smile on command. You know, and yeah. You know, you know, you can come back. Yeah, I just assume that everyone in a photo of me is like, please don't ruin the picture with that terrible fucking version of a smile. You have. Right. Right. So yeah, that was that was good. I just love that. I'm like, again, you also don't understand what resting bitch faces. Because it's an aura. Yeah. It's not just what they hear. It's an energy. Yeah. Yeah. I don't, you know, I don't really buy that either. Guys with the with the whole being asshole and the gym thing. I walk into the gym and probably say a form of hello to like eight people. Yeah. Before I start training and no one ever bothers me while I'm training ever. Because when I'm actually training like during the the the the working sets, I think that problem and a lot of people don't realize this kind of we talked about an aura. It doesn't really look like a training that fucking hard. So people walk over to you. Yeah. Like no one has ever walked over now when I'm warming up, but I'm like tossing plates on some of the stuff. But they're hey, what's up, man? Like hey, go on and the walk by. When I've got my, you know, getting my mind right and I've got five plates on a bar and I'm about to walk up to it. Never in my career has someone walked over. So you might want to think again kind of like Ronald's talking about focus on the pre workout versus the pre workout ritual. You might want to focus on how much energy you're putting into the set. Because something's wrong. Because I literally am I've made sure I made an entire life. Once I got big I realized that the first assumption someone makes when you're bigger is that you're an asshole. Right. Immediately. There's, there's a, so you need to knock that down the first time they make eye contact with you. And it has to stay down. So when I walk into gym, every person that gym knows that I'm approachable. And then I say hello. Yet they still leave me the fuck alone. I've got 700 pounds on a bar. So you're all doing some role. Well, I don't do the resting bitch face thing. And I think I'm going to tell you guys a story. I think it paid off. You know, I told you I was at the mall the other day. And I wanted, I wanted something to drink. And so we were at the food court. And there was a taco bell and I was like, you know, I'm going to get myself a diet mountain do. So I walked up to the lady and I ordered a diet mountain do. And she hands it to me. And she said, have a nice day. And I was like, oh, I didn't pay you yet. And she was like, oh, no, it's okay. Just have it. And I really think because I, when I walked up towards like, hey, how's it going? You know, ordered the drink. And I asked her, how are you doing today? And she was like, oh, you know, I'm having a good day. You know, this and that. And I was like, oh, cool. She makes the drinks. She's like, here you go. She's like, oh, no, it's free. Just take it. It's like, oh, the shit. That's awesome. But like, yeah, that's interacting with people and giving people, you know, like, yeah. I don't know. I think I don't do the resting bitch face thing. I guess that's my point of story. Plus, I went to break. I got a free drink. Which is for the family. But it's not. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. You paid kindness. I got a question that I didn't. I got a question that I didn't ask on the last one. And I just remembered it because I had an answer for it. Okay. So you've had a question like, excuse me, She didn't. Go ahead. Do you have any, do you have any, do you have any, do you have any habits, whether they're goofy or bad or dumb, that you, that you used to be embarrassed by, but now you've just accepted them. Well, I've never been embarrassed by him, but I should've been for all of them. So, so what is your is wrong? No, because you, you have one loaded. What is it? When they asked me my first reaction was, I, I, I can't help myself and I've always done it. My whole life. But when I listen to music in my headphones, I just can't help but play a little air guitar. I can't help it. It's still doing it in the gym. I catch myself doing it in the gym all time. I was beside them while Brains doing his satin. I'm just like pulling a little air guitar. I can't pull any picture of that. I'm not like doing that. I'm not doing that. I'm not trying to win an air guitar challenge. Yeah, yeah. But I did notice my hand, my, my, my one hand is sort of like, you know, my pick hand is kind of going or something. I was, I can't help myself. There's just, and, and I used to like, I could never caught myself doing it. I'd be like, oh, yeah. Stop. Now they throw the drum. Yeah. I think once you hit 40, I think it's the 40, the big 40. You hit 40 and you're like, yeah, it's definitely air. You don't carry anymore. Yeah. I'll stick on. I'll stick on. I'll sit down and fucking do a drum solo. I'll Brains do a set. Like what I own a place. I'll be playing here later. Yeah. So, but I, I remember that used to be something I was self conscious of. Like, even I'd be standing in line at a hockey game. Wait for like a drink. And they play like a cool song. And I'd be like standing in like, you know, playing just a little bit. Maybe my one fingers just go like this a little bit, you know. That's funny, man. I love that you said that that you did that the jib because literally, yes, down the airplane. We're sitting there and I'm listening to music. And all of a sudden I reach over and I'm like, he moves. What are you doing? I go, you wear my symbol ghost. She's like, Sorry, you got him. You should be standing there. I know. I'm glad I'm not the only one. You know, I actually am waiting to see kids do it. Right? You see, and they're between sets and, and they go like, you know, they're going to put one hand up and they go like this. Yeah, yeah, I've seen that. Kids mix it. That's fucking great. They're mixing my God. Aaron mix it. New generation dusty. That's fantastic. Okay. I was trying to walk through, but I'm so proud of all my weird one. So it doesn't matter. I have no more, no more questions. I did have one more kind of a, though, just to revisit it one more time. Rons at the Am serial killer for eating pizza with a knife and a fire. I just went and it to put it up there. That's all. There's like, there's like, there's really a thing here. Everyone agrees that makes you a serial killer. Not like a weirdo, a murderer. Yeah. But Brian, so what is it? Is it, is it that it's too much, too much control and precision? I think that's like, I think that might be, you know, I think that's still killer's in control freaks and their precision people. In the pride that you take, you know what I mean? Pride you take it. You take it. If you don't do it this way, then you are an absolute just filthy. Wow. I'm not going to talk for one day. I'm a inferior failure. Yeah. I'm a ranger. I'm a ranger. But people want to just randomly eat toppings and wind up with big giant pieces of crust that I've no Topping left on them. I guess that's just not my problem. Ronches drop shoes, right? Oh my God. See, but that's it. I have to say, though, and not that I eat pizza with a knife and fork. But I'm a little bothered that there's more people attacking Ron over the pizza than you with the crocs. You got people that have your back. There's a croc, arm based on their nasty. Listen, you got to be careful. Why is nobody going on here and going, fuck you. He's eating it properly. He's getting the pepperoni on every bite. I've had people that like, if Dusty would just try a croc on, I've had people say that. If Dusty just try a croc, just put one on one foot. Just one. Just one. You know what? I tried that move growing up all the time. Just a 10, just for a second. Just to see how it feels. Gosh, I'm not so black. Okay. Did we lose Dusty or did I lose you guys? We hear you. How's it, Christy? I'm going to get out there. Okay. We're good. We're going to successful. That's dead for episode one, 53 now. Is that what this was? Pretty sure. That was just bodybuilding. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment. Bring the bell. There we go. Did you get that? We got it. It was a crazy lag on Dusty. So I assumed that came through. But remember, YouTube questions are where it's at. And I hope you enjoy the episodes this week. And we'll get you next week. Remember, it's just bodybuilding.

Hey everybody, welcome to episode 73 of It's Just Body Building. I'm your host Big Ron Parlo, sit near a dusty handsha, the freak, what's up buddy? Man, the end of the end of an era today. This is our last episode of the year. Yeah, since the year and review of It's Just Body Building. So dusty 2020, you know there's a few great things about the end of the year that I love. I used to love them even more back when I was a kid because I always loved the sports highlights reals. Yeah. You know what I mean? And you know nowadays I mean I guess I'll look them up on YouTube or something. I'm sure someone will make some good, good, you know, compilations. But I used to love and just it would get played on the TV all the time. You turned the TV on for like, you know, there's a two, three day span there. Yeah. You know, and then you get all the highlights and all the best movie scenes and top movies of the year and all the count of downs and breakdowns. So it's just this year's a little bit of a odd apple to handle. No shit. Who would have guessed at the beginning of the year? You know what though? And I do not mean this humorous, lead at all. But the last normal thing I did was the LFA XBO, which was like a norm. That's the that's the that's the kickoff to our season as you know. Yeah. And how fitting that I learned of COVID that weekend? And I was in L.A. and Kobe Bryant died. Right. So that's the kickoff of the fucking dump of the 2020 year for me. And I say that based on how life is but not how my life is thank God. Right. Right. So your year started with the LFA XBO hearing about COVID and Kobe Bryant dying on the same weekend. Yes. Yeah. That was that was the beginning of what I'll call 2020 at that point. And then of course shortly thereafter, boarding a plane to the Arnold knowing that nothing there would be no XBO. This is found out the day before. Right. You know, it's going to see the show. Right. Yeah. And we're not going into the show. Tan, because you probably think get a refund on your flight. Yeah. So it was literally one of those things where you're and of course at this point, you got to remember I didn't really know what it was. If I knew then what I know now I'd have been really pissed. We ought to. But at that point, it was like a little selfishness which is typical to me. I was like, well, why the fuck am I going? And B, it's like, well, how dangerous is this if the world is shutting down? You know what I mean? So it was it was definitely interesting, but we got so I got the I got the first and last photo shoot of the season done in dead nuts off season. We'll call that one the chin's shoot and when was that? That was right after the Arnold, which I remember it was so funny because they're like, I, well, we're going to have you shoot after the day after the Arnold, Lejaniago. Oh, so fat fuck me is shooting with one of the best ever the day after it has a show. That's cool. It's going to be really good shoot for me. I mean, I don't really want to shoot with Jolly or my best condition. So maybe this would be like my way to hang up. Well, I was out of shape. That's all right. Right. Right. I would just dare to support him. Yeah. Yeah. So fortunately, they didn't actually put me any photos with him. And I pretty sure they just burned all the pictures. I was in any way. So we're good. We're good. That's good. We're just inviting you to the field. No, but that was that was the kickoff, you know? It was interesting. And then you didn't come to the Arnold, which I was mad at you for anyway. So, you know, I blame you. So that whole thing, that whole thing, my year started, I was supposed to go to China. Of all places. That would not have been good. In January of 2020, you know? So I was supposed to go to China and that's why I wasn't going to the Arnold. Because I was going to get home from a week. A week in China, like the day before I'd have to leave for the Arnold. Right. And I just said, hey, can I just opt out of the Arnold if I'm going to China? Like, I'm not going to feel that. It's turned around on that. It's not going to be worth it to me. You know, I'll watch the live stream. And they were like, no problem. No problem. I've got such big trip to ask of you. You know, that's cool. And I was like, yeah, I'll just step out of the Arnold. So I actually volunteered to not go. And then, and then, yeah, my China trip got canceled in December. Right. So I remember at the end of the year, they were like, yeah, I'm going to China. They're having this thing over there. Right. When that's happening, you're like, whatever. What is this thing? Bullshit. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And so that's how my year started was a canceled trip to China. And then sitting at home watching the weird Arnold. Yeah. So that was a very weird Arnold. Yeah. And then it's, you know, we're still going to have some sports highlights. But they're not going to be the same. They're all, uh, well, there's a whole bunch of missing ones, first of all. And then there's, you know, there's no crowd reaction when the ball goes in the net. There's no, oh, yeah. It's no like crowd to their feet as the final kick gets kicked. You know, like, all that stuff. Have you ever played in front of an enormous crowd like football or anything like that? No, um, just our high school games, which we would pack our, like, we had pretty solid bleachers for our high school for being a Canadian high school. And I mean, I'd be all packed up, you know, but right. And I never played in like, I guess we played some jambory games in a real stadium for fun. Of course, there's no crowd. It's just cool to play like on a real pro field. Right. So I was asking because something like, so I've played in front of thousands of people before. Yeah, because you're like, I'm a hot game. Imagine what it's like to be at the highest level. Like these baseball stadiums at hold, you know, 50, 60, 80,000 people, whatever it is. And then there will literally be like 17 people in your here guys sneeze in the corner. You're up to bat in your here guy cough. Hey, keep it down. Yeah, sure. It'd be weird. It'd be weird. I heard some fighter. I can't remember who it was. There's so many of them, but he, he made some kai. Was just being funny. And he goes, yeah, marching down to the ring and then fighting with no crowd feels like you're fighting for some weird billionaires entertainment. Like, like you brought to a private island and you're just in like a like a like a no crowd death match. And he's just sitting in the corner, petting his cat, you know, like, like, that's it. It was he made some joke. It's awesome. I think that's how it feels when you walk down to the cage and you get locked into cage was another man and there's no crowd. That actually makes perfect. And like this is weirder now. Yeah, one thing about like, I mean, the crowd it makes sense. When you're your corners, probably screaming at you, you can even hear them. And I was like, you're on get the arm bar. Watch this with you. No one. There's only yelled two lapses and one the other guy to hear. Also across the right other corner. Yeah, they just go into signals and just go silent. Get a look over. So yeah, he just and I imagine if I don't know, I imagine some sports feel weirder than others to play without a crowd. Obviously depending on the type of crowd would normally be. And you know, some some crowds are quiet, right? Some crowds like, you know, golf game everyone goes, you know, silent. So it's not like you need the cheers to tea off, you know. Right. You have the advancement now. You know, we do the, um, we're the waste management open here every year, which is a huge excuse to party. And it's like right across the street from my condo. And it just hit the other day. Every time goes, so they're not going to do the waste management open on them like, oh, shit. I mean, I'm sure the golf will happen, but I actually never watch the golf right. Right. Like, this is a place to go to see people to be seen and to spend money on drinks. So it's like a huge event in the city every year. Yeah. It's huge. I mean, and obviously like the, um, that happens right after or before the bear Jackson, which is the huge auction for the cars. And that's also another one. It's funny now. As I say, a lot of Scottsdale's very much like, a lot of the events are you go to be seen. Right. Well, it's just like a lot of stuff. It's like big Calgary stampede. You know, it's like the biggest rodeo in the in the world. And, you know, a lot of people go there for a week and they party, but they don't actually go see any of the events. They don't actually watch rodeo, right? Yeah. Yeah. They just like shop and drink and, you know, come home with an STD. Well, you got to come home with something because you're definitely ran out of money. Right. Right. Yeah. No, man. It's, uh, it's interesting. It's interesting. You know, I've been watching live concerts at home. I just, I just airplane from the Mac, you know, on the big screen. Yeah. The crank sound system because I'm like going through concert withdrawal. Like, yeah, I, you know, as I got an older and a little comer and, you know, hate crowds more and all that stuff. I go to fewer shows. But I at least go to one a year. You know, like what you would call a concert. Usually, right. You know, and, you know, this year was going to be a good year. I had tickets to two raging and some machine shows. I was going to see them in Vancouver. And then I was going to fly to Emmonten and see them two nights later. No way. And then I had tickets to two tool shows. I was going to see them in Vancouver. And then I was going to fly to Emmonten and see them like the next night. And people understand the commitment that that is because flying in Canada is the most expensive thing in the world. Oh, yeah. It's like, you know, like, in the United States and people in the US don't understand, like if you're going to jump off flight and fly to, I don't know, Florida or something, it's a couple of bucks. No big deal. You guys charge more for Canadian travel than you do to fly to the US. Yeah. No, I had for the tool show was like $900 for me to fly to Emmonten. It's a 90 minute flight. But then to perspective people. Like, I didn't know that either until being with mutant for so long and then finding out. I'm like, so that's why you guys fly me to Toronto. It's cheaper. Yeah. Yeah. You put a good bring you up. Yeah. It's it's it's pretty funny. But yeah, it's commitment. You see that's what I mean about money. Like, I'm I by no name brand oatmeal. But then if tools come in, I'm like, how many shows can I see? Yeah. Can I fly around for 10 grand? Can I get tickets to three shows? What if I land a set of tickets in fucking Toronto four nights later? Am I flying to Toronto? How much of flights? How much are hotels? You're going to do it. Yeah. You know, so that's just as a few things like that that I go crazy for. So I had tickets to all those shows. I had Joe Rogan tickets. All canceled. The last thing, you know what? The last normal thing I did was in January. I saw a bill bur. Oh, well, that's a good way to go though. Yeah. And it was it was because my China trip got canceled. I was able to get tickets to bill bur. So I landed some and I went and that was a last normal thing that I did this year. That is great. I mean, it's funny. Like you said, when you're you do the usual look back, I don't typically look back on my year because kind of status quo, even though they're cool. And we definitely, I think when I'm away from body being all look back, no, hold you shit. Here's my question. Yeah. Here's a question for you. You know, you always try to find the positives or or pull the positive memories out of stuff. So let's go back to the the the first shutdown. I guess for everyone who's had to shut down. We'll go back. We'll talk about the first shutdown. What's your best memory of the first shutdown? Like if you're like, you know what the the one you know, there was that one thing that was actually pretty awesome that I had to focus on and You know, do you have just something like that? I would say I mean the biggest the best most positive memory I had was realizing how tight knit the body of the community is here. Because obviously, I mean, like everybody, my first thought was holy shit how many work um and it sounds funny. I mean, that is how I view going to the gym. It's like this is what I do. Also, it's oxygen, you know. Yeah. Um so when I realized it was happening, um, I made one phone call and I had keys to a gym. A gym that I had never trained in. Really. Yeah. Called the owner. Obviously, I've known I knew him. Um and I had sold him actually my, my sub one source and he owned this gym now. So called him up. He literally was like, oh yeah, what you know, what time can you meet me today or tomorrow? A good case. Like you're fine. Jim will be shut. You're going to go in the back door this and that. And then that has now as life has it spiraled into this thing where that gym is home now. Um, I don't actually have a vested interest in profit to that gym. But, uh, I don't say it's what's so wrong. But it's mine. You know what I mean? So like I am the guy that's like policing the gym one there and making people put shit back and you know, yeah, you're at your, you you you respected and appreciated so much that you're, you're taking a certain amount of ownership with how you lead by example there and all that stuff. Yeah. And now it's my only gym. I have free time to ship every gym in town. Yeah. And that's the only gym I go to. I drive 25 minutes to go try and arms. That's cool. There's EOS fitness is three minutes from my door. And yeah, now it's it's completely home. So that has been really, really cool. And then watching how that's grown with me, like the gym is a madhouse now. Like he has created something. And I think the buzz that's been created by who's going there. Like people walk in and people will sign up for that gym over the phone. Yeah, never seeing it. All right. So when I show up there, just put put the card down and I'm good to go. Yeah, that's normal. Which as you know, when you've probably done that with your gym, like it's if such a thing now, that people don't tour, they literally walk in like, okay, I want to membership. Well, we, it's funny. We, we stopped allowing trials and drop-ins like the long time ago. So like if you want to train, you have to be a member. So like you can't try it out. And people just walk in the door and put their card down. And then they take, where's the bathroom? So right there. Okay. I'll figure the rest out. Yeah. Yeah. You know. So so that's, that's pretty cool. I'd say my favorite memory was I, I, I really like it was a unique experience because in all my 30 years of bodybuilding, I'd never done it. And I tried to appreciate it and not like in really remind myself daily how lucky I was. But training in that gym alone with just might be in my training partner, playing music over the speakers, no headphones, blasting tunes. That was like the highlight of the the shutdown. I mean, the rest of the shutdown, there's not, there's no highlight. Like, I mean, you know, you could bang your girlfriend at different times of day because you're not working. But other than that, you know, there's, there's nice. It's a little nice addition. You can have a, you can, there's more time to nap. That was a plus. You know, it was really digging now. It was, it was pretty like, I mean, you know, if you're working on your computer, the shutdown literally meant you had no schedule because there was no where to go. You couldn't even do anything. So what the fuck? So it was just a weird time. But that getting into jam and cranking music and, you know, I mean, obviously just being able to train was a highlight. But, but training in a gym like that, like a fully equipped super gym, fire self. Like, it was kind of neat because that's, I remember thinking like, oh, Dorian used to do this all the time because I remember reading out on how long he did it for. But as far as I know, he used to train at like nine or 10 in the morning before the gym was open because they get those British gym hours there, right? Yeah. So he trained like 10 a.m. and then opened the gym after, you know, which I could totally see because it's awesome. You know, we did that was fun. I didn't like turning the lights on. Yeah, you know, that's funny. That's funny. There were some days we didn't turn the lights on in there either. Yeah, or else because he had the, he has the demoable ones. Turned up on just enough. And I don't know why, which is so not me, because I want a gym to be awake and bright. Like I've been it when I started my body, when I went into my real body, really, and my first negative was it's kind of dark in here. It's just sleepy. And then here I am, you know, 15 years later, I'm like, turn the lights off. Turn the lights up. Yeah. Yeah. The, the, the distortion in these shitty speakers will be what keeps me awake. Right. But yeah, that was good times. It's funny because you look back, but, but at the same token, it was awesome to have. And now when I walk in the gym and there's energy, it's like, sped us. Oh, yeah. I never want to see that gym empty again. Yeah, you're all probably this. We two in the morning by myself. Yeah, unless I'm training after hours or something like that, you guys can hold it right. You're gym has our own. Yeah, we close it 10 PM. Okay. Yeah, we're open like 5 a.m. during the week to 10 PM. And then 7 a.m. to 10 PM on weekends. Yeah. So that's some, we got good hours. Part man, like hours to me, make a gym. I know 24 is a neat thing. It's just not viable at the moment. But we, we think we make up for it because we're open regular hours on all the stat holiday Mondays. So when those, those weird Mondays roll around it that everyone gets off, is there usually one in month right that everyone gets off? I don't know what you guys calm down there to come stat holidays. No. Okay. We just have random holidays on the weather, fucking holidays. Yeah. So yeah. So, you know, like Thanksgiving, everyone gets an extra day off. Right. So three day, we're open regular hours on those where most people are like, you know, eight to six or something like that. They're closed all together. Yeah. There's a few gyms. There's lots of gyms around here. Actually, the clothes on holiday Mondays. So, but we're open regular hours. Like 5 a.m. to 10 PM on a holiday Monday, which means we're paying our staff time and a half all day long. We've run it like actually cost us like a lot of money to open on those days, especially now with COVID because we have to have two or three staff at a time. So to open on a holiday Monday is like, it, and, you know, we open on Christmas day. Like, that's all. We're open Christmas day, seven to two. So, I mean, you know, it costs us a lot of money to open on those days because of the payroll. But for the members, like, even if we take a take a take a not take a zero on the day, technically, you know, the bills and shit who knows. Right. But we just don't care because it's like, that's just, you gotta be open for people to train. Yeah. No. I love that, too, because that is, it's actually what's killing one of my old gyms here is they have made some decisions in my opinion that killed them, like fear of getting in trouble, not fear of the virus. They were, they were closed on the weekends after the shutdown. And I'm like, right. We're just closed. I was a more hardcore on the weekends, you know, and then, you know, had scheduled or what appointment training times long after we didn't have to do that here. And they're dead. I mean, I don't know how they're going to even stay open because so many people have bounced. And then the problem is they come over, like a lot of people from that gym are now at muscle factory. And once they come over, they ain't going back. You know what I mean? It's very much. It's funny because my gym is half the size of yours. It's 9,000 square feet. And when I first started training it was uncomfortable because it was small. I was used to huge gyms. Yeah, those giant super fit. It's got. And now I think it must be, it's probably because of all of our trips overseas. I'm comfortable in a small gym. Like, as long as you have everything we need, I don't need oxygen space. Yeah, yeah. I know what you mean. And so yeah, crazy. What about the the the positive memories from from bodybuilding in this weird world? From the year? Yeah. Um, um, positive things from bodybuilding this year. Wow. I mean, we were sort of hurting for positive things. Um, on a personal level and like a local level, we were able to put on a couple of shows. Mm-hmm. And no one thought we could pull off. And that was just because, you know, everyone just did their part and just made it happen. It was like such a group effort. Right. And so we were able to put a couple of shows on which and get some people qualified for nationals, which then got canceled. What did they do for you guys then with with with your guys and nationals? Those people carry over. Yeah. They're carrying over everyone and just trying to keep stuff flowing. You know, I've got it all on the website. I can't remember all the details. But yeah, they complicated year. Um, I think the Olympia really helped and obviously, I mean, obviously it helped. Fucking happened. But I mean, the way it went down, I think helped bodybuilding. Like I think Rami winning was good for bodybuilding. I think Clarita winning was good for bodybuilding. I think bum-stead winning was good for bodybuilding. I, um, I just, you know, it just feel like it was a good year. And when I say good for bodybuilding, I don't mean anything, uh, don't take anything away from the previous champions or anything like that. But just the excitement and a new group of fans is super happy. You know, like like the other guys fans were already happy because it won last year. But now this guys fans are all fucking super happy too. So it's like spreading the love around, I guess, you know? I just think it, you know, the positivity, how how everyone was able to go to Florida and sort of act normal. I think that almost trickled through the podcast. They're the stream. Right. I think like it, they were able to deliver like some like normalcy to us when they broadcast the Olympia this year. And just from how everything was presented like everyone on stage just stand in normal and Jay color just right behind everybody and Rami's kissing fill on the forehead. And, right. And, you know, like it, it just sort of made us all feel like, you know, we still got body in a single normal. Right. You know, I felt like a couple of things with that. Number one, true bodybuilders. And I mean female male, all divisions. There was a brilliant people. Like to think of the advancements that so many guys and girls made this year when thrown in the towel would have been easy. Not competing or not finding a way to train. I mean, I'm saying this all the way down to people you and I will never know, like my clients or your clients that just found a way to train, found a way to eat. Yeah. You know, it's it was good to see. And I also felt like at the Olympia, the one thing I noticed from the podcasts or I'm sorry, the, you know, the live deal podcast was I think people have an appreciation this year now. Because it was always at our fingertips. So it's so easy to bitch when things weren't perfect. When it wasn't exactly what it should be this year, like people like Holy Fuck, there was an Olympia. Holy shit. There was a way to watch it. And like, and like, and yeah, and bumstead, doubled the size of his back training and the basement with Ian on a fucking Chinese made, you know, those cheap kind of those Smith machine double stacks. It everyone's buying to put their basement. I can't remember the brand, but I know that it's from overseas and and it's training around one of those. And like Ian says, if you put like six plates on the Smith, the barben, so it drags. So he can only go to five plates on everything. Right. You know, but like they're in their training on that. And, you know, close gyms and all sorts of bullshit and Chris shows up with the back that twice as good as last year. Yeah. And Clarita, Clarita, but doing barbel rose and not not even having cables. And he shows up looking like that. And, you know, yeah, I know in the second, third and fourth, like they all improved. But they're never one at the same story. The only reason we know bumstead doubled the size of his back training in the basement is because he's a champion. So we're all paying attention to the story. But it was so drastic. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That was a two year transformation. Yeah. Exactly. There's a lot of people that made improvements and, and, you know, came in fucking looking awesome. You know, so yeah, crazy crazy times, man, crazy times. I'm hopeful that, you know, looking into the new year and years, that enough people have the feeling I do, which is I'll be honest, when you've traveled and done what we do for so long. I mean, I'm 13 years deep into worldwide travel now. Yeah. By the middle of the season, you're kind of burnt. I always was good at when you, when you walk into the expo hall of, of doing my job. But I wasn't always excited to get on the airplane to be honest with you. Um, now, whatever is left in my career of getting to do that is going to be recognized as lucky as shit. Yeah. You know, every single one no matter how tired it's going to be like, holy shit, I can do this one more time. I feel like I was almost there like it's kind of funny. We started season six and meet on a mission. And I like went and filmed two episodes. The only two that we did this year, right? We released them in like, I think February and March. I think or whatever, release them earlier in the year. But we went into those two episodes back to back in one trip, right? Three day trip. Remember, I came home and I was like, holy fuck, that's exhausting. I can't believe I have to do like four more of those trips. Right. And now I'm like, okay, I was just a little tired from all the traveling. I'm really, really hoping I get to do more of those trips. Right. You know what I mean? Like there's a little bit of trash kicked a few more times. Now, yeah, you realize I was like, I was a bit tired from all the traveling and flying and constant being on the road every month. But this year was more exhausting. So I would rather go back to being traveled tired rather than stress tired. Right. Do you know what I mean? Stress tired. This whole year has been stressed tired. I'm like, okay, you guys go back to being traveled tired and worn out because we have too many cool things to do. We can't get that all into a month for us. Yeah, for me, all these cool things to do. Fuck, you know. So yeah, that was noticeable. I got a shit ton of questions, dude. Let's get firing. And I'm going to, um, I have a bunch, but fire a couple and then I will toss some of your way as well. It's funny. This is the first one. Like, came across how come you guys don't have kids? Do you don't want kids? You can't have kids. What's a deal? For me, um, earlier in life and marriage and all that stuff, um, it was an idea. But I really was, I really wanted to be set up. Um, and then I think as time progressed, I got more selfish. I got more comfortable in what I want. And I had a more clear understanding of of what having a kid is and quite honestly, I bowed out. Like, it was not something I really wanted to do. That being said, uh, you know, I like kids that are other people's kids. I like to do things have fun, but I really, um, you know, I felt like if I was going to have a kid, it would have happened on accident. And I would have rocked that and been good at it. But, uh, no, it didn't, it was not something that I'd feel terrible. I'm an only child and my mother dreams of being a grandmother. And I feel like such a scumbag. Since I was like 25, I knew I didn't want to have kids. Um, you know, and then once I got my, like, got divorced, um, the first time I really looked, and I was like, if I met some of the kids, I would do it. But I still did not want my own. So it's like a weird thing, like, you know, most people like connection of, what's got to be mine. I'm like, ah, not me. So yeah, no, that's, that's not something I've ever desired, which is crazy. Like when I really got down to it, I love life the way it is. So I, guy, I would not change that. And I'm fortunate enough to have friends and family that have kids. So I get to be like cool uncle that like throws a bomb party or buys the gift and then bounces, you know? No, I, you know what my story is not that dissimilar from years except for I never got married or anything. But, uh, yeah, I remember, I remember being like, you know, when you're a clueless teenager, mm-hmm, and people would say, you know, you want kids that go, ah, maybe maybe just one or two. I remember I used to say that. Right. I don't really think it. Right. What are two? And then as I got older, I was like, hey, maybe one. And then when I was actually like, when I was actually an adult, like, I was like, holy fuck, I hope I don't knock somebody up. Right. Well, I hope I don't knock somebody up. And, and, uh, the years just kind of went by and I never knocked anybody up. And they just kept going by and I just kept fucking and nothing kept happening. And, and, uh, the story delivery is phenomenal. Keep going. And then I started taking a man. I'm just going to get away with this forever. This is awesome. And, uh, yeah, and then with, and then Emily and I started dating and she's an only child. And the only other kid in her family is her cousin and her cousin's adopted. Right. So there's not like a heavy pressure to have kids and her family. Everyone's like, you know, there's lots of love in her family, but it's real so it's not like she's got all these brothers and sisters that are spit and kids out. And there's all this. Where's your kid? Like, there's just not a that chat. Right. And, uh, she doesn't, she, you know, her and I discussed early because that was always a thing that I had like date one. You're probably. How's the shrimp? I have to ask you a question. Yeah. A date one. Are you going to want a bunch of fucking kids? Right. And, but delivered because I could actually see you saying that line, Emily. With your hands. You want to fucking kids? Yeah. So, so, uh, we just kind of agreed that we are very happy without them and we would talk about it later. Right. And then later, cane. And we were like, ah, so pretty happy without them totally fake. We need them. We should and then, and then the, yeah. And then we got the dog. And now she occasionally goes out of her way to go. She'll say, I'm so glad we have dog and not a kid. And so, I think she's pretty happy. And, uh, and it just comes down to, you know, asking yourself, I mean, people say, oh, you'd be such a good dad. And I'm like, yeah, but I don't know. Maybe I don't really want to be. I don't know. Right. Well, it's decided, I don't know. I just not a big deal to me. There's plenty of people out there. There's no shortage of new people. The being made every day. I like people. I like new people. They're all good. So, that's fine. But, uh, crossing the. Yeah. So, I don't know. I mean, you know, if it happened, it would happen. But it just doesn't happen. So, we're okay with it. We're really happy with like our simple life. We like our small condo. We like our dog. You know, we don't mind being that couple. You know, I like that. You know, it's funny. They, um, what, and there's there's greatness to any side of a of a situation. I think if that's where you're at. But, um, I like because literally, I mean, you when I, you less than mean out because you own the business business and my business is me. So, it's fine. But I do like that wherever I am at any moment in time is by choice. But yeah, like I can do this interview from anywhere. It will not be a shocker to you at some point when you're like, what's the background? I'm like, oh, I'm in Cincinnati. Oh, okay. You know, I took off yesterday because I watched a movie in Cincinnati. I had never been there. You know, and that, that is, uh, this funny because I used to get that a ton from people to the, you'd be a great dad. And I'm like, well, I'm a great uncle. Yeah, just because they brought a prince. I think if they hung around me long enough, they'd be like, it's probably good that you're not a father. Right, right, right. It's just, yeah, because the stories do get very twisted that you maybe don't want them to be pulled. Hey, what's going on, guys? Thanks for watching another podcast here. I think Big Body Building Media. And thank you to our great sponsor, True Nutrition.com for making this all possible. True Nutrition.com is owned by Dante Trudeau, the creator of DC training. You wanted to create a supplement company that offered high quality third-party test and supplements at a fair price. High quality protein powders, just about every type you could think of. Huge variety of flavors, plus health and performance supplements. Check them out, True Nutrition.com. And hey, if you use our code, advices, you directly support our podcast. Thanks, guys. Let's get back to the program. What else are we got? You got some good, I like this. Well, you let off big. Well, I had to get out of the way. You know, I didn't. It was, it was a good one. I knew you'd have something funny to say about it. So, you know what I mean? That's, that's a no for me, Doug. So, here's, here's one we've discussed it before, but I get it all the time, and I can't remember what you think. What percentage of underground GH do you think is legit? I mean, first off, I have to laugh because in in Chad did this during our interview the day and always laugh. I love in the body of the world that we create percentages. And we just go, yeah, that's about right. You know what I mean? Like, I brought it in 95% of I'm like, well, what's the other five? Look like. Nevermind. Right. It's all theoretical. Yeah, I mean, here's what I know. I think that there's probably quite a bit that's fake. Fortunately, number one, I don't use underground growth. But when I've heard of it or seen it around, someone will have already tested it. Right. You know, so that would be my rule of thumb with that. It's find out. And if you've been in this game very long, this information finds you. You know, I've always blown up because people are like, oh, how do bodybuilders come across XYZ? And I'm like, if you're the legit, it finds you. You know, someone will know to probably ask you if you need these things that wants to make some money. But yeah, I mean, I think a lot of the stuff is it seems I'm hearing really, really good reviews of a lot of the stuff underground. I just couldn't, I couldn't tell my best friend how to know because I don't, I don't do that stuff. Right. Right. Yeah, you know, I have to admit there were, there were a lot of years right. Didn't pay any attention to any underground GH at all. Like, I was actually, I actually didn't use a lot of GH. I was like, one of those guys that was like, oh, I see all these guys using all these generic kits for years and years and none of them got any better. So I just was like, why should I spend my money on it? So I was like a real resistor and I wasn't a big GH user. And I was a type of guy that would buy like a couple of the best kits I thought I could get and just use them like the last 10 weeks for the diet. Right. And the rest here when you use any, I'd be like 325 pounds, no GH. Yeah. And so I didn't use any offseason. And then a couple times I spent the money on the real stuff and used it for prep. And I was like, oh, I could take less of that works. So I don't know if the underground stuff was just weaker. Like, you know what I mean? But I still thought the underground stuff I used did something. Right. Like there was still like an effect. And but it was like only noticeable when I was dieting, you know, near the end. Yeah. I think that that's when, I mean, here and just being up front because I brought this up to people. My, when I get ready for a show, never fails, I will be below stageway that's some point during the prep. And then I start gaining weight and truth be told. And I think anybody who knows Biden understands that's as things start going up, that's when I'm at the peak of everything else, including growth. And when I have done growth at higher numbers and just to debunk all the craziness insane is eight units to me financially. It's just ton of money. And I will be gaining weight while getting harder for sure, right? But I do think too while we're on the subject, it's just a quick touch. Growth and insulin are not what people think they are. No, not at all. You know how to know that's just I can't, I mean, I get that said is growth a must to do. No, is no, no. I know a lot of guys that have turned pro and never used GH. Mm-hmm. Me too. And I also know a ton of guys that are pros now who stopped using insulin because they just, yes, me, me, you know, and it's such a normal and I get it. I was there. I remember when I was like, I'm like, I'm like, I'm gonna use insulin. I'm like, fucking huge. And I remember like starting it and being like, huh? Right. I guess, yeah. Where was the big bang I was waiting for? What happened? Yeah, yeah. Yeah. They are big misconceptions about those two. So I guess we didn't really answer the guys question, but we talked about GH for a while. So I hope that's good now. We talked about drug. You are. I'm sorry. Terrible. I was like, you know that, right? That's funny. Go ahead. You got one. I got tons. Let's see. Oh, I got a good one next. That one you already answered too. Okay. Uh, because mine already been answered. I have to throw this out like this. I'm going to make some noise. Um, what's your advice on home gym training for all these people who are now back to screwed on COVID? Remember that volume is inversely related to intensity. So if you're stuck with nothing but bands, you just do a lot of sets and reps. Just focus on trying to get a pump, a crazy pump in the muscle. If you can do that, like if if all you had was bands, I would just be focusing on getting a crazy pump. What do I have to do to get a pump in my quad? Max pump. We put in the bands over my shoulders and squatting against the bands. I'd be, you know, using whatever, maybe you got a barbell or something. Whatever you got, if you're only, if you only have 225, do sets of fucking 20 on the squat. This volume your legs, volume, volume, do a bunch of sets. Because the amount of weights and the intensity that you train at is inversely related to the amount of volume that you can tolerate. So, so like, fuck man, if you got to do 20 sets of 10 on the squat, that maybe that's what you got to do. 10 sets of 10, 10 sets of 20, fuck going to the garage and squat, two plates for as many sets of 20 as you could possibly squat. And by the time you get to, you know, set five or whatever you just fucked. And you have to get there. Find a way. For a client actually, it's got, here's equipment, but it's limited. And he has injuries, which alters some of what I could have had him do with the equipment he has. But he's got some weight. So I was like, all right, let's try something. We did set a 10 because it was heavy enough. I literally said, all right, you get X amount of time between attempts. And I want you to do sets of 10 until you fail at getting 10 twice. Right. So he's doing like two movements per body part. I'm like, just keep going. Yeah. And when you can't get it any more, you're smoked. And what was crazy is when the gyms opened back up, we had two things happen. Number one, he had to improve. Like visually, he was a better body brother, which was exciting. And number two, we tossed a lot of the bullshit we were doing. Yeah. He's like, man, I don't want to do this because he, we went right back into the older teens. And he's like, I got a better connection when I'm just blasting simple. I'm like, fuck it, toss it, toss it. Right. And the other change was weight, you know, which was cool. So I think a lot of us, not silver lining just honestly, realize a lot when you lose things that you think are so important. You know, like, ah, wasn't that great anyways, you know, right, right. Okay. I agree. I got a good one here. Which would you say was the peak era for extreme PED usage amongst the top pros? Okay. Tricky question for me. I want to argue that the, here's a tricky. I want to argue that the extreme numbers are probably higher now than they were before. But I think a lot of people assume in the 90s and 2000s they were because I think the drugs were better. Right. So I don't think it was necessarily the amount spec then. There are drugs now. Like, I had somebody ask a question the other day. And my initial response, which I didn't put out loud, was good luck finding real of that. Right. You know what I'm saying? But I think that, and I mean, I know it's a top pros, but across the board, I think that drug abuse is rampant now. Yeah. So my opinion on this is amongst the pros, I think drug use peaked, I had say in the early 2000s. And I have reasons to say that just from what I would hear in conversations I would have with people. However, I think drug use amongst pros is actually down a lot now. agree. However, drug abuse amongst amateurs, especially local and regional level, is at an all-time most ridiculous now. All-time worst. I got, I got to talk to a guy the other day. I mean, I told him I said, man, I just don't think I can help you. Like, I would love to take your money and give you a plan and have you make gains and improve on. But I just don't think I can help you. And I did his turn them away. And he was taking like 600 milligrams of trend a week with the thousand test. And he was just calling that like, I'm just on a bit of stuff. And I'm like, what do you want? He said, I'm just taking some tests and some trend. And I'm like, oh, well, you know, how much? And he was a 1000 test ant and 600 trend ace. And I was like, oh my god, I'm like, what the fuck is that? And he said, God's like, just offseason. And I was like, oh man. So I looked at his contest cycle for his last show that he didn't even look good at. And it was fucking crazy. It was like 3,500 milligrams a week. And then I just said, dude, I'm just, I'm going to give you like a little tiny stack. Like you're going to go off and clean out and fucking get smaller and feel like shit and get yourself healthy first. And you don't want to give me money to do that. Right. Like you're going to pay me to have the worst four months of your life. Right. Because that's what you need, you know. So what do you do? So that's the stuff I see. And but amongst the top pros from who I talk to and what they say, things have changed. The health of the body is now understood to be one of the reasons that you get in good condition. You know, if your kidneys aren't healthy and your liver is not healthy and your blood work shit, maybe that's why you don't look good. Maybe that's why you're not appearing to be hard and fresh. You know, all the things that we like to see in a physique nowadays, you know, like, you know, it's like, look at Chris Bumstead on stage. And I mean, you and I know Chris more than the other people do. The people that are trying to look like Chris are fucking killing themselves. Yep. Trying to look like Chris. And I got news for all of you. You're not Chris. Chris does fucking nothing and walks around at 270 pounds and put remember that he didn't he didn't get this 500 for reps. He didn't know when I love you when get this, but until until the Olympia height, he realized he has 10 more pounds. So he's been being cautious. Not even cautious, man. Like like trying, no, I'm saying, trying not to grow to us. Like, yeah, that's what I mean, what to grow. Like it's just grow too big. It's it's it's it's crazy. You know, this the the people look at those physiques and they think they and they think that what they're doing is what they're doing. And it's like, no, man, the divide between I mean, I remember talking to Jay about this and Jay telling me like being very honest about like 2004. We were going for it. And you're like, that's it. Yeah, even you who knows, thinks it's going to be a little higher because he said we were going all in. You know, just stuff like that. So it's, yeah, it's just important to know when we are I'm not trying to ruin anybody's day out there. No. Anyway, this is all I think you also have to realize that there's levels to genetics. I didn't really think of this until I I got called out by a friend. When I think of genetics, I think of Bumster. I think of Dexter, you know, guys that have it on all levels. And then my buddy goes to me. He goes, what do you weigh right now? Because I said something about my shit and I actually know. And I mean, I'm talking structure in blah, blah, blah, blah. Right. Um, he goes, what do you weigh right now? And I think it was 284, 282. This is a couple of months ago. And I was like, yeah, I don't know whatever. And he goes, how long it makes it you pushed for size. And I was like, oh, years, only meals do you eat a day right? I'm like, I don't know. 4. Because 284, eating four times a day and just training your ass off because you love it. It's not a level playing field. Right. And that was like a wake up because it's true. It's like the average person with their weight and nothing. People can't even tell when I'm on or off based on my left because they don't change that much. I lose a rapper too. So you realize that, you know, like, I'm in like I post it up the other day. Like I started pushing just the diet for a couple of weeks. Like really consistently. And I woke up and I was like, oh, 27. Well, yeah, your your triceps, your triceps look enormous right now. Yeah. It's like the doing bodies just adapting to you very big. You know, and I'm like, yeah, I haven't started the other things. Like I haven't taken growth. I haven't taken insulin. I'm thinking, so okay. So what I thought was going to take X amount of time is going to take half of that. Right. You know, and that's just food. So there's definitely levels this. You look at a guy like a bomb stud and you just got to realize like, okay, but he's not human. Yeah. So let's not look at him. And I realize now I said he walks around at 275 pounds. I meant he walks around at 250 pounds, but he looks like he's 275 pounds. Yeah. That's the thing. Like when I saw him, I go, how much you wait? And he's like, where I, I guess 255 and he said, oh, I'm like 250, three or something. Right. And I said, that's hilarious. That purposely gets super low because you look like you're 275. Right. Would you still speak to him and ramen? Yeah. Like, here's a crazy thing. Actually, it looks real good. Next to his next to him. Finally, I'm not saying he's as big. Don't know. We missed my words. Yeah. But I got to tell you right now, if I pose next to ramen, the difference is very, very much more drastic. And I'm closer to his weight. Right. You know, but it would just be an embarrassing thing to do. That's funny. Okay. So my turn? Yes, fire another one because I haven't been talking to you instead of looking. What, what health supplements did you take during your prime? And which do you still take now? Oh my god, I take a ton all the time. I just did a list of them the other day. I took a picture because it's, you know, it's never, I mean, I got $300 and supplements a month. Yeah. It helps supplements. Yeah. I, I use a lot of stuff now. Use more now. I mean, like, oh, wait, I laughed at the, I still came in pronounce. Half of them. I just know what they, I didn't really take, I didn't really take health supplements when I was trying to get huge. Right. I took like fish oil and glucosamine vitamin C. And that's pretty much, that's pretty much all I took and a multivitamin. And I threw the odd thing in here and there. But that's really all I ever took for like almost all my years of bodybuilding. Yeah. And, and then since I retired and returned 40, I take like everything from Resvera tall to Ashwaganda to Stralligas to Ubigwin all vitamin K on my team. I actually take a garlic supplement because it's so good for your blood. And I don't really like garlic. Like, you know, unless I go to a time restaurant or something, but I don't really eat garlic. So I take a garlic supplement. What else do I take? Shit, Tombaric and Cricumen. Did you do a transvera tall? I'm sure you take that. I haven't taken transvera tall. No. This route resvera tall. Okay. Citrus Bergmont. Yes. Yes. Citrus Bergmont. I take and there was, there was another one I just, uh, oh, yes, and that card atone, which has been hard to get on Amazon, even with that new company making it. Really? It's different up there because I had some Canadian athletes that were like, when you get on my Amazon, like, yeah, it's been hard to get up here for a little while, but I was taking card atone for the last several years straight. I just literally looked at my list here. Yeah. I'm just trying to remember of these two giant top-aware trays, like, you know, bread boxes, full of bottles. And they're up in my shelf. So I pull them both down every night. And each bread box has probably 10 to 12 bottles in it. Right. And I just fill a coffee mug with pills. So they're ready for the next. Let's take a quarter fall and I pound them, take a big drink. And then I fill the other once pound them, you drink. And I go to bed. I just take, I take everything and the morning and I take everything at night. Yeah. So I've got, it's fine. I took a picture of my drawer. I have a slide out drawer that everything just fits perfectly in your hose. So I can literally just one at a time pop them open. It's two in the morning, two at night. You know what I mean? Yep. Pile them up because I know a lot of people have, have the pill box on, I just, I'm not going to do that. I have a drawer. Yeah. So somebody asked me, like, what do you take? I literally just took a picture and posted up like that. And the higher drawer full of shit is what I take every single day. But you know, it's crazy. Thanks Dante. You, you, the classic is it's actually him that put me on probably two thirds of that stuff. But you could tell the difference. You could, right, absolutely. And back to what you were saying about the drugs earlier, then I did find when I bumped up just barely just normal stuff. Your body's not unhealthy. So it just seems to work better. And the thing you do take work better because your body's not already fighting for its fucking life. Hey, I've, I've always had good blood pressure. But since I started using like some of the subs that I added, like there were certain ones that I added. And I can't remember, I would have to go back to my emails with Dante. But certain things he told me to take and I added them. And like within a couple weeks, my morning blood pressure dropped. And I was like, oh, yeah. Fuck, like, drop, like, like 110 over 65. We had to back down because the cardatone was usually a two a day thing. I had pulled back to one of the things my blood pressure got too low. Right, right, right. He warned me of that. But at my weight and my doctors were always kind of like, you're a little high up at your size and we expected. So I was okay with it. And it got to the point that it was low. I was like, oh, shit. Okay, you were right. Again, I didn't want to surprise that you're right every time you tell me something. But I went too low. So now it's one a day. You know, I've got three bottles of it in there for the same reason. When the Canadian people this year with COVID started having hard time getting the cardatone, I bought extra because I went for it. Yeah, if they're having trouble, maybe I'll have trouble. The cardatone is my toilet paper, man. I need extra. Here's another one for you, Dusty. Because you're the expert on these. Yes, square plates matter. Oh, biggest, biggest mistake. Biggest mistake people make with racchains. Oh, my god. Can I list like 10? First, I'm going to work. Well, here's the deal. Because the biggest mistake is they lean backwards. You want your body should look like an L at the top. You're doing a row. Yeah, your legs are straight out. Your back is completely vertical. I mean, very close to completely vertical. Just enough that you get your chin out of the way is the key. From there, I'm just going to walk down to everything else. People grip too close with their hands. When they get tired, it becomes more and more a high row. And then the other thing is that it's a small detail, but I think I suggest not to put me on a year's ago was cross your feet at your ankles because you will notice if you push off with your hamstring, you do that. If not, you're hamstring. It's the nature of your body is always hard. I'll help. And you'll push off of your heels on that. So, very key. And then the last thing which is not really a mistake with something you should work on is negatives are everything on a reaction. I absolutely obsess over at least a four count negative and guys, it's count not second for seconds as a long fucking time. It's literally four, three, two, bottom. And if you pause at that bottom also, that'll make it even worse, which is what you want. So, you know, those little details will be key and I did promise to put a video up this week of executed correctly. Because you know this, we get tagged and stuff quite a bit. And I feel bad because I'm going to tag me in a video of a reaction and they're destroying it. So, I'll message them and be like, hey, I don't want to comment on your post because it'll look like a dick move. But here are all the things that are not correct with that. Right. You know, and then usually they'll be smart up, say it down. And adjust. But that is why people don't think it's as good as I do. If you do it wrong, it's a fucking body weight high row. Of course it doesn't do shit. Right. Right. Anyway, no. Yeah. Oh, so yeah, key. All right. I got a million here and I keep trying this off because it makes sense. I'm blaming you like that. I have a bunch of marked for you, dusty. Oh, I love this. Oh, here's the one that I would like to ask you because my training partners do this. What is it with people now putting the foam roller on their back in the hacks what? Yeah. I don't get that. So, what I've seen is they're putting the foam roller under the shoulder pad. So, pushes their upper body forward more. Yep. I think that just turns it more into a leg press. Yeah. I like it. I got 45 degree leg press, too. Yeah, you're just like, you know, you're in a hip extended position on the hacks squat. But the more you bend it to hip, they're now you're in the poopy press that Joe, that Joe doesn't like, right? You're in that stupid hammer strength poopy press fucking thing that they call a hacksquap. And no one else calls a fucking hacksquap. You know, this is a hacksquap and now you're in the poopy press. And so I think when you put the pad under the shoulders, it just moves you up like that. Technically, you probably able to lift a little bit more weight because your hip flexed a little bit. And that would bring more glutes and hams in because I mean, that's a whole, you know, reason you're so strong on a leg press is because you're, you know, your hip flexed. Right. So, I don't know. I'd never tried it. So, I'm maybe it makes you weaker. I don't know. But I don't quite understand why they're doing it. Maybe someone did it on a certain brand of hacksquap because they felt they liked it better. And then it got put on Instagram and then someone else started doing it and then someone else, oh wait, that's how most of this stuff happens, dusty. Right. That's a deal though, because actually, because that was asked to mean, I think because Tommy and Will were both doing that. And I'm funny. I'm like, you're comfortable. Okay. But I don't even when I'm training, I'm doing what I need to do. And as long as you're not doing something stupid that's going to hurt you. Yeah. So I don't even ask why you do that. I don't know. So technically, that doesn't make it riskier or anything like that. It's not like someone is doing something that you're like, you know, like I saw one guy once. He put two 25 pound plates on the hacksquap and he put his heels on them. Right. And I was like, dude, those are metal plates on a metal foot plate. There's nothing stopping those just shoot off under your heel. Like, they're literally sliding around and he's like, trying to get them centered for his heel. And they put his heels on him. And the one like moves a little and they like move it back with his foot and starts wrapping out. And I'm just like, when I'm over and I'm like, hey, man, there's no, there's no grip happening there. Yeah. And I own this gym. You're not doing this. Yeah, like if you lift your toe, then that that plate now goes and shoots off. So it's not like that sort of stuff. Because that stuff I would speak up about. But doing it as an alteration like that, as on as it doesn't look like they're going to get hurt or anything. I'm, do they feel stronger? Do they move big weights? Do an interview? They take a plate off. I think, well, I mean, I think Tony was just having a hip and pinchment issue. So I think he was hip. Yeah, he's working around something and it was funny this week. I had been nagging him about getting, uh, swatches. And he got them started in last week. And this week, uh, the pad was gone. Right. So he elevated his heel a little bit, which helped out his hip a little bit, thought it out of the chair. Because I am a big fan of that. Um, and I, I definitely overstate this. So I don't want people think I'm completely in it. But, uh, someone will say like, well, what's the best position for your feet on a hack squat? I mean, or a leg press. And they're talking about toe positioning, not higher low and I'll go, or you feel strongest. Yeah. Like, that's the most generic answer. I can get into detail. But if, if something hurts, that's not the right way. Um, you know, those types of things. But yeah, I'm not a fan of that. And I definitely can't see why that's a good idea. You know what I mean? Okay. I have one for you. It's very important. Shoot. You need to hear your reasoning. Oh, boy. You can only have one fruit for the rest of your life. What fruit is it? I think I think I think I think one fruit. An orange. An orange. Yeah. Okay. What about, what about berries? What if you can only have one berry? What's your berry? Blackberry. Blackberry. I love blackberries, but that is raspberry jam. There you go. Oh, the orange is because I like oranges and cinnamon with tequila. Ah. I used the healthiest thing I've ever eaten during an unhealthy adventure. See, the, you know, tequila lovers like the rock would appreciate that that you chose that for your tequila. Yes, very key. So now what is the, so the salt lime tequila is the traditional you know, is that actually a Mexican thing or did the Americans make that up? I don't know. But I do know that I'm assuming that's actually a Mexican thing and I assume yes, but it's like kind of probably an old thing that's not really forced anymore. And now it's now it's just the, it's kind of like the way you do it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So if you're a frat or a, a srody girl or a frat guy, yeah. And again, the day you're really shining them like it up to make some bad decisions. So if they want to Where did the orange and cinnamon is that like an ultra hipster Scottsdale invention? Well, this is going to shock you. And it's the down for this. Oh, good. You're already sitting. Jose Raymond taught me that. Oh, see tequila lovers. Right. We were, we were at the Arnold. Yeah, classic. I believe he had just won. And he was like, you do tequila. I'm like, it's the only drink I like. So we ordered silver and I hear him say, do you have oranges and cinnamon? And I'm like, the fuck, you know, I immediately thought of the hangover. You know, when, when Allen is putting pepper on the tiger's stake and he states the tiger's love pepper, but they hate cinnamon. And I was like, what is happening right now? One shot. And I was like, I never need to see a lemon or salt again. Perfect. Aim changing. So silver is the tequila. Right. Orange and cinnamon. Everyone, you're welcome for your education on it's there's a lot of the thing and alcohol. I appreciate that. I think if I had to pick one one fruit, I think it'd be bananas. Makes sense. It's a shake thing also. It's their versatile. They go with good with peanut butter. Go get with chocolate and the music on the road. You need to eat. You don't need to put them in a container. They already have one. I don't know. Tough to peel like an orange. That's one. Yeah. He's on orange. Yeah. Yeah. There's the very, very fast. True. Yeah. You know, I think that would be the high end potassium. Just really the real reason you want it. They're good. So that would be my pick. And if I only had one berry, I think I'd go strawberries. Yeah. I'll get you. I'll find you on that. I'm a cheap ass. There's a lot. I knew that was important. I knew that was important. But you're tequila story really nailed home your reasoning. Yeah. I think a lot of people were probably a little confused like an orange. Because yeah, it's definitely not. There's nothing convenient to me about an orange. Like in the mass. People right now were down to like 10 listeners. Yeah. I brought them back. I brought them back. It was a good episode until they started talking about fruit. Oh, here's one that I need to ask you. Because I actually answered this. I'm like Q&A, but if I feel tired from a long day and week, would you push through the workout or just do it the next day? I'm asking you because you're a business owner. Meaning I don't think you know what it feels like to be rested anymore. Read the question again. I need to know if I missed anything. If I feel tired from a long day and week, would you push through the workout or just do it the next day? Yeah. So, okay. So here's my one sidebar. Copy that. It was going to use a word caveat. But I opted out and used sidebar. That's long story as to why I did that. I had a conversation in my head about which word be used. So you didn't think I'd know the caveat is go ahead. Wasn't about you, does the I know you would know that. Define tired. So, okay. Is there a situation when I was in my days or even now? Where I would postpone a workout or delay a workout due to being tired? Yeah. There is a situation which would do that. But the definition of tired might not match what another person would define as tired. I would have to be like not able to actually train. Like functionally shutting down. There's no way that this can happen. But otherwise, get your ass in the fucking gym and have yourself a 45 minute high intensity smasher and get it to bed and know that you won the day. That's what I would say. And I just say back to like, I used to go to football practice and hit and hit and hit. And both my knees would be bleeding and then I'd walk to the gym and squat. My mom had picked me up at 7.30. I trained for like two hours straight. And then I'd go home and just eat and eat and eat and skip all my homework and go to bed. Which is good. Like a good teenager. I said, as you should, I mean look where you're looking at your life. Good decisions. I know. You know what the reason that I brought that up though was he specifically said from a long day. Yeah, there's that doesn't sound. Yeah, I think you have to, that doesn't sound urgent in that. Yeah, just like you said like here's how my answer was on my Q&A was, I don't remember when I owned the retail stores ever, not having a long day. I would have had to take in seven years of my life off from the gym. Yeah, because I was always tired. I don't remember ever feeling rested. But did find that when you get in the gym and get moving, it's there. Also, if you know that you're not backing out of that workout and you develop a habit of not backing out of that workout, it actually carries over to the next long day and you make more efficient decisions. Right. We also, I think everyone's long day could be improved. And what you do when you get there. So yesterday, coincidentally when I was at this, I've actually been sleeping well, just crazy. Like five hours a night. And I made this decision because I've been staying up super late that I would go to bed earlier and try to get six hours. Well, all that had happened was I slept for an hour, then I woke up and I was up for seven hours. I got one more hour of sleep. I got time to eat one meal and then go train. But I never crossed my brain that I was going to skip the workout because we had the show today and I was losing my train today. So I was like, fuck it. We're training. Got to the gym completely planned on executing our normal routine. And second movement was Barbell Rose. Got four or five on the bar and I'm pulling them like it's nothing, but there was no connection. Like I wasn't feeling it. I was just pulling weight and I put the bar down. I looked at Tommy and I said, that's not heavy. How's it look? It goes like you're just pulling 400 pounds. And I go, it's probably do something else on these like, yes, because I could pull 500 pounds but I probably would have gotten hurt. So I wondered my way over, had a great work slowed down the reps, got on the good old hammer row, and played it safe. I think that is the difference. It's also when you get to the gym knowing like, this isn't feel heavy but I don't feel anything. This is probably unsafe for me to get in that 550 range today, even though the weight is moving. Right. You know, so that would be how I take it. But again, two hours of sleep, there was no intention of not going to train. Right. You know, so I think that that is is absolutely key. And like you said, if you get to the gym and it's really not there, then maybe you go home. So one of my favorite quotes, one of my favorite quotes is Michael Jordan said, every time I didn't feel like working out, I had a rule. I'd go to the gym. I would get changed. I would put on my shoes and I would lace them up. I would put my headphones in and I would start my music. And if I still felt like going home, I go home. But I never went home. I love because of Michael, like that last line right there is so accurate. But I never went home. You know, it's freaking gold. And it is. It sits. I mean, that's, you know, if you really want out of that workout, that's okay. Go to the gym, get your music going, get your strap song, get your belt out, get your drink filled, go over, say, all you got to do is go warm up a bit. And then you could go home. You could walk right out that door. All you got to do is just, you know, get it warmed up. You know what I mean? All right. I need you on this one. Okay. Well, I know we've discussed this, but I need some guidance. This is selfish of course. It's me. It's what we need. So the question was outside of peaky blinders, which you know is more my favorites. What are un-missible series that we need to be watching? And you're an expert. So go. Wow. I don't know. And don't give me the normals like Dexter and we know those. What else? Wow. It's hard to word un-missible. That's pretty. It's a pretty big one. Sorry, we're going to like mention like something breaking bad and stuff. Yes. Yes. You know the J. So I thought maybe you meant like brand new stuff. No, no, no, no. Yeah, overall. Because I, you know, I mean, I've only watched like four. So I like the stuff that's over. So I can have years of episodes to watch in three weeks. So I always say this for my sci-fi fans out there. They know I'm a trekky. Everyone who doesn't know I'm a trekky. You have seen all the star tracks and a big fan. But as far as outside of that genre, or outside of that, what's it called? Brand. Right. The battle star galactica that came out. It was like four seasons or five seasons long. In like the mid 2000s. I thought that was fucking awesome. It was so well done. I fucking really enjoyed that show. It was like it had a lot of surprises in it. Good casting, great writing. The world they live in is really interesting. You know, like the writers did a great job on that. So battle star galactica was one of my favorite series. I recommended to anyone who's into sci-fi at all. And it's not even really about sci-fi. It's like it might as well be a ship like an ocean going ship. It doesn't matter the current space. Right. It just happened to be in space. But it's not a space show. Right. It could just as easily be like an old time sailing ship, which is kind of almost a bit of the flavor they gave it. Like the first mate has got a new fiat scent and he's a drinker and he's kind of like a pirate. You know? And it's got some flavor to it. And then I've said this before. But the way they wrote the show like the ships are still pretty mechanical. It's not all magic. Like there's a there's an engine room where parts are moving and they've got a thick shed and it's kind of it's cool. It's the world they created is cool. They don't use computers because the enemy is a can. And so none of the computers can be connected. They have computers but they can't be connected. They can't have networks. Right. So the ships they've had to like, you know, operate old school and they're writing stuff down and it's like it's really cool. And I enjoyed that series a lot because I'm a sci-fi fan. Right. But it's not about sci-fi. And then the enemy that is the enemy in the show is just fucking awesome. And then there's some really, you know, we all love some good-looking women in the cast. Yes. There's there's it. They did a good job with that show, you know? They got the evil woman who's like this beautiful actress from Canada. Of course. And then they cast Katie Sackhoff who's like this really kick-ass chick to play Starbucks who's a very important character. And so yeah, it's a great series. But I would say breaking bad. I would say sons of Anarchy. There's so many great shows. One of the things that I really enjoyed, there was a series we just watched. And it had Nicole Kidman and Hugh Grant in it. And it's brand new and it's called the undoing. Never seen it. Never heard of it. See, this is why it asked you. And we were recommended it. And I think we watched it on Netflix. Yeah, I think it was on Netflix. It might have been on Crave. But you have to look for it. But it's called the undoing. And it was good because, you know, killer cast Nicole Kidman and Hugh Grant. So you're dealing with like top notch. I'm just looking at up here to see him what it's on. What was the how many seasons? Just one. It's an HBO show. Okay. It's an HBO show. And it's like, or were there even more episodes now after COVID? No, it's like a limited series. Yeah. Oh, it's a one-dom. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. So, but it's great. So it's yeah. So it's it's it was good. I like seeing that. It's one of those like what the fuck is going on. You know, one of those types of things. You, uh, did you, did you get trapped? Because it sounds like one of those ones where you have an intense end of going to stop to the episodes that you better watch. Yeah. There was one night. There was one night. I think it was like, I think there were eight episodes. Right. And I can't remember, but there was one night where we just went through four. You couldn't stop. Yeah. There's not like it's kind of one of those things where there's a, you know, Hugh Grant's a husband Nicole Kidzman's a wife. And somebody's dead and you don't know who killed them. And you don't know. She, like, you just don't know what's going on with these two characters. This husband and wife character. And there's kids involved. And there's, it starts. Yeah. It gets real fucked up. I can just imagine I could, I could see you, like half dead looking over to Emily. Like one more. She's like, yes. That was a good series. That's what we recommend. Asia right now. We watch a few things. You know, Emily picks a series. We'll watch it. It'd be good. But the undoing we were like, I'm actually going to mention that to people. Right. Yeah. That's, that's, that's my, I had somebody mentioned to me, uh, yellowstone. Have you seen that? No, I haven't, but I've heard it. It's, you have heard it's great. Okay. I need to jump that one because now I have to watch this purely on a recommendation. And I trust Matt, different Matt clients. But I'm, I'm going to go for it. So I'm going to, I'm going to have a review in a week. I guess. I don't want to know what my, my big, new years resolution is. I'm going to watch an episode of that show. You're welcome. You picked it up here. Oh, that's the, is that the Kevin Costner one? I believe so. There you go. That's a tough one. He's, he's not any good. He's never done. He's worth watching. Three seasons. Yeah. Yeah. I know the one you're talking about. Yeah. Okay. Fair enough. We're diving into that this week. It's my big goal. Big goal. All right. You got another one over there. My, my big goal. The tackle. It's UV series. I'm not scared, Rod. I can do this. The dogs are in. So give, give people. So let's say you're new to bodybuilding. And you just want to, you know, you're not running crazy stuff. You just want to get on the basic blood work. What, what do you check? What do you check off? What do you ask your doctor for? Quick check list of like the main things that you want to start with. Usually, um, at least here, they have a basic, what they will call like a basic male, um, health, like screening you can do. And the only thing I ask clients to add to that is, um, is they have to add their, uh, the thyroid to it. Because here in the states, that's not an auto ad, but on a male side, the test, the free test are all kind of part of the deal. Um, but the thyroid is not. So those are the, the only additions that I add to that basic run. And in that basic one, there's a basic liver enzyme. They probably check the ALT and the creatinine and the GSR for the kidneys. All your major organs minus obviously a full heart scan, um, which, which I actually, I actually tell people well, obviously, maybe this guy's, you know, not, not going hard, but, you know, if you're a big dude and you're, you know, three hundred pounds and all that stuff, you should get an ECG done or an ECG. Yeah, whatever, whatever the cardio gram one is, you know, yeah, yeah, that's actually, um, something I have not, I was, I told Don's, I wanted to do it this year and he was, like, absolutely. And then she got to be a mess. So I have not done, I have not done that yet. So I met luckily, I got blood work done right before the shutdown when it was in a hassle. Right. It was like mint. So I actually haven't gotten blood work done again this year because I mean, that's not a can. And we are stuck. You're so clean. It's, it only probably got better from there. Yeah. No, I still have gotten her blood work done. Um, but I'm stoked to hear that someone's asking that because I had a, you'll, you'll love this run. I think I might have called you bitching about it a few months ago. But um, how did I come in was on a pretty massive, uh, cycle? And I said, listen, for me to help you, I need to see your blood work. Because I don't like this and I don't want to be handed a mass by you. And then you get sick and the world says, oh, it does do that. Right. Um, so I gave, I, I want him to do a full panel. So, you know, it wasn't going to be cheap. And I'll never forget he went to get it, uh, scheduled and he emailed me back and he said, how often am I going to have to waste my money on this? Because all I want to do is get big. Right. And I remember reading that word, waste your money and I was like, I don't profit off of this. I have literally pretty much told you that the reason I'm doing this is I'm certain you have fucked up your health. Right. And before you die, I don't want to be on my watch. And all you got out of it was this is a waste of money. Right. Yeah. Yeah. You know, I just find, um, and it's funny because this is a question I have, uh, that I'm going to do in two seconds. But, uh, no one, at least in the body, even though it feels like no one is concerned with their health and to others sick. Yeah, until they get a scare. I know what you mean. I know lots of guys like that. I know lots of guys that are, you know, they're like, oh, I got a bit of a kidney thing, but, you know, I'm just, you know, just taking a little bit of anodrol. It's like, oh, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know, what, uh, no, I haven't asked yet. I haven't asked you about your Christmas yet. Well, um, I don't do traditional Christmas. Um, do you have a festive as poll? So to know, and I don't do the religious Christmas, because I'm not religious. Um, so essentially for me, Christmas is just a day. Like, and I don't buy, uh, fortunately, not kids, which I guess that part would be cool. I've kids. I'd love to spoil this. Just shit out of some kid. But, um, the only thing that I do is, um, I put aside an amount of money that I donate to different causes, things like that, just because kind of feel like you should. Um, and then, you know, I do a dinner. I did two nights in a row, my mother's house. Uh, okay, which is, uh, me trying to... That's, that's, that's all Christmas is about. Yeah. That's the best part. Yeah. We went over there, had fun, and we went real traditional. We did tacos. And, uh, Arizona Christmas. See, and if I can desert people. Yeah. We would, by my, I was like, what do you want for Christmas? And I hate, that's what happens to people when they don't have weather. Yeah. Yeah. You're like, oh, we should yeah, because I'm not, well, can you imagine if I was like a mom and some soup, you'd be like, what? It was 76 degrees Christmas day, you know? But, uh, I had, uh, Tommy and Abby on came over my mother's house, and, uh, Tommy and I had a eating competition on accident. It just happened. So, there were, I want to, I don't, I, I, I assume the Tommy won up, I mean, I stopped at 17 tacos. There you go. Um, and I think he did 18, but I think with his metabolism, he should have had to have done 34. Right. You should get like a 1.5 to 1 ratio or something like that. At least, this fucking kid's metabolism. I remember, I think I told you this on the show. I was prepping him last year, and I was before the shutdown, everything became a mess. And I was, I'm looking at his diet, he's kind of dropping quick, you know, and I'm like fuck. So I pull up his diet to make some adjustments, and I'm like, holy shit, I'm reading the diet. It was like, fuck, where's the diet? This isn't it? So I texted him, I said, hey, this is embarrassing, but I don't know what the fuck I did. I lost your diet. I don't know what you're doing right now. Like, everything was just cranking, you know? So he sends me the diet. It's the exact one that I had, but the calories were too fucking high. Like, this has to be confusing. This has to be confusing. So that, so that I texted my, said, you know what to just just pull the cardio then. And he goes, well, I'm not doing any cardio. I was like, well, fuck, what did we do? I said, I go back and I look, you know, the only change I made was I took out the 14-ego waffles he was eating. Right. You just took the thing, look, the diet. You lifted the diet and you're like, let's remove a goes and put in oatmeal. So like, that probably would be a change I ever did in the very beginning of the prep and I'm like, I literally thought to myself, this kid's life sucks. I've had people like that before too. You look at the diet and you're like, okay, meal five is a giant bowl of ground beef and pastah with hamburger helper in it and a piece of cake. So I'll just change that meal to a big steak and a pretty big potato. We're going to switch the flavor of the cake. Yeah, and all the sudden, we got three pounds of wheat. He's like, oh, it's off to the races and you're like, Jesus Christ. Yeah, is that bad? So I told him that when he walked in because I was at like 10 tacos when he walked in, he showed up extra late knowing that I would be late, which I thought was impressive. That's interesting. He was like, I didn't want to be here before you. So I showed up 40 minutes late. You watch any movies. We didn't. I had big promises too and then I just, I was out of my house for too long. You know, I have limits. So I had, I had an experience that I rather enjoyed. Oh, you know me, you know, I like to, I like to force other people for their own good. Give her two enjoy some of my favorite things. Just awkward and less never made. Right. In a friend's way. So, you know, Emily and I couldn't go anywhere. My dad's 80 won. He's on the island. Yadiyada, yada, yada, her mum was an emiton. So we couldn't really go anywhere. But we have a very good friend who actually has no family at all. And so she didn't have any where. She doesn't really have anywhere to spend Christmas rolls around. She's just been a good friend of ours for a long time. And we thought, well, let's have her over. You know, she's not, you know, we'll have her over. We're going to have her Christmas dinner anyways. Emily and I made like, well, I made mashed potatoes. Because that's for the fucking try. So come in, right? Yeah, man. She had I made the mashed potatoes like a fucking boss. But Emily went and bought pre-cooked turkey that was already sliced from Whole Foods. Like turkey dinner turkey. Yeah. And bought some gravy. And then we made the potatoes and she made the vegetables. And then we made a dessert and all that stuff. So it was like kind of a half made half heated up in the oven Christmas dinner. Right. And it was fucking awesome. Fantastic. And then the best part. The best part was within like an hour of eating. The dishwasher was running and the kitchen was cleaned and it looked like nothing had happened. I'd back that. Amazing. So anyways, I get to the best part. So we're like, let's watch a couple movies. You know, let's Christmas. Let's watch a couple Christmas movies, right? So Emily hadn't seen Bad Santa and neither had she. She had a name. So this is a friend of ours. She don't need to know. I do need to know. Text me. Go ahead. So Sarah. So she never seen Bad Santa either. So I'd be at Santa. Awesome. Fantastic. I enjoyed sharing Bad Santa with gift. It's a good job. If to them. Yeah, it was pretty good. Then we just it just happened to come up. You know, it was like related to what you viewed holiday movies. Right. I'm like, have either one of you ever seen diehard? Yes. And so we started it. So I'll just put it on to show it to you. 1988, little time machine boom, throw it on. This is the this is diehard. This is how it starts. And we just sat and watched the whole movie. And it was, you know what? I know I joke about watching diehard every year for Christmas, but it's really not it's really just on TV and you kind of see it. Yeah, you should have watched it. But I haven't sat and watched like beginning all the way through to the end without like switching a panel or checking out another movie or going to eat or you know something like that. It was actually a sitting watch diehard. It's been a long time. If I could still hold up, man. Of course it does still hold up. It's solid. It's solid. It still holds up. It's like you don't watch it and go and go like, oh, this was good. You watch it. It's pretty good. Good action movie. Like, yeah, yeah. You know, some good lines, some pretty solid script, solid story. You know, obviously it's like funny because the tech is in 1988. There's no, you know, not on cell phone. Yeah. So it's, it's, you know, they're not on cell phones. And you know, it's like a different world that they're in, right? So anyways, I enjoyed the fact that I got bad-santed and diehard at someone this, this Christmas. I feel like you gave a gift that they will now be able to re-gift. I made, I like to make other people better human beings dusty. One, you know, if you don't know you became a fucker, I mean, how are you even a, wow. Well, think of it this way. If the aliens come down and when they ask for a bunch of great movies, I, I think I should be on the committee. I'm going to tell you this because I was waiting for my opportunity. I think you should have a career, a job. You should be the guy that reviews anything. Like I would list, I would go to Ron's review to make a decision if I was watching a movie, reading a book, going to a concert. Am I going to listen this fucking new ACDC album? Hold please. Let me ask what Ron would do. And I died from there. And by the end, because the thing is, is I've heard you give negative reviews. You're not afraid to be like, hmm, no, right? No. So yeah, I'm, I'm think that we're going to talk to my people. The gym is going to have to let you do that out of the back office. Yeah, definitely going to have you give a review of my life. So you're going to leave some shit out and whatnot. Yeah, so we have one more thing to cover Ron, which is an important question. And that is, New Year's resolutions. Do you, or former against them? Are you think people should do them? And what is yours? And if you don't have one, make one up because I said so you know what? I don't normally do them. They're not something I'd ever really cross my mind. I normally approach the New Year with a sort of a desperate panic to try to get the things I didn't do that year done. I love it. You know what, because I know it's not true, but go ahead. I don't, I don't, I honestly never crosses my mind. I've never, I don't know if I've ever made a New Year's resolution. I do remember one year I started my contest prep on January 1st. So I guess that's a closest thing I ever came to. That was my very first show. It started my diet January 1st. I remember. Yes. Funny. So that'd be the closest thing I ever came to New Year's resolution. You know? Yes. So this year, this year's going to be different. I tell you. So my, my thing is this, I'm a huge believer in resolutions. I am, I think you're full of shit if you're starting on the first of January. Because if it was a resolution, you would start December 28th. Because that's right now. Right. Because the thing is you're going to have reasons to not do your diet or whatever the hell it is that you're doing after New Year's Eve. Right. And I especially think looking at this year and the, and I mean, it was a wake up call even for me, realizing that all the shit that's just always going to be there isn't always going to be there. So why the fuck would you wait? It's like when people say I'm starting my diet on Monday, I'm like, bullshit. Because it's Saturday. And there's going to be a Saturday a week from today, which is your next reason to not do your diet. Right. You know, or bodybuilders, you know, because I mean, we are kind of numbers people. Like it's like 12 weeks out. You start your prep. I love when someone says 12 weeks from today is my show. I'm starting my diet on Monday. Right. So you're under 12 weeks. Well, and you also want to more days. Like, you know, so that's my argument. I do love resolutions. I think that if you want to change something in your life, you do need to know what it is. You do need to write it down. That's been proven to help success. But if you're serious about it, you would start today. So if you have to wait till January 1st, I'm not saying quit now. You got a different view than me. But I'm going to bet you're not going to get it. You know, I mean, it's just a decision. I did the same. I've done that on things I've failed when I was trying to get my ship back together after a massive life with bodybuilding and just consistently be a bodybuilder. It wasn't until one day I just started doing it. I have no idea what fucking day it was. I just realized it took no talent. Deet six meals. I'm an untalented guy and this is something I can do. Okay. You six lines. Can I do that requires no talent? Yeah. Yes. So yeah, that's my that's my spin on news resolutions. So if there's something you want to change your life, think of it today. Think of it as soon as you watch this, which will be the day before in New Year's when you guys are finally listening to this. And do with that day. Here's my take with New Year's. I worked in the bar for so long. New Year's was like I was working New Year's. You know, my eyes worked it. Money maker, you know, while it depends on where you work. Some places was shit night. But there were a lot of places where you didn't want to work New Year's Eve. But you know, I always worked at places where New Year's Eve was usually pretty big. And um, and honestly, I thought, I don't work it. I'll just stay home. Right. Oh, yeah. Now that I'm out of the bar, like that was 2012 was the last New Year's I worked. And uh, when I left the bar industry, I like jettisoned the entire New Year's Eve culture and experience, just like it doesn't like nothing. I just, I don't want to do anything on New Year's. Right. That might be 100%. We're going to like order food and not leave the house. Just like we did all year. Yeah. No, I think that that you know, it's crazy. And this is my take on those who go out and rock New Year's resolutions and New Year's Eve. So you're going to kick off your New Year new me with a hangover with a lot of sleep. Like that's how you want to kick that shit off. Like, I just don't see it. I never have, you know, plus I look at it as amateur night. Like, all I can think goes, yeah, I'll kick off New Year's with a car accident or die or a DUI or right. What's the hardest you ever party on in New Year's? God, I was probably 16 years old and my parents had a New Year's party. I was home from hockey. So I had come home in my parents to a party and I was bartender. And I just got bombed out of my mind while being bartender. Pocky, yeah, bartender. Yeah. So yeah, like they had a shit like they had like, it was kind of like a neighborhood party. Right. So like everyone's front doors were just a mits Arizona. Everyone's front doors just kind of open and you just wanted through and parted and ate and wandered around and I was bartender at 760 North Ithaca and yeah, that was it. So I got bombed out of my mind that night, but fortunately because I assume it's genetic, I don't get hangovers because my entire family are alcoholics strong strong livers. Yes, you go. That's why I got the shirt. Shut up, live it your fun. I didn't realize how quickly it would transcend into bodybuilding, but whatever. That shirt was not made for bodybuilders, but it sure fits us. Yes, yes, definitely. I would say the most I ever party on New Year's was I when I was 20, I bartended at a party. It wasn't a bar. It was like a party. Right. And I think I got taken off the bar by midnight and like given to people to like take care of like this. This guy has to go. He's just, yeah, where were you? No, I was home for that. And then when I was 22, the year I was 22, I was back in Australia. And we went and we went and party to one night and it was kind of one of those. What did I just take type of nights? And yeah, it was a long one. Let's say, where did I just take? Yeah, I was committed for those. It was a good 12 hours. Yeah. So yeah, that was a lot of fun, but you know, you got to make sure you get in a few in your young, but survive them and keep all your organs intact. The only thing I've ever actually omissioned said that, but I've never went off the rifters since I could legally drink. Yeah, literally it was kind of as over it, but I mean, I've had too many. I mean, Jose and I've had some nights, but not like just. Yeah, yeah, you know, I elated. I've done that since I was a little different. It's different when you get older, your idea of getting hammered is like, we had like six shots after dinner. Right. And we were drunk for like 90 minutes. And within about four hours, I was feeling like a lot better. Yep. That's like, and then I had a leader of water went to bed. That's when you're older. When you're young, it's like, you know, they start drinking at like 7 pm and literally drink to 4 am. Yeah. Just repeated ingestion of shots. And you just never fuck, it's it's so much harder on you. Oh, God. You know, we think about that in hindsight, too. It's like, so you have one wild night that costs you like three days. Yeah. Because they say it's an hour of drink for your liver to process it, right? I didn't know that. So yeah, that's a scene. So you and Jose, you and Jose pound, you know, six or eight shots at dinner all real close together. And you got big powerful livers. And you put in a leader of water. And then you both go sleep for at least five or six hours each before you got to get up and fly home. You're pretty much getting up sober. Yeah, you're ready to rock for sure. You divide those times by two for Jose. He's not so. Yeah. I used to remember that after the very first year that Jose competed, I think the first time I saw him and I knew him well. He competed at the Phoenix and then we went out to dinner and, you know, we had a few drinks. He had a few drinks at a time, like literally three in front of him at one and I remember thinking like he's dehydrated. It's a day of the day of a show. And the next day we woke up and he's like, we're going to train today and I'm like, wow, wow. The composition of some people is just different. No, I mean, we went and trained like and had a real workout. And I'm thinking muscles would have been tearing. I wouldn't have felt right. Like, mean, fuck, it is, you know, I realize that my genetics were even worse than I thought that day. Realize he has a gene for like storage of electrolytes. Yeah, that's that was a little crazy power for me, right? Like your dry is can be and the only liquid you consumed had alcohol in it. Maybe he knows his ratios. We might have been putting a little bit of sea salt to the toilet. Maybe one of those shots wasn't cinnamon. It was salt. Yeah. Good times, man. Well, man, we've been on for a while. It's the last episode of the year. So what a year it's been, you know, I can't believe it. But it went well. I feel like it's been awesome for it's just bodybuilding. Like people are really supporting and love it. And I love the fact that now and it's been going on for a minute, but literally anyone, I remember when we first started had calls, and I was like, hey, you want to have you on for Ron and I's podcasts. But if I said, I want to have you on it, it's just five on there. You go, what's that? And I'm like, oh, Ron Parkland, I do okay. Now you can just say, hey, you want to be on the show. Yeah, it was great. It was great to get. We got to thank uh, let's, let's make sure we thank Sean Clarita, the two 12 Olympia champ and Chad Nichols, Mr. Chad, for coming on the show last week. I mean, that was awesome. You know, they both came on where the first one's the interview Sean and the first one's to talk to Chad. And you know, it was really, really cool that they were, you know, all I did was just send Chad a message like, Katie, want to come on the show and he's like, sure. Yeah. And I groomed some times. And he actually initially said, hey, give me a week because I want to get Christmas out of the way. Right. And I was like no problem. So I threw him a few dates for like the 28th, 29th. Yeah. And then he message back. He's like, can we just do tomorrow with eight? I was like, fuck. Yeah. Sure. I'm kind of lining it up. And he's like, cool. Yeah. Let's just do it. And then when we talked to him, he said he had three more after us. So he must have been kind of, he did it. How are you getting hour and 15 with us? And he was on food at for like an hour and 40. Yep. And then what else did he do? How long was he talking for? He must have been on his same little student. So yeah. So I mean, when we're talking to him, we got him at 8 p.m. So he must have been. Yeah. And he's doing, I know he's a creature of night. So I remember when I coached with him when I worked with him, he was like, I'm up all night. So I'll answer your tax at night. I don't get back to your night. And I still does that. So he must have been podcasting till two. Yeah. You know, just getting warm for the rest of the night. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Did you good job. I noticed he changed his T shirt. Did he? That's that. That's great. So I saw him on our show. And then like I know he did food right after any of it. I like a different color shirt on. So he knows he knows it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You got to you got to do that. You know, you see the I know the rock bands and stuff when they do those press pits. You know, you can like tell what day the all the interviews from because they're wearing the same because they're just stuck in a chair. Yeah. We're like or at the rest of them. Yeah. It's a bit of chair and everyone just cycles through, right? So it's funny. So yeah, man. That's a lot when you're the when you're the the king of the the Olympia, you know, the life of the interviews. When I watched Sean, I watched one of our episodes finally because I was not it. So it was exciting. And it was good, man. I really, you know, because I know Sean and obviously we've had him on. I don't know if it was you or the event or what, but he definitely peeled the onion back way more than usual. Like yeah. And I don't want to, I don't want to, it's not down. Not shooting down what he's done in the past. But I felt a much better connection to what his mindset was and and how he approached the entire season, which was awesome. He stayed focused on him. Yep. And he was just determined to improve. And that was seems like it was that simple. Like I'm just going to get better and go there. Right. And not pay attention to anybody else. And just how can I get better and then bring it there and that was it. Stay tunnel vision. You know, all that stuff. Yeah, it was great. And a lot of great feedback from it. So but the Chad ones kicking ass and doing well. So thanks for everyone that's watching. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, rain the bell. That's when Scott will put the little graphic up here. I think. Yes. It's good spot for it. And I remember everybody we appreciate you guys. It's been a hell of a year. 2021's coming. Probably going to bring some new challenges. So be ready. And remember, this body building.

Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building Episode 77. Of course, Dusty Hancham myself, Ron Partlo, I've got no hat on today. We got a lot of Instagram questions right here on It's Just Body Building.