megapreema. Mm-hmm. Oh, 500 megatest. 25 megat rooms in twice a week, which is the healthiest. So 500 plus 300, 800 total milligrams versus 500 plus a Romus in at 25 twice a week. I would honestly say that it assuming that your lab work was this like your estrogen was the same. Yeah, I'm going to do that. See, I'm saying it in the same result for each of you. Yeah, because then I would say what's health the years the 500 test with the aromasin, you know. That's my argument. Yeah, yeah. And it's probably going to be less detrimental on your cholesterol too. Well, aromasin is very cholesterol friendly. That's why I like it so much. I'm like a Rimeidx which is not. Yeah, somebody had a question related to that actually. Where was this one? I see something but find that. What's that? Somebody. Oh, you sure did. I thought it might have been like your arm out the window or something. Uh, or what's that one? Oh, I don't know. You would have pissed yourself. So my campus left Android. Which works really well. Yeah, right. Because it's left Android vehicles. Oh, wait, left Android like in the US. Yeah. Oh, okay. Yeah. So I pulled up her now they have told a lot of toll roads in France on the mountainways. And when you get to toll roads, there's tickets at Carl level and there's tickets at Truck level. Okay. And with the camper, I'm a truck level. Yeah. So I turned up for this toll and the truck level ticket dispenser wasn't working. It was only the car one. The night hang out. The window. Let's go. They might feel fit in there. Try to raise the. Okay. Take care. I didn't fall out. Shoshan is holding onto your feet. No, I'm holding on to you. Yeah. Yeah. It was a bit of a ride side. That's funny. Dave, have you had any experience or knowing guys who have used two week cycles? I've used these for a good part of a decade and I've always gained very well off of these. I think it was originally Bill Roberts who came up with it. Short acting cycles two weeks on and I practiced at least three to four months off fully. At five nine hundred kilograms with low body fat recovered from these very quickly. The idea was to be safe in although gains weren't as much as big cycles. There was decent gains. I'm 41 years old now and I've been off fully for eight years. No issues and have a family. Two weeks. Three months off. Yeah. I don't see it, Dave. I'm sorry. And I'm all for like being conservative. Yeah. I think without risk of possibly being slightly insulting. You may find that actually you'd probably made similar or not far or similar progress. I'm not sure. I wonder. I do know someone. I want to say his name. Pro very good pro. Very short career pro. Not for any reason as a part for his own personal choices. Okay. Who used to do four weeks on four weeks off? But was fast asters? No. And that was the thing he wasn't ever really technically off because for the time he's sick. He may have a week or a few days and he was going back on again. Yeah. So that was quite deceptive. But he did stop for very extended periods of time. Yeah. Never hide those. And he's one of the few. To be honest, I think in this situation, he's an absolute genetic freak because he's been out of bodybuilding for quite a number of years. Still goes a huge amount of muscle mass. Yeah. And he's very active in other things. But I'm just wondering for this situation that you know, there would have been very similar progress without the two weeks. Because if he was going to say two weeks on four weeks off or two weeks on three weeks off, for that sort of repackage. Okay. I can see where because you're getting a post injection innovation for a couple of weeks, you might have one week where you're a bit low and then you're back on. So it's a bit of a weird approach. Reconceived progress be made. But two weeks on an extended periods of time off. I mean, you may not have even fully shut yourself down in that period. That's a kind of what I'm thinking too, especially with like fast acting compound. You're potentially not being fully suppressed. So I mean, good that you've, you know, continued on in the sense of that you've got natural production and you've got to finally everything else. Yeah. But I'm wondering. Minus, like, you know, three months off. What do you think about this? Two weeks of anadroll on. And then let's say four weeks off. I think if somebody is disciplined in the training development and they've got that nail, that could actually be productive. Because you could quite come from a career and nice little strength increase. Yeah, you wouldn't keep it all. But you'd probably keep a reasonable present is that we'd carry over to some muscular gain over the following four weeks. And a strength boost again, and then some muscular gain over the next four weeks. There's going to be a come a point where you're going to start tapping out on your genetic potential. Yeah. Do you remember back in the day? And I've heard the gorilla chemist Brian Moscow talk about this lately more like more modern days of him liking these cycles. But do you remember back in the day people talking about the programs where you did like 21 sustenance in 21 days? And then you stopped. Shicks. Was that what it was? Super high intensity cycles. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And a few people that like chicks. That's what prompted that 100 hundred out of our oxy play. Oh. Yeah. There was a theory that obviously you've got a massive response because it's got child dosis. Yeah. The theory that and the idea behind it all was that you couldn't sustain high level continued growth. Because it was too fatigued on the body and too demanding on every other surface like, you know, the amount of food you could get in everything else. So yeah. That are doing was doing like a four to six week super high intensity dosing. My highs in your gains. And then coming off. And the and I don't let it in. That people quote around this world that most people found that around week six seven or eight. Their progress did slow. Yeah. I think the progress slowing was actually overfactors and it wasn't particularly drug related. And things like just complacency coming into training and diet and everything else and a lack of linear progression within training and diet that calls this day or may it happen. Well, I think too man, you could only handle like you're going to like super saturate the muscle and just your body with glycogen and fluid. And that's really happening for that first four six possibly seven eight weeks. And then slow down. But then from there, you're going to see if you see one pound per week. I guarantee it's one clean pound. You know what I mean? If you're in right. See, I. When I was doing the big cycles and they were quite long cycles as well. Yeah. One of them was quite linear. And I was seeing just as good progression towards the back end as I was towards the front end. But there were periods within that where things seemed to slow. Yeah. Well, that did for me was like, okay, let's let's reinvigorate the training. Let's re-adress the diet and it just made me step up in those areas and then I started going in again. Okay. So I never bought into the shic. I think it works, but I don't think it works for the reasons that were sort of behind it if you know what I mean. I think he's worked just because you've got an exposure to massive levels of drugs. But I think. Yeah. And that 21 sucks. Like you have long, long acting under cano aster in there. So you're supposed to then continue to build, you know what I'm saying? Like your levels should be good for like what? How many weeks? Yeah. Well, the other thing is which we're talking about. 21 soost. I mean, you're taking, you know, you're almost too grand. Yeah. A week. I'm supposed to be a cumulative effect of that. Yeah. You know, it's, you're in big doses. Yeah. Yeah. You've probably got four, five, six weeks post that where you're still working with other beta testosterone levels. And that was the point was that you because it was sourced and it's got the super long acting. And you get an instant effect from the probe, right? And then you get the long acting effect. I don't know, man. I don't feel like it's a smart idea. I mean, a lot of the idea was that you, you push the drugs as high as you can. Yeah. For it's only as you can. Knowing that around anywhere between 36 weeks, you're going to get the point where the stress element from those drugs is going to peak. So you pop sort of just at that point. So the stress element then drops away as the dosing starts to drop away. And therefore you never get that toxic city. Both of the kicks back against progress when you push the high level of the drugs. And yeah, I think I think there's something in that. But I don't think shaky's necessarily the way to go. So I guess it's not, I mean, it is crazy. But we've heard of people doing a lot of really crazy stuff. That's in 21 days. You're getting 5,250 milligrams of gear. So it's a little bit more than 5 grams spread over 3 weeks. Yeah. Yeah. That's crazy, man. So here was that comment that guy made. Yeah. What's up? I think it's about 1650. Or what you can film on that. All right. So it's at the one hour mark. You, the guy said about TRT and joint pain. If you are reading this, you are a, a Romason. Okay. So if you're in a Romason, if so, stop that. I had an issue in even a tiny dose of Romason. Blue might join out every single time I had it. I'm now on an astrosol and feeling much better. Yeah. I've had people sensitive to particular AI. So we've had X order rooms in either way. Yeah. And one has been much more palatable than the other one. So yeah. And joint pain is one of the things that will come. It's not super common. And probably, you know, maybe one person in a couple of hundred. If that. So, but yeah, I've seen it before. Okay. Yeah. I guess it wasn't a question. Okay. A couple more here might be a stupid question, but oh well. For context, 45 years old, I have run a few test only cycles in the past. Hated the side effects. Probably cause of my, probably cause of my diet. Or something, but I had horrible acne major bloating. I cleaned up the diet ran 500 tests and 300 EQ for 12 weeks. Absolutely loved it. I gained size and lost fat. Felt amazing with no real size. Blood work was good. I'm thinking of running a 16 week cycle of the same thing. But adding 300 milligrams of NPP for the first eight weeks. Good idea or no. Also, I like daily injections. So would it be an issue with the NPP? Or does it need to be a bigger dose at? Three times per week, like you've said in the past. Love the show and thanks in advance. NPP can be daily, that's not a problem. Sure. With the whole thing, I'd be tempted to just repeat the cycle. If it's done before, you may go to progress. You had no problems with it. Why fix what isn't broken? If he's done well on that cycle, there's room to repeat. It doesn't necessarily have to add the NPP. On the surface of it, it would sound like the test only cycle. It was having problems with each region and was struggling to manage that correctly. And the EQs provide the issue of management in the second cycle. I'm assuming that's because he's not said anything about any IA manager as a real. NPP does other different level here. Obviously there's going to be a little bit more issue. But there's also going to be the proactive issue. So it is going to make management a little bit more complex. If he's not very a fail with outside of things, would he sound like he's no. I'd be tempted to just stick with the test and EQ and run the same again. But for the extended favorite this time. Yeah, I like the sound of that too, man. If he had a great cycle last time, and I would love to replicate a great cycle every time we go on. You know what I mean? Like if you can get away with not taking new risks, I mean, Dave here's an example. I'm working with a guy who had literally started with me taking nothing. We started out with an an of our only cycle for like six weeks just to see how he did with it. 25 milligrams made great progress. Started to feel as libido shutting down toward the end. So we did that one or two times went to a test cycle. Let's give me test in mass. We did a low dose of both and is like man, I really want to try EQ now. And he did really good on the test in mass. What he's like, I really want to try EQ. So I was like, listen, we're already doing so good. You made incredible progress. Let's just do what we did last time, right? He still wants to do the EQ. So we do the EQ and low and behold. I don't know what it is about him. He cannot tolerate the EQ. It just, some people, man, certain compounds just don't work for them. And when you at least from this brand, we've found that the EQ and I know other people using this brand of EQ, they have no issues whatsoever. Overall, it's a very well tolerated brand considered to be real clean. Guys been around who makes it. His company's been around for like 20 years. So I trust that that's good product, but he takes a shot at EQ and his entire arm swells up. Takes a shot at EQ and entire glute swells up. So now we're back peddling. It takes four weeks to figure all this out. And now we end up on test only, which is a good cycle. But if we just did what worked to begin with, we would have already been six weeks in to a great cycle, not having to focus on the gear. Let that gear run in the background. Do the things that have worked well and continue to make the bus progress. You can't focus on the training focus on the diet. And eventually you get to a point where yes, you have to try some of it, but I would wait to find where you need to. You know, I mean, where it's somebody isn't responding and you're forced into that rather than jump the gun all the time, but at the same time, I understand the excitement of wanting to try new compound. Yeah, compound as a reputation for building muscle and everything else. So I get the drive as I get the interest. But yeah, it all sounds as if it ain't bro, don't fix it. Yeah. So Dave, we appreciate you taking the time. Man to hang out with us on your vacation and bring us into your relaxed, chilled RV life, Dave time. That's okay. It take you to your wife for letting you take the time to hang out with us. She's looking at me from behind the, I'm not sure if it's a grumpy look or cross look or I'm too often melted look. I'm too hot and melted look. This is a summer worship for this diet, eh? Why don't you turn that AC on for the poor lady, Dave? We're going to do it when I finish with you. That's the way the British people are. You guys, they don't run AC in their house. They don't have central air conditioning units. I went over there in the summer and I thought I was back in the dark ages. The thing is, there's been a few Americans online that have said more recently that even though the temperatures in the UK aren't high income Brassens of the States, that heat just hits differently. It's the humidity and there's, what's his name? E. Darker. You should be a ghost. Oh, darker. Long dark. You should be a ghost hunter? Yeah, it comes over and does a lot of food stuff. So if I remember his name, I don't know. Now somebody will know him, but he is like, it's only like 25 degrees. He says, but I'm absolutely fucking melting and I'm used to holding this free heat back home, but there's just something about the UK humidity that destroys him. Yeah, we have AC cranking all summer long in the house in the car. If I was in RV, I would have to have like an extra generator just to keep that running. We did get somebody saying, I hope that Dave continues doing Uncle Dave's wisdom. And I said, guys, you got to leave us questions and he said, I just like hear it in free ball it and share us a little bit of Uncle Dave's advice. I haven't really gotten the advice. I will, I will, this holiday is the culmination of two months of extreme stress. Probably the most stressed I've been in a very long time. That's not good. Is it good stress though? Like you have good things going on I know. Yeah, I just too much too many projects, too many things to manage. Project creating problems, the problems becoming or feeling like to become an unsurmountable. Yeah, and there's been a lot of problems, but with kept his head down. And even though there's been times when I felt like trying to write a lot of the plan and you know just screaming to the world. We've kept his head down, we've kept pushing hard and we've got to seek you see through. We've got the camera ready for the holiday, the trucks back on the road. And as obviously my wife got awarded her football main diploma which is something she's been working on for 18 months. Good for her. So everything has basically come right, but it's come right because despite every inch of me wanting to go no fuck off and run away. Yeah. Kept my head down and just kept stepping forward. You know, just deal with the problem, deal with the next one. And it's actually like you fix one thing and before you've even turned around there's another one. And then there was another one and it just felt insurmountable for weeks and weeks on end. It wasn't because of there. And then you get to the point where you're that paranoid that you're going to have another problem before it's even fucking happened because you've got so used to everything being a problem. So it's great. It's sitting here now in this big, in sunshine. And in what is actually a really beautiful spot and just be able to go fuck me. We actually made it because I think we were a vine. I really did think we were. We thought all of it was going to have to be canceled and also. So you're just hanging out in the RV for now. What else are you doing this week? That's really it. And we're going to hire a car tomorrow. What a day after and do some exploring locally to where we are. Okay. We're looking at a couple of properties. We'll see. And then we look like properties like you're going to buy a house and move to France. You're just looking. I don't know. Yeah. We'll see. With the French let you live there. Um, eventually. I feel like the French wouldn't take kindly to you Dave. Like they might not. You're more your more American than you are French. You know what I'm saying? You would fit in better over here. My command of language is very poor. Yeah, but you don't want me over that. You won't let me in. All right. Yeah. That's true. And then we're going to take a slow sort of me. I'm going to back up to the train and shuttle it back up. Okay. And then we into what? Shuttle it. Yeah. It's a channel tunnel. Oh, you go under the ocean to get home. You load up on the train and go under the ocean. That is incredible, man. How long does that train ride take under the ocean? Thirty-five minutes. Yeah. That's it. Yeah. You want to see how tight it is to get this thing on there. I think you've sent some video of a similar situation that getting out of Ferry before with it. That's. That's got to take some patience. Especially if you're used to driving on the with your with your car with your wheel on the Right side. It's literally that that it's the an inch either side of the wing. There's whole. Oh, no. It's slow going. I could only imagine like driving in construction or on those tight roads. I imagine France does not have the widest roads in general. It's your own for generally you know, but until you get into the villages. And then when you go into the villages, there's a lot of traffic coming in and it can be incredibly tight. But on the country roads, there actually not to bad. In fact, the UK is probably worse because a lot of the country is in UK of Supernaro. Yeah. But I mean, we were we were stuck going to try to the other day. And then what to mean, there was nothing legal about what he was getting. He was just everywhere. You can pay all's everywhere and still cut it from the tracks from on the roof and on the track. Oh, God. To put in perspective, what I learned about the country roads, Dave lived his old house was in a like a little cute village. It was absolutely adorable. You think you were in a movie and Dave drives or drove a sedan. And in order to leave his house, he literally when he pulled out of his yard, there's walls either side on the road. He literally could only turn left, which would take you out of town up through the hills and everything else. And he had to go all the way down there and come back around because he couldn't turn right out of his driveway because it was too tight. That's how small the roads are. Yeah. And a lot of the country roads in the UK are narrow where it's a bit fair. I think I prefer the French road system. I think okay. I do think he's better. That's all. How's the food? Yeah. Do you guys like get to go out to eat anywhere there? Get anything good? We've not. What do we do? What? Fransic sells in his fresh bread. Oh yeah. I like bread. But it doesn't blow you. It doesn't, you know, there's enough of that. It just eats really, really nice and my most comes high. You'll get a fresh bread delivery every day or every other day. Why? We don't get that. We don't have a fresh bread delivery at our campsites in the US. You're lucky to get a connection to hook up for your water to get water. So what we have electric water on waste hook-talk. There's a woman over the road that you can go buy fresh eggs off. So it's a euro which is a little bit more than a dollar for six eggs. I'll take all cheese. They're like a dollar in egg here. Right out of the chicken bomb sort of job, you know. Yeah. Yeah. The food is good, call it. But we haven't. Are you, did you buy any eggs? Yeah, we've got eggs. Frenches are full. We've got plenty of. Nice. Oh, dude, that sounds fun, man. Well, I hope you guys have a really nice time. You deserve it. I hope you get to relax a little bit. And, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, and, Alright, well, we, we appreciate you taking the time to come and hang out with us. Uh, uh, guys, we'll probably be back next week. Dave, when are you, are you coming, what are you coming home? What's your plan? We travel back on the 20th earth. Okay. And then I've got to go to Ramana's. Wait, the 21st. Yeah. So you're going to be gone for a while. Very late. Yeah. Oh, geez. Okay. Alright. So we come back on the 21st. Then I've got a colon at Ramana's. And trainer legs. How's she doing? She's good. Yeah, she's good. She's good. Uh, and then so we'll be getting home on the 20 second. Okay. Alright. Well, we'll try to get another one if you have the time. And, uh, everybody's. Alright. Everybody's been loving the show. So, you know, they'll be happy to see you back. And guys, leave us questions for the next one. If you have any questions about France for Dave, anything or anything you want to see him do while he's in France, you know, leave us suggestions and comments. And for it, go to uh, evellebotanalsys.com because even though Dave's away the business is still running, somebody did have a topic. By the way, we'll try to get to it next time about saying, hey, I got my eve, my lab's done it evelle. Great experience. I think you did have a question that we didn't get to today, but we could only get to so many of them guys. So, if we didn't get to your question, comment on this one. Ask your question again. We'll do our best to get it up next time. Of course, also go to truenutrition.com. Use our code, think over there. SupplementSource.ca for Canadian Strom Sports and Nutrition for those of you in the UK. And in the US great health and performance stacks. And for another episode of the podcast, guys, we'll see you soon. Thanks, Dave. Thank you.

You just had a comment saying, now you cared for me and looked after me because you knew I wasn't long for this world. And then you just abused me. Ha ha. What? Welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crossland. I'm Scott McNally and all of our programming is brought to you by you. The people of Patreon, they could guys very much for your support. We are brought to you by evalbloodanalysis.com. If you're in the UK, you should definitely get your lab work done by Dave. And you can do so at evalbloodanalysis.com. Also, check out Strong Sports Nutrition. If you're on cycle, you're in any of some cycle support, storms, got it all. I've got my thrombomex right here. In fact, I got to take my thrombomex today. I took all my other stuff. Why did you always take your thrombomex on a Tuesday on the show? It's every week. I take every day. I take it. But I have it at my desk so I can show you guys the bottle. It's my show in tell for the morning. Check out Strong Sports Nutrition for great health stacks. We were also brought to you by Tritutrition.com. Use our code, think over there, to get 10% off. All your basic bodybuilding supplements, protein, partner, creatinine, to work out all that stuff. And of course, we are brought to you by SupplementSource.ca for our Canadians. They have great deals that change week to week, short dated label, change product, stuff like that. Dave, I got a topic for you. We've talked about, so we've talked net, now this is just off the cuff. I'm not going to call it a steroid profile. But I wanted to discuss with you. So last week, we talked about the levels of use from TTT or TT plus to actual cycles, to supercharged. Today, I want to take that into application with a little compound called Anavar. Now, I'd love to discuss a little bit about what Anavar is what family it's from. Some of the basic stuff that we've done in our steroid profile for anybody who hasn't seen that. But then also, how do we apply Anavar to a cycle? And I think we go a couple different directions, because you can use that in a cut. You can use that in and off season. You can use it on your TTT plus. Yeah, I think Anavar was late 50s, early 60s. DHT, obviously, doesn't convert to each region. It's rumored. I've seen some study support in this. And actually, I have seen some bloods that would potentially support this study. May have a very mild increase in the conversion of T4 to T3. Really? I haven't heard that before. I have heard that it is more like it is better at storing creatin than other AAS. It's not particularly out of the orals. It's, I believe it's the mildest on liver. But it is. It is. It lowers HDL and increases LDL. So it's not the greatest on the on the lipid front. Don't see why females, 510 have a user 20 maybe a little bit more male. I would say generally speaking, you're looking at 30 to 50, 60. Well, that's where we got a, that's where we got to redefine our dosing, right? Because after last week, like what are you talking? Because we have four levels. So number one, it doesn't fit into T, true, legit T or T. Right? So T or T plus, it would not be 30 to 60, right? No, well, now this is the thing. If you're looking at TRT plus, you're looking at your long term application, then you're going to be looking at 10 to 20s, because you're not going to be wanting to run any more for a long term exposure. Yeah. The higher the dose, the more limited you are on the amount of time, you can expose your body to it with it being something how can they compound? So yeah, I would say there is a possibility of seeing it in a T or T plus scenario, but it would be a very low dose. And then I would question whether it was really worth it. I could see benefit, man. I mean, I think somebody, one of our listeners, talked about using 10 milligrams recently, like long term. And they found that like their liver values weren't elevated. They got enhanced performance in the gym long term from it. You know, I mean, it's not going to put on, but it's like kind of like if you're going to do T or T plus, you're also going to have to accept that you're not going to, number one, you're not going to get as many sides, but then you have to accept you're not going to get the results that you would off of a legit cycle. So legit cycle, you said like 30 to 60. I'm with you 100% on that, man. What about duration on that 30 to 60? I like to keep it six to eight, but you could handle longer. It's not, you know, it's definitely not cast in stone on that. You, you could get away with more. And it's perfectly viable as a standalone compound. The only limiting fact of there is low estrogen. Because obviously, with it not converting, and it's suppressing your guillotine to a point where you should use low which will start to then cause issues. Yeah, yeah. So I saw here, just a bit of information just says that it was first synthesized in the 1960s. I thought it was 60s. Yeah. Yeah, it says for women in children to promote lean tissue growth after surgery, trauma and infection. Hmm. They said subsequent studies later show that Oxan's alone had six times greater antabolic activity as compared with testosterone. So it does, but then you've got to start looking at the dosing and that's where it all changes because the significance of the action of a compound in a lab environment, yeah, of an injectable against an oral straightaway. The bioavailability of an oral is significantly lower than that of an injectable. So even though it may be more effective, you're not getting as much into your system in as an efficient way as you would do with an injectable. Obviously you're limited on dosing, you're limited, like exposure. So even though on paper, it's got an anabolic of low 300s, up to 600s, there is actually a range. And actually a very low endogenic of low 20s, I think it is low 20s, there is somewhere around there. And that's what I think has made it traditionally favorable for female. Yes. It isn't actually the paper doesn't roll out into real life because the limitations of application from administration and exposure to dosing. Yeah. Half-life is quite long for an oral look. It's like, what is nine hours? Yeah, yeah, okay. Well, a lot of the others are like five. Yeah, no, I've heard people say, like, oh, I really like it pre-workout personally, man. I never really got a lot out of it pre-workout. I did 100 meg. Okay, yeah, I never did 100 meg for pre-workout. I did 100 meg, but yeah. You also did 100 and a var with 100. Oxi. And a drum, right? Yeah, that would be a little pre-workout boost. My liver would be crying though. I probably wouldn't be able to eat for the rest of the week after that when dosing. It's not super-suppressive. It does take a while to fully shut you down. Yeah. I'm trying to think there was a study. It's somehow like 30 or 40 milligrams and what they saw was a 50 or 50 percent spread. It's not that much. Okay. Well, I was wondering. When I did that, and then when I did that podcast as far as dosing goes with Scott Stevenson, he determined that based off of rat models converting that to humans, that an ideal dosing would be up to 60. At that point, you know, there's a continued benefit. The higher you go, but then that starts to fall off. The cost of benefits starts to fall off after that. That 60 milligrams, I guess it would probably be different for everybody. I feel like standard dosing has been around 50 giver take for people in that four to eight week range. Big question I wanted to ask you, you know, this was one of the worlds we can use in both in offseason and in a cut. Where would you apply it in offseason cycle? It would depend on what the person was trying to achieve. I'm a big preacher of drugs at all, pick the tool for the job. If you're all out, dirty bulk strength as much mass as possible, there's big in a strongest possible. I wouldn't be looking at it or something. I wouldn't be looking at it at an avarice. But if you're more of a lean bulk and you're trying to control body fat a bit better, then definitely drugs like T-bulm and then the vow would be compounds I would be considering. I liked to put them back off. Simple reason, yeah, and there was a trend for a long time of kickstarting with orals, but my arguments always be, if you run into appetite or liver stress from orals early on in your cycle, you have pretty much screwed the rest of the cycle, because then you're trying to improve that in an environment where it's very difficult to do it. And though injectors are particularly liver toxic, they're also not particularly liver supportive. If you're that so, they're not going to really help you get it back to normal. So I've always liked to put them in at the back of and there's three reasons. One, if we have problems, we can end the cycle, because we've already had six, eight weeks, ten weeks gone. So we're not losing what was a fairly effective cycle. Two, I like to have a point in a cycle where there's a change in dosing, or if extra compound comes in, or some, so I don't like static cycles, like my cycles to change as we move through them. And generally reaching six weeks and beyond peak doses for the last six weeks. So I like the fact that I can add an hour in or any oral in last six weeks, increase total dosage and run out, but they're going to start lower than what you'd expect for that cycle as well. So it balances out over time. And then the other thing is, I was just going to completely out my fucking head. Well, while you think about that, I'll say this. Well, psychological boost, the fact that you know you've increased things and you've added something else. Oh, yeah, yeah. Yeah, no, there's definitely, I think, something to that. That vibe, you know, you're like, it's been the same for the last eight weeks, and now we're getting into the antivarm. Also, great for, you know, skip absolutely loves at skip Hill for contest prep. I personally, I've always leaned into windstroll. I've had that conversation with him and Andrew. Andrew and I are both more prone to prefer windstroll in a cut in that last, you know, that last phase going into a show, especially by the end of life. And then you're just like, you know, just like he likes the, the, the hardness that he gets from it. Although I feel like in my opinion, windstroll to me and my experience is always given a drier nastier appearance to the muscle. And Andrew agreed with me on that. But hey, I really think that we could probably do next to the same thing. Like if we had to all alternative worlds, right, where we took the same client and one of them used windstroll. Andrew, one of them used anavar, I don't think that it's going to be so different, you know, I'll say in, when they get to the stage. Yeah, it's, that, that the issue with all this, when you're trying to do comparisons, like that, there's so many variables from training, diet, genetics, tolerances, everything else. There's really hard to do a comparison, even within the same person, because no perhaps ever the same. Yeah, yeah. But I, I would, I would be with you. I would say, I would say, compress windstroll over another. That would be my personal choice. But I think, anavar's probably better tolerated all around. I would agree, I would agree, you know, with, I've heard recently people say, like, the whole joint issue thing was a fallacy. I don't think that's true. I do think that there is joint issue stuff with Winsdrill. I've seen it firsthand. Yeah, I had. Maybe it was lowering a vastrogen. I don't know. But I have seen it in much more so than with anavar. I agree. I think it's more than anti-progestinic activity. Okay, it causes the joint pain, but yes, I, I have seen it definitely. I've seen people for the most part tolerate low-eachigen or temporary low-eachigen anyway, relatively well. But yes, I mean, at the same time, I've seen people develop joint issues from low-eachigen as well. So, well, but I do think Winsdrill's a little bit more effective in that region. Yeah. All right, well, listen, we got a bunch of other stuff. I just figured it'd be fun to jump in and kind of, we could reinvestigate anavar based off of our new system of our staircase system of, you know, where does it fit into TRT? So, I'd say just to recap, TRT, not at all, TRT plus, maybe 10 milligrams. And that's where vigorous Steve, by the way, had thrown out that dosing of 10 milligrams. I checked out his video. He wasn't talking about 10 milligrams of anavar to build actual legit, you know, cycle like Bustle. He was talking about a TRT plus cycle, and then, you know, going into that maybe 30 to 60 for your average cycle, and maybe up to 100 for the absolute top-end, you know, pro-level guys. Yeah, I mean, I just, I think when you start going over that, there's no real extra benefits of the extra dosing, but what we were talking about last week about most people, actually end up settling around the two and a half grams, give a take of it. Even though they may go higher for a period of time, and I think that's where I say I'm in anavar, you know, I don't see any benefit at all to go in above 100 in anyone. Yeah. Oh, in the stream, somebody said, they're like, hey, I thought debaul was used in the 30s. No, it was Dr. John Sigler. And it was either 56 or 58, Dave, that they came out. Yeah. I want to say 58. I'll look it up. No, I might have an error, so. Okay. Oh, let's see. Yeah. Where is this info? Oh, 55. Okay. Originally developed by C but in 55. Maybe it was marketed. The John Sigler thing is, is this quite a lot of argument against that. What's that that he didn't invent it? Yeah. He didn't really, I mean, there are other names associated with it. Okay. There is the reason actually of a name's attribute to his development. I like the story, whether it's true or not, I don't care. I just really like the story. Yeah, as far as I know, he named it after his wife. Am I right about that? Oh, yeah, his wife was called Debo. No, Diane. Diane. Imagine that, Dave Abol. Oh, I would love that. Someone, please invent a new story to name it, Dave Abol. Yeah. All right, guys, listen, we have a bunch of listener questions. As we always do, you guys are freaking awesome. In fact, our listeners are the greatest Dave. We got a lot of really good feedback on the last show. They really appreciated it. And all your comments, we read them all. I go through all of them. Leave questions for the next episode. If you're new here with love to have you along for everything, in fact, we had a young guy who was like 19 years old, Dave, and he was like, you know, I really loved this show. When I get to be my later 20s, because he's like, I'm 19 now. When I'm in my later 20s, I'm really going to miss this show. I can't find this. I'm in a my little cough, Dad. But I might see that. I mean, to outlive, because the amount of people that said I would be dead by the time I was 50. Yeah. Yeah. So I'm just f- she is still doing this. Even if I'm just a head on a plate, you know, yeah, connected to the show. I'm going to carry on going just to spy everyone that said I died. Yeah. Yeah. Seek. Uh, well, just call him. Seek he says, uh, I'm 19. And I know I'll miss these videos when I reach my late 20s. This is honestly the best channel ever in Scott just gives off the cool Uncle vibes. Thank you. I appreciate it. No, we don't go vibes. Uncle, Uncle Dickhead from the family wedding. Yeah. Dave. We also got a guy who said, uh, thank you guys so much quality and full with lots of laughter on my part. We're Dave, we try to have fun with this, you know, uh, there's so many, I think steroid channels that are just like dead serious all the time. Like, you know, all these other people are wrong. We're right. You know what I mean? You're right. Do this. I'd like to think that one of the big differences between us and a lot of the other channels is that I find with a lot of the channels as he's underlying quite strong current of self promotion. Yeah. Don't get me wrong. We promote our services, you know, we both advertise that we do coaching and everything else. Of course. We don't use this platform to try and make ourselves sound, but in fact, most of the time we make ourselves sound dumb. Yeah, but I think if anything, you know, I feel like we expose ourselves for what we don't know. You know, but we don't use this as a platform to try and make ourselves sound cleverer than the next guy. Yeah. And I'd like to think that that's one of the reasons why people like it's because it's a bit more real. Yeah, I know, I would hope so too. Yeah. All right. How about this one? So from our listener questions, what's the best injection frequency daily every other day or two to three times a week? Data does say that daily mitigates E2 elevation more stable hormonal balance. Would you agree with this or two to three times a week is good to go? Test only no other compounds. Thanks, guys. Right. This is actually quite interesting. And you always hear that it's not as bad as it was, but there was an obsession with stable but we've got to keep bloodstream stable. And it is true that if you do minimize fluctuation, you do reduce estrogen conversion. E2 should be in conversion though that is totally reducing dependent as well. But particularly the TIT format. If you're not getting any elevation pikes at a post injection or big spikes post injection then you do significantly reduce estrogen and more frequent injection has proven time and time again that it does lower the conversion to E2. And so this has been cited as this is why we should keep the level stable. This is why you don't want fluctuations because fluctuations are bad. However, there is an opposite side to this and there are some negatives from stable levels. We aren't designed to have stable hormones in fact with design for our test levels to fluctuate by about 10 and more a day. And even a meal can affect our end-more levels by as much as four. So yes, naturally. So we are designed for fluctuation. When you stabilize your testosterone levels particularly in a TIT environment where we are normally running up a third, maybe even quite close to the limit, we are going to start to increase things like HDL, suspension, we are going to increase things like increase hemoglobin. So yes, there is a trade off with estrogen being better managed but the opposite side of that is you are going to see more blood thickening, you are going to see more lipid adulteration. The other thing is that over stabilization of hormones can increase the clearance rate. So you are metabolizing drugs, sometimes realize that, but our body is metabolizing drugs and the happens that different rates depend on body fat lifestyle, diet, alcohol, and genetics, and dosen, and how stable your levels are. And if your levels are stable, you will start to clear the drug out slightly faster. So I am personally of a fan of a 2-3. On a 2-1 after, by the way, yeah, you have got a specific rate. Long as there is 2-3. The only time that would go to daily is if the volume was that high. Because what I do not want to be doing is injecting large volumes of oil on my injection days. So if so for argument say, your average user, let's say a gram total or 1200 total, then 2-3 shots a week, you are going to be more than ample. You are banging in 3 gram a week, then you are probably going to be looking at nearly every day. Just so you space out the volume of oil is going into your body. Yeah, I think that one of the things people like about every day, now days, has been that a lot of times if their doses aren't super high, they can get away with insulin pins, you know, because they are just, it's an easier shot. And let's be honest, man, taking an insulin pin shot is not nearly, there what? Fummies. It's not nearly the production, you know, is doing a big old fashion 3-C-C. Yeah, big old green tip pin. Yeah, you know, this makes me think too Dave, I got to be honest with you, if you go back to some of the old episodes of body-building nerds radio, like I'm talking circa 2015, I used to talk a lot about every other day shots of long esters. At the time, man, there was nobody else talking about it. Now, if I were more of a better human being, I would say that I invented that. I would say that everybody else is copying off me and that they owe me, you know what I mean? Now that you're doing that, you owe me, you know, some level of nod that, you know, it all comes back to the, I was the one who started that. I'm, to be realistic, I know I wasn't, but they're, yeah, thank you, Dave, I appreciate you. The reason I discovered it though was because like, at the time, literally 2015, everybody was doing two shots a week, two shots a week, two shots a week. And less you had super high doses. I found that because of acne, if I went to every other day with those same long compounds, man, it literally was a night and day difference for my, my side effects. Now, fast word to today, and I have to tell people like, hey, you don't need to do every day. Some people think like it's got to be done every day, no, you know? There is one of the facts into that as well, which seems to be less of a concern these days. I don't see it as much, whether that's just because I'm not experiencing people that have it, but obsessive seem to be much less of a problem these days. And obviously, every time you inject, every spectrum of size of needle, you are in the risk of infection. Yes, there it is. We don't seem to have come about 10, 15 years and you would see obsessive to the case, not every day, but you'd see them occasionally. You'd hear somebody that had a now I don't really see it very often. It seems to be something that's almost become a thing of the past. Let's be honest with you. I wonder, do we? Moller could be, could be the smaller needles, could be the smaller dose, and or is it just right? People wanted me to eat these days, so no, no. Yeah. Or cleaner overall gear is the gear better. You know, possibly. Yeah, possibly. I do think the gear market in general has got much better in general. I mean, all right, it's not as good as when I start, because it was all far but I think the UJL scene of the last sort of five years has definitely got a lot more responsible. And I make sense as well. You're not a mean of you. You're going to sell a quality product. You're going to have a long and a better business. Yeah. All right, how about this one from lightweight, baby? Question for you guys. I love GH, but I have sides on higher doses. Being over 40 years old would a low dose of 1.5 units every morning blunt my natural production would I be better off with none at all hoping for the best recovery benefits? I don't think there's an issue with long term use in the sense of using it therapeutically as you would be at around 1.5 to IU a day. I don't see much benefit to pushing it really high. I generally cap out four to six are you. I do like every other day protocols, but yes, at 1.5 IU you are going to blunt natural production. So it's entirely up to you really, but you know there are a lot of benefits, especially in an aging male or an aging anybody. There are some benefits to having a GH protocol and as long as you just keep an eye on BG and HP01C and that's other stuff. I don't see there being a very big issue. The only real note you think with GH is, it doesn't cause this before anyone starts misquoting me, but it's definitely in our compound. You're one of your sister and if you get cancer. Yeah, there is that. Really does spread that shit fast. So that is the only real worry in thing for me about long term GH application is you know. I mean we're talking now one in two people get cancer. Oh god. Let's see. Oh this guy got a lot of flack. He said I'd say brosycle start at 1 gram and from all the videos I've watched including Tom Platt's interviews with the pros. Top end is about 2 grams. The let yates, chromier, numen, and levrony all hovered around that 1.5 to 2 grams. Now I think that was maybe in the 90s. Yeah, you know what I mean? I think that all those pros have probably for the large percentage of their careers maybe stuck at those sort of doses. But I would go out and eliminate say there's been at least one point where they've pushed it higher to see. Yeah, because it's still outweighed. That natural progression, you know, we are in and more is always better, more muscle, more condition, you know, it always is. It just comes with the mindset for this. I would find it difficult to believe that none of them have at least one high high. Well like I mean what's high high? I think that that's kind of it's it's it's well isn't it? It's relative and then it's like based off of what other people are doing. So imagine two grams back in like Arnold's day, you know, they weren't all doing as much like it's over time high, the definition of high is I think slowly changed, you know. This is well yes, I mean if everyone else is doing a thousand and you'll do a 17 hundred you're high. Yeah, yeah. All right, how about this one? Oh, does trend cause brain damage? Also how long does it stay in the brain seems that it takes a while to leave the brain? For the duration of brain with the trend within the brain I honestly don't know what a can tell, yeah, which may give some indication is that they found trend immatipalize in rabbits and they looked at how is trend getting into a rabbit and what they discovered was that they were putting trend in cattle. Okay, the B. Finistory uses trend in cattle and namely finiat. And the trend metabolites were being excreted by the cattle going on to vegetation that the rabbits were then eating and the trend metabolite was then being picked up. That doesn't mean the rabbits were on trend we're not seeing trend bunnies. Talk about that I think or why I go different for like a huge amount of statement. The the the metabolite was present so that being said it would suggest that it could potentially hang around for quite a long time as a metabolic now whether that is guinea menis having any impact I honestly don't know. Does trend damage the brain? Yes, there's a growing number of study support in this now. It was said that trend causes Alzheimer's slightly misconstrued what they saw was cellular damage that was similar or level of Alzheimer's rather than actual Alzheimer's but yes, though if you want to look at some work on trend look at some of the stuff come out of Oslo University. They've done a lot of brain chemistry stuff and brain malformation stuff around the airs use particularly stuff like the malformation of the immagledeer which is our emotional control center and they've found quite a few structural changes within the brain due to antibiotics and all those it would appear that trend is the most impacting. Wait, the non-19s in general but Nandalone, Nandalone disrupts like dopamine and stuff like that which is why people get depressed on Deca. Do you think that researcher that Austrid lady would come on with us? I wouldn't even know how to get older but now. I found her a while back on social media and I friended her she doesn't have like very many friends she doesn't do this. I friended her and she, she friended me back so I could reach out to her. Yeah, do, she used to be on mine but I don't think I've got her anymore but do, I would love to have her up. Okay, so I've got this study up as you're mentioned that I pulled it up. Androgen abuse in the brain that she was part of in one of the highlights said exactly what you were talking about that they're seeing some similarities. Okay, in addition to her and below and seemed to cause the most harm they were looking at androgen in general as it decreased the number of neurons impaired mitochondrial function and down reggae-ladered TBB3 gene expression critical for nervous system development. These neural adaptations likely play a role in mental health problems and they also found that okay, the nantrolone increased inflammatory markers. They're further down in here, though, somewhere they were saying that androgen's in general age the brain basically and that they saw androgen use across the board did show signs of a more aged brain which had then the signs of more likely to have Alzheimer's issues. So, trend also reduces GABA, which then helps regulate neuron which is why you get the anxiety and the overthinking because what you get is to get stimulation of neuroinactivity that you calm then calm down. So you won't think because it cripples your GABA. Yeah, we got a question by the way about that reminded me about pregnant alone and what do we think about using pregnant alone and I think one of the reasons that people like it is because they may be able to improve their GABA through that all-low pregnant alone conversion. But what do you think about it and one other thing I had thought I'm before I guess I asked that that got me thinking and I asked if Victoria was like you know what do you think about it? What did she think about it in place of using supplemental GABA to increase GABA and since since as we talked about recently supplemental GABA doesn't cross the blood-brain barrier but she said there's a theory that says it doesn't need to because it does have a ton of GABA receptors in the gut and the gut line to the brain is so strong that affecting the gut and all the serotonin receptors that we have in our in our gut are a direct impact on the brain. So it doesn't need to cross the blood-brain barrier. I wanted to get that out there you know but which I thought was best any but what do you think of pregnant alone is that something you would ever supplement with people? You didn't y'all know at the beginning of the show by the way. I did probably end up with people kind of. Oh I missed it. I honestly don't know me. Going back to the GABA thing though which is quite interesting and the reason I say is quite interesting because the number of people that have reported improved sleep etc etc etc from GABA supplementation. Yeah. The most be something going on even if you didn't know about the gut stuff there must be something going on because people take it and get improvements. Well it will no matter what even if that theory wasn't correct, there are a ton of receptors on the muscle so you will get like a skeletal muscle relaxation I believe from GABA. Even that aside from the gut connection to the brain you know. I'll see if I can find that question because I know it's in here somewhere with pregnant. Look no it's getting all technical and deep foam shit. Yeah. And what sounds like we know what we're talking about. No it's all a farce. It's all a farce. Let me see what else we got here. Oh there's that I just love that comment. I'm back again to the seek. I'm 19 and I know I'll miss these shows in my late 20s. I don't know Dave where we're going to be man. Okay. So he's 20s. That means we've got to stay alive in over eight years. Yeah. Fuck you'll be eights. Oh this is a nice comment at the beginning of his question. He says this is quickly become one of my favorite podcasts. I've been on to TRT 200 milligrams a week with labs around 800 to 1100 NG E2 without any AI is in the 40s with one milligrams of anastrosol. It's in the 20s. I'm thinking about running a test cycle at 400 to 500 milligrams a week split into three injections. My question is should I run two milligrams of anastrosol split into two doses right away or wait a few weeks and get blood work? Well I feel a difference between 200 to 400 and is a three month cycle appropriate for the doses I plan for this dose. I plan to drop 250 milligrams or two months following. I don't have an issue with the total dose in for the period of time. I don't see any problem with that. The conversion of testosterone to estrogen is not linear. So I was testosterone in other ways. The conversion rate does not remain constant. So if you've got for argument say 200 milligrams and you've got 400 milligrams you're unlikely to get a double of your estrogen. So I would actually start a 0.5 A next twice a week and then check your levels around week five to six and then adjust if necessary but you might find you can get away with 0.5 times three a week rather than two or one milligrams. Yeah will he notice a difference between 200 to 400? Yes. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. Oh yeah. I mean dude that's like like we talked about last week if you take a testosterone at its normal love like in normal ranges it acts as just like a normal hormone in your body but it becomes drug like you know what I mean as you start getting outside of that normal range it's not like vitamin C where you take twice as much and you just pee it out. What was the drug that got banned and got heavily pleased because it was used as a taken advantage of female health on date. It wouldn't say that word in case it got a small bomb the mean. Yeah I don't know if I can even say that word but it would be GH and then we're letter. Sorry I mean the reason I bring it up is because Blunt forced on you was saying she can never get to sleep and I was straight away I went why don't you try and then I was like god I can't remember it. Yeah that's the first super addictive man back in the 90s before people really knew there were a lot of cases of people you know really getting warmed on that yeah you are to you definitely had to do a sort of on off protocol with the stuff but he was interesting. Find a but you would probably be milder yet still addictive option you know. Yes they the old yes. Did I ever tell you about the story of my training partner who had a problem with GH followed by the second letter at the alphabet. Did I ever tell you that story? No no this is weird dude. I kind of almost forgot about this. I've got it I've got a GH second letter of alphabet story that I'm not going. Okay so check this out I forgot about this maybe I kind of blocked it out. I was training at in any time fitness and I started getting ready for my first show and that's when I got laid off for my job and I intentionally like took the lay off so that like the last eight weeks I could really like you know focus on the prep and not have to work it was a terrible mistake man I just spent a lot of time sitting on my couch at home hungry here's the deal so I met this guy he's he's no longer with us. I won't say his name I'll call him Dan that's not his name so I meet Dan Dan's a personal trainer he's a little bit older than me jacked dude shaved head tattoos and crazy cauliflower ear on both of his ears he's a he's an MMA fighter but he also lifted he had some incredible stories that I wish he could come on the show and tell about going to Mexico, Tijuana and bringing back the goods anyway so we start training together and I tell him like yeah I'm getting ready for my first show every day super dependable we're training together and I noticed sometimes like we'd have more coherent conversations and others while we're training sometimes like I just felt like I couldn't connect to Dan like he just like something was off and I also noticed this smell and his breath that I couldn't quite put my finger on but it was kind of chemically smelling anyway um one day I come to the gym and I'm there to do my aim fast cardio and he's training a client this isn't any time fitness where the only people in the building and uh is this regular client this woman is who's in her 40s and I see her from time to time and I'm on the machine and as she's walking by I just uh I smile to her and wave and she looks super distraught dude as she's walking away are you texting the middle of my story? No no I'm not so she walks away right and I didn't really notice but like something was really off with her so then Dan comes walking up and he's like slurring his speech is like yeah we are we on to train today buddy and I'm like yeah and he's like super animated and and something wasn't right like something wasn't right with him I'm not even connecting that he's on a minor mood all during his substance and he goes and sits down in the office I finish my cardio and then I walk over there to say hi you know I'm gonna leave and all that and he's sitting in his chair and his eyes are like rolling around in his head and I was like Dan you are right dude what's going on and he was just like and I kind of put my hand on him you know it's like brother you know what's up brother you are and I was like oh I'm still not queuing in I'm like holy shit he's having some sort of stroke you know and so at this point another trainer shows up both of these guys are independent they don't work for the the other guy didn't work for the gym Dan did the other guy's got his client and I go over to that guy and I'm like hey Dan's got a medical problem we need to call the ambulance and he was like oh no he doesn't have a medical problem it's like what do you mean he's like he abuses GH second letter to the alphabet oh shit so anyway I go back over to the office to see if he's in there you know or to see if he's coherent I had shut the door and the door locked from the inside he's the only person with the key so now I'm looking at him through this window and he's like passed out unconscious and I'm thinking to myself holy crap what if he's like oh deying right now you know and I'm saying all of a sudden I'm thrusting the middle of this so I go back to the other guys like dude I can't get in there man and I don't know what's going on he's like you should call the you know 911 so I do and they come out and I was like I meet them at the door to let them in because the door is locked to get into the gym like he's in the office and they're like bald guy with tattoos and I was like yeah and they're like yeah we figured I was like oh this isn't the first time you've been here for him and they were like the first time we've been here a bunch I was like oh shit so yeah anyway he was okay he said you didn't try to wake him did you and I said yeah I did and they said well you're lucky because he's swings when he's unconscious like we need to get big guys in there to wake him up because and they need to hold him when they wake him up because he's a fighter dude and he'd wake up for him swinging so I got lucky I didn't get freaking knocked out but yeah that was my story man that was the last time we trained together too anyway yeah I remember it going around and we used to get it in it was actually orange juice balls so there were little plastic bottles with an orange lid and used to get pre-made okay and it was like drinking extremely salty water and I was working the doors so I was late night early mornings super popular in the club scene and the bars was like yeah well this was way before they was only it was only just in the body building seeing it hadn't broken through into a rare is okay so we got we got back 30 odd years yeah so it hadn't really hit the club scene so it alternative use hadn't come to light at this point so it was only really being used in the body building scene and it was being used as a massive GH really so right yeah so the theory of the only was you got you went straight into our EM deep sleep you got much better sleep and a big dump of GH so I'm absolutely shattered in my car get this sleep I know I'm working the doors that night and I know I'm gonna be up to the early hours of the morning so I'm right I'll just take a bit tell me get some sleep I vaguely remember being woken up I don't remember getting to work I don't let the half of what happened to where that I was off my rocket holy crap dude absolutely off my tits all night long and then I was trying yeah yeah yeah oh my god holy crap I could play space get it did you talk to people afterward were you like hey mate was I off yesterday I know I didn't really I don't know if people know Eastern just didn't say anything or if whatever but I went to work okay mama went to bed got up the next day and like not doing that again oh my god man dude yeah I remember being the teenager and seeing them I remember like an endcap display at GNC oh I used to get it pre-made and then the next time I got it it was I got it in the actual crystal form I didn't know that was even a thing I know yeah it was really could be crystal form and you had to make it yourself which was really hard to get right and you ended absolutely having nothing or chromatosing yourself too much yeah but I tasted awful yeah yeah um let me see if we can run through anything real quick here struggling with my appetite and have done previous Balkan cycles I'm three weeks into a 1200 milligram test 600 milligram EQ 600 NPP per week 50 oxa pre-work out six I use a GH adding insulin to help and wood and adding insulin help to increase appetite definitely putting on size already just can't face the food I need to get down I would say drop the anodrol I would agree I'd even be tempted to reduce the overall dose and I think there might be a few things but definitely the anodrol is is going to be playing havoc where you're still making your appetizer get rid of that if it doesn't improve you know from that I would potentially review the cycle maybe just chip a little but I'm not saying slosh it but maybe just chip a little bit off it but insulin could potentially help am case six and seven could potentially help GHRP's could potentially help so there's a few things you can go down to try and increase your appetite yeah if he's right early in the cycle though man three weeks in I bet you three weeks is enough time to that's not I bet three weeks isn't enough time to destroy your appetite I would say yeah without doubt without doubt yes yeah yeah I would just pull that and give it time and see I'm gonna see if there's a nice comment I think what I like fast about Scott is the way he treats Dave like every day could be his last we all know about Dave's past health scares Scott is so kind to him and shows him love even in sarcasm Dave will never admit it but he loves Scott like a brother as he should the world would be a much better place if there were more better place with more scots bless you both I'll try to add a sound effect into that smile oh could you all right exactly let me just let the life through here make sure we're not missing anything there where was that one there was a guy who asked us about pregnant alone um here's the thing I don't think that we have a lot of tests going very quiet oh I have yes but I'm speaking to your microphone so never I'm having to tell him how to do his job I might how was that no shit okay well I think it's on the right I would say I am personally not a fan I don't know I haven't used it a lot okay but I have I have seen a lot of variability in response we're depending on a lot of downchanged shit to happen is what it comes down to and there's not a lot of predictability out of that are you gonna end up a little bunch of progesterone maybe you know what I mean I would say that I would either I yeah I'm just personally not a big fan but hey that said if you've experimented with it and you like it then I'd say go for it I know there are people out there that are like huge fans of these compounds that will depend on a lot of mutate a lot of changes a lot of alterations in order to get to an end result I would rather just go to that end result I'll say that um Dave do you have any advice for us not a bean lot of talk about sleep stuff on here don't the sleep inducing pap-tiny I haven't tried it I forgot people talk about it I have did pullerow you got nothing from it not not a thing but then I didn't get anything from godboro melatonin okay um that's why I said it golf hotel bravo very well put Ryan he was using yeah he didn't want to say the letters just a lot of talking our comments section about sleep stuff today apparently sleep is important it's it's amazing how an impact of poor sleep or good sleep can have on you on your wellbeing hey Mickey you're so fine you're so fine you blow my mind hey Mickey nobody knows what you mean what you mean nobody knows what my is you have to be my age like 58 don't understand that would it be a bad idea for me to start tier T at 28 with total test of 378 and for this I was like you need it sir but why is he there you know what I mean just be chanette eggs or you could be a raving alcoholic I don't know I mean there's this there's you know it does happen people do have low tests that young ages just because life's been cruel yeah in the same way as life could be extremely generous and make you beautiful like me Ryan shared with us a bunch of stuff about trying and rabbits but he also has to the important question what's the update with Dave's pro charger? Dave's no is that no because the few is of the show chief nasty type assholes that don't contribute to the foot so there you go Dave telling Scott to speak into the mic is a real kind of calling the kind of black sort of thing regards the the pro chat no there are jobs that need to be done in the short term a new fuel in system new cooling systems new braking systems so they are all getting done I thought you meant jobs that need to be done like before I give myself a present like that I'm going to take care my body do my cardio get my health in order and then then I'll when I earn the pro charger. Simon Simon Romanova phones you and I'll quiet that I come here. Hey didn't you do something recently wasn't there some sort of monster event or something like that? Monster clothing or something like that? No so we go up to monster once a month with the fact so we were up at monster last Saturday but this Saturday we're at fully pumped gym in good to say no rich for the gasp even and I'm doing this seminar with Mr. Styles. Oh that's right okay so let's still come up Nathan Styles crazy on this legs in the sport man. Yep this is got no wild freaking quads doesn't he? So we're doing we're doing a seminar on Saturday and the vans are at fully pumped in Norwich at the gasp event. It's also the PCA natty finals this weekend and we're there as well collecting people's wee wee. Okay and old folks at Rovram on Sunday. See you guys are doing drug testing. Yes okay. Well we actually do the testing we collect the samples on behalf of King's College and they get sent to King's College for the testing. Do you see the results? No. Okay because I was kind of curious to see what that would come back. No so part part of the process of what we do is we convert the person into a numerical code and then from us onwards their sample is only known by the numerical code there's no names attached to it so there can be no bias by a lab that can never be a tamperin because nobody knows who's who who's who of our farmers. That makes sense. Hey I got a drug testing question for you. So when you go to a contest and you go in the bathroom for some reason competitors they would like to buy the end of the night like they won't be flushing the toilet so you go in the toilet and first of all there's big like tan marks from butt cheeks that people who'd been sitting on it there's that but then the toilet is just filled with piss. If I were to take you to a bag show mate. If I were to take a testing cup and dip it into that even though it's mixed with toilet water could we test that for for substance in how many different substances do you think does positive for in that toilet? A lot. That would be kind of a fun project to see just see what's all in there. One of the things they touch for when they test you right and he's creating. Yeah. And they do it as a way of determining whether the person has tried to hype a high rate. Oh yeah yeah. Because if creating a concentration is low then it's a sign of potential high hydration and therefore they would be cold for a second of the tests. Yeah. I remember back in 2015 or so there was a guy from the Middle East who worked with a lot of people from like IPB worlds and all that and they were using incontinence medications to mask. That was like the big thing. I'm sure that's over with now. That's a decade ago and everything changes quickly you know what I mean? But he did something to change the metabolites. Testing has got more and more advanced and it is harder and harder to mask. He's more of a lot of test avoidance now. He's more around better management of when you use the compounds and how you use them in time into when you're going to be tested. Yeah. Yeah. That would make sense to me. Yeah so there's a lot more of that goes on now. I've said now that has been around for a lot of years. It was always he's humans that used that approach rather than Westerners. But yeah I mean it's but I mean you still get people and it's like you'll see boxes fading for decade and you just think why have you even got it in your system? Yeah and I think that might be a metabolite issue. In fact Victoria has a kind of a theory on that that there may be there may be some natural metabolites and because there's been a bunch of women that popped positive for Deca and it's like why would these women having used Deca in order to say and it's like it doesn't that doesn't make sense. So yeah anyway you got like even a little piece of advice for us? Sleep is important. Yeah. Okay. That was me advice. I did it and you did not college it. Oh I did realize how important sleep is. Well usually you make it into a this big production. Don't because you said I was to simplify it and I wasn't to do it that way anymore and all I needed was simple things. So my simple advice is we do not underestimate the importance of sleep. But you kind of like buried the lead on it you know what I'm saying like it was I don't know you just just do a better Dave all right. I'm trying it. Guys we appreciate you tuning in. Thank you for being here. Thank you for watching us. We appreciate you especially you young guys you know we're not going to be around forever. When you're in your late 20s guys we're not going to be here anymore anywhere. Well no. Yes. You just had a comment saying how you cared for me and looked after me because you knew I wasn't long for this world and then you just abused me. You wonder why I've got these bags under me eyes and that's from shit sleep. There you go. All right you got anything else going on you want to tell us about before we left? Are you good? No, I can tell you about though. Not that you can tell what you do have something you can tell us about but you're not that you can't tell us about. No I have something that I can't tell you about. I might tell you if you promise under oath of death not to speak it to anybody. I won't go ahead. No I will send you. No it's all right. These guys won't say anything either. Right guys. Guys we appreciate you tuning in. Go to evalblutandelluses.com. Get your labs done by Dave. If you're in the UK and of course, Trump sports nutrition if you're in the UK or in the US great health stack supplement source.ca for Canadians they do have great deals that change week to week and turnutrition.com. Use our code think over there. Leave us questions for the next episode on Patreon and for another episode of the podcast guys we will see you soon. Thanks Dave. His now this guy was formerly obese. He always has had some level of fatty liver and these labs his liver for the first time in his life is in range. Like everything's good. I think the ALT was just slightly slightly out by a couple numbers but he's always been elevated and dude we ran windstroll for like the last four weeks of the show. We ran halo for the last ten days. If someone who trains didn't have elevated old I'd be telling them they're not training they're going to the gym and playing on the foot because you should evaluate it all if you train. So he always has even with rest and we like we said I think he has some element of fatty liver like 9 alcoholic fatty liver but since starting the SLU his numbers are come back in range for ASD and ST. Is he an interesting? There's obviously something in it and there's growing there's definitely growing data that he does have some sort of positive effect. I'm just curious how much that's going to encourage further or longer drug exposure because it's now okay so if I were to protect this he stopped it well does it we you know we don't really know what it does we know it shows in labs and makes things look better and this is you were still needs would support the you know yes it has a positive impact but this fact is from anabolic use like the heart and stuff like that that isn't as easily measurable so I say I just we don't know yeah I don't have concerns the right word I'm cautious of this there's no free lunch you know exactly and I'm cautious of this this the vibes I'm starting to hear now about if you take GHKU or his cold slu-mult and everything else then you can run a gram all year round you know so I am a little cautious of that. Other side of the point too that we're not looking at and you know Victoria and I just we're talking about this on our dog walk the we're talking like bodybuilding we are like just the people that she didn't already know this is that Scott does not have a dog he dresses up like a dog a Victoria walks him yeah he's it's a thing we do it's a thing we do you know it's acceptable our community you know this is completely normal completely normal activities like we're in Tories and bodybuilding for like just cranking up one lever you know what I mean like hey you know like all but and that I get it it's soluble you know what I mean like it's sexy to be like oh have you been thinking about your might a country all function oh you haven't well you know all of a sudden now like I can imagine like an equalizer right and we have like all the levels that we're just saying and now we're just taking one of them we're creaking it boom all the way up to the top when in reality it's really about how everything kind of functions together my big concern is so if we have increased reactive oxygen species if we have increased free radicals because every you know increasing like the powerhouse of the cellular mitochondria as it works it's creating damaging byproducts right and those byproducts waste materials are can the that's the kind of thing that causes cancer right so I wonder honestly if that goes back to YGW501516 was an issue did that have to do with mitochondria because it's only been in the last couple years my DeContrao function has been this hot topic but I got a lot of the same benefits for my breathing with from GW as I have you know and for my endurance and I really do believe that that was probably the first my mitochondr on cancer without being a scientist just being a borough scientist meaning a guy who you know has tried these things and lifted some weights and ate some protein it's going to be interesting unfortunately it's going to be people that are going to be the experiment but it's going to be interesting to see how this pans out and if there is long-term issues I mean I'm seeing I don't know if I mentioned this a matter told you I probably have I'm seeing more thyroid issues now in people after five years of long-term T3 and T4 use because we thought the fire I mean I myself thought that was pretty much fucking bullet proof you know you know you did mention that you mentioned that last week in it's funny you say that because I was just thinking about that this morning and something I didn't mention in rebuttal just to kind of look at all sides of the spectrum here you know the I think that the harder we die in the more we push ourselves to that's a contributing factor in the development of the things going to be lots of things but the the average incident of thyroid issue has definitely increased and I believe that yeah there will be several contributing factors to that for one minute think it's just a single thing but I definitely do think that the more wholesale use of T3 and T4 year round and I think that's the point each the year round use yeah it is what's caused the issue I mean it's if you take a human being and put them in darkness and you leave them in darkness for 10 to 15 years there's a strong chance their eyes will not work anymore yeah yeah because the body just they'll deteriorate them because they doesn't need them so I mean I don't know if that's true but I believe it you know I feel like yeah so you know if if we if we make a function of the body redundant because it's chemically supported then there's there's every possibility that that function will eventually stop working yeah we'll always be person duration dose specific like these things always are but yeah it's and I don't mean it as our cast it term or our cookie to genuinely am curious to how this will come out be a major if these peptides turn out to be this holy grail of harm prevention I do think though at the end of the day it's all going to be about balance they're you can't just take one lever of the equalizer and crank it all the way up you know and I mean it's like how does that balance with everything else we did that with GH team where we thought GH more the barrier and then we realize no actually if you're balancing with everything else it works much better

Obviously it's the DHT so we don't have any easing conversion so it is a drier compound. That does limit its prolonged use if you're using it as a standalone because eventually you're going to smash your oration levels into the floor. So it does limit its usage as a standalone or all and you are probably looking at six weeks for most people anything longer than that is probably going to start to create some low easing problems. What's up guys welcome back to the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McNally. If you're new to our content, Dave is an expert witness for the UK court system testifying with PEDs. He's also an educator to the military and to the police forces of the United Kingdom. Today we've got a list of questions we have a profile of the week we're going to talk again about Annavarkos our Annavark profile is gone. It's no longer on YouTube though it is on audio podcast app. I do want to mention that all of our programming is brought to you guys by evalblutanalysis.com. If you're in the UK you can get your lab worked done by Dave. We are brought to you by Strom Sports Nutrition if you're in the UK. We've got a lot of great health and performance supplements over there. What's our code over there? What do you tell them? Dave, it's Strom. Do we have a code over there? Richard is a dick. Yeah, that's our code over there. No, no code but definitely they support us. We support them and we're brought to you by trunutrition.com in the US use our code think for additional savings on high quality third party test. Supplements, protein powders, creatin, all the carbs you can think of all the flavors in the world. They've got it all and Supplements Source.ca for Canadians. They have great discounted prices on top name, top name, supplements. Dave, we've got listener questions but we're going to start this thing out by redoing our Anavire profile. What do you got to say? Tell us all about it. It's a tablet. Yes, it is. That's a good start. It's taken by phonies. What? You used to be real popular compound with females. It was one that was well tolerated. But now I think women take everything there is. I take care. So yeah, I mean, overall generally those 10 or 50 milligrams was very popular women. But I think more that the women use a profile or selection of female users was small. Because women uses profile as broad and naive. There are more women using now than ever. I think more women have discovered that they don't get on with it that well. So I don't think it's still viewed as the base go to as a start for females. I think it's now more of a choice drug. Rather than, oh, yeah, that's what you want to start on because a lot of women now as, as I say, as the number of women that have been exposed to it has broadened, we seen that more women don't actually get on with it that well. So it's not the female friendly drug we always thought it was. From a side's point of view, it's not particularly aggressive. But some women do not get on with it at all. They find it very intolerable just in the general feeling of feeling like crap when they use it. Yeah, I've worked with women who have been very successful with it. And then I've worked with less women that haven't been. I think that part of this has to do with our community has gone to more of a long term approach. You know what I'm saying versus in the past when it was used, the doses were low, like literally two milligrams to five milligrams, you know, every day. And that was for a controlled period of time, six to eight weeks, whereas now people are looking for more higher doses in a longer term project, you know, and in that case, then then you do maybe need to worry more about your estrogen levels getting totally smashed. Your testosterone levels getting smashed. And that's where I think the whole idea of female testosterone use has become a bigger part of it that in the TRT clinics being more than happy to put a 25 year old woman and test replacement, you know. I think the other problem is, I mean, we're going off topic slightly, but with female TRT is that a lot of the adulterated rules that women actually record that then think they need to go on TRT are more due to a diet phase they've completed or the suppression of using drugs like kind of other that they haven't fully recovered from at that point. Yeah. Yeah. I see a number of women postcom, they'll get the bloodstone, the test is low and the immediate reaction is now because of the population of it, oh, I need TRT and it's like, no, what you need is some fat in your diet. Yeah. And if you put some fat in your diet, your testosterone levels will recover. Female is our very, very sensitive to their fat intake and their body fat levels will it come to their hormones. Yeah. Have you said that? Some of our, from a male perspective, these generally well tolerated, it's not something I would say is a particularly dramatic drug. I mean, for comparison, you take something like D-Bella Oxi and you're going to feel that you've taken those compounds fairly quickly from one thing and another, particularly fullness and particularly the impact on strength. Where Ana Var is a little bit, obviously it's DHT. So we don't have any estrogen conversion, so it is a drier compound. That does limit its prolonged use if you're using it as a standalone because eventually you're going to smash your region levels into the floor. So it does limit its usage as a standalone or all and you are probably looking at six, eight weeks for most people, anything longer than that is probably going to start to create some low estrogen problems. And again, that will be dope specific as well. It is not overly stressful on the liver. I mean, obviously all the hormones are going to impact the liver because there's 17 alkalinity after we've done breakdown, but it's not an aura that's particularly stressful to the liver. It does increase LDL. It's decrease. No, increase. Increases. Oh, LDL. I'm sorry. I was thinking, HDL, sorry. All oils will lower HDL, but the double whammy as well is when you lower estrogen your lower HDL and another of our is a bit unique in that it actually increases LDL as well. So it's not great for your lipid profile, but again, dose and duration will play massively into that. Dose in wise, I would say for males, you're probably starting around a 30-minute gram. And I think for most you see, you're going to be 30 to 60. You're bigger users are probably going to be able to push a bit higher. 100 is not ridiculous, but you are getting to top end of where I would be. I don't see any point in going higher than that. I would then be looking at doing something different rather than increasing an IVR beyond 100 milligrams. Hardness. There is some argument that it has an effect on T43 conversion. I'm not sure on the science on how strong that is and how much that carries over to real world. It is a nice compound. It generally will tolerate not super dramatic, but you're going to see some improvements from it. Obviously with the oral mechanism, you're looking at non-genomic pathways rather than the straight 100 and receptor. Explain that please. 90-unomic versus, you know what? Okay, so, all rules generally don't engage with the 100 and receptor. What happens with injectables is they collect, they collect the 100 and receptor, they're going to the nucleus of the cell, they impart their delivery instructions and they come back out that AI are then released as them and it will bug her off to do some more sort of convert to each region or whatever it's going to do and that AI then splits. But there are receptors within the muscle tissue that don't travel art and receptors and don't travel into the nucleus of the cell. So you get a secondary pathway through all rules. So you start to create precursors to developing more muscle fiber. It's not a lot of people you sort of people like this, they sort of think what I have to include or rules in every cycle because I've got this second root. It's not that carried across in real-world and this is one of the reasons why you'll never see the same results of all rules as you will of injectables. One is dose tolerance but two is the pathways in which they operate. There is one oral that does ARs but actually might be Annabah. Really? I can't remember this one that engages with AR. Yeah, I, that's not something I'm familiar with. There is definitely one that does come on. You told people a lot of a quick look. Alright, I'll talk to people. Hi guys, how you doing? Thanks for joining us today. Also too, I'll mention if you guys want to see more of a content be sure to subscribe and hit the bell. I can say that I've known coaches who are huge fans of Annabah specifically in a contest prep phase. And then there are those that would prefer something else like Winstrel. Personally, I've been more of a Winnie fan and I feel like I've been able to achieve a drier harder look with that. But you know, skip for instance, he's, he'd take in of our over Winnie any day of the week. Generally, we're talking that last, if you have an oil-based protocol going into a contest prep. And look at adding it in for the last say six weeks, maybe even four weeks, something like that. I think what are the benefits of your oral compounds is that they're generally going to have a much more rapid effect. That said, out of all the orals, I would say Annabah is probably the slowest. So I'd say four weeks would be the absolute minimum going to a show six weeks, eight weeks wouldn't be crazy talk. But I wouldn't rely on it as kind of like you were saying, David, as my main meat and potatoes. And in offseason phase, I could see, you know, if you're doing say a 12 week program, the last eight weeks, something like that would be just fine. Which you find if? I do think it does. I'd need to dig through some of my actual proper paperwork, but from a quick, quick AI look, I do think it does. I think it's the one on all that does actually engage with the AI. Okay. Which might be why it has this effect on the LDL? I have seen people say, hey, if you use, you know, oxygen drone only, that you wouldn't need to do a PCT if you were to come off. I would not agree with that person. No, that's bullshit. Orals are suppressive. They just take longer. So effectively our bodies are full of hormone receptors. The Eastern receptor for just one receptor is under the receptor. There's all sorts of hormone receptors. As any level within any of those receptors increases, the brain realizes that there's a hormone increase. And in order to regulate it, it reduces signal. In for hormones, this is what's shut down is. It's a direct feedback response to elevating hormone levels. Because in a male, Eastern drink comes from testosterone, if Eastern drink is high, it will cause the reduction of testosterone production. If proletting is high, it will cause the reduction of testosterone production. If testosterone is high, it will cause so any compound that engages with these receptors can create suppression. Because all of us generally dose lower than injectables, it is a bit slower for this suppression to build up, but it still occurs. And you will see suppression in females as well as males. Going back to what we were just saying, arguments that I looked at female gestity was on anava of all of it. And her eatogen was not fully shut down, but it was suppressed. And her EFF's H&LH were suppressed. And eventually if the dose is duration is long enough, or the dose goes in, you will create full shut down. But because we generally run orals at slightly lower doses, and we run for short duration, most people won't experience full shut down. But this is why I was saying about limiting anavaa-only cycles to six to eight weeks, because you're learning that with low estrogen, it's that suppression. The anavaa suppresses the suppression of testosterone levels drop. You don't feel that because the DHT of anavaa is impacting with the receptor. But because you've got low testosterone, you end up with low estrogen. Yeah. You will feel that's why you limit your exposure. Unless you add an aroma-sizing compound, which will allow you to run for a long period. Yeah. Yeah. And of course, dose is going to be part of how fast that happens. Right? I think a lot of people that are watching our shows are on TRT, you're around. Up until recently in the US, you could get Oxanjolone prescribed. And it was very common to get 25 milligrams per day prescribed. Not a problem. People were using that. And I found it to be when we talk about your TRT-ploss protocols, you know, your sports TRT protocols, I do think you're going to get some additional benefit from a low dose, and we're speaking from a male perspective still, from a low dose, like 25 milligrams. But I think it's going to get- you're going to experience a better performance boost than actually seeing like a lot of extra lean tissue gains from something like 25. Would you agree with that? Yeah. I mean, anyway, of increase in the hydrogen load should result in improvements down the line. But obviously, you also increase stresses on the body. Yeah. You know, it- and that goes across the board. Anything that changes the performance of your body be it a new topic that changes your brain performance or a stimulant that changes your energy output. That's going to have to be paid for at a certain point down the line. You're going to need an increased recovery. You're going to need an increased nutrition or something to offset the fact that you've had a bigger payout because you've used something to increase the body's performance. There is a balance point in that, like you said, 25 milligrams of an over 20 milligrams of an over is going to yield some improvement in performance and not be overly hugely negative the impact in the way it stresses the body. But you're still going to have this baseline medication that's all use, which is still going to apply some stress to the liver, which will then have a- so it's almost like, instead of your liver baseline being zero for argument sake, you're now running a baseline of 20. So, if anything comes into your system that's liver toxic or liver stressful, there's less redundancy in your liver to cope with that because it's already working dealing with the univariate constant dose. So, there are addons in this, but all things being equal, you know, anything you do, anything you add in, there is a cost to it and it's just a case of managing that cost and being aware of that cost, but it's not. I mean, that's why I'm not a fan of sports TRT for the simple reason is I don't like the use of TRT in it anyway because it gives out signals that it's medication when it's not. But that has a long-term price. You know, you get exposed to that for four or five years and there's going to be downstream effects that are starting to build up. Where I would rather people look at it as a low cycle because that's technically what it is, but you've got more and more people running 250, even 300 megapest and a hundred or 150 megapest, I'm sorry, of Master of Primo and effectively saying that that's their TRT. About 15 years until someone you're on 500 megapest old budget. That's a cycle. Oh yeah, yeah. It's interesting the way things have evolved. I think that's a whole other topic and we could probably, we probably have gotten into that before, but listen, let's move on because we have a bunch of listener questions and guys if you want to take part in the next show, then comment below, if you had some things about Anniversary that we didn't cover, then definitely let us know. We could only say so much in this period of time. I'm sure we could do a lot more. We've got a listener training question, Dave, and I believe it's about the squat. We see if we can go on any. Have you got something about that, shit? Leave where I'd give us where the shirt, you realize that, right? Okay, what did he really wear? Is he's a horrible shit? Dave has something against Final Shirt's guys. And I kind of think it's like when the bull sees a red cape and he just, he just goes mad. I kind of feel like that's a little bit of what's going on here. Thankfully we are not in the same room. Thankfully there is an entire ocean between us. Go to this question, Dave. It's from Tor. He says there's been a trend for a while for people moving away from the barbell squat in favor of Hacksquats, Belt Squats, Pendulum Squat. If you look at the biggest legs we have seen, like Tom Platt, Spigrammy, Branchhorn, Kigrin, Meadows, James Hollingshead, etc. They were all phenomenal barbell squatters. Barbell squats is a very demanding exercise to master and for many, so many gravitate towards something easier. Can this be a case of easier is not always better? Thank you. Good question, Tor. Yeah, I'd squat, obviously, a very basic movement. What I like about squats is it's a very functional movement. It engages not just your quads and your glutes and your hamstrings, but also your cards and your core and your stabilizing muscles as well. For a functionality point of view is a very good movement. It is a demanding movement, yes. People would argue that they can push their legs to greater failure using a Hacksquat or a pendulum squat because one is a safety aspect there. And then two, they're not then vulnerable to core failure collapse in the movement they're doing. And that's very true. Does squats build a better leg than using the machine movement? I don't think so. The muscle knows to contract, it knows to pull on joints. It doesn't recognize a movement. It just recognizes the muscles that it needs to use in order to complete that movement. What the leg would the squat be more taxing than other movements? Potentially, but at the same time it may be limiting to how much stress you can put into those muscles because of a core failure or just fear. If you've not got under a squat bar and step back and got a pack, then you've probably never squat whatever. Because when you step out with big weights on your back, it is intimidating. You step back without in your legs. I don't have any of them coming back up with this. And anyone that squat at heavy's been there, whereas a machine does give you more confidence. I wouldn't say that one exercises superior over the other, more that they have different ways of stimulating the muscle. However, I think what the squat does demonstrate is somebody's willingness to push. It sure does, doesn't it? And I think that, yes, I do think that people move to machine work because legs are scary and legs are intimidating. I know when I was training properly, many, many years ago. I'd be nervous about leg day. I would literally start to get anxious the day before because I knew legs were coming up the next day and I knew it was going to hurt like hell. And I knew it was going to be a credit to taxing. If you've never gone into a leg workout with that sort of apprehension, then as a chance I have never actually trained your legs to their limit. You've got more in the tank because it is such a demanding body part. So if you move to machines from a safety aspect, but you still push to the absolute limit of your capabilities, then I don't see there being any really difference. However, if you move to machines because you're trying to avoid the workload that comes with legs, then yes, there's going to be a dramatic difference because you, to an extent with squatting, you still can't run away from them. You're not going to be bouncing out of the hole like you can on a machine. You're not going to be having all those sort of things that you can play around with, like you can do on a machine, like very, very high reps are much easier to achieve on a machine than they are when you're doing three ways. Yeah, I think here's a couple of thoughts. I think overall, I'm first of all, I'm a fan of the Barbell squat. Do you absolutely need it to grow massive muscle? I think more so I would believe that learning how to do a squat is going to be great for your foundations. For guys that are just getting into this, I would say learning how to squat and getting good at it for the first four years of bodybuilding. I think isn't a bad idea at all. Realistically, Brandon brought something up here. I'll get back to that. Here's another thought is that I think it takes time to figure out how to effectively squat to grow muscle. I could tell you that when I first began squatting, in my goal was just to get heavier and heavier with it, my stance was more that of a power lifters, where I was trying to use everything I had in my body. My hips got highly involved with my squatting movement. I found that it wasn't really a good leg grower. I had to play with the movement. I had to pull the weight back and I ended up being one of the people that elevates my heels to be able to bring my stance in close enough. The smarter I got with training, the more I could get out of the squat and I feel like that knowledge transferred to everything else that I did. I think machines are great. Don't get me wrong. I'm a huge fan of it. I wouldn't say that squats are going to be the only thing that I would use to grow my legs. I would definitely put it in there as being one of those main meat and potato foundations. I don't see there being a reason was squatting every other time. A lot of people are doing push-pull legs nowadays. If you squat one day on your leg day and what if you use the hex quad or the pendulum squat on the other time? I think that's fine. Brandon brought a question to us saying that he said there's an argument that Barbell squats thicken the midsection because they engage the course so much so for a tight waist in current judging criteria, hacks are preferred now. I think it's absolutely bullshit. No disrespect to Brandon but I think it's absolutely bullshit. In fact I think it's the opposite. I think the squat teaches you to control your core and the reason we get so many blown guts these days or we were doing for a couple years ago was because there was too much rely on machines where there's no core control required. Well you are one of the thoughts with getting those thick midsections is that you're blowing out and bracing for a movement like the squat. And through that process, bracing against a belt you're thickening that up versus training to pull it in. I disagree because if you squat correctly you're only blowing out half an inch if you're racing against a belt but it teaches you to engage the core in the movement which helps you we call control on stage where when you're in a high squat you don't need any core control at all. I think it's a lot harder to get a lot out of the squat. For the muscle I'm not talking about frying your central nervous system and destroying your cardio. You can kill your cardio real quick. I was going to say compared to hacks or pendulum, I feel like you can get in that machine and you can hit your say quads for instance. You can target your quads a lot faster than with a barbell squat. It takes time to learn. One of the problems with the squat I think is that most people focus on the squat or whether the squat is good based on the load they can move with the squat. So I trap that a lot of people fall into with squat is that they're trying to improve the numbers on the squat. When you should approach it in the same way as any other muscle group or any other exercise where you're focusing on the actual muscular engagement in the movement and when that clicks in your head and you squat with the muscle rather than trying to put numbers on the bar, you'll find that squat becomes a very, very productive exercise. You're also fine. You're not moving stupid levels away with it because you don't need to because you're making the weight work for you. But I think a lot of people go into the squat. When you look at a squat, you judge it on well how much can you squat? Yeah. When actually, if you break the movement down and start focusing on what you're feeling and how the muscles working in the movement, you'll find it a much more productive movement and you'll find you need nowhere near as much load. That ties right in with Jack's related squatting question here or his comment. He said that related to squatting, I've gone through two meniscus surgeries on my left knee and can only do some movements in some machines. Are there some compounds that will help with cartilage? I really miss heavy back squat day. I want to tell him this that so I had about 90% of the cartilage removed from my left knee and I had an ACL reconstruction in that knee as well. That was like 1997. Technology is so much better now. By the way, I had to, they took a piece of my pretellit tendon for my right knee and then they used that as the ACL and my left knee. They had to put both of my legs in splints and I was in a wheelchair for over a month unable to walk because of like now people are literally like walking out the next day or the day of after an ACL replacement. That said, years ago, I used to really bang my knees up and the more I focused on what Dave has talked about here about trying to get more out of the muscle, the less neat issues I've had. The best leg development I've had bar none was just a couple years ago, training in my home gym using a lot of leg press, a lot of hack and a lot of squats. And I found though that by making the exercise harder, getting the most out of the movement, I was able to move that train the hardest I've ever trained and not have any meat issues. Versus years ago, I was trained to load up the hammer strength leg press and I would get a rep and then block out and then get another rep and lock out. The more control you can have over the weight or the more control I've had over the weight, the less neat issues I've had and I was way less likely to hurt myself. Yeah, I would say to Jack, focus first on the movements where you can feel the quaductive and then just really concentrate on that over the load for a while. I'd find actually just closing my eyes and just literally focus in what I'm feeling. And you may find that you have to slow the reps down to start with, but as you're you get more to tune your find at the rep can be a little bit smoother and a little bit quicker. But don't be too concerned about the weight. Focus on the feel, make sure the muscles take in the load and then build from there. Once you've established that connection and your feeling those movements and there will be some movements you'll never get on with. Or you'll always have problems with. Particularly post-urgery, but once you start, what you're doing then is you're pushing the load into the muscle rather than dispersing it across the muscle and the joint, that in itself will start to protect the knee more. Yeah, the more muscle you have, I found the more that kind of keeps that knee in place. I found too that my friend Vijay helped me develop my squat technique because like I said, years ago it was all going to the hips I wasn't growing my quads. We went all the way back to bodyweight squats and for about a month I was literally torturing myself with only body weight. I absolutely guarantee you that if you learn how to torture yourself with a body weight squat, then you just put a bar on your back and that's hard. You put a quarter on each side and that's hard. But it takes getting rid of the ego. It really does because you can make a body weight squat impossible to get 20 reps to failure. It's brutal, man. I'm talking like four second negatives, flexing the quads as hard as you can. No pause at the top, pause at the bottom. Take all that momentum out. If you do that, it's brutal, man. It takes time to figure that out. And after you do, you can start applying weight to it and you don't need a lot to make a lot of progress. I had the opposite problem with my squat. It was too quad dominant and I was getting no gluten engagement. Oh, no kidding. Yeah, my ass just didn't fire. Yeah, I didn't get a lot of gluten engagement either. I had to go to isolation work to I had like weight weight guy but syndrome. You know, like my quads grew and then I figured out how to grow my hands and then I had to figure out how to grow glutes last. Yeah, big house, big quads and shit glutes. How about citrus burma? Another listener question here from Patreon. He says, coming off of blast, you guys think taking citrus burgamont will help get lipids back to normal ish faster for purposes of getting blood work done for health reasons. Don't plan on blasting against soon. Yeah, it's just very good. I want to definitely help support you. Hey, Steve, it's something I would pretty much run around. Yeah, you are a RTRT or you are cycling regularly. I wouldn't take it out. I think too many what you really should be looking at doing is building your hdl up when you're off cycle. So that you've got a buffer and a cushion for the inevitable lowering that's going to occur when you go one cycle. Yeah, I'm done with that. Rather than this just trying it because what a lot of people will do is they'll go on cycle. Hdl will drop my go 0.7.8 or even lower. So they'll jump on the socks until it reaches 1.1 and then all of a sudden they're off the socks. No, keep going build that buffer so that next time you're on cycle you've got you know you're at 1.7 and you've got plenty of ceiling room to come down before it starts to be a concern. There's a lot of argument around cholesterol and lipids and how important Hdl is and whether Hdl or LDL is a concern and I honestly don't know the answer. When you start looking at the research around cardiovascular problems and Hdl etc. It's very sketchy. The heart foundations have had to sort of say that they don't see a direct link with low Hdl and heart problems. Having said that I had a heart attack because of plaque buildup which I do believe is down to years and years of low Hdl because I've never particularly had bad cholesterol when I was on point because my diet was quite clean. So in the sense I've stopped that my diet's gone crappy and not so good in my cholesterol's gone up a little bit. All my years on I was low like 25 on Hdl 25 to 29. I couldn't get it past that and now years later if you just really couple of years later of not having pushed things anymore. My cholesterol came right back up now I'm in the 40s plus. I mean just so people understand how it sort of works. The last majority of cholesterol that we use and we use cholesterol to make hormones we use cholesterol for cellular construction and zone production we use cholesterol for a lot of things. We've got this basic idea that Hdl bad Hdl is good in LDL's bad. It's not actually true. So LDL's main role is to take cholesterol from the liver and put it in the bloodstream. Hdl's main role is to take cholesterol out of the bloodstream and put it in the liver. They're transport proteins. They move cholesterol about in the body. If we have low Hdl and we have low LDL, they're still a balance. But if LDL goes high we dump in too much cholesterol in the bloodstream and there isn't enough Hdl to balance and take it out. We end up with an excess in the bloodstream. We then develop a plaque and over time, arterial narrowing and can lead to a heart attack. If we've got too high LDL or too low Hdl, this is the scenario occurs. However there is the opposite as well. If you've got too high Hdl and too low LDL, you can actually have not enough cholesterol in the bloodstream. We start to affect hormone levels and start to affect your health, particularly your mental health and your cognitive health. One of the problems we regularly see with women, particularly post-compt, is that their cholesterol levels are too low for their hormone production because whereas men will produce up to naturally looking around a 20 mark of a healthy male for end-mole in testosterone and subsequently around the one one 20 mark p-mole for estrogen, female estrogen production gets into a thousand at certain points in their cycle or definitely in the high hundreds. So they need a much greater level of cholesterol in order to produce the hormones that they use physically. So when a female is a low fat diet, it has a much stronger direct link to their hormone levels. So cholesterol levels in a female become much more important from a point of view of health than they're doing a male. But even low cholesterol in a male will affect a natural male's hormone levels and will lower their testosterone levels. It isn't so much about keeping one high in one low. It's about that balance ratio where you've got enough to clear but not too much that you're low and enough to push back in but not too much high in your blood system. Yeah. Is that okay? Yeah, I think it's a great explanation. All right, how about this one? First of all, okay, I'm not going to put the question up because I find that it's not very helpful for monetizing the show. By the way, if you want to support a programming guy's Patreon, that's much better than the YouTube monetization that doesn't always work for us. So guy from our Patreon says, and he says it was a friend of his. He says it wasn't him. He was using a peptide taking it subq. Yeah, the pin got bent while drawing the peptide out. Thus the pin was weak when he used the same pin to take his subq peptide and it broke off. I, what should he do? Pretend it didn't happen in just ignore it? No, you go on with the rest of your life. The funny thing is, so when you get taught how to inject, they always say leave another man of the needle out in case he snaps so you've got something to grab to put it back. I've never, ever known of anyone actually snapping a needle. So this is the first time I've ever heard of it actually happening. If there's needle, and he can't physically get any hold on it, because it is in the far. I got it. It's, it's going to be difficult, but yeah, if you're lucky, the body would just start to reject it. Yeah, hopefully. But it could create anything from infection to an abscess. It's a foreign body at the end of the day. The body's not going to like it. And even though that needle may be completely sterile, it doesn't mean it can't create a sterile abscess. You know what, I don't like the idea of. So you, you definitely have a real sharp end sticking in you. And if you were to press on that in any way, bump it, is it going to get pushed in further? It can't travel. These things have been seen to move around and travel into the body or back out of the body. So it can travel. I would definitely have a discussion with a medical professional around it. Yeah, don't ask people on a podcast this question. Yes. Exactly. It may well be that they tear around and say, I'll just leave it or so to self out. And that may be the actual case. I just don't know. Yeah. But it's the first time I've ever heard of anyone losing a needle in themselves. Well, Brandon Wise is copying me, bring it to the surface. That's some smart thinking it may. Who knows? In Jack by the way, man, he said, he was a guy with the cartilage. He says, was there any rehab to get full range of motion on the squat right now? I can't even go past 90 and free squat without major discomfort. I'll tell you what, man, message me. We're, uh, hit me up on Facebook and drop me a message and I'll give you my contact info and I'll see if I can, if I can come up with some ideas for you. It'll send you news and dick pics just warning you. Dave, Dave, Dave. Why do you tell you, I'll be, I'll be wearing that shirt. It'll be wearing that shirt. It'll be wearing that shirt. What he does as well. What's all right? I don't know what's more dramatic, be sure. I'll get back in shape and I'll do a calendar shoot with this shirt and my cut the sleeves off, Dave. How about that? Um, I, I would hate it. Less of you cut the shoes off to be honest. Really? Okay. How about this one, Dave? Uh, we've talked about this before NHS prescribed testo gel. Um, purely for TNT, not for bodybuilding reasons. What are your opinions? We have given our opinions on this before, but real quick, uh, what's your 30 second summary? As long as you get absorbed from it, I've actually think it's a very good way to do TNT. Is the closest to natural? It's going to give you the closest natural peak and response. Uh, but it's if you are able to absorb it in a sufficient quantity. Some people are some people are. All right. That's good. How about this one? And it's a topic we also have discussed. I can't put the question up on the screen that would not help our cars in any way. He says, Dave and Scott, what do you got there? Whiskey. That's a cookie. A biscuit is like something you put in a pan, they rise and you put butter on it. It's like a bread. A biscuit is like a bread. It's a good one. No, no, no. It's a good one. Be fast on it. It fits. It's a I saw that I'd say that's Dave's mug. I did his mowl and stopped just in my biscuit. So anyway, he says in my current gym. Do you, is that what, is that to be British people? E cookies? Is that, is that, is that, like, are we witnessing high T right now? Is this high T, Dave? Is this how you do it? Cheerio, mate. All right. He says, in his gym right now, everybody is raving about blends. There's an EQ, TMT, which is test mass. Yeah, yeah. And then there's a nander test with test and DACA. And then there's a tri-train, hexase and an a-thin. 50 each. He says, this is just examples. I've done my research on the forum saying it's impossible to mix that amount in one milliliter of oil. He says, now I know some lads who have grown very well off of it. What are your thoughts? My experience is that I have never seen, well, very rarely that's probably untrue. Very rarely seen a blend that actually is dosed as it should be. How do you know that, Dave? If I, I know, but tell the audience, well, lab work, mate, not lab work is in blood lab work, lab work is in lab analysis of the compounds. And you've seen a lot of lab analysis being a bit nervous, right? I have, yes. I do tend to see a set of lab results from some analysis. I want to be a couple of weeks anyway. Okay. It's like sourced. Sourced is a blend. I've never seen a UGL sourced yet in the ones that I've seen tested and I've granted I haven't seen every compound tested far from it. That one contains all four esters. It's usually only got three of them. Okay. And two at the right quantities that it should be to be sourced. So the big problem with these blends is not that they have actually compound because they usually do, is just that they may not be balanced in the way you think they are. So like you're trying to well, probably have to try and end for trying to waste, but doesn't have to try and exit it. Yeah, some do, some don't. And how do you know otherwise? You know what, I mean, you still, you'll still be getting a 150 milligrams of trend out of that tri-trend. It's just the heck's big. Well, be that. Yeah. Saying that you're, you're an under test. You've probably got tested and decar. It probably and probably will total or come closer than the milligrams total that it's saying it is, just not in those proportions. And that's the big problem. For most people that isn't an issue, but if you are someone that is sensitive to one of those ingredients, the way it's proportioned in that blend could be important to you. regards total milligrams. I would be suspicious of anything claiming to be 400 milligrams more. You can't, you can't suspend with super-suffense like effort all day in Guaikong, right? It is possible. But you're saying that from what you've seen, it's usually not the, okay. The other thing is, yes, you can. One isn't the easiest to keep. And two, it is generally very painful to inject. The higher the concentration of compound in that injectable, the more that injection is going to hurt. Yeah. So I would be very wary of anything that's claiming to be 400 or above. And generally I would stick to stuff that's actually saying it's slightly lower dose. So if I was, if I was looking for you jail now, I wouldn't go over anything that's 200 or 250 per make, make per meal of even a test or a decker. Because more likely to get what I'm paying for with those doses, even if it means I have to inject more oil. Yeah. And from a logistics point of view too, financially, it's usually a more cost effective route. The blends, they usually have some sort of deal. And you're thinking to yourself, hey, this is going to be a better value. But the reality is that you also have to look at how are you going to dose your program? Are you going to reduce your cycle? Because you're going to be tethered to the ratios that are going to be in that blend if you have different compounds. So if you take like one of these cut stacks, it's a test mass, trend cut stack, like your tethered to that amount of trend regardless, even if it had all three compounds, which you've shown us labric before that like all these different blends none of them had mass or the decker was actually EQ or vice versa, something like that. So there, you know, the I would prefer to have better control over how I dost things. In fact, especially in a cut that you're going to want to be able to modulate the the dosing to get the results that you want. You know, it's not just a black and white thing. I mean, the other thing is there's more flexibility using the individual compounds. So if you were to go to the one rip to a trend ace test and tell me test prop mass prop or the TMT, which is basically the long acting versions of those same compounds, if you start to have an issue around the trend or or for arguments say your life sentence has changed where you were suddenly having a lot of crap going on and trend wasn't the best drug to be in the mix. You've got to stop the whole compound where there are individuals, you can dial it back, you can take it out. That's what I'm saying. Yeah, it's when you were no problem. So yeah, there's there's less flexibility when it comes to manipulation of the cycle, things start going a bit. We chose help. Pete Tong, you told me we talked about that before. Pete Tong was a DJ, right? He still is a DJ. And Pete Tong means like going wrong. Wrong. Right. How does that? Why does why did that phrase come up? How did that? I've got to keep running slang. He's quite literally that. So apples and pairs, stairs, I don't know a lot of it, so there'll be obviously someone from London that probably knows how level up more. That co-occalism, that language has continued to develop as times gone up. So there's now more modern references. And one of them was there's a DJ from rate, who made his fame on radio one. I don't know if he's still, I think he's still with radio one. But co-peatong, dance DJ, there's a lot of time in the B-throw all that stuff. And it became you know, so gone Pete Tong. It's all gone wrong. But why? Did he do something wrong at one time? I don't know if he actually did something wrong or someone just coined the phrase and it's stuck. Okay. I mean, language is a weird thing. I'm not going to get into it. It's not the sort of thing we talk about on here. But UK modern language and modern terminology has a lot of slang that makes no sense to me whatsoever. Let's get us to get an old noun. We have to be left to bring your daughter on to explain all that to us, right? You know, there's this, there's broad man terminology and stuff like that. It's just like, beyond me, I don't understand it. But language is developed. They change. And I'm told that this is just part of the evolution of the English language. Seems a backward step to me, but I suppose every generation of thought that. I mean, Shakespeare was supposed to be somebody who absolutely obliterated the English language. That is time. He used phrases and terminology that was considered as being very pouring English at the time. Whereas now we would regard it as very high English. Perhaps now we can discuss those three favorite cakes. I think that's like we're back on YouTube. So you know, we're trying to keep things, keep things, you know, safe, Dave. Cheesecake. That's one. Cheesecake again. That's two. I'm going to do an English thing. Eccles cake. That's a screw. Do you hope you're going to click what that is? No, I don't know what an Eccles cake is. It's basically a pastry for the dead flies. What? Is that like a term for raisins or something? Okay, I got it. I got it. I actually like Christmas cake. I like fruit cake. I do as long as it's nice and rich and moist. I actually can do enjoy fruit cake. I'm not a fruit cake fan. I don't like that. But then again, I don't like textures in my cakes unless it's frosting. Like if you have like a layer of frosting, I like that. But I don't want to, I don't want to, I don't want nuts. I don't want fruits. I don't want raisins. None of that. I want the texture of the cake. That's why I'm eating cake, Dave. Yeah, but I don't see that. See, I find like, like, your Victorian sponge red velvet sort of, I like red velvet. It's boring. All right. I have one more gear question here. And we're going to have a question for you that I've just been sent. Oh, what's that? Is Mr. McNally at the Arnold's this year? I hope not. Who's asking? My who's that? Romana. Oh, it can't. If it's in the case of Romana, then I'll say yes. I will be there. She going. So you go into the US. I'm going to the US. Right. But you're not coming to the UK. I don't think so. I would love to. Thank God for that. Is she going to the US? I don't know. She may be. You go into the US, Romana. Don't want to ask her. Oh, okay. I thought she was there with you. Like she walked in the office. Romana does. She's a really great female. I can be pro. And she's made a huge amount of progress in the last couple of years. And I got to meet her when I was out there in the UK. She works unfortunately for her. She works for Dave. She does a really good job, you know, but I feel terrible for it after I do have one more question and we're getting. Yeah, I don't sell the girl. Sure. She came 12 in the Olympia. Yes. She's fantastic. That's what I just pretty much really just said. Right. Romana don't speak scottie. I'm talking to him because he was great. He is. I'm going to believe in us. But if she was on, I was going to ask her to step in for a minute. So, okay. Third time. We're going to have to be careful with the words we use here because there's a certain word that starts with an S that it has to do with on a living yourself, which may come up because we're going to talk about a Romus in. And Romus in is a in hip and unaliving hibiter, right? Okay. So, we now that we're on the same page, everybody. It is a very ridiculous way out to go to the sex bed. It doesn't matter. They're probably not going to want to do this anyway, guys. But we'll try. Okay. So, is it safe to say that a Romus in helps to lower estrogen permanently where a remadex lowers estrogen temporarily and then it bounds back to high estrogen level. A Romus in is useless for me. 700 tests in a thousand HcG. It says per week for a cycle with 25 var. He says, a Romus in every two days and it could not lower my ester dial for less than 330 p.m. It says the Romus in isn't fake. I purchased it over the counter. I would be thankful if you could explore these two compounds. Welcome back to YouTube. I was rooting for you guys to come back. By the way, guys, if you ever don't see us on YouTube, we're still putting the show up. But you have to go to Rumble. David, rather, we're at Rumble anyway because then he can freely say words. Words. We can freely say words. Basically. He didn't say words. Yeah. It means I don't have to engage my brain before I have my fat mouth. So the actions of one stop the production of a Romate. That's 8x. The other binds with a Romate is when it's in circulation, making it in it. Like old drugs, they have a life. We tend to talk about drugs as in half life, which is the time it takes for that drug to degrade by half. But effectively it's a measurement of the decay rate of that drug. So when you use a Romus in, it will attach itself to a Romate. It means that the Romate is then cannot attach to testosterone. However, the body is still producing a Romate. So it is, yes, that a Romate will die off along with the Romus in, but your body is still going to produce a Romate is continuously. Well, you've got to remember with these these systems in our bodies that they aren't just an on-off switch, they are continually happening and continually evolve it. Yeah. So when you use something that attaches to a Romate, so you use an inhibitor of that nature and on a living one. Um, yes, it will take that individual a Romate is it buys to add a play, but the body is still going to be producing more. With ADECs, it stops or lowers the actual production of a Romate. So as a result, a Romate is leveled drop, which makes ADECs superior from a point of view of effectiveness in lowering each region levels in somebody. Yeah. The offset is that because ADEC stops the production of a Romate is one of its side effects is actually lowering HDL. A Romate doesn't affect HDL, which is why a Romate can be preferred because it's not going to be bad for lipids. I personally like a Romate, a Romate, because it has its lower impact in drug, it's easier to find tune your region management dose wise. ADECs is a bit more impact in, so it's a bit more of an on-off switch. Yeah. So it's a little bit difficult to find tune because you literally can't divide the tablets into that smaller dose, there's tiny anyway in order to find tune your region mode. There is with ADECs, so with a Romatex, there is a slight balloon in a Romatez when you stop using it. It's not huge, but you will see a Romatez production spike post the usage of ADECs. And that is simply because you've restricted that from operating, your body knows it's low, so when you remove that restriction, there's a slight overcompensation for a short period of time. I've never noticed it with that, but I have, and I know it's possible, I have noticed it real world with letras on. Yeah, but the letras all is 96, 98% efficient. So you are really slimy in East Asian hard, and as a result, the counter reaction to that is greater than both of it was that. ADECs is in the 80s, efficiency. So as a result, the rebound is a little bit less. Real world terminology, the only time it's probably going to impact you is for a week or so post-utus, if you particularly have a sensitive balance with testosterone and issues and levels, you're going to see a little bit of an issue in spike for the week or so. It may have a slight delay impact with something like PCT, but long term, there's not going to be any real long term issues with it, it's just the case right out for a week and you'll be brought in there. That's an all good explanation. All depends on where you are in, in how each of you in effect you was to whether it's a crucial point for you or not. I suppose really the only immediate impacts going to be around emotional sensitivity and stuff like that, which can obviously make it a rough ride for people, but it's short lived and I think we are a little bit, sometimes a little bit too sensitive these days in the way we react to compounds when we should sometimes just take a step back go, let's give it a few days and see what it goes and if it settles and it comes back to normal. Yeah, I'm with you, I'm with you on that. All right, how about some Uncle David advice for the week? I think that's probably what it is. Have any advice for our listeners? Nothing like brush your teeth every night. Be sure to tell your mother that you love her. I think nice things for other people because it comes back to you and you see if you'll get about yourself about that one, Dave. Yeah, I mean I think positivity in all aspects of your life does, does actually and I'm not I'm not talking about all you need to be super rosy, positivity, everything's great. Because everything isn't great. Life shitter times. And people have shitter times and it does get you down. But you've just got to try and you've got to be really stick about what's going on around you. And if you're going through a crap time, you've just got to remember that it will not last. And yeah, and the more positive you are about improving that situation, the sooner it will get better. And very often we'll feel like the worlds on top of it and we're not making progress and everything's garbage and we're not going anywhere. And then actually when you stop and look back, it's like, oh, actually I have. I've done this, I've done that, I've done the other. Yeah, we can be hard on ourselves. And we do a very much so and I think within bodybuilding that's a very strong trait because we sort of celebrate this downtrodden, you know, I work harder and everybody else, I'm a hero because I get up at five o'clock and train at five and and it's look, if you can sleep until nine o'clock and then train, look at you, I'm just jealous. There's nothing wrong with it, I'm just jealous. You know, I have to deliberately make things hard to be better at what we do. And if you commit life easy, it feels there's nothing wrong with that. But there's a difference between making life easy for yourself and being lazy. You know, life is hard. It is not an easy ride. There will be times when you really just can't see a way out. But as long as you keep putting what I've put in the other and I keep going back to this theme because it is just what gets you through. Times will get better. But yeah, I haven't really got much this week to be quiet on this. We should get you a poster of that fish. To put on your door. Yeah, door. Yeah, you put it on your wall over there next to the hand and I see the blood boosts. How you say the blood boosts? The blood boosts. Blue, blue, blue, so I see it on your screen back there. Is that the blood bus on your camera in the back? Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, you can watch it and watch the blood bus all day long. It's actually Dave's closer get TV that you can subscribe to and watch the blood bus. Is it drives around? He's got drones. He can drive around. Watch Dave would blood all day long. And they're big. I think one of the things that we week sometimes get a little bit at up on is we take things to personal. Yeah. Very few people set out to ruin your day. Most people ruin your day because they're too focused on concentrating on that day better. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. My dad gave me advice one time. I remember years ago, and he said, Scott, you know, it's something that you said, you're like, because you said, like, you know, if things will things change first of all. So if you don't like how you're feeling weight, because you're, you know, how you feel is going to change. So if you don't like how you're feeling hold on, just a minute, because it's going to be something else shortly later. But I remember my dad telling me that the bad times are never as bad as they seem. In the good times, are never as good as they seem. You know, our, that's not a lot of our, a lot of our times are made worse because we think they're going to be worse. And they actually are. Yeah. If you just stop and actually look at it objectively, try and take the emotional element out of it. Very often this actually nothing. The amount of times I've got an oiled, peder, I've upset wound up about something. And then I've had to stop myself and go, well, actually, and you know, what are persons doing? There's nothing wrong with it. It's not wrong. It's just I'm not at the moment in a position to deal with that. Or I don't want to deal with that, but I feel object obliged to do so. And this, this comes a lot with people are asking for advice. Because it's like it'll be nine o'clock on a Sunday night. And I'm just going to bed or whatever, you know what I mean? And I'm chilling out and they'll be being being being being being being all right. I'm saying. But that person's not actually expecting me to answer there. And then true. I, yeah. It's the pressure. I put on myself. I do the same thing there and then. Yeah. And then I get no, it's like, oh, it's something. And it's like, well, I can just concentrate tomorrow morning. Why am I getting stressed about this? Because he's, I'm, he's not creating the stress. I am. Yeah. Yeah. I do the same thing. There's been times I've wanted to text you because we're watching a British TV show. And it's nine o'clock at night here. And I'm like, and I did. I texted you the other night. And I was like, I know that, and I, but I felt bad. I was like, Dave, I know you'll see this in the morning. So that you knew like I wasn't expecting an answer 3 a.m. from you. You know what I mean? You are gay. What? Yeah. Which we, we watched. Why is it that British TV? One more important question. Why is it that British TV only has like six episodes? We're watching this TV show called Such Brave Girls. And the first episode I wasn't so sure about it. And then by the middle of the second episode, I was literally laughing out loud. The humor in that show is freaking dark, man. It's like, they do stuff on that show. You could not do on US television. And it's funny to you. You want to watch something that would never ever be allowed on air now. Watch, um, you have to go on YouTube for it. And it will be half-garner and sickness in the health. In sickness and in health. It's an old show. Okay. Well, this stuff would be, uh, I would on the, in the US market. I mean, they're talking about things that are very like very heated topics and they're making fun of them. Uh, the, uh, the base of the character, Alf Garnett is an old man who's grumpy, who has a care worker. He's racist as hell. Okay. He hates guys. Okay. And they send him a black gay care. Haha. Yeah. That sounds like a British show to me. So why is it Dave? You guys only have like six episodes per season versus like, you watch a US show. You've got like 32 episodes per season. Yeah. But you've also got to remember that US show is not only 30 minutes long because you have 30 minutes to the show is advertisement. Oh, come on. Such brave girls is like 20 minutes. Is it? I don't know what you're on about. So yeah. It's about these, this, these two girls, these two sisters and they live with their mom and the, the, the dad is out of the picture. It one of the girls is super depressed all the time and she doesn't have any sense of identity. And she thinks she might be gay, but she's comfortable in her relationship with her boyfriend and although she treats him like crap, but being safe is important to her too. And the other girl is absolutely obsessed with this kid, this guy named Nikki, who wants nothing to do with her other than to like, bang her once in a while and then, and then leave her guessing. You know? And so she's at work texting him. Like, never speak to me again. I freaking hate you. Then two minutes later, just kidding. What are you up to? Respired to this, don't respond to this mess, you know, to all the stuff like that. It's, it's good. But I can't even tell you some of the jokes that I'd seen in that show because it's like I said, man, they probably not YouTube friendly either. There he's, um, our last love's a girl. A show called Derby Gales. Oh, a love dairy girl. We watched all the, man, those such a good show. I'm even watched five of the Ted. Father Ted. No, I haven't seen that. What a father Ted. All right. I'll see if I can find that one. We're watching Fargo right now TV show. US TV show and it was based off of the movie and it gets pretty dark. Very cinematic, very, very good entertaining show. We're in season 30 now. Father Ted is just just humour. It's just super humour. It's a priest that lives in Ireland in his house in the middle of nowhere and he has another priest that lives in whose thickest men's. I mean, a stupid, it'd be on stupid, called Dougal. And then there's an old retired priest that lives in the old college called Father Jack and all he does is swear. Oh, yeah. And they just have these stupid adventures. It's, it's, it's light-hard. It's easy going. But it is there's a lot of self-deprecating humour in British comedy where somebody does something and they make themselves look dumb and then they're embarrassed in front of like the general public and they just have to eat crap and live with it. You notice that? It's a very, I think a common thing is that people end up feeling very embarrassed for themselves in British comedy. I think how a humour is very abused driven. Yeah, yeah, it's dark. Yeah, I mean in a nice way. I mean, there's a guy, a kind of a man whose name is all over TikTok and Instagram reels at the moment, he's a, he's a scouts comedian. I might be Paul Smith and basically just picks on the front row in his shirt. I think he'll ask a name, that's what they do. And to be honest, if someone spoke to me that in the street, I'd be, I've been to put me on as a mpok, it's because I'd be wanting to, you know, but he's like in in the youth. And I think that's something that is unique to British humour is the level of abuse we will give each other, but also to the depths of where that abuse will go. And it's just taken as bummer and being humour, you know, I mean, there's no subject that's a boo between mates. You can do anything. What does this mean? Your Paul Smith Dave. Your Paul Smith. Is that, does that give me, yes, it's Paul Smith. That's the guy's name. Only fools in horses. What's that? That's an old, I'm not a fan. I'll probably get shot for this, but I'm not a fan. Yep. So it's a Ford said Paul Smith as well. Yeah. Yeah. I remember watching a show, I watched the whole thing. It was two guys that lived in an apartment together, excuse me a flat, two guys that lived in a flat together. And I think it was called Peep Show. All right. Okay. Watch, Bob. Bottom. Yeah. Okay. All right. That went down. That's two guys that live in a flat. Okay. Yeah. And I think they called it Peep Show because it looked inside their heads and what they said versus what they were thinking. All right. One. One. Okay. I'll check it out. All right. Guys. It's what? It's a spin off from a show called The Young Wums. I know the young ones. Yeah. I never watched it, but I'm familiar with it. Well, basically two of the characters are the young ones live together in a flat. They're not those characters, but the actors, well, the comedians have played those characters. They live in a flat together. And it eats still very similar behavior. But it's ridiculous. It's for me. Well, we only have, I think, one episode left of such brave girls. And here's a thing. I'm going to tell you like one of the jokes is that the mom is dating this guy who has a really nice house. And he wants to, she, of course, she's like, she has no money and she wants, she wants him to invite her in the girl's to go live at that house. And it turns out that his, his, his, his late wife, his wife had passed away. And the, the girl's mom, their father just went out for crackers or something one day and never came. Went out for smokes and never came back. And, uh, one of the girls still believes like, oh, yeah, he's going to come back. He's going to come back and she has all these daddy issues. She's the one who has the, the boyfriend who doesn't care about her. Anyway, um, she, the mom ended up telling the boyfriend that their, uh, their dad had died as well to like get in with him. So they could bond over having both lost a spouse. And, and the, the, the, the, the boyfriend is like, oh, you, you, you girls are such brave girls. And they have to go along with this lie, you know, the whole time. And that's how the show, I think gets its name is like the second episode says, oh, you're such brave girls. And they're really all like the most horrible human beings. So anyway, we appreciate you guys tuning in. Thanks for watching and leave us questions for the next episode. Dave, I shared with the group over at Facebook a video you did from your training seminar. You're starting to get those videos back and posting them up on social media. Yeah. Yeah. The progressive resistance. And any plans? Yeah. I'm doing another one of those. I'll see what a feedback is. I've got a video back yesterday. So there's a few I'm going to fire out. There's a lot. I'm not. But there's a few I'm going to fire out. Um, and then I'll put it that up and see what people want to do. I'm going to run another pill is course. Um, and probably do another seminar training course as well. So we'll see what feedback is. But I thought I'll just do a bit of market in first. Um, and then the other thing is clear view is just about to go live. Clear view. What's that? Hmm. Is that really testing? Oh, no kidding. Hmm. So if you're in the UK, you can send a bottle of something in. Find out what's in it. No, yeah, but we're close. Yeah. We're driving it at the moment. Just make sure everything works in the sense of the web end of it works and things with everything. Okay. Um, so I'm hoping the website is functional before the end of this week. Hell yeah. All right. Well, keep us posted on that. And guys, of course, you can go to evalblut analysis.com. If you're in the UK, get your lab worked done by Dave. You can go to truenutrition.com. If you're in the US and use our code think over there, high quality third party tested proteins, all sorts of card powders, everything you can think of. They really have a lot of information about the data. If you need supplements, you want to support our programming, shop with them. You'll get some good stuff in your support our show with code think supplement source.ca for our Canadians. And of course, strong sports nutrition for those of you in the UK. Great health and performance supplements. Thank you to everybody from Patreon. We have some Patreon questions. Keep firing those things in and stay tuned to Patreon for everything that's going on with the show. Oh, also, if you're watching on Spotify, if you listen on Spotify, if they have video on Spotify, no. So, if you use Spotify to listen to the show, you can look at our pre faces. You can see Dave's beautiful face. Dave needs a weight. All right, guys, we'll see you soon for another episode of the podcast with Dave Crosslin. I'm Scott McNeilly. Catch you later. Thanks, guys. Bye.

Here's another one. If we look at 43 milligrams, Annaball, Annadraw is less than 50% as Annaball, because NPP, so NPP, then at 43 milligrams, is pretty much peeking out, right? This, Nadraw, I'm kicking butt at 43 milligrams a day, whereas Annadraw back over here is less than 50%. What we see here is that for the different drugs or different dose response curves, and especially at the lower doses, there are some substantial differences in the Annaball growth effects of these different drugs. What's up guys? Welcome back to Muscle Minds with Scott Stevenson. I'm Scott McNeillian. All of our programming is brought to you by you, the people of Patreon. Thank you guys for supporting our programming. We do have a couple of Patreon questions, but we have a special presentation that Scott's put together today, so we're going to get back to those questions in a future episodes. We're also brought to you by Trinutrition.com. Use our code, think, for additional savings. High quality, third party tested supplements from a company that you can trust. And hey, if you're from Canada, supplement source.ca, they've got great deals that change week to week. Scott, I'm excited for this topic. You've been putting this together now for like the past six weeks. We get asked often the question. It's a popular topic right now that our all Annaball extorrades created equal. And so this is going to be officially a deep dive. And I think that's the way this has to be, because really this isn't a simple topic, is it? This isn't something we can just like answer in two words, am I right? I think for most people, they could just make it simple and just be what you like, but I dig into that and the presentation, but yeah, when we take it apart and analyze the bits and pieces, it's pretty complex, but I hopefully I bring it back at the very end to the simple, simplest way of looking at it. Yeah, so I'm gonna tell you, dear, you'll get a resolution. And I'll try to put timestamps in guys. Some of it will be more dense, but I guarantee that if you hang through that you're going to learn something out of this, no matter what level you're at. See idea, okay, so fancy title, the Annaball Covalency of Annaballic, Energy and Extarruids, tuned by short into AAS, a pharmacogenomic, mechanistic, and empirical inquiry. So kind of looking at this from different angles, I'm not a steroid expert by any means. If you're doing bodyability and enhanced road, you have to come to know some things, but I wanted to kind of ask this question. These are the things that the level which I can understand these things that I thought made sense to try to address this question. And what is it exactly? The idea is that our all-anaballoc steroids equally quenquantanaballic are the resultant. Some Annaballic can anti-cataballic actions, resulting in muscle growth, muscle protein accretion, hypertrophy, et cetera, in conjunction with resistance training, essentially equivalent for all Annaballoc steroids. Example, would 50 milligrams of Annaballic today, three and a half year, and 355 milligrams of deca per week, yield equivalent gains, just sort of a more basic idea. So we've got different versions of this question. So depending on what you're really talking about, you can come up with different answers. One is this true chest for a certain subset of Annaballoc steroids, like the commonly used Annaballoc steroids. Not the exotic ones that might be hard to obtain. The holy grail, for instance, are we talking about just those that have been approved for human use, or previously tested in the scientific literature humans, test, and or alone, and a draw, and of our, et cetera. Is this true only at low doses? Or maybe this is truly a maximal dose. So if you go to three grams a week, maybe it doesn't make a difference, what you're using. Right? Yeah. So our doses, maybe some have a difference, those response curves. We'll talk about this because then this is important to teasing out the intricacies of this. Maybe at low doses, it matters what you might use. Is this true over short periods of time? So maybe you could get away with 400, 500 milligrams of an oral for four or six weeks, but 12 weeks in. So you might have an accumulation of toxicity. I'm going to repeat these same things over again, because I like to teach that way, I think it's helpful. If someone comes out of this with two or three things, they remember that's good, and maybe something I would say five or six times. Is this true on average? This is an important way to ask the point of think about this question. This is true on average for most folks. Are we talking about group values as an assigned to fix study, right? Or are we talking about the individual level, which is what, much, most coaches, individual are thinking of this. Well, yeah, on average, this drug is equivalent to that drug, but I have a better response to this drug versus that drug. So we have to go to the idea of biologically new vigilance here. There could be some combination of, like, is this true for individuals using a certain subset of drugs, right? So this can become a very complicated loop. I think that I switched from, yes. All right, I just had to have a little, there's a little E-KM bar that I want to move out of the little menu bar. Yeah. So the most robust version of this is this true at the individual and group level, IE for all individuals that all antibiotics, derits your equally antibiotic in terms of muscle growth. So that would be the most okay. They're all absolutely the same. That would be the strongest statement that you could come up with and answer this question. And this would basically presume that biologically the duality is really not apparent. It doesn't make a difference for all the same. So why would I ask this question, I'm just before. I get asked this a good bit. There's one study Boris at all, which we'll get into a study with her asked, we'll use her her perspurger. Assy, to look at Lebotra, A and I muscle growth. So this is where that antibiotic, and her genocritio thing comes from. We've got these old school and the trenches, bro science ideas. You get this famous quote from Dan Duchenne from his dirty dieting newsletter. If you can't grow and deck in deep all you can't grow on anything, right? So that sort of relates to this question. We've got this idea of stacking drugs. This has been around forever. We've created some synergy. 500 milligrams of two drugs might be better. So 500 plus 500 might be better than 1000 milligrams of a single drug, right? Decades of experience thousands of users produce varying opinions and approaches. You go on the message boards. Since the beginning of message board time, you'll see it all sorts of different contentions. This drug sucks, this drug's the best things in slides bread. We do have different drug mechanisms and actions. So antigen binding receptor binding is what Bill Roberts, people probably don't remember who he is, unless they've been around for a while, like you and I Scott, he'd sort of divide a drug as an class one class true, class two based on whether they buy the antigen receptor tightly in the studies or not. It was going to be a very instant of neurological effects, too. So if you take a lot of people take url's that increase aggression that can impact how hard you train and then have an effect on the abolition. There's also drug specific side effect avoidance. So this would be the idea of taking lower doses of each drug to avoid the drug specific side effects and get some synergy from stacking that way. So we got all these perpetuated notions and paradigms. Test is best, right? That's a good one at rhymes. The trend alone is the strongest. The milligram per milligram ever. The idea of using a test base doesn't always lot of guys in the middle east. So what from what I understand, who would do like at the world amateur is those guys don't use any tests, right? At least when they're dieting down. You might try to control estrogenyle, E2 is estrogenyle with premo or masturon. Adding in secondary amino acids, adding in orals, all sorts of way these things can happen. And also the idea is like, you're just going to have to use empirical trial and error not to find it works best for you over the course of many years, perhaps. And on note here in case I forget, you probably remember that people can probably find this podcast. We did, maybe three years ago with lats from LHS, from professional muscle. And he talked about guy. I think he was Russian, maybe Ukrainian, who he spoke with. Russian, yeah. He was Russian, yeah. And he went and he tried numerous drugs and sort of got to his unacceptable side effect threshold with each of those. I figured that out as the first step. And then he figured out which combination seems to match for him personally. And then he would just go with, I think he had maybe three different combinations that he used and he would cycle through those. And that was a strike. It took him like years and years to figure that out, right? So that's a very systematic way of going about it. So he would never combine certain drugs because he knows that in certain doses that side effects will be too much or they just don't synergize. So it's the dose that prevents that alone updose we don't have the side effects. And then the right combination, those two variables. And then their interaction, they give him particular stacks that he followed and used. So the question is, is this simply a reaction or a solution or an oversimplification asking this question to this continuous quest to find the best steroid, which will always be out there. Like what's the best one, right? That's the question. Like we want to try meant. We want to try trust alone. We try all these potentially a harsh drugs. Superdrawal, what have you, maybe this is just like, guys are just wasting your time, right? Just make it simple. They're all kind of the same. And maybe that's where partially this comes from. And there's something the same for that, right? Yeah, and go there is. With being it, yeah, just being silly. So it's a comforting thing to say, yeah, they're just all the same. And there's people like black and white answers. So there's something to say for that, that's why this might resonate with us and become such a valid question or such an off-ask question. And maybe there's so many other factors that are more important than it does kind of come out in the wash, right? For some people, maybe for some individuals, it doesn't matter so much. So some thoughts I have on that, or the final muscle mass or size that you would gain over time, maybe just more a matter of your total dose in the big picture than some secret combination of AS. Of steroids. So if you're using two grams versus 700 milligrams a week, that maybe is the most important factor for many people. And I sort of an analogy between with those who train as natural as many people, sort of your lay person, your life style client, let's say, will kind of gravitate in the long haul to their comfortable diet and training regime and the specifics of the diet and training may not matter so much the long haul. So what they just end up doing? They'll stick to something that's sustainable for them. And whether there's some better approach in terms of diet or training for them, it doesn't really matter. So there's that kind of a potential, some people are just not going to be able to find certain drugs, but just don't want to use certain drugs, and it can be very much side-effect related. So for them, it really doesn't matter. So maybe that's where this question comes from. It's just like find the ones that work for you. And they're all equally anabolic within those ones that you can use. So that's the kind of the subset aspect or variation on this question. So let's look at the question of the word directly. Is it likely that all antibiotics, your is equally anabolic on a milligrams gram per milligram basis? And this is really a question of pharmacogenomics. So this is the study of, and this has been around for decades. Now the study of genetic contribution to the variable response in this of drugs. This is very important from a practical perspective for prescribing drugs. So we've got also what's called combinatorial pharmacogenetics. So this is the idea that combination of genes can better explain variability in drug action. So if we know persons genome, and this is sort of the medicine, the future that's now become the medicine today. If we know someone's genetics, we can figure out what drugs they might better choose from. So this can get really complicated. So here's a figure, I sent you this before. I can't really if we actually did this talk or not, but this is a figure showing metabolism of tomoxifen, which many people have there probably know. And these are all, this is the metabolite schematic. And all those, the purple boxes are essential there is tomoxifen. So this is tomoxifen. And here are all the potential metabolite sick can be formed. And these, all these blue circles are the P450 enzymes that potentially metabolize. And this one P450, Cip2D6, which is in, of right of these pathways along the way has over 100 polymorphisms. So that creates this complex schematic. There's 100 versions of this. At least, just considering one of those P450 enzymes in the liver that metabolize, just to tomoxifen, it's like, OK, so does that matter? Well, actually, this is an older study. It's from 1999, I think, sorry, they could cut off a little bit. But, and sorry, that that stayed. But this is individuals pre-tomoxifen. Oops, pre-tomoxifen. Well, that just silly. They want to take though a pre-tomoxifen versus during tomoxifen. And in terms of their estadial levels, this is initially estrogen action. But this is just estadial levels because of the complex metabolism. And some of those metabolites become involved with estrogen production itself. And some of the individuals can actually get an elevation in estadial when using tomoxifen. But not trusting. Yeah, so there's something a lot of these did. In this particular study, yeah. I mean, I don't know what the end is at the bottom here. The bottom, you see, a lot of individuals who are overlapping, basically. So I don't know what the, the perusse of there's a substantial, there's a substantial number of individuals here. Who starter off with high estrogen and increased. And there's some who had low estrogen and it went pretty deep high. Yeah. So that's an example. This shows variations in cox1 and cox2 activity. And SNPs here, what you're noted, single nucleotide polymorphisms. Here interact with how prescribed doses and particular NSA, it's non-strelant and inflammatory. It's actually have their effects. A complex figure, no need to go into that. But the idea here is this isn't, these are examples of combinatorial pharmacogenetics. So I'm bringing this up because the question is, if we presume that all antivoxterides are equally anabolic and somehow equivalent, then the idea is that all these things come out as a, as a wash. It doesn't really make a difference. In the case of the class of drugs, antivolic, antivonic steroids that we're talking about. The question is, well, how likely is that? We don't have the studies and that's the interesting, that's the unfortunate thing. We don't have the studies looking directly to make comparisons, like we do for some of these other drugs. So what we do know that the antivolic action of antivolic serides is a result of the pharmacokinetics, so how the body metabolizes the drug, liver metabolism, and the pharmacodynamic. So how the drug itself affects the body, and I've got another big figure coming soon. And I want to move through that. There is a massive number of genetic differences. We're talking here about combinatorial pharmacogenetics, relating to antivolic steroids. So again, the question, would we expect that they're antivolic effect is equivalent? And there's two ways that ask this question, broadly speaking, on the average in a population, all affects and up summing out to be the same, so the population being body builders, or for an individual, despite this wide range of genetic diversity. So our meeting factors, the drug differences, what the body does to drug. We've got comparisons injection versus oral metabolites that are produced the mate toxicity, obviously being higher with oral generally speaking, binding to serum hormone, binding, elobulinobiumin, five-alpha reductase activity, aromatization, effects on the gut or appetite. And when we get away with lots of antideiral for instance, if it's going to blow up your appetite and you can't gain. So in the end albe told us, does that mean that's this animal aquel? If you could somehow get the food in a gestopropylumabe, and then the pharmacodynamics, what receptors are bound? We've got the antitree sector, less we forget the glucocordicordicordicordicordicordicordic sector, their pregestone receptor. Theanderiaschigirates' sector, of course, and those two different types of antitree sectors at least. There's a membrane bound, non genomic, and then the classical genomic end receptor. When we got effects of the drugs on the body, the drug on the body, water retention, it's got appetite, neuropsychological effects, training effects. You feel like crap, so you don't want to train, or do you feel aggressive and feel phenomenal, so you go after it and training. So these person differences, again, we got this biological individuality that I'm not gonna draw on, but that plot up there just shows the, it's a normal distribution for testosterone levels. In men, that's a typical normal distribution, right? So this, this, when you get those ranges back, if someone does a total testosterone blood test, those ranges are at the ends of this distribution, it's huge, so we've already got that in place when it comes to antigens and antigen metabolism. It's a biological phenomenon, it's basically inhuman biology, and this is at the root of why we use the inferential statistics that are at play, that we have this normal distribution, this Gaussian distribution, as in that plot up in the right there. So there's gonna be outliers. Those, if there are outliers, then the answer to the question is no, there's outliers, and you would expect that it pretty much is, as under, it's an assumption of pretty much everything, in every, every research inquiry in the biological domain. So some examples here, there's differences in hepatic P450 enzymes, P450 enzymes, we talked about in the context with Demoxom before. There's also a PDE7B isopform, that's in the liver. That's involved with cleaving the fatty acid princess in testosterone in and theta away. That will result in about 60% depending on which Iiform you have just from one study that I know of, a 60% difference in the area and the curve, basically, the bioavailability of something like deca or testosterone in and theta. There's differences in the liver phase to glucoronidation, so that's involved with conjugating a tablite produced by the liver, so that it can be more easily lost in the urine to clear from the body. Body fat levels plays a different as well in how all these things work. We could ask about that a lot, actually, how body fat levels affect the way steroids affect their bodies. A romantic levels, a romanticis found in adipose, for instance. So that's why people, if they're leaner, they might be able to get away with an aromatizing steroid much more easily than when they're at a higher body fat level. Something to watch out for in the off season, too. I mean, something you may have seen, someone starts to get more body fat like, I'm pretty good, I'm bulking. And they're getting a lot of water attention, which comes from bulking, and they're also getting lots of estrogen. And when they die, it sounded like, what the heck, I got a little bit of a guy know, I had no clue because they couldn't see it. And it was sort of under the radar, right? Other things, all these things I'm mentioning here in these last two sub bullet points, are things where we know they're biological differences. The imagery sector isiforms. There's a multitude of those. Based on, for instance, there's two places, particularly, but we know, for instance, that one place, there's C-A-G repeats in the code for this. There's a glutamine, the code for glutamine amino acid. It can range from like eight to like 28 or something, like that, changes the shape of the imagery sector. And that's been, for instance, associated with risk for prostate cancer. Because it will dictate to some degree to what extent something is anrogenic or like when DOD-H-T binds to the entry sector. There's five off-redubt taste polymorphinisms. There's variants in the H-S-H-B-G. So how much of a hormone is free versus bound? It's going to vary. And we've got placebo effects. And that's going to be a function of your both your environment and your genetic interaction. So I mean, take a practical example here. You go to a gym where everyone's highly motivated. And every other guy is geared out of his gills in the kind you're training with, we're all geared up. You're going to do that. And you're going to have a different perspective on that, right? Or take another scenario. You buy from the guy at your gym. And the parking lot gives you some shit out of his trunk. And he's a big dude. You're like, this has got to be a legit. We talked about placebo effects. You're going to have a huge placebo effect potentially. And if you're someone who is predisposed to placebo effects. And there's at least 28 different genes. Last time I looked that predisposed one more so it to having placebo effect versus not having one. So that plays a huge role too. And I'm going to more practical. It was ample. If you take a steroid that you feel more because of side effects, cognitive effects, where you see the watery tension, that could elicit that placebo effect that affects how you go about things in the psychoclassic placebo effect, where they quote unquote, give their subjects, debolved in a university of Massachusetts. And their rate of genes just took off. Like three times faster, at least in terms of strength levels. When they thought they were getting debolved, which was just a sugar pill, but they believed it. So there was a placebo effect. So and of course other things too in terms of just looking at this inquiry, use history. So whether or not a drug is going to be equally in a ballerco, more in a ballerco, could be what watery of operations. If you've got more from your first, you've got to, we've got this idea of diminishing returns. So that first cycle might be the best cycle. Not always though. It can be later on. You have a best cycle. Yeah. Your current and previous training status, are you coming from a layoff? It's like, you know, I gleaned a bunch of muscle. And I was on. And like that was whatever I used that time was great. So one of the common questions we get asked by you guys is, what would you do differently with your body building? If you could go back in time, given all the experience and education I have today, there's a number of things that I would have done differently. One of them is that I would have started using college and sooner. College is one of the few supplements who will actually rebuild connective tissue. It took me tearing my super spinatus in 2021 to get with the program. I used true nutrition's hydrolyzed beef collagen. I get the unflavery version. I pay for it myself. Just like you guys do, I use 20 grams a day. Makes it into my coffee. It's totally unflavery. You don't even taste it. Plus I use 10 grams of their micronized creatin. Creatin has been shown to improve brain health, especially for the aging brain. I need that. And of course, you know, we've always known about the muscle building effects. So this is my morning routine every day. And I'm encouraging you guys to do the same. Use our code, thank for savings. Plus it's the only way for them to know that this advertising is being heard. Otherwise, they just think you're some random dude that clicked on an app. And not do it by the do it. There's a multitude of things. And here's another way to look at it. I'll move through this more quickly, but this is kind of fun. So we got these pharmacokinetics. What the body does, the drug, pharmacodynamics. There's also the non-anrogenic actions. And all these are leading then to an abolition in the end all. And the things that they're going to pop up here in the white boxes with black writing are factors that vary by drug and are individual. So these are things that are subject to this common-etorial pharmacogenetic idea. High-monsychle oralverses injectable. The injection concentration, injection site, estralinth and volume. There's a study we've talked about here with Nandalon, like compared NPP with Deca in the glute versus the delt. And we saw there's differences there. You probably remember that one. It's a well-known study. I'm much liver stress you have and the phase two glute coronadation, which I mentioned before. That's going to affect all sorts of things. So this liver PDE, 7B enzyme, oralmatization. That's going to affect the greed of which the estrogen receptor is activated. That's going to have an effect on water retention, which can affect animal properties potentially. And the thus anabolism. We've got five alpha-reduced case activity. That's going to affect energetic properties. And in the pharmacodynamics, we've got the energy-septin-bite binding, energy-enreceptor gene, transactivation. So some antigens don't buy the energy-septin, but they turn on the energy-septor genes. Those would be the orals. And those things affect, and you have a got MPS. I think I can write on this one. It's okay now. We've got muscle protein synthesis, muscle protein breakdown, effects on satellite cells. All these things are going to interact with the person's proclivity to have those. Those are all genetically different amongst individuals. That's going to affect then hypertrophy. And catabolic properties, which goes into the overall ad addition or subtraction of whether we have an anabolic effect or to what extent we do. These form the liver stress will affect IGF1. And that'll affect appetite. How much you eat? Anabolic effects of IGF1, which is a whole other. We talked about that here as well. And there's a nice article on John Meadowsite that I put together. It people want to have a 90 minute look at the IGF1. And so we got central placebo effects. So that's going to affect potentially everything to some degree. But training stimulus, hypertrophy, and then antibody properties. So these things are all, you're come all the energetic properties. I feel like an animal I'm pissed off. I train harder. That's going to affect your central nervous system. placebo effects. Estrogen will do this thing. If you're sick, strived as low, because your estrogen's too low or too high, that's going to affect how feeling well you feel about yourself. Your self esteem levels, how hard you train. I feel great. My lady's happy or my man's happy or whatever it is. I'm going to town. I feel like I'm an animal. I'm a winter on all in the bedroom. And in the gym, so I train harder. Progestogenic activity can have an effect there. And thus affect an abolition. Or directly as well, of course. And we've got effects on glucocorticoid the mineralic oracortine activity, which can have essential effects, potentially direct effects, or anti-catabolic effects. So there's some other things that are popping up. And then all and I didn't even draw all arrows in. becomes a very interwoven network. And we've got other variable interacting effects that are seen to be genetically termed or variable that dictate the extent to which some response to muscle to resist is trading. How much muscle growth they get? Micro R&A is that's a whole other story. The other side of the turning on protein synthesis and an apple is the extent to which someone has a proclivity for muscle damage. And the genes for Actin and 3 that's a protein found in the Z line. So it's involved with sarcomer integrity, tumor necrosis factor, interlucin six, IGF2. There are single nucleotide polymorphisms there that are involved with how much muscle damage someone has. So if they've got more muscle damage, more muscle breakdown because of their genetic reclubity for that, that's going to affect the catapacabalism, how often they can train, how much amp and abalism they can affect with their training. And there are other things beyond that. So I thought this was a cool. I'm going to sit here and just bask and walk into it. This is going to cool. And it's not even everything, right? That's still all this is just scratching the surface. I probably spent, I don't know, 15, 20 hours on this thing. I could have spent 2,000 hours and still not been not covered everything. Yes, right. And it sounds like such a simple question. Are all steroids the same? Are you going to get the same results from every compound? Because it is a commonly held idea now that people, I think, honestly, at the end of the day, we're body builders and the majority of us aren't quite educated enough to be able to pick this thing apart, like you are. So it's just commonly been accepted. You're either an old school, broscience guy, or you're on board with this that all steroids are going to have the same effect. And to which all of these things that are in white with black print, those are all things that are variable. Yeah. Those are all things that are variable amongst individuals. So this gives us, those are all factors that would contribute to that normal distribution and produce. Imagine someone who has 90% of those things in their favor for whatever reason. And then they choose certain drugs that match that right. So they've optimized their drug selection and dose. And they've got good genetics. You're going to have outliers. We see this just a practical way of looking. Obviously, we have people like Kevin Leroni, for instance, as someone people kind of know, has a pretty good response to drugs that seems like his off season. Is what he's just playing with the band. And then three months, the V looks like a normal guy in three months later, he's placed in second in the Olympia. So we have a little bit of data, not a ton, unfortunately. And this isn't exhaustive. We only have so much time. Here are a couple studies sample studies with HIV patients. This one that just popped up here, a story at Al from 2005. HIV patients, no training involved. 12 weeks, they compared 300 milligrams of deco with actually is HIV, you can just grow for a moment of day. Yeah. And they got some extra cellular water with the growth hormones. I'm going to grow on this one here. So you can see this is the change in fat free mass, with the mandolin and blue growth hormone in the red. It lost some fat mass in the growth hormone with the thickness that HIV used. They had some water retention. But they got some fat free mass of some of that, probably was water retention from the growth hormone. It's a couple kilograms over this case 12 weeks. Here's a study with Grunfield at Al 2006, grated doses of exandolons and of our. And here they have gains in body cell mass, which is body cell mass is basically fat free mass, minus bone. So it's the majority of what makes up the fat free mass. And you can see over the course of these 12 weeks. Didn't get much. There's the placebo of course. And didn't get nearly as much from 20 milligrams a day as it had a 40 milligrams a day. And it looks like they kind of had sort of a ceiling effect. Your 80 milligrams a day was not better than 40 milligrams. The 40 milligrams pretty much got them what they're going to get. That's against HIV. Yeah, it is, right? And who knows, you can look into that study. But then these are averages. But the reason I wanted to pull this out is that we've got 300 milligrams a deck of versus 280 milligrams of anavar weeks. That's the 40 milligrams a day. They both produced about two kilograms of fat free mass or body cell mass over 12 weeks. Different studies, different individuals, right? But roughly on par. So this kind of points like, yeah, this is telling us about there's the arrows pointed to those two. So maybe, and I mentioned the ceiling effect. But so roughly ballpark equivalent deck of versus anavar, this is the average of amongst subjects. We don't know about individual differences. So some people might have done better with one versus the other. OK. But that, and it says, yeah, I mean, about the same. And of course, we'll see the same thing, just by analogy, if you look at training studies too. You can have different training regimens. We talked about this a lot here. That on average give you like the two versus three versus five times a week study, right? On average, no differences. But when they look at the individuals, they are a massive differences depending on the person, whether higher volume, higher frequency was better than lower volume, lower frequency. Would not be surprised whatsoever if we saw the same kind of phenomenon here. So this is just comparing two studies, two different drugs, different individual different subjects, slightly different characteristics of those subjects. So here's another study comparing Deca and test enantate. It's a pretty low-known study at two different doses. So they had enantate, kind of a sort of a sealant. These were, there's no training. These were normal individuals, healthy individuals. And they didn't really get much out of 100 milligrams per week, which you might expect, just replacing endogenous production. What they got about two kilograms, low and behold, this was only six weeks with the test. And they got equal gains with the Deca here roughly that only 100 milligrams per week, which is interesting. And the three in a milligrams a week seemed to produce even more gains. So this would show to say Deca was better than test. Interesting enough, only test increased isotonic strength. So I put water retention here. You don't, the study's the research doesn't suggest the Deca creates water retention. Per se, right? What is isotonic strength explained that to us? Oh, that's an isotonic test. It's a lab test. The sidebecks is probably the best, no, they make, sidebecks make Stimoquine with the isotonic devices. So it's a nice way to test in this case. They mentioned this in discussion. These guys didn't go out and start training in the gym. There was no training involved here. So an isotonic that just means that the speed, the angular velocity of the movement is the same. So you sit them down, you do a knee extension test. And it goes at 90 degrees per second. So, yeah, okay. Yeah, so hold on, I'm getting a notification. So that's sort of a lab-based test that wouldn't be impacted even if they were doing strength training outside, not as much at least because it's not specific to water. They wouldn't have had access to an isotonic tester. But it isn't, they got strength changes there. Preverses post. This, they didn't do a great job statistically here. So this almost says maybe deck is better that's not something you typically find. So these are normal active men, 27 years old, about 85 kilograms, no training. This was not a significant difference, statistically. So what that tells us is that there's so much variability, even though this number seems like it's, it's substantially higher. Yeah, um. It was statistically not significant. And that's the standard by which we as societies would say something is technically different. Because if there's such variable effects, there's a mathematical difference in the averages, but they're highly variable, then that doesn't suggest that there was a systematic difference based on the treatment. So that decko was better than test, in this case. Just happened the average to higher, but they're just widely variable. But I'm seeing, so the 100, you have a 100 test. And then you have 300 test. And the 300 test appears to be about the same result. Excuse me, the 300 test seems to be about the same results as the 100 natural loan. Am I correct? Yeah, I read this right. And then the 300 natural loan is, like through the roof by comparison. So just as a layman looking at this, I would think that the natural loan was far superior. What the statistics didn't suggest this, right? Now what this means then from a practical standpoint is that there is high variability. When this is sort of the way to sort of flip this on, it's had a little bit that his an often mentioned. Actually, there was no, they weren't even reporting statistical interactions for any of these sort of things, right? The statistics were pretty weak from what I read in this study. So there was no difference really amongst, in any of the treatment groups here. So you would, like you're looking at this, like, look, there was. What that means is the results were so variable that there didn't seem to be any, any, any substantive. And this is actually a glitchy bring this up. There was no statistical difference. But what that likely means then is that there were some people in terms of the deck of who are way, who are up here, and some people in terms of the test who are way down here. So what we don't know is whether this person who was kind of a non-responder would have been responder if they took decka and vice versa. Ah, yeah, okay. That's what we don't know. So for some of those individuals that may have been the case and the difficult thing, they're kind of going to this, the difficult thing is let's say someone's an average responders who they're here with test, right? And then they want to switch to decka at the same dose. We've got the log to mention returns applying here, right? So they go to decka and decka might have put them here at a better level, but they're not going to notice some giant push from decka because they've already got two thirds of their gains that would have had from decka from the test. Okay. So making that comparison when you're doing things sequentially is a difficult thing. So you can't say, well, test was a cool to decka. I didn't get any, it didn't blow my socks off when I switched from test to decka. Yeah, right. But only the test that I mentioned this later is someone would have to literally do something like this where they get themselves into a pretty trained state. Gene, leave everything the same, add in test and see what happens over 12, 16 weeks. And then take everything out, restore, become untrained, right? Right, straight. And wait a year or two and then get themselves to a trained state and then repeat to experiment and be like a three or four year experiment, probably. Yeah. And they're not going to do that and all it's going to do that. Of course. But people, even then you've got a muscle memory effect. Right, I was going to say there's still something in there because you were that big before that strong guy. Yeah, so you'd have to get yourself in bypass that by getting yourself in this trained state get to where you once were. So you've got some aging that's involved. It's minimal, which is right. There's that too. So it comes a very hard question to answer for an individual who is doing things sequentially over time. What you'd have to do is, and I have an experiment here. I'll talk about it just six. I want to jump two for a hit. So now we have this famous study, Bosnhead, all. This is the only gets talked about. It's been around for forever. 600 milligrams of testing at the week. 10 weeks here, 28 year olds, you're going to add all in trained males. And they had four groups. They trained them. They gave them testosterone or placebo. And they had training versus no trainings. And combinations, they're up. So they had an untrained group that would got no drugs. They got a group that just got the testosterone. They had a group that trained, got no testosterone, that group that got testosterone while they were training. And what we see here, then is fat free mass went up. Looks like if it just read this about six kilograms with training. And with the drug, a little bit of a whole, it just talks two kilogram. Quadriceps cross sectional area, one up the greatest with training, but they actually got some growth here in this case with the test just from taking the test. And they had the greater strength gains. You can just see this bench presence in squatting strength. So there was added of effect to the training effect of increased strength in size when you added the six or milligrams of test. Go figure, no surprise there. So the super physiological testosterone that six or a million grams is like five times in dodges production. Size and strength and hand size strength gains. And didn't have a measured impact on motor behavior. That's one thing that people mentioned about this study, too, is that these guys didn't become aggressive assholes when they're on six or a million grams of test. They supposedly couldn't even tell. They weren't able to distinguish. Or statistically, there's no difference. So people weren't able to, if I recall correctly, but it might be wrong in this, but people weren't able to distinguish what they were on, which I think is just kind of bizarre. Yeah. I hardly believe that to be honest. But they're, at least they were. They were something man, your libido or, yeah, come on. So they didn't report that. And I think that would have been something to do is kind of come clean at the end, debrief them and ask in that question and say, okay, this is what you're on. So yeah, you would know. I mean, you go from nothing to six or a million grams of test and your, your, at least your sex drive is gonna go up for most everybody. So another very interesting study, it's comparable, six or a million grams of decka in this case, for 12 weeks, they graded it up actually. It went for, I think, three weeks. They graded it, the decka dose, and then for 12 weeks they trained. So it's basically the same duration, 12 weeks versus 10 weeks, six or a million grams of decka within without training. These were HIV positive men, older, little bit lighter. But what we see here is if we're looking at and I just had a kind of compile. These are the three measurements were pretty much that we had in both studies. And the decka itself gave us this sort of, a little bit better than two kilograms, but as a, you know, it's a 12 week study. And when you had a training, you got a little bit better growth. There was a statistical effect on lean body mass and strength, but not muscle cross sectional. So we did get better lean body mass here. We did get better in this Grace Benchpress, strength was measured in both. Obviously you would hope, but they got some increased in bench rest, strength chest from the decka. And as it turned out, the quad cross sectional you didn't matter. That's correct. That one didn't have. So we've got some interesting things, but if we look at these, I'm gonna go back. Look about this six kilogram fat free mass number. What do we have here about six kilograms roughly? 600 milligrams versus 600 milligrams. So there's some favorable comparison suggesting that decka, and this is, remember, this is untrained naive folks going on one steroid at a time. And we're getting roughly the same average. So this kind of points to this possibility, you know, that at least under these circumstances, we're gonna ask you sort of this version of the question that decka and test at 600 milligrams give you about the same gain. So what we don't know is the individual differences if we were to compare decka versus test. If we could do the repeat test for an individual and see whether they respond better to one versus the other. Or whether they prefer one versus the other over time, it's only decka for 600 milligrams a week that interesting thing, they said these individuals that I write this in here. No. I believe this is, yeah, here it is. It's just above the rest. All the subject reported reported feeling better while receiving study therapy. That was just, just therapy in general. Yeah, so they felt better and all of them got decka, right? Oh, okay, yeah. So some of them trained, some of them didn't. That comparison we have for training. Just better in general. Just better, that was a quote I pulled from there. So none of them apparently complained because it said all subjects, which has said subjects, reported feeling better or I was even not in complaining decka deck. But let's think about decka versus test at this dosage long time, like six months. Six months, it's a little bit different. Yeah, this is only 12 weeks, 10 weeks for the other study. Six months, you're going to have some guys that are not going to be like being on just decka. For six. Some people will be okay, but not everybody. So over the long haul, you might lose those gains, right? You might say, fuck it, I'm coming off. And if somebody doesn't know how to do a PCG to get themselves back online and that can take a while with decka, maybe not the best extra choice if you're considering coming off. Then you've got a situation where in the long haul, the answer is, no decka is not equivalent to test, is decka fuck me up, ruin my life in relationship. I lost my girlfriend, but what have you? And I stopped training because I felt like crap until I got myself online a year later. Whereas test was like, I just tapered the test down, put some HG in there, what have you. And I was okay going back to recovery. Here are T-dose, right? Yeah. Oh, yes, recovery differences. So here's what I mentioned. We're imagining a study that's at the very bottom. This is what would be really interesting. I don't think this is going to happen. But imagine, because we've got these 600 milligrams, doses where we compared 600 milligrams of test, there's a bit different groups. And you could add training and no training if you want to make a mega study, 600 milligrams, decka. And then what happens if we toss in like 300 milligrams of each? See if we get a stacking synergy. And then what if we did something? Because we test the end of our before. This might have to be the HG patients. 200 of test decka and anava are each. So it's called total dosage, which might do better. Yeah, I don't know. I could see that the last version may be being better for some people. Yeah, I know my own body, I'd prefer that. If you told me to take 600 tests by itself for the next 12 weeks, I'd tell you to go fly a kite. That's all I know. All right, right. But the test with some decka, you got your test base, so to speak, your deck has been a high handle that. And that anava dosage is, you know, that's substantial. That's like little less than 30 milligrams a day. So 25 roughly. Yeah. That's reasonable. With that fair better than 600 milligrams of test or 600 milligrams of decka, given those side effects. Yeah. See how it might be better for some people. Yeah. Hey, speaking of really quick, you showed us that anava study a couple slides ago. And what it was, it was good. Forty was better than 20. Was it? And then a kind of flat toad. Yeah. We got some plaque because we had people telling us all you need on an episode of drugs and stuff. All you need is five milligrams of anava anything more than that is a waste. If it's far more great anava, that's all you need. So I would say based off of that study alone. And just obviously personal experience over 20 years plus that you can get more benefit from 40. And you know, but there's a cost to benefit too. There's there's, you know, the higher you go, the more side effects you get, right? But I would say for most people, 40 is going to be pretty tolerable for, I guess depends on the period of time. Six weeks, or are we talking six months? That's exactly one of the points. Thank you for bringing that. That's one of the points here is tolerability is going to vary. And it's going to be a function of time. Yeah. So for the long term, like, you know, you're doing 40 milligrams of anava all year round. Yeah. I'm going to get old. I'm going to get old. Yeah, you're right. Right. And one of the things too, like something that just sort of seems like it's sort of an, you know, an empirical finding. So to speak, is that one thing you see in some of the best body builders guys that are pros is they have a good response to the drugs of course too. And they also have a good ability to tolerate the drugs. Absolutely. Genetically variable. So it's kind of like with training. And we talk with Brandon Curry about, you know, what happens in the Middle East is like they just run every one through this high volume treacherous training regime. And those who can survive and recover stay in those who don't, they end up going elsewhere. So one feature, when I aspect them, and you see this amongst many proes is that they can have a higher training stimulus or greater training dose because they have better recovery abilities. And the analogy, the analogous situation here with with steroids would be you can handle it have your dose because you've got better ability to handle the toxicity. And that could be physiologically and maybe even psychologically. Yeah. Right. So so this is kind of interesting. So we got some some ways we could say, yeah, they're equivalent. And then we could reason, it depends, which is sort of my favorite answer for most of these things. So here's the fun one. Right. There's the big daddy that I've been sent numerous times. Right. And I'll take some time to explain this. So this is this Boris that I'll study. And this I selected out the the analog steroids here. So I did make this a little bit bigger. There's mine. So what we have here is immature rat, the vatra aint I wrote. So young rats, it's a 10 day study. 10 days in a rat means a much would be equivalent to a much longer time in a human because they have much shorter life expectancy is two or three years depending on the rat. Strain. And all of these drugs were injected too. So some of these drugs, for instance, these four, which is anodrol antivard, dienobal and windstrol, windstrol being the exception. The first three for sure are typically injected. Of course they can be. Yeah. I'm only sitting injectable of our one time, one time in it. Yeah. Yeah. That's very rare. Debal, antidrol, a little bit more common, windstrol, very common. Right. And for instance, the pharmacokinetics of injectable versus oral windstrol a little bit different. So that's something worth keeping in mind. So this is an isorat study and is only 10 days. But what I've done here is taken the doses that were used in the study and they're here at the bottom and converted them using body surface area, standardized equation that basically the relative dose would be about 15% in a human versus a rat. So these are doses that for 100 kilogram hypothetical bodybuilder. So the blue is 9 kilograms a day goes all the up to about 429 milligrams a day for the green. So for each of these drugs, we've got a series of bars and those represent for different groups of rats giving different drugs, all the different doses. It's pretty massive study. The growth is levator aegro. So this is a muscle in the perennial area and the taint to use the scientific term. Basically, it's typically used in this hersperger's assay as representative of muscle and abolism. So this is growth in milligrams relative to 100 grams of body weight. So it's relative growth. So it's not absolute. There's nuances there but not super important for our purposes. So the first thing to notice is see if this works is that we have a dose response curve for each of these drugs. So if we look at, for instance, anodrol here. At this low dose, this is the control group. And it was just one value and I just put it in for all bars. They didn't have, you just have one control. You don't need to do a control for each dose because it's the control. It's no drug, no dose. But we got a dose response, kind of sort of linear at the sort of plateauing at the top here. So the far end, for instance, let's look at, sorry, get the thing out of the way for myself. I got this far in the way here still. Just sick. Got anandrolone. So now we've got anandrolone and this in anandrolone's case, all the way here at the far right. At the far right there, I'm drawing up. Can you see the drawing there? Yep. Okay, good. So just when we get to this third dose of 43 milligrams per day, anandrolone's pretty much topped off. They've got actually numerically the same numbers. It's probably, you've got measurement here in those sorts of things in variability. Okay. So this is a different dose response curve. And I purposely ordered the drugs in this way to go from what seemed to be kind of the least. I didn't do the actual mathematical averages. But if we look at the bars for the various doses for anandrol, they're lower than the bars for anandrolone. So anandrolone's sort of the least anabolic with this indirect measurement. Or maybe direct measurement depending on what you consider most important. Anandrolone's the most anabolic. Anandrolone has a pretty steep curve from a low dose to sort of a more moderate dose. So what we see here then next is if we compare anandrol at 43 milligrams a day, less anabolic than one tenth of the dose of NPP. So if we compare right here, we compare right here basically zipov effect with this very, very low dose of anandrolone. So not in the other grams a day. You're getting more, you're getting, sorry, if we compare, not the one I want to compare. 43 milligrams of anandrol. Right. It's not even mathematically as anabolic as nine milligrams of anandrolone. Wow. And with that, it's not the same. And with that, but they same then with the anandrolone. Next to it it looks like. It looks like. Yeah, you can make multiple comparisons. I just picked a couple out here. Yeah, gotcha. And the deal. Here's another one. If we look at 43 milligrams, anandrolone, anandrolone is less than 50%. As anabolic as NPP. So NPP then at 43 milligrams is pretty much peaking out. Right. So this. Nandrolone's kicking butt at 43 milligrams a day. Yeah. Whereas anandrol back over here is less than 50%. Based on the lavada a andi. And that's how much anandrol? 43 milligrams a day or about 300 milligrams a week. Okay. So that's an that, but I'm gonna let you keep going here. Okay, say anything. I'm almost done. We can take your time. Yeah, take your time. This is fascinating. It's really cool, I think. So another one that I wanted to pull out was Winnie. Is about 50% stronger than V-ball at the 53 milligrams dose. Our day dose. Right. So here's my pointer back. Here's Winnie. Winnie has sort of a same dose response curve as anandrolone. So it's doing really well at this 43 milligrams. And if we compare that over here with diandable, Winnie's about 50% stronger. Right. So these comparisons when we're looking along the dose response curve at these more modern kind of reasonable doses, three and a milligrams a week, something like that. Right. When you converted from, again, we're making some leafs. We're converting from a rat to 100 kilograms, 120 pound human, making some jumps. But what we see here is this, in this animal model, so it's not humans, is that for the different drugs or different dose response curves. Yeah. And especially at the lower doses, there are some substantial differences in the anabolic growth effects of these different drugs. Right. Absolutely. Yeah. And so we have marketed differences at the lower doses, but less so at the higher doses. So if we look across here at the peak effects, at the highest dose. So this is 430 milligrams a day. So this is like over three grams a week. Right. Three grams a week. So we're in human doses. Yeah. We're talking three grams a week. Yeah. An angel on pharma proponate. Okay. Yeah. Oh, man, a draw and in pp. Like if we look at the lighter green, you know, when we compare all gold, all they cross is like, okay, you know, we got, we got a kind of a peak here, but there's less of a difference here. Maybe a 30% difference after do the math between this max value and the max value. So that's the lowest of all the max values. And here's the highest of all the max values. It's not that big of a difference at the higher doses. So that's a ceiling effect basically showing itself. So once you're at three grams, right. It doesn't really matter. As long as you can handle three grams. And one thing that's that I sort of know is that I did a little animal work early on in my my master's degree and these animals are super hardy. So, you know, this, this body surface area, equivalency, it does seem to match up when you look at all the physiological, formological factors as a nice way to make comparisons with these animals or hearty man. They're really, really hardy. So I don't know, you know, and it'll actually isn't as toxic as people might think based on some of the studies that are out there if you trust in their data. But three grams, and it'll, you know, for, for, you know, multiple weeks. Yeah, that's eventually. So that maybe, I don't know, we don't know that the study didn't say it. We don't know why we don't know what factors led to this. If this was a toxicity effect. Yeah. But overall, we have a different dose response. So, so this, this, this is a nice study because it suggests two dueling answers to the same question. And, and the, it depends is, it depends on the dose. In these animals, when it comes to levator A and I, whether or not a two drugs or all the drugs are considered equivalent, they're all kind of close to being equivalent at the highest doses. Yeah. Just some degree. But at the lower doses, when it makes certain comparisons, there would be, if you're, if you're a rat, it was really wanting a big levator A and I, right? Then, you're going to, you're going to pick certain drugs over others. And, and, and, and, P.P would be a good choice, when straw would be a good choice, right? Yeah. Yeah. You know, a 43-milligram per day dose for instance. Right. That's where you're getting the most bang for your buck. You're getting the most from the least, which I'll bring up again. Okay. At those doses with those drugs, if you're a rat, you want to grow as butt muscles. Yeah. Okay. So, yeah, it's something you want to interject, Scott. What was that? One thing I wanted to make sure we got to on this particular slide. Well, first of all, I love the way you've got this all color coded. Did you pick these colors out yourself or how did that work? No, I just didn't. I did this in Excel and it just, it automates that you can change them all, how you want them to a lot of magic stuff. But that's just the, like, the automatic colors. I was just curious on that because it looked like a lot of time you put into that. That was number one. But number two, you, we, we worked, we've talked about this, you know, a bunch of times now off the air. And one of the analogies you made that I thought was great was the car analogy being that, like, if you take your general commercial car, they're all kind of going to go around, like 120 miles an hour, right? Like if we take a Ford, Festiva, we take my, my mini Cooper, you know, we take the neighbors of any van. They're all probably going to go around ballpark 120 miles an hour or more or less. But the difference is in how they get there that we're probably not all going to be driving 120 miles an hour, just like a lot of people aren't going to be most people. I can't think of anybody taking three grams of anage, raw. So the nuance is going to be like my mini man, my mini is not going to take out a Ford Mustang, you know, if we get a, or, or, or charge or something like that off the line. But when we start getting into like that zero to 45 and going around curves, man, that thing is a fricking blast to drive supercharger. Turbocharger is awesome and that zero to 45 range. Right. And I thought that was a great analogy. I wanted to make sure we kind of touch time too, because that's where the nuances really seem to be is is in the dose itself. Yeah. And you know, it's funny. I didn't even think of this at the time when we were talking about that. But I have, I have lived sort of the perfect analogy. Whenever I don't have the dogs with my daily driver is my electric motorcycle, which you can do like zero to 16 like 3.5 or something like that, right? It's crazy. So, and it tops off, I think, at like one 10, like it won't, it has a limiter on it. So you can't go faster than that. Yeah. And but I couldn't get at that speed. I would only get like 60 miles range, right? So that's, so that would be akin to you're taking something that maybe gives you good gains in the short term like maybe an oral, let's say, but you can't, it doesn't have good longevity. It doesn't have good duration, doesn't have a good range. Right. And I got my, my, the blitz team will be, my RV, which I named after my dog, my pup blitzy, who who passed one year ago yesterday. And I mean, getting that thing up to 60 miles an hour, you know, I take my time. I'm in no rush, it might be 20 seconds. I don't know. And it could maybe, it could go 100, I've never gone probably faster than 85. But so they would have roughly the same max speed. But I've got a 90 gallon gas tank in there. Oh. So I can, oh, you know, five, six hundred miles, no problem. So different drugs, slower gains, let's say in terms of the blitzy, poopy, ill, or an RV, or a big, a semi-irwood have you. And different ranges to how long you keep with it. So that analogy does apply, you know, to some degree. Yeah. Yeah. So, okay, let's see, uh, the remote. So what can we make in this? We're kind of getting close to the end here. It's certainly possible that need to, and a buckster, it's going to be cool and forgiven person. Is it likely, three or more AES would all be equivalent for him, person? That's a question for someone to maybe try to figure out. Once one is quote enhanced, this law-demonstration turns makes evaluating other steroids more difficult. We talked about that. You just can't, you know, the more, the bigger you get, the less the what you're going to see and you can't say, one was much better than the other. You're not going to get massive newbie like gains from adding a new drug in most cases. Under maximal dosing circumstances, at high max, well, dose could, and a buckster has be roughly equivalent. Yeah, we could have this ceiling effect that may limit max one apples. Remember, this is only a 10 day study with their ass, we just looked at. Right? Although, on the other hand, person specific side effects could limit the max dose. So in this case, some max and apples would not be equivalent. That might be side effects from an oral, let's say. So you just can't, you can't do two grams of an oral week. Right? For a very long and compare that with two grams of injectable. Yeah. Under more reasonable or lower dose in circumstances, your dose response curves may for some mean that different animal effects at reasonable doses, like this, like this, for us, it all study kind of suggest. We've got individual variation. And this seems to match the empirical reports, rows prefer a certain A, so we're others. Some guys like certain drugs over other drugs. So, and those, if someone's using three grams a week, they just like drugs, or maybe they're just a little bit, they're just highly motivated. So, but for people who are trying to do this over the long haul, most people have settled on stacks or drugs that sort of work for them. And there can be very reasons why they would get better results from certain drugs than others. So, stacking complicates things. They've got a couple more cool little slides. Given the unique pharmacokinetics and dynamics, it seems like that stacking any two or more drugs with different characteristics may be more effective than the same total dose of a single drug. It's possible. This could depend on the drug stack, the individual, and the dosages, staying below side effects, the stack drugs, for example, using lower doses of orals, avoiding polysysthemia and hypertension, could allow synergism. Yes, this is basically what the bro idea of a stack is. This is whole idea, right? This is not rocket science. So, since then, we have a high effect, high side effect oral, we want to compare that with a lower side effect test. And then we've got a lower effective, but less side effect. Well, so a lower effective side effect, a lower side effect versus the more effect of a higher doses type of drug, like what pre-most reputation is. This might be a drug that's better option for stacking. So, we've kind of created practical dose response curve. We've got a nebolism, this is a cubange what we just saw on the Boracid El study. And higher doses can be this x-axis, so side effects would limit your enabolism along-home. So let's say we've got maybe this is what we see for a high toxicity orals animal steroid. At the low doses, so on the left, here we're seeing pretty good dose response and eventually toxicity takes its toll. We just can't handle any more because you can't spell as slow without anodrol for whatever it might be. And then we might compare that with something like testosterone. That's maybe more potent, meaning in terms of its toll response, right? And slightly more sides than some other drugs, but it takes a higher dose before you start seeing these at the end here. So this is what the dose response might be for something like testosterone. And then we would have, oops, and my computer freeze up, there it is. And we have something like cream-o-mite look like for someone individual. This is just examples, right? So it's potent overall, that's kind of female has that reputation, but it's also less toxic. So you could take it out to higher doses and get your sort of max effect at a higher dose compared to something like testosterone, right? Because you could go to 1,500 milligrams of cream-o and not, you know, feel awful. And maybe use higher doses, but you eventually can have some toxicity, right? So this is how different examples and the reputations might fit into this sort of scheme of relative potency and relative side effects in a practical sense, right? So these were just impossible scenarios, these weren't suggestions, right? It's going to make sure that's known everybody. So the stacking complexity then becomes kind of fun. So we've got ideas of synergy and avalism with stacking of mental healths before toxicity or sectional actions. These could sum together, so the toxic could be additive, or seconder actions could counter side effects. So you could have compounding liver stress when you add a bunch of orals to a test, that's not a good thing. But maybe you can control estrogen actions by adding mass-drawn to higher test dose. This could be helpful, right? So this is the idea of some synergy or summation with enabalism that could work in your favor against you, depending on how clever you are with how you precincts together. We've also got the notion of mechanistic synergy. So multiple pathways of enabalism, a clasp mentioned as before, the classical injuries after a membrane interceptor, ester receptor, everything from that big diagram I had with all those factors interacting. We've got basically multiple pathways that were attacking with the different drugs to some degree. And this, of course, is why people would add things like growth hormone and insulin, et cetera, et cetera, as well, to get multiple antibody pathways to some with minimal side effects. So this would allow for them lower total doses, multiple pathways, and that would be better than higher doses with having redundant pathways. So using drugs that act in similar ways. So here we've got what I just showed you with these three example hypothetical drugs. And then let's say we were to take three drugs that stack well together. And we use the low dose of the first one. And we add a lower dose of the second one. And we're still doing well in terms of the slope of our dose response curve. And then we add our oral in there. So let's say those are kind of the same three drugs. If we look at where our single AAS or a single drug peak dose would be. So that's here, roughly here, for just to stostrome at this dose. That's our total dose of using just one drug. And we compare that then with the total dose of stacking three drugs. We then we've got some potentially marginal potentially substantial, basically we've got to the same anabolic effect. But we've got a lot less dose at your maybe third, maybe 50% of less dose. That's basically the idea of what effect that stacking could do potentially hypothetically again. Hey, I saw it in my own experience, man. My early cycles were testing, first, the deboling, then testing debol. And then test deck at in debol. And man did that shut me down hard. I had such a hard time recovering from the deck at. So I said to myself, you know what? Screw all this stuff. I'm just going to use hormones at my body produces. I don't like using the word bio identical because that's a type of compound specific. Right. It's a specific form of testosterone. But you could say, you know, bio identical hormones. I stuck with testosterone. I said, okay. So if I ran by a hundred tests, 400 deck, why don't I just run a thousand tests? It's going to be more or less similar dose. And I'll tell you what, man, I had the worst deck in my life from from that. It's like, my back was terrible. You know, and it was, you know, it was, it was that thought. I just, I never had used that much test. And man did I ever pay for it. You know, versus an effective stack, I could say combine test and say EQ, not get that same shut down effect. And at the same time, that's still able to bump that milligram up total, you know? Mm-hmm. Yeah. So I didn't put the scenario where you have. This was with, you know, being more concerned that looking for a lesser total dose. And sticking like the idea here, I kind of tried to represent this was that the slope of, you know, let me go backwards here. So we use a load of compound one, which keeps the slope where we want it pretty high. Load us a compound two. Load us a compound three. So our slopes high when we had each of those in. And those would be things that, for instance, if it's the pre-mo or the master on, that's, that's or master on probably is the more certain one. I think this is just sort of empirical data, but the best one to reduce estrogenic effects, then you might use master on, let's say. Here's when you get some, nabblins from there. Various combinations for various people, but you're using the load doses on the left side of this dose response curve. Below the side effects, when you're getting the most bang for your buck, getting the most from the least. Yeah. So yeah, that's what I was trying to present there. So move through this. I think we're at the end here. Again, just suggestions, not suggestions, just scenarios, just possibilities. Just like, don't do this and what's saying this is what you need to do. This is just educational material. So some concluding thoughts. It could be a potentially moved question. Like, is this just an academic question theoretical question? If you're really trying to answer it, this doesn't mean that there couldn't be some utility and stacking as we just discussed, right? It makes sense. But as far as knowing the answer, if one drug works better than the other, buy itself or what have you, or whatever variation of the question you're looking at, because your past cycles, we said, past cycles, future cycles using other AAS, this is going to blur your ability to valiantly make comparison. Like I said, you'd have to do repeated tests with long breaks and detrain in between, not going to do that, or maybe have twin studies, right? So you get two twins, right? And people are going to, those are tough to do. They've been done, but not in this context that I'm aware of. So practically speaking, most people are going to try new compounds and inch towards a personal ceiling based on their total dosage and willingness to push training and food, right? So everyone's going to have their own limits and it's going to be dependent on what they're willing to do and how well they're, how hard they're willing to push everything. You take someone who's going for broke, trains like an animal with eats like an animal, and pushes everything, drug wise. That person's going to make better gains so someone else, you might have the most optimal, but they don't want any side effects. They want to notice it all. And they train like a girl scout or boy scout or a cubs scout or whatever, don't offend any groups, right? They're not training very hard and their diet is crap. So the personal, you practically speaking, how you go about things may be much more important than whether or not this question has one particular answer and other. At the upper limit, you know, limiting factors can be drug tolerance, your budget, your motivation, at the lower level of dosing, consistency, nutrition, training, lifestyle, I'm going to play a bigger factor, right? So you may have a lot more variability to paint based on all the other things you do. If someone's just taken in massive amounts of drugs, right? That it could be an all drugs type of phenomenon, like this guy's so big, everything else it does is shit, but he's using two grams of stuff. And that might be why he's where he is. So for some people and this is the thing, you know, it doesn't have to be the same answer everyone. There may be some preferred or more bang for the buck compounds for some individuals. And for others, these sort of synergistic differences may be minimal and it may be more a matter of total dosage, right? And that's highly possible. That's that we see, I'll go back to the study, two versus three versus five times a week per training. There was one third of those individuals did better with higher volume versus lower volume. There was one third of them in individuals to a bit better the other way. And there was one third in individuals who were didn't matter. So it's very possible for some people, it's a matter of total doses, more than anything else. And some people may get some synergy that comes and some people may have one drug that works better than another. So there's various hospital answers. So ultimately your genics, great as for all I think, kind of a caveat to that to some degree, is that for the most part, though, any kind of combination above about 250, 300 milligrams a week, if tolerated will over time likely produce substantial gains over a netty condition, especially in older persons. You take someone who's 45 and you put them on 300 milligrams of test, most people are going to get something out of that. Most people. So we kind of know that, right? And it could be nanderloin as we saw or it could be test. One might be preferable in terms of long term, but of the short term, you know, you're going to see something over a natural condition. So pretty much whatever you use. And that's what we've seen in those studies that was ended earlier. So the last thing I'll say is, consider this, one of my favorite sayings, one of John Nettos favorite sayings, I love to call upon John's whisper, awesome. Get the most from the least whenever you can. I think that's the best way to go about it. If you're going to choose the enhanced route. So thanks for listening. Here's some dog picks I was in my presentation, dog pick. You know, Jesse, the new one. Jesse's in the middle there. Yes, she's underneath the desk here at my feet right now. And I will just a little Jesse monster. So that's it, my man.

What's going on, guys? Welcome back to Blood Sweat and Gear with Skip Hill. Andrew Barry, I'm Scott McNally. Oliver programming is brought to you by you. The awesome people at Patreon. Thank you, everybody, who's jumping in and taking part to help support the programming. Because YouTube's not what they are kind of, sometimes when they decide to. We're also brought to you by Trinutrition. You can use our code, thinkovertrinutrition.com. You can get some high quality third party test and supplements over there. If you're in the UK, you can shop with Strom Sports Nutrition for some good health supplements, really good blend, support max, that's one I suggest you check out. If you're on cycle especially, and of course, go to supplementsource.ca for Canadians. I saw the Granite Recovery product there. One of our listeners sent it to me for like 15 bucks because it was like a close-out deal. Yeah. So if you're in Canada, you can get a deal over there. Otherwise, you know what you can shop with, and Granite here in the US, and use Andrew's code. What is it? Very 10. Very 10. All right. So anyway, we're going to start out with a bunch of stuff, guys. If you want to take part in the next show, let me encourage you to comment below. We'll take your questions then. After this episode, we're going to need a bunch of questions. Today, we're going to start out talking about a topic skip has. This is something Andrew wanted to bring up. So we're going to drag up some coaching secrets from skip. Something to do with pulling out the carbs from your pre-workout meal. I feel like there's a Bible out there for bodybuilding dieting. And that is the last that's in the list of things. The first thing you don't do. Tell us about it. Add that to the list of things that I'm not supposed to do, or we're not supposed to do. Pre-wants carbs. Everybody is always wanted carbs, prior to training. Intri, I think, is a little bit different. So I don't want anybody to, they may listen. We're talking about carbs pre-workout and I think, they must think intros, but I think it's a completely different issue. Because of the depletion is going on. You're replenishing very, very quickly, same with EA's, intro to. Totally different animal. My argument has always been that the meal prior to training doesn't need to be heavy on carbs. For a couple of reasons. Number one in my own experience, I just don't function as well in the gym. When I say heavy, I don't mean 150 grams of carbs. But for myself, speaking for myself to give some numbers for perspective, I don't want even 50 grams of carbs, or 60 grams of carbs prior to training. I focus more on protein and fat at that. There might be some carbs. I'm not just trying to go keto and anti-carb, and I can't have any carbs in me. What I'm saying is I don't feel like I need this bolus of carbs prior to training, because it's going to help me to increase intensity, help me to excuse me, be stronger or anything like that. Plus, we all know that digestion takes place, not in 15 or 20 minutes, but over the next few hours. So that needs to be factored in as well. They get in the way for me. They disdain me. They kind of bog me down. I just don't feel as good. And the premise is pretty much this simple. The fuel used while you're training for anaerobic exercise, which is weight training, is glycogen. That's how you get a pump. So circulating, I don't feel, circulating blood glucose levels need to be high, going in fact, I think it's detrimental. For those people who, to even, though there's a hundred different ways for, you know, there's individual components, there's different methods that's fine, speaking for myself and my experience. That's why I don't agree with taking in high glycemic carbs or even, you know, shitty carbs prior to training. And yet I do think they're great post training, which is one of my rants that I fought myself to go on this last week on Facebook, because there seems to be a trend right now where people and trainers, I would say wanna be trainers, but some other trainers too, are kind of getting on this wagon, this bandwagon of, you know, serial is so, it's so 1999, it's just so, you don't need to get it. And posting studies about how to study it. Okay, you posted studies that it's not different. So if it's not different, then get off of the serial issues. What does it matter? Brought as it matter exactly, but that's another discussion. The point is, is the pre-workout carbs to me, I don't, I think they get way more attention than they need. And I think they're highly overrated. And I think I've heard you say the Andrew that you made a change too, and you saw positives from polling carbs prior to you. Did you pull all of them or just some of them? So when I had read your intense muscle post about it, this is going back 10 or 12 or 15 years maybe. Oh, and that's outdated now. Who would do something so old? Yeah, yeah. No, so I will immediately start a thing about it. I'm like, okay, well, if I'm eating enough carbohydrates specifically, my post workout meal the day before, I should have theoretically replenished my glycogen, and the glycogen I'm using throughout the day to, I was on my feet back then being a trainer, to walk around my day. I'm feeding my breakfast, my, my subsequent meals after that. So why would I need a big bowl of carbohydrate meal, especially if it's like you said bog you down during your training? Like for me, I want my stomach as empty as possible. And while I have that, back then I pulled on my carbs out, and I was just doing like maybe chicken and peanut butter, chicken and nuts or something. Today I do utilize carbohydrates, pre-workout, but it is my smallest carbohydrate meal to this day that I take in. Yeah, like right now my pre-workout meal is a cup of that 25 gram Greek yogurt, a scoop of weight protein thrown in, and 70, 80 grams of granola. You know, little untraditional. I know most people don't associate granola with the pre-workout food, but it digests so well for me that by the time I get to the gym an hour and a half later, my stomach feels like it's near empty, and I can do my intra and I can do my training and I feel great. You know, like we always talk about rules and I don't care like about any of these rules. It comes down to like what works for the client's digestion, for them to allow the habit, for them to be able to have the most effective workout. And if you're trying to slam 150 grams of carbs at someone, maybe a mixture of rice and some fruit, and some some easier to digest carbohydrates, that's still a big volume of food in your digestive system. You better believe it's gonna take more than an hour to digest that by the time you get to the gym and start moving around. And then you're sending mixed signals to your body, right? Your body's in rest and digest, but then your brains trying to tell your muscles to turn on the sympathetic nervous system, and that don't end well very well for most sure. Yeah, I also have blood supply for digestion. That at that time, your body is fighting because the blood wants to go to the working muscle. So digestion, let's be fair, how efficient can digestion really be, which is for a food, a solid food meal, while you're training, which is exactly why or the argument for intra nutrition, because it's so fast and you have a higher amount of fluid, which is funny, because then I think it's a good point to make. Intra workout nutrition is pretty important, but if you don't have enough water, those supplements are gonna sit in your gut and they're not the gastric emptying isn't gonna be as quick, you're not gonna be providing that quick. No, you're not supply or a simulation of the nutrients that you're taking in intra. You make a very good point to Andrew that I didn't even think about before talking about this right now. You touched on the time. I do something similar now too. I don't, my meal pre-workout is not zero-carb. It is one of my lower-carb meals, but here's the caveat. I don't train for about two hours after my last meal. And that's part of the digestion process too. Not only do I not want it in my stomach, but I want to have started to store, and so that I don't have those circulating blood glucose levels that are higher. Now, Kinoa, chicken breast, and pecorino cheese, as an example, is not gonna cause huge, huge levels of circulating blood glucose. That's not really my main focus at that point, but I think people who focus on taking in more carbs, I think they tend to think, they give it more importance, or they think it's more important than what it actually is for how their performance is gonna be in the gym. And I would argue that it's not gonna help at all, unless you didn't eat all day. And at the same time, it may actually pull and make your training slightly less effective. I mean, let's go to the most, obviously, let's just say that everything is equal, but your 20 or 30 minutes in your workout, and yet you go take a shit. Carbs will make you have to go to the bathroom. Gah, already lost it. Twice, carbs were demonetized. So that's her favorite. But the assword gets a god of it. Must be, it must be. It used to be the assword, but I have, you know, I've matured over the years, so now it's less offensive swear. But anyway, you get in 20 or 30 minutes, and what's gonna make you have to go to the bathroom to do a number two, more than carbs. Super fun. I mean, come on, it's, yeah, and then add a stimulant to it. We all know how that special is, you age. At any caffeine or pre-workouts, like, you just clinch and you're butt shakes to get into the bathroom. So, I don't know, I went off on a tangent, which I think I've been pretty good about, but we're waiting for it. We're waiting for the tangent. We had something else too. I know we're gonna ask Andrew, we had a question related to DC. Was there something else that we were supposed to get to? I think, I think it was gonna jump to somewhere else before we went there. Oh, here was a comment. That was really nice, skip jumped in on. Jonathan said, yep, my wife watches. She surprised me now and then with the knowledge that she has gained, and I was really nice and I said, that's awesome, man. And skip says, tell her I said hi. I said hi. I said hi. But you have to understand, I can't make. I overstepped my bounds last time that I made a comment about Jimmy Dean's sausage to a guy when I attended him. It was an avenue with his mom. It was, I thought hilarious. And I was mortified that he did not receive my humor, the way that it was intended. So now I've had to tone it down a little bit. I've got a segue, Scott, that, because skip started bringing up the social media post that he saw that we both kind of commented on. I saw that one too. I think. The post that Neil Hill had posted with a picture of Flex, the city, never ate cereal once. Never ate cereal once. He never did push pull legs. He, let's say those were the two main things he was saying. Sure. And he won Mr. Hill. He's had left. He never did lift in once or something like that. Which, okay. So my issue is that when, and I think the discussion, because then someone else, Phil Viz posted, made a post about high level coaches. And like what people in the industry associate with the high level coach. And I think the most people in our sport think of like names like Hani, they think of Chris Ascito, they think of Neil Hill, they think of, you know, those will comp you one coaches, right. And I kind of have a problem. Guru's, yeah, Farah, Ascito, Milos, you know, all those names, because... You still got, sorry. Yeah, but it got a laugh, didn't it? Thank you. That's all that matters. But I think you guys are going with this, because when people think of those coaches, they think okay, they work in with Olympians. And where I'm going with that is, okay, they're high level because they can work only with, or they work with these top Olympians. But could they take an average person? And I have yet to really see it. I've seen a pseudo-do a few. Can they take someone that looks like nobody and make them look like somebody? Because I have a problem with that high level coach, because in my mind, I think all of us are high level coaches in the sense that we work with more average people, but we bring them in the great shape. And we help with more people, period. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. Because some of these high level coaches, I know for a fact, they take your money, they send you a plan, they don't respond to your emails for three months, and then they send you another bill for the next three months. Like, yeah, I can think of two to four of these guys. That happens. And I know none of us would ever do that to somebody. Ghost them, take their money, and then be like, oh, by the way, it's time to re-up when it's three months later, after not here. Yeah. So my issue with, and maybe some of our listeners and watchers can comment, what their opinion is of a high level coach, because I put one in my story, and I got a lot of good answers. And I guess going back to the Neil Hill post, which kind of urged me a little bit, was like, okay, what you're saying. You let it wasn't just me. Oh, no. Okay, so you're telling me you can work on a Ferrari, but can you work on a Toyota, and get great results on a Toyota? Can you work on a Dodge and get great results on a Dodge? Because most of the people that any coaches ever going to work with are more average genetic people. They're not these top 1% genetic freaks that grow muscle, regardless of what training program you put them on, regardless of the drugs you put them on. You know, it just kind of irks me when a quote unquote high level coach uses they're Olympian as an example. Now, if he was some Joe below, like, okay, so someone who looks like maybe Adwater, Cordura, right? Not the best genetic guy, but I would say Chris Acito has done a great job with him, and maximizing everything he has. He's got a lot of shortcomings with his muscle bellies, brings him in peel every time, right? I would say that's a better example of taking someone who is a little bit more on the average spectrum and turning them into a top 212 guy, versus taking someone like Samson who meelose has got a hold of and adding five more pounds to his frame when the guys are genetic, any of those coaches, any of us could work with him and make him look the way he looks. In my opinion. There was a time I didn't understand that and then I worked with one of those guys. And then I was like, oh, Scott Stevenson. So he worked with Dave Henry through almost David. That's a good example. He's a good example of taking someone from a regular and making turn him into somebody. Well, that's not what, no, I wasn't gonna go there. I understand Dave's a genetic freak, but I don't think he was like, he knows Scott. Here's what he tells us. Here's what Scott said. He said working with Dave Henry, he used the word Ferrari. He was like, it's like, we're gonna have Ferrari. You can just do anything you want and it's gonna work. He was like, he just, and it's not like Scott didn't really still have to work hard with him and invest a lot, but he was like, you just like, you can push him as hard as you want and it's not gonna stop. Like it's just, it's gonna work with Dave Henry because he is one of those guys. He had, I mean, he had his weakness as two, but he just like, no matter what, it's like, you couldn't go flat. You know, he just always was what he was, which is, I mean, the dude's still competing today, you know? That's what I was talking about with Phil. Have you ever seen him flat? Yeah, I asked this question because we're all gonna say no and the listeners are probably thinking the same thing. So then you have two ways to look at it. Hatties absolutely brilliant or Phil can't go flat or Phil's flat, a better way to put it is. Yeah. Phil can go flat for Phil, but it's still ridiculously and absurdly full that no one can tell the difference. So we don't know. Yeah, it's rare and I work with it. I work with only a couple guys that are like that. You can get it like even at their flat, yes, it's like damn you could still do pretty good, you know? Yeah. Exactly. And I think it's important to note though for the listeners. We're not coming on here to bash Niels far as him being a trainer. That's not what Andrew's saying. That's not what I'm saying or Scott's saying. Absolutely. What I'm saying specifically about what Erkeh me or what caught my attention to begin with with his with Niels post was the reference to the post work out serial. And the reason is this, the burger thing prior to a show Matt caught me. I've messaged him a couple times and I'm like, Matt, Matt, Matt, the one time I told him I said be careful that you're not disrespecting the people who came before you. And he immediately he was like, I'm so that's not what I meant. And when he explained it, I understood. And what he explained was it's the other people, the wannabe coaches who take what you did and what other people have done. And then they use it as their method. Like they have come up with it. And it's so popular now and it's used by so many people because it's arguably so effective that now it becomes laughable. And I told him I totally get that. But here's what you have to understand from my perspective. When someone like you, Matt Porter, post something like that, maybe think of all the people that I have worked with. And they may think that you're saying that that's a bad idea. And he said he's a perspective. I didn't think about it that way. And it was done and it wasn't an issue. So Matt's a very abstracted. It's an old-gen guy. Absolutely, absolutely. And that's with Neil. I want to say this. I'm not sure the context. And I posted this. I'm not sure the context that he was making. He may not have been bad mouthing it. I may have been just assuming that because the trend now is to bash these things like the postwork out cereal or burgers and picking for a show, it may not have been that. It may have just been him saying he doesn't do deadlifts and yet look at his back. He doesn't do push-pull legs. And this is the one that kind of push-pull legs is about, I mean, who can slam push-pull legs? But he doesn't do it. He doesn't do that. And he's still in the same with the cereal, obviously. He doesn't. He's basically, he might be saying, flex didn't do these things that everybody else does. He does yet. He created a world class physique. My argument would be he's a genetic anomaly. So like you said, Andrew, he can do everything different from everybody else. Phil Heath, I never saw the guy pull a dead ever in his life. I never saw him do a real smart. I never saw him do a real smart. He was doing a real smart. He would make noise when my camera came out and from the longevity DVD. And I turned around and looked him. The camera's not even on. And he laughed. So it's one of those things where the Paul Delets of the World and the Phil Heath. It's not that they don't train hard. It's not that they're not deserving of where they are. But I do insist that people look closer at the genetic component because there are a lot of people. Thousands and thousands arguably tens of thousands of people who have done everything right and will never threaten for a pro car, never this goes back to our conversations. We've had about how some guys can do fantastic with a little bit of gear. It's the same conversation. Absolutely. And it's also why it's hard for anyone to believe because who wants to admit in their hard hearts that it doesn't have to do with a work ethic or being consistent and just banging and outworking the guy, or outworking the other competitor or the guy next to you in the gym. None of us want to believe that. Hell, if I believe that I'd have never gotten. I'd have spent two years in bodybuilding. You know what? You're right. I suck at this. And I would have gone and done something else. There is a massive, massive genetic component. Yet at the same time, a lot of articles about this and I always make the analogy of a poker hand. We all are dealt. Our two cards in the hole. You still have the flop. You still have the driver. You have to play it out because in the end, if you play your cards, right, you can be the ace king in the hole. It's just that they have such an advantage going in. But you don't know what's going to happen over course of time. Shelby Starns always use him as an example. No one dusty. No one would have ever thought that these guys are going to turn, they're going to be pros. If you would have told me it was a pro, the first show you started trying to have been like, yep, next in life. Because I've heard that a million times over. But he did. And some people think, well, he outworked shitty genetics. No, he had the genetics to get there. He just had to kill it and he had to play his cards right and he had to put in the time and he had to bang bang consistently for a long time and he got there. Yeah, push pull legs. It's so awesome. Yeah. Yeah. No kid. Yeah. No. No. No. But it's bigger issue though. Well, I'm just going to say the bigger issue is I just hate when these quote-unquote high-level coaches that people associate with that term throw out these things without the glaring. You have a top 0.5% genetic freak in your stable. Okay. Like, let's start with that and then anything after that, like, we'll take that with a small grain of salt. Yeah. He could do hypers and get erectors. Right. Yeah. He's still working hard. He's still putting in the time. He's still bangin'. I'm not taking anything away from the guy flexes a cool guy. He was him. Let's see Arnold. We were going to the Arnold. We were on the same flight because we left out a Fort Lauderdale and we were the only two clowns who landed in what March, early March and Ohio was short time. And we laughed about it. Knowing full well, no one's going to understand. We just came from Fort Lauderdale and it was freezing. But in the point is, these and I said, I'm not taking anything away from him. What I don't like is I don't like when trainers don't understand that when they post something, especially high-level trainers like that. Without meeting to, it's kind of condescending and it's a shot sometimes at people who are still good trainers that don't do what you do because you don't have to do it. Or those things don't necessarily work for the genetic freaks. And it is day and night. We all know this. Working with the genetic freaks versus the average person who is fighting for every five pounds of muscle or is fighting to get ripped or fighting to get their glutes or lower back ripped when everything else is ready to go. All right. Moving on here for BSG. This is also from Patreon. Thank you very much, Jonathan. He says, I've heard pros mentioned that sometimes they stop losing fat during prep and half to switch things up. Is it just the rate of loss they mean or does the loss really stop? Is it possible for pro bodybuilders to hit a true wall in fat loss with all the aid of PEDs so much muscle mass in training does metabolic adaptation still occur? Thanks for your support. Good. I like that question. It's good. Yeah. That's a lot of good. I'm not sure if you're going to have a lot of good quality of the body, but I think with some of these freaks, you've got a much longer window or much longer road to drive before you hit some of those walls. I mean, everyone has genetic strengths. You have more average genetic people that also have a propensity to burn fat very easily. We all have some clients that you would have to struggle to make them fat in the offseason, right. But then you also have the other end of the spectrum where you have fast muscle gainers, but then for them to get in shape, you've got to start the diet at 30 weeks out and you've got to be on them from day one. Everyone has their own strengths and weaknesses as we talk about more average people, especially. But, yeah, if you took a bodybuilder that was eaten 5,000 calories a day and you jumped them down to 1,000 calories a day, eventually they're absolutely getting a hit a wall in terms of metabolic adaptation. It's just how the thyroid works. Absolutely. The body wants to hold on to what it has. Like it's hard to go from, let's say, 200 pounds. You've been 200 pounds your whole life and you've been eating 2B 200 pounds to try to get to 220. You know, it's almost as hard to get to 220 as it is to get down to 160. There's pros and there's everyone else. And people are pros, not just because they, it's not a shoulder to waste ratio. It's not the shape of their muscles. It's not the fact that they get lean and shredded. It's not that the fact that they put on muscle easier than everybody else. Utilize gear and respond to gear better than everybody else. It's all those things. It was like, it's every, it's every. When you're a pro, you don't hold, you don't hold fat in your, in your lower back when you're ready to go everywhere else. It's not common. There are exceptions to the rule, but the very vast majority, which is, that was redundant. The vast majority of people, the vast majority of pros have those pro traits and those pro qualities. That's why they're pros. They still have to work hard. But the difference between the pros and the rest of us, our, our, our mirror mortals, is will work our asses off. Sometimes equalize as hard, sometimes harder and not be able to get into that same condition that pros are able to get into or not be able to put on the muscle that pros are able to get into. It's just, it's not like, oh, there's amateurs and then the line is so close to pro. There's amateurs and amateurs are down here around the two mark and then there's pros and they're up at the 12 mark. There is this huge disparity between the two. The only thing you can argue is the people who are amateurs and they're on their way to being pros. But again, going back to the dusty or the shallodies or the people, they fought and they got there. But how long did they take? A lot longer. Yeah. And I still say that those guys will work harder than the large majority of pros. We hear these stories all the time and Phil is just so easy. He's such an easy example for me to use because I knew him so well and I knew him when he was coming up from his first show and I watched the whole thing take place. That's why I was so supportive of him on the boards and got blasted. And everybody who had been at that level for 10 plus years was saying, oh, he doesn't have a back. He sucks. He didn't even Chris have a cost. Love the guy. But Chris have a cost at that level in Colorado for a while and Phil surpassed him and everybody else the rest of us in Colorado in a year. Nobody wants to see that. Nobody wants it to happen. It's hard to be supportive of that until it does happen and then even Chris is like all. There he is. He's really, he's good. I can't take anything from him. Eventually come around and you understand that they're just on a different level. And I will tell you this, Phil did not work Chris. He did not work Chris in if you took any five years that Phil was at the Olympic versus five years that Chris was an amateur and I'm just using these people who don't know who they are but I'm using it. Chris can be anybody. Okay. He did not work him. He didn't do it longer. He didn't do it any harder and yet he rained for years and it's arguably one of the best bodybuilders on the planet ever, hallelujah. I think that another kind of another direction here to look at too is I think I don't know whether Jonathan is a competitor or not. But I think sometimes when we hear a competitor be a pro or an amateur say hey, you know things weren't working I had to switch it up. There's a timing factor with doing a contest where let's say you're just doing like a hey I want to get in shape type you know non-competitor you know diet. Well if things aren't moving as fast it's not going to be as critical but if you have seven weeks and you're trying to time it up to make sure that you're on point to be there then maybe that's where things are like a little bit more critical that we make the changes when we need to make on you know what I mean. Sure. And methods will sometimes stop or he need to do need to mix things up there times where and I'm sure you guys have done it where you've got calories low things are slowing down you're refeed you skip load whatever you do these things you add cardio and the progress doesn't seem to be there and you increase calories and all of a sudden the calories in the regular diet and then all of a sudden the metabolism is taking over. There's a there's a huge component that is misunderstood about prep dieting and even for some people who struggle to get fat loss you know max fat loss who don't compete and that is sometimes you have to bury the metabolism and then build it with by adding calories and people struggle with that concept because it seems so counterintuitive it's not counterintelious we leaner just are having calories it leaner and carbs weeks out they're like 12 weeks out they're like but I'm only eating this many calories now what's going to happen later you know I just say I don't know I can't I don't have crystal ball like because like we talked about last episode you know the post show phase being reactive will prep as just as reactive too right I mean how many times do you you got them on a plan they're losing two pounds a week everything's one good your your check-ins are so easier like great awesome keep going no changes you know and then you have like two check-ins in a row where they're up the way or they're looking softer or whatever might be absolutely you got to make changes I think sometimes people think that like you start a diet that diets gonna be the one you're on from point A to point B to get there and as you do more and more preps as a competitor you know you're gonna find oh wow we made 15 diet changes this prep where we made 25 diet changes this prep including you know refeeds or complete diet changes in terms of you know pulling carbs and increasing fats or whatever it might be and that's where you know a good you know diet technician or coach comes in handy because they can see those things they've had experience working with other people in those situations and they have maybe not the one thing that they need to do but they have in their back their mind okay there's probably three or four things we can do here I think this is the most common route that or this is the most advantageous route for this person they put them on there if that's not working okay we're gonna go with a different route so there's a lot of that inter dialog that goes in on inside a coach ahead when they're you know looking at a client's plan looking at the client's progress analyzing how many weeks out we are how many weeks they need to be in a contest shape so there's all these different things that are going on through your mind as a coach and as a competitor and you just gotta be able to extrapolate and and wait through that information. Great and as a client you need to trust the reason that you went with that trainer to being in with and if you don't trust them you gotta wonder why you went with them. Well I mean here to the thing you know because when someone looks at our Instagram pages or you know our websites with the you know hundreds of clients that we've gone in shape you should feel pretty confident that okay like if I'm not getting in shape with this person you know a first am I doing something wrong am I miscounting something and am I doing something wrong is an athlete but b or is there just something wrong with this prep meaning the coaches try it all these different things maybe it's just not going to work this time that's very rare but like I mean I can tell you right now I've pedopold people out over the years where it's like nothing we're doing is working right now we need to like rebuild and start over and look at a different contest. I'd like to take a moment to say thank you to our supporters thank you to the people who have helped us make this show continue to come out several times per week. So number one thank you to our Patreon subscribers and if you know one of our Patreon subscribers you can thank them directly because they're the biggest driving force right now that's helping to support this show. If you want to take part in Patreon we could use all the help we can get we vote with our dollars and I want to say thank you to everybody who is voted for us. Also I want to say thank you to our advertisers you guys have directly supported what you're doing you believe in us and I only work with advertisers that I believe in too shopping with them is shopping with us. Use our code think at true nutrition shop with strong sports nutrition in the UK and shop with supplement source.ca in Canada. I'm happy to talk and give you insight on any other products or if I don't know I can direct you to somebody that will appreciate you guys tuning in and thank you for all your support. Let's get back to the programming. All right John has one he says a longtime listener and Andrew's old client. Reneri. He hired you, Andrew. He did. He's actually John's a good coach himself now. He he coaches a bunch of athletes both competitors and non-competitors and he looked really good I saw him at Eastern USA's. He didn't come in the way he wanted to because I think the coach he had at the time did something where they had done it before and it completely flopped and he made him do it again. He was reminded him, hey coach we did this. This is the look it gave us. It wasn't good and but then he went on to national. He looked pretty good. Okay. Let's see if this ties in because it's about contest. Preppy says it was wondering each of your thoughts and when trying to make a weight class judgment how much should you be typically over the cap before deciding to die it down. Let's say for a national show for example. If you want to make middle and make the first call out prep should should you start at say 220. So it's ain't how heavy should you be maybe before you get into a show for a particular weight class because that made that varies big time because let's say you're someone that doesn't get like John Meadows for example. The guy like I say this all the time but he started a contest prep and the kind of shape most competitors will get into one stage. If you know what I mean like he's peeled. So for him his variation of weight was like three to five pounds for a diet right. Where as you know you'll see a lot of I've seen this too and I think Gary Turner's talked about this. This Gary was a heavyweight at like 223 to 24 from North Americans in 2020 he had been as high as like three 15 in the offseason leaving up to that and I think that was when he realized I just can't do that anymore it's not producing positive gains for me on stage and then I think he stayed much tighter after that and he's been a super heavyweight ever since then and a good super heavyweight he made first call out I believe at North Americans and USA's that year in 2021. He looked he looked as fast to then too you know. He did him on the show we had him on the show we talked to him. Yep he used the 220 mark. Oh go ahead. No no I said enough you go ahead. Why say the 220 he used the 220 mark for the middleweight and he cut off the 176 so you know my response would be this some guys can be a 220 and make the cut off and look crazy and other guys started 220 and they'll struggle to get to 176 and not look overdicted and have a hard time filling them out and peaking them so it is it's incredibly random there isn't a ceiling to say oh that's bit I would say this if I had a middleweight who was say below the national level they were 220 and they had to come in at 176 I'd be like we got work to do bro like we got a lot of work to do and we need to get on it. Right now that's a 30 week break. Yeah we have no time to lose like this is it we needed to start yesterday. Can I I think but John's really asking here is when you are let's say you're looking really good at 180 but the middleweight cutoff is 176. Do you make that decision to stay as a light heavy because that's your best flow? That's what I initially thought well because we talked about this because we talked about this. But with that cutoff be like how many pounds over the weight class are you are you think you're saying? Yeah that's what he's really asking because we've had this we kind of had that discussion in the day before the show when he wasn't really happy with I think the program he was he was running into the show the protocol going into the show and again I think that's a judgment call because if you have an athlete that no matter what you do they don't go flat I think you absolutely push for the middleweight's right because they just don't go flat the muscles around like a fill he type the type of physique like you said his flat is something that we can't even see we can't even tell because he's still full. Whereas if or somebody that the minute you are a pound lighter than your best weight whether it's fluid loss or glycogen depletion and you look like a completely different athlete you look stringy like myself that's a case you go your best look you go to your best look whether it's 180 you stay with that 180 I think and you write it in and and you take your chances in a light heavy and I'll say this because a lot people are so obsessed with weight as an amateur most the time I was the lightest super heavyweight in my classes but I was also the most peeled super heavyweight in my classes and I never lost heavyweight class because we brought that conditioning and because that in an ever and I looked at the pictures because I'd analyze them because of it man this guy's got 20 pounds on me you know how do I how do I beat this guy at 240 and he's 260 you're 259 or something when you are bone-dried peeled and full you will look just as big as someone that's 20 pounds in a little less dish okay just a full minute shape the the illusion of it you will look every bit as big as that person next to you so I say always go with your best look unless you're one of those genetic freaks that never loses its fullness never loses and the guy who lost to you and he was 26 year 250 he's still complaining about it on social media because he was so much bigger than you after reality is you outworked him and it's there's nothing more disappointing to me I don't care what the level of the show when people have the muscle in the shape and they cannot do the work in that class sometimes in the heavy heavy's too well sometimes in all classes but I see it more in the super heavy they that is such a size and those guys at that level in that they cannot stand to lose three pounds so they are seeing themselves in much better condition than the mirrors actually telling them they are and then they can't figure out whether they don't win the other thing that I think needs to be mentioned about what weight class to go in when it comes down to the wire those last couple weeks is the level of the show and how the show is set up based on the way in versus when you're going to get on stage away in the night before and getting on stage next day is completely different than a national show where you might have two two and a half days to fill out true I mean you could get you know I'll put it out here I in a situation where I have two two and a half days I do want to pull most people down because I'll get you dry and then I'll load you and fill you out and add fluid back and you're not going to lose condition you're just going to get better and better over those those two two and a half days that's a completely different story than if you have to weigh and I remember you know I'm old enough to remember when you were weighing in the morking you're the pretty close like me too yeah you had to be ready to go it's also different I think you guys would agree it's different at the national level because you've got guys who are arguably almost 20 pounds heavier in those bigger weight class but they only suck down to get into those guys so then they go pro and everybody's like oh he gained 25 pounds well he may not have he may have just not done the ridiculous and absurd things that he needed to do to get underneath the cutoff for that weight class let's just play a game and this is completely fictional let's say you had to weigh in the morning off which nobody does anymore and it's not a national show then and you got to make Steve's shows a lot of Steve shows up here in the northeast you still weigh in the morning do you still okay let's all all in between eight nine a.m. and then your pre-judging is either ten or eleven a.m. so you got a middle weight you got a middle weight okay he's 177 do you would you make the decision to say hey yeah let's go to 176 this is this is they are got multiple questions here but it would it be would it be worth it for the one pound to weigh in okay so being I think all of us are coaches at the level where we can talk to the promoter be like hey how many middle weights you got how many of these got like we can play that game and get a little insight as to like oh is the light heavy and shape no okay I'm staying like heavy you know I mean I think you can play that game a little bit but I think all of us all all of us knowing that like they're really close I'm maybe I'm just speaking for myself but I think all of us would like to have that person at 176 like two days before right it out so that they're so insensitive and ready to load that at the minute you weigh in you can start feeding them so it's not like a suckdown you know what I'm saying so 177 you can work with it that was my first question yeah 78 where do we draw the same thing when I'm saying where do we draw the line you know what I mean on that yeah I get your point I think it's a good point but if it's a few pounds I'm I'm gonna do it because I think that the chain but again we may use different methods too where if I'm but let's let's say this okay let's throw something else in here I say yes if it's a few pounds I might even go as high as me I don't want to know if I want to go that high but in point being is if you're gonna get them down and then you're gonna load the the loading that I would do I have to take into consideration something else too because of the loading method I use if they are prone to distension then I have to take that into consideration because I can't throw off the shoulder to waste ratio and have them potentially distended from loading so people can handle loading like let's say it's a you know a Phil Viz type guy with a smaller waste oh yeah and I would even use um manny as an example you know with the with the 212 I would definitely have done it with him because he can handle larger amounts of food and he will assimilate them in his condition will change very very quickly in say a matter of a couple hours and that's really I mean what he need you need a couple hours yeah depends on the person again how about this what's the most you pulled off of somebody let's say the the weigh-in was like let's say it's a Saturday show national show Friday morning was the weigh-ins for for the men like a 10-a-a-a-a-a-a-a-a national let's say North America okay okay um we're just you know what's the most you pull off for someone in a night I guess we can say a night I don't I would tell you this I have heard numbers from Matt and I they always made me uncomfortable I was not as aggressive as he was but I could but now it depends on the weight class too but let's just say it's a light heavy I would if I had to like I if I saw someone that I thought you just have to be here it's just it's the difference between winning and potentially getting you know sudden almost said your A-B but I caught myself saying getting better so which has no impact when you say when you're getting your A-B your A-B but anyway if I have to I would pull man I pull I'd pull A-dish when you start to get up around 10 I'm getting a little nervous yeah I'm getting a nervous because that has snutch and impact but again national level you're pulling it and then you have the time to go back for a couple days so in this case I'm saying you had you had the rest of Friday to feel it because I actually have a real world situation and you guys might be like holy crap how do you do you do so weighing in Friday morning? Friday morning shows on Saturday morning yeah depending on the person I could get a little bit more aggressive with that I thought we were still on I thought we were going national show weighing in the morning and even though that doesn't happen it was still yeah you know the point of okay but yeah I mean eight to 10 pounds getting up there higher it's going to depend on the person and how they're going to be on the lightweight so lightweight one 59 that's going to be obviously forced 154 so it's going to be a different story okay what's the most you think you could pull off them so I would say this for for a guy that was bigger I was thinking light heavy to a smaller heavy I would say I'd feel comfortable with seven pounds I'd feel comfortable with that and I feel like I try to play shit stuff I broke the rules I love what he's doing I try to play things really conservative so I think the the the time that I pulled the most was with that guy classic competitor Joe Russo and I I know I told you about this Andrew where he need to be 200 to get on stage in classic and at about it was under two weeks out he was at like 222 and we were eating like just fish and veggies see that's hard and we've been doing that for a while dude we went to the gym together and when we went out because I didn't see him in person every day but I did see him in person we're standing outside of the gym and he was chewing gum and I was looking at the striations and his cheek dance that day and that was two weeks out 222 he's right in shape so yeah he was like he was ready to go and we what I ended up doing was we like basically had to starve him in so I could get him close enough and then I think maybe we pulled like five six pounds at the end to get him to make way but we still had that was like Wednesday for you know Friday show so I would say if I'm saying a heavier guy seven pounds I might feel comfortable with a lightweight it for honestly so not 13 and a half did you do 13 and that's I figured you were gonna be okay we do so the reason why I'll give you reason why because this guy was because there are always variables and it's all we knew he was competing in both classic and open body building okay yeah and we had a data fill out which I wasn't too worried about because he didn't really ever go flat but yeah we sucked off a little more than 13 pounds off and I'll say we only use one die as a okay okay five milligrams and he won the double pro card he he got the classic and he got the lightweight body building which was pretty pretty pretty what's his name should I say it because I said I did say oh yeah never mind never mind I was gonna give him a shot I mean he wouldn't he wouldn't actually he wouldn't mind he wouldn't mind he's his name is hemorrhage malai he's from aruba and that's one of the only shows that people from outside of the country can compete in the north americans which is why we had to do that one and and because he was doing classic as well that's why we had to do we had to get him down to that that the weight limit and we had to we had to basically make sure he made the light the lightweight classes well so what time did you you had to weigh in on Friday compete on Saturday I would do it was like he was on stage probably around two o'clock on Saturday and then what do we know and I'm Friday like after not a say I want to say it was between two and four okay so what did you where did what was the game plan then after you guys made weight and what in what did he weigh like how close was he oh like 153.9 you guys like you know right where you right where you want to be to make way you know that that year went with Joe I went out there with him we brought a scale with us we literally because like a five hour drive six hour drive for Tisha Kago so we literally went and like a truck stop bathroom and he peeled down and we weighed him and we're like okay you can have a little bit of water you know you got a sip of water yeah I had this guy literally we were doing sauna sessions like all day because I don't like to use you guys no I don't like to use a lot of diuretics and not that the sauna is that much safer than you know but we did use we we alternated 20 minute sauna sessions with 10 minute cold showers and then repeat and then do it again and we did that chewing gum spit and all your spit out you know if we gave many food it was like an ounce of chicken and like up our upheaval broccoli you know just to hold his hunger over enough and and I think we did a lot of caffeine just to try to control his hunger with stimulants that day so he probably didn't feel very good but he looked amazing and it worked I mean I should have said he gone into it because I know you you would have paid attention like I did had he gone into the higher weight class what do you still got the pro care I don't think so I don't well I'm trying to remember who won the I can't remember that is back in 2016 or 2017 but I remember at the time being like okay this was a good move because he also got to do the classic because I think that the classic number was still was 154 as well for his height so we knew that that was the magic number that we had to hit and because otherwise I probably would have thrown him in the next class up but now I think I probably still would have done the light the light weights because it was just what you did how bad did he rebound oh now he was good I mean he was maybe good I think we probably put him on stage you know at 161 162 and then like the following week I think he was only up to like actually I think he was lighter I think he was back down to like 157 or something this guy was like dedicated like on the program doing the reason I asked that is because some of like yourself you know and I'm sure all three of us we would be careful maybe even more careful coming off of a show like that knowing what is in store if you just go off the rails and it gets very very dangerous and just it can be not so all the bodily system that's a good point I think we probably all like have that discussion people if we use any type of dioratics or any type of drastic water drop situation that hey like we need to treat the post show especially these first three four days just like we did lead in into this we're gonna do my crotchanges we're not you know we'll do a free meal the night after the show and then I want you to get up into cardio we're gonna do a probably a lower carb day and maybe one more free meal for dinner and then we're back on your money really prepare him like beforehand you're saying yeah yeah but I mean but with someone who's doing a national level show who's done several national level shows and who also just got their pro card I think like that mindset of like okay like I can stick with the program another five weeks and you know really ease out of this type of condition versus letting it all go so so his positive story is everything I don't know what somebody yeah you so I know that he get in there with a fork and dig it out not a spoon a fork one of those old I was gonna go a spark and it would have been the funnier but it was a good funny very specific like you'd like get something you've done you know I mean it so how long ago was this this was a 16 or 17 I remember he's a competed since oh yeah he's done several pro shows yeah he got what he got second or third at the masters was it called the masters worlds in this book yeah I think the year after that because he's a smaller classic guy he's done let's see if we done Tampa I think um what else did we do he might have even done Tampa when I did it last year now I think about it but there was 40 something guys it's so you get lost in the shuffle there but yeah no he's done well since then he runs his personal training in coaching business down in a rubestill and I think very successful we haven't connected since then but I think in the last year too but fear wants compete again I think he knows I think he'll call me got one more here got time for one more actually we had more guys if we didn't get to your question please comment again we'd love to get to him but we just out of time macy Clark one of the several female listeners we had a bunch of ladies you asked for the females to come in and in fact like I think where was this we had even like look at this two back to back from teen page they're both like hey we're female listeners so there's a bunch of them she said um question for the next blood sweat and gear I want your opinions on uh when you look at increasing protein versus carbs and fats I've traditionally only been around four ounces across six meals in prep and off season the only time my protein was ever increased was many years ago and it was increased to six ounce portions across five meals I believe it would have worked out well but my carbs got so high so quickly in addition to the higher proteins that it ruined my digestion um y'all see many women under 140 pounds um every work ever work better with uh higher amounts of protein and keeping carbs and fats more moderate as a strength in adding tissue okay so to basically okay so so when do increase protein versus carbs and fats yeah is that basically the overall just absolutely um with a female competitor so I mean I feel like guys uh protein and takes for the most part are fairly consistent with weight class in general overall you know across the board women I find a little bit more variety like I'll have a lot of women somewhere in the 145 range of grams of protein per day I've got several women that we get up as high as 200 grams and I think the biggest driver for that is digestion um and the other thing I want to point of a protein and I know I know Justin Harris pointed this out like 20 years ago that you know we think a protein is just building muscle but the vast majority of your protein gets burned as energy right because if you do the math on it let's say let's say you're just eating 100 grams of protein 365 days a year that's you know 3 but 3,650 grams of protein if you do that weight into math you didn't put on that much uh that same amount of muscle you know what I mean so a gram of protein that in your intake does not equal a gram of protein accumulation in terms of muscle mass absolutely so where does it go right where does it go it's burned as energy through gluconeogenesis so I think that's the important thing to remember that you know increasing protein doesn't necessarily mean it's going to increase your muscle mass and in in a lot of cases it might be a detriment to your muscle mass because of the effects on your digestion okay um but in terms of like increasing protein I think you know coming out of a show I think we look at or I look at I want to increase carbs because usually those are the ones that we've been deficient in the longest so I want to increase fats a little bit because those usually don't fall in nothing but they're also deficient compared to their offseason and then once we get to that point I do start to increase protein a little bit but it's not a fat it's not like a 4 ounce to a 6 ounce portion it might be 4 to 4 to half ounce portions or it might mean like you know I guess I call it like sneaking calories in like instead of you know a 3 ounce chicken meal maybe we go to like a 25 gram Greek yogurt you know which adds an extra what 4 grams of protein and you do that you know across the board instead of 3 quarters of a cup of egg whites now you're going with like you know a whole egg and a whole cup of eggs as the diet progresses in the half season so it's just these microchanges of protein in terms of like when to do it I find it's more it just kind of happens as a result of the diet changes because you know no athlete or no one very few people can stay on the same exact six meals for the rest of their lives you know especially in the offseason you get to point where you're like hey four meals a chicken and rice a day just aren't working for me anymore so okay what can we do I call adding fun foods right so like I gave you an example about my pre workout meal using some Greek yogurt way protein and granola that goes down so easy it tastes good it covers the same amount of macros that the chicken and rice I would have had and it's more palatable so I enjoy it I digest it better and I'm ready to go train when I want to go train so I think you kind of make those decisions and protein goes up as a side effect not necessarily as a as a as a as a as a as a purpose I guess it's more of a side effect of the the diet changes you're making overall and I think her question to was based or asked more around the fact that she's female so I would ask other questions um gear use no gear use if gear use what gear use I think you put the vision or you did change what what the vision are you competing in I'm sorry she's women's physique okay see I met her at the national's okay so these things uh factory into I'm gonna go on record as saying this I don't care that a woman or that a client is female or male it doesn't carry much the division the gear use there's their amount of muscle mass that factors I'm not saying that you do and I'm just saying I'm going on record as saying that I don't it doesn't matter to me as an example a guy who would have the same or roughly the same body composition as a female the as far as protein intake and stuff like that aside from other variables that maybe in there too it may be comparable um increasing I completely agree with you that there isn't anything that I can think of with myself in my clients that would be black and white where I could go oh yeah protein needs to be increased right now it's almost kind of a gut feeling which is funny because this needs to be mentioned I think a lot of experienced coaches in my opinion and and I know it sounds like a little bit of a cop-out but there are gut feeling like and those gut feelings are based on your experience without you sitting sitting there methodically thinking okay this so this and that because of that we don't do it's kind of like judging we don't go oh the the biceps his biceps are just so much better kind of giving two points here it's a total thing that just registers in your brain because of your experience you know whether it's good or not or whether it fits together and I don't think it's any different when it comes to coaching as far as dieting and skin certain these are things that sometimes I struggle to explain you know the analogy explain it from a logic standpoint but I get where you say it's good the analogy I use is you know if if you're in the car you and say you're an experienced driver and you've got a new be driver in the passenger seat there are times that you can tell them why you changed lanes but sometimes right a lot of times you're not even thinking about it you're just changing lanes because you know that that's the best thing to do and it's based off of your level of experience as a driver. Yep very good very good good good good one yeah I think of one situation where you would want increased protein and that's if someone is really hungry but you do not want to increase the other macro nutrients and because protein is much more satiety affects satiety affect then carbohydrates and fats would so you know maybe increasing the gram of or an ounce of protein several meals a day will help start off that hunger and allow them to continue to progress in the diet because we also know that protein the energy burn to digest and transport protein is more than the energy burn to digest and transport carbohydrates and fats so there's a thermogenic effect of protein as well so I think maybe that might kind of play into it a little bit when you know when someone is like hey like I'm starving I'm starving yeah not necessarily as a true contest prep because I'm a true contest prep you like it is what it is and we have a couple of water or something you know like sorry like I'm not going to change my pace off your hunger level but you know maybe a general client a general population person like man I'm just starving all day things are going pretty well you're like okay well let's increase you know 15 grams of protein throughout the day and see if we can get away with that versus adding more you know bulk carbs or something like that and you know what I've noticed too I don't know if you guys are to agree with this or not but I feel like if we look at carbs fats and proteins I feel like adding as long as it digest well adding more protein is probably going to have the least negative effect on the physique like we're not likely going to like oh we overdid it now you're fat because we added some extra protein versus carbs and fats maybe not the same story you know we're on the side of protein because it's going to be used as glucose if you if you need it where carbs are not going to be used as protein if you need it yeah yeah yeah that's a great that's a great analogy I also sometimes though and you guys might do this too like if we're if we're stall down on a diet I might pull like 20 grams of protein replaced with 20 grams of carbs and it does have an effect in terms of fat loss quite often and then helping person progress so yeah so again I think it's that intuition that skip was going to and and your analogy of kind of a well I'm switching lanes here and I can't really explain to you why my intuition just tell me that's the right thing to do and that's the way the road and that's what we're doing come all said that he when he first met Chris aceto when we interviewed him the other week that it was early on he'd reached out to Chris and he's like yeah I don't know if you remember me and you know he's I'm not making the progress I want to what do you suggest I do showed him his diet and Chris was like bring your protein down and he's like that's what I did and he was like boom got what I wanted out of it so what's funny you mentioned just in hair is talking about the conversion of protein because it was years ago that he remember everything yeah he was very in the new remember this too he was very adamant that it is and in fact I I'm pretty sure I got this from him because I still think about this on occasion that the protein can be too high and as soon as you may lower fats and you may lower carbs but then you may the change of lowering protein all of a sudden everything kicks in and but yet at the same time there's nothing that are very few things that will make a client more nervous closing in on a show you drop their protein true they think they just feel like pack man's coming in and it's just going to eat up all their muscle dots in the next week or two and generally it was like the one thing they could depend on when you change everything else yeah yes yeah because typically protein's going to be static almost from you know day one of the diet within you know the the trace proteins that are in carbs and fats and yeah sources but but your your six ounces are eight ounces of chicken and your whatever steak and your protein that's pretty much static all the way through but how about this because um I know I could never ever follow a Chad Nichols diet plan because I don't know if you guys have ever seen them but like there's like five 12 ounce steak or chicken meals per day and like I mean okay maybe I did do this kind of when I was younger because I didn't I didn't count macros or anything like that but but like you know I I talked to guys that are in their 30s that work with which Chad Nichols and um you know like I'll do a test diet is killing me like you know I mean I'm eating 600 grams of protein a day I'm eating you know whatever carbs because they're still high carbs and high fats as well but they're like 600 I know personally digestively um I just couldn't handle that well when you were talking about eating more meat more food in the on your non-training days I was gonna say this but that I just there was so much going on I decided not to the Ron Ron partloat has talked about when he worked with Chad for a prep he said he has never eaten as much food to bulk and grow as he did when he worked with Chad and that Chad had him doing that that his officer his non-training days were so high because he literally couldn't train with how much food he had to stumble I believe it I believe it but then I wonder is the efficiency of the diet not that good meaning like if you can get a guy to grow off 350 grams of protein progressively why do we need to have that extra 250 grams in there well you take a pro like Ronnie that you can't you know you can do anything with you can do anything so it looks like a guy like Chad you can you're gonna test you're gonna test those limits yeah you know you know that's true you really are yeah I don't think Chad is going with the average person yeah because then it gets back to the the guys I talk that I'm talking about the worker Chad or average guys right and they're not making Ronnie gains no you know no offense to them and they know that you know so yeah I mean I guess it goes back to our argument about pros can assimilate food they can assimilate gear they can assimilate muscle at a much better and faster rate than the rest of us we have to watch it I think in the offseason sometimes because I've I've seen it myself where I've pushed somebody too hard then it was more food than their body was willing to process just because and you know where it's been I've done it a couple times with people that I've worked with longer term and we've just decided like you know what let's really push this offseason and see what happens you know see what happens if we really go for more and the lesson I learned out of those two times is that you know that we do as as normal humans we do have our limits you could take a guy like Ronnie or you know a guy like Dusty isn't I think it that's where he excels Dusty could eat a lot and he could still just assimilate it I don't think that everybody can do that and sometimes we have to respect that our bodies are only gonna grow so fast as moral humans you know and at the same time you don't know until you try exactly yeah you came away with that client you know after doing it a couple times going okay this doesn't work but at least you went down that path to find out because maybe he would have been able to assimilate more food as you not tried yeah yeah it's a lot of table you know and I mean as something that yeah it's not I'm not saying I wouldn't ever do it again but you know it was a lesson learned you know all right I won't be going to my grave going I sure wish I would have tried that to get you. Yeah all right over we are out of time guys we appreciate everybody hanging out with us and everybody tuning in like I said before if you want to take part in the next show we're gonna need questions so definitely comment below and of course check out our sponsors Trinutrition.com user code think supplementsorice.ca and Canada of course strong sports nutrition for those of you in the UK patreon I appreciate the heck out of you guys thank you for everything you do over there of course you can reach out to us for coaching go to bodybarry.com to reach out to Andrew team skip.com reach out to skip hit me up it McNally diets at gmail.com and yeah that's it so we got for you skip you want to do decent rant you got you got to rant a little on this one it's hard when I don't swear yeah it's sad it's hard I don't think that I swear once I don't think so you you did better than me then bullshows just saying for another episode of Blood Sweat and Gear Guys we'll see you soon thanks for everybody in the livestream youtube demonetized me

What's wired into us, right? It's like casted with evolution and all that stuff. But I think we see it in the fitness world a lot. People jumping from trend to trend. Okay, now I'm this hashtag trend trend trend. Yeah trend trend. That's all I heard. I'm trying to try to ask you what's happening. I need three work out where we're coming up. Hey everybody, welcome to It's Just Body Building 2024. First episode of the new year. Welcome to the show. Remember to like, share, subscribe, comment, and ring the bell. Dusty handshow with the drums. Scott McNally, the producer. Thanks for being here guys. Remember, I am mutant.com. Go to imuton.com, get your ISO surge, get your all in and everyone should get on the year. Use Dusty 20, big run, 20 to save yourself 20%. And remember to think big Patreon. Keep your producer home. Scott, you're doing a lot of work with all the shows on this channel. And you know, all those, all those YouTube shorts and Instagram reels and everything that's flying. It's going well. So thanks for all that. I love it. And I love that we're stepping everything up with the T shirts now. I'm looking forward to getting mine. Are we functional on the shirts Scott? What's going on? Things are going good. We've sold a bunch of them now at this point. Everybody. What's that? We're getting there. You guys will know when I have the grill. That's that's what we'll have officially made. We're looking for our share when the grill is visible on the show. We'll be like, we're going to go to Detroit. Yeah. Yeah, many of my $17. So it's cool though. Everybody's given us really good feedback so far. Everybody who's gotten the shirts is said, oh my god, these are great. You know, because the thing is that the T shirts ever is what I believe they were saying. Like they're better than any other T shirt they've ever had. I don't know if I'd go that far, but that is very nice. Oh, it's my herd. Just saying. Okay. But yeah, it's good to hear that because there's nothing like spending your hard earned money on a shirt and then not liking it, not wanting to wear it. So these are good. I put my seal of approval on them, which I'm pretty picky when it comes to shirts. They got to be just right around the guns, just right around the waist. I know exactly what you mean. There's there's a good shirt. And there's how really good shirt. Yeah, you know. We all know that. Hey. Remember, dusty like our friend Mike at Iron of Silent uses the good shirts. Yeah, but I like to also determine on each individual shirt what it's for. Like, because you got a good like, they shirt. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. I mean, there are shirts. If anyone were to pay attention to my vast vast clothing line when I go to the gym, you're pretty much going to realize I wear three shirts on Sunday. Okay, two shirts on Monday. I mean, just the way it is. I've recently, you know, just you start discovering. I'm still I tried to get I try to cut a boat neck the other day. Did you really? Hmm, didn't work. I just want to see, but I got the angle wrong. And then I started trying to get a lower. Yeah, it was just a mess. I needed your right. So here's how I see dusty dressing. He's one of one of three different workout shirts. I've seen dusty in the gym with a hoodie on. I've seen that. I've seen dusty in the gym with a giant t shirt that's like a leg day shirt. Yep. Right. Right. And dusty wears the dusty cut shirt. Yep. There's that. And there's two versions of the dusty cut shirt. I'm not sure if it's body parts specific or it depends on how fat he feels. But he sometimes has a tank top under the dusty cut. That's fabric. I tight wife, beater. That's a fat day. Is that not that I mean, it was like a body part. It's not like a dead. This is when you're in a fat. Okay, some majority of my life. Okay. Every day. Yeah. There's just you know what's great. And I actually this happened today. I was trying to show Nikki where to stand in a mirror. So that I could get a better angle for a video because we're trying to actually like get better Instagram content. Okay. So I show her and I kind of like, so I go up and I'm like, you stand right there. Get this angle. So she gets it right. And then she shows it to me and I go, ah fuck. And she goes, I didn't do it right. I go, no, I'm just fat. I was just mad at myself. You're right. I mean, I'm in a crisis. Just realize I'm just still fat. And I really didn't know. Yeah. I lost 10 pounds. I thought I was getting leaner. Yeah, you have that moment. And you're like, oh, now. And yeah, so that was that situation. And today I was without the undershirt. So you just had the big cut shirt on. Yeah. And I mean, you know, to anyone else, I'm sure it's fine. But I just laughed because I don't know how you guys carry a fat. But my back is where the majority of my fat is. So like you can't really see much detail. It's it's just, you know, and I'm like, I think what I realized it was quite that soft still. That's the front lies to me. I got bangs right on my abs. I got the beans all in my legs. I'm like, I'm pretty good. No, eight weeks out. And you see it from the back. You send Chris a back double. And he's like, I'm not helping you. Yeah. Yeah, that's not going to work. So yeah, that was my, my mom. But the good news is when she did it. I was like, wow, she's where she's supposed to be at Fort Jumics out. I am behind. No, yeah, she's she's coming along. The the quads are like showing up now to the party. Like big time. Oh, they're like, oh, hello. Yeah. She needs this wrongs got the secret diet technique. Sorry for blowing up your business. But where do you stop losing weight and just get leaner? Where she's in that phase now. Like, she, I asked her the other day which took a picture of my quads. You're way that and she goes, oh, same as last week. I'm watching as we're filming the video. And I'm like, you're not the same as last week. Yeah, you're a store blatantly leaner. So I don't know what he does. I don't look. But anybody who wants to get ready for a show while gaining muscle and getting leaner. Call Ron. Hey, hey, I'm just making you money. I just. I'm leaving out your leaving out the genetic component, which I've nothing to do with. And then he's just a freak just sitting waiting to just, you know, like, come out of the cocoon and do another show. That's what we're dealing with here. I really ask you what you're doing with me or the chicken and rice diet that I've got her on. I just. I definitely realize that when you forget that someone hasn't competed in forever. And like when we first got together, like she was barely. Like she went to the gym, but she wasn't trained. Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah. Yeah. Yeah, so as you're seeing more and more muscle, I'm like, I don't know why she's strong. I'm like, I got three 15 on debts for 15. I'm like, I could have been nice. Could have been that. Good. Good. But it's probably realized too. She's extra tough, too. I mean, she's got two kids. She lives with you. There's a lot of stuff in and patient. You know, a lot of that stuff. So yeah, we're excited. We're excited for all the shows coming up. Yes. You know, one in particular. Yeah, 2024 Arnold is looks like, I mean, the next big thing is there. There's no other pro shows before that. Is there there's no like a smaller show anywhere? I just the Ironman. Oh, wait. That was 99. Sorry. Yeah. They're good old days. In the Flex Pro. Oh, no, wait. You mean the, yeah. Yeah. Okay. So this is what we got to the Arnold so far. Now, how much bigger is this lineup going to get? Are they adding many more people? I don't think we'll add any. Yeah. I mean, that's what we're going to be like streamlined it lately. Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So who in this is? First of all, hotty's there. So you've got a Mr. Olympia at the Arnold, which is always exciting. Because it doesn't happen a lot. You know what I mean? Yeah. That's like, dexter hopping in the Arnold. Like, you know what I mean? Or be like, oh, it's a Mr. Olympia. So you just got to put them at the the top of the chain and say, this is like technically the guy to beat. Yeah, for sure. So you've got hotty, Samson, and Andrew, which to me, that is your top three in order assuming everyone is right, you know, just like he thought through. Yeah. Right. The same way we kind of predicted the Olympia. We kind of went well. Technically these guys all beat these guys this year so they should land like this, right? Yeah. Which is a safe. I mean, okay. So we we had Samson, we had Andrew Jack last year, right? Going against each other. But yeah. And then we had Nick Walker. So Nick Walker was kind of like the odd man out. Now we have hotty and Samson in Andrew Jack. I wonder how I wonder how hotty is going to change the perception of the lineup. Do you know what I mean? Not just how is he going to affect it. But how is he going to affect how the judges see what the best is on stage that day? Wow. He's I think he's going to be the conditioning standard as he normally is. Yeah. Yeah. That's good. I don't agree right there. Yeah. It's it's it's. I mean, even last year when they sort of said that everyone was a little off at the O. Yeah. It was still like I still thought hotty was, you know, kind of overall kind of maybe the best condition of that group. I mean, Derek had you know the better glutes and the better bit you know, a little more detail on the back. But then hotty's pecks are crazy and all that stuff. So it was close. But I mean, I think that when hotty stands on that stage, it's they're going to we're going to have to put him front and center to start with. And yeah, obviously like we've all seen guys where we're not quite sure what version of them is going to show up. You know, but I'm not going to kind of we kind of know it's going to be like. Hardcore is possible and it's going to be, you know, crazy thick and shredded and you know, I mean, him and honey don't miss. So I expect hotty to be pretty tough to beat here. The factors that you have to consider are the trajectory that Samson has been on for the last, I guess, years. And and and also Andrew Jack, I mean, So young for like his bodybuilding ages so young that it's frightening to think that he's possibly still figuring things out a little right. Right. Right. You know, like that's mind boggling to be at that level and still sort of like a little bit unsure what we're going to see. It could be like, Oh, geez. The key still has yet to hit his best front double bicep in my opinion. Like he is right. You know how to hit that post. That's a little thing is where you're like, there's room for scary improvement, you know. Yeah. Yeah. So yeah, I think that's pretty that's a pretty hard top three. I mean, size wise, frame wise. I mean, obviously Samson and Andrew would be the biggest guys in the show. You know, they're both really, really, really big. You know, they're not five nine and big. Yeah. Like Andrew Jack, I got in the elevator with him last year. And I mean, I'm a big dude, you know, six foot, one maybe and like, you know, why and I just thought this guy's. He's like a, like, he made me feel like I was, I'm probably kidding it shorter than him. Yeah. Like just so huge. I was like, Oh, man. This is, and then, you know, talking to Samson, you're like, this is a really big guy. This guy's bigger than Dorian was right. Dorian was five ten. This guy's six foot. Yeah. Dorian was 265. This guy's two 85. I feel like it's like, you know, a lot of people just looking at pictures and video and we were fortunate enough. We get to go to these shows and run into these guys and, you know, appreciate exactly what's going on on like a, you know, close up level. So, you know, somebody was, how could you not mention this guy? How could you not mention that guy? And it's like, well, sometimes you've been around these guys. I think what's weird when you're alive, I got to bring something up remind me of you just triggered something I thought of from the last episode. Okay. Okay. Okay. I was going to say that one, one thing that that even for me changed at the Olympia was realizing the gap between Hottie and Derek and third place. Like right, it was it was bigger than I realized even coming in obviously, you know, we had some fun with our with our picks, but I mean overall everyone kind of really had a pretty good eye at the top three. In Samson had made such enormous changes that I thought that gap was going to be maybe non-existent. Right. I mean, Ron and I when they were all out there, I was like, oh, this is a one and two race like third is already decided, but you're not to second. It's not possible. And I just don't know even with the change they're making that there's enough time to close that gap because Hottie won't mess and if Samson comes in at his best all time, I just don't know about the time and that's where I'm I'm I always loved to know what people's game plan is like, you know, does he just want to collect as much cash as he can. How much is he getting when he wins and who had has to toss him extra money first placeings. You know, because there would be something to be said for taking some time. He hasn't taken time in the two years. He's made his biggest gains. I'm just curious from there camp when they're looking because I don't feel like Andrew or Samson were going to have the time to close the gap by the Arnold and then they're not going to have time to close it by the Olympic is the Olympus moving up in October again as well. You know, these are short short windows that I don't even for the genetically elite right, you know, that's a strange thing. You're wondering when at what point do you run out of off season as a top level guy and you're not know what you mean. They're just in this perpetual contest prep situation, which also is a bit of a testament to how freaking hard, you know, they work and how elite they are. In fact, that guys are making strides like Samson has while constantly in pretty much diet mode, you know, so it's it's definitely a different world. These guys are, you know, the elite of the elite and it's hard to predict exactly what's going to happen. Like what if Samson shows up 10 pounds bigger and in better condition? It's like with what off season did you do that? Like that's what's going on unless you okay. Yeah, you know, so, you know, what about, you know, let's, we got that, we're going to cement that are we all agreement that that sort of a probable top three. Absolutely, I think that's a good call. Now, who else here? Obviously we see hallings head on the list here, you know, good friend of ours, good friend of the show. And we're all, I assume pulling for James to be at his all-time best and look of course. So I'm really excited to see that. I know that he's really motivated to be at his best. And, you know, it would be great to see him show up and, you know, have everybody be like, this is the best James we've ever seen. That's what I always hope for the guys like that. That's a good friend of the show, you know, for sure. That's what I'm having to. I feel like there's like, when I'm looking at the list now, like the next round of guys gets interesting because a came at his best is just three key freaky tall top 10 Olympian. You know, back back in, back in change, everything. I have felt like for the longest time, Justin Rodriguez, and he's to take a break. And he just doesn't. So as much as I love his physique, I, at this point, I expect him to come in the way he always does, which is not good enough to fulfill what I think he's capable of. I think he's still like, so kind of like a crazy freak that places really well. Yeah, but I think he's a guy that can, like, he's so good. Yeah, I think he's a guy that should be pushing up and we should be talking about in the top five, and I'm not at this point. I just, and I said that because of lack of rest. And he did do, like, you know, I can't remember who he worked with, but he had like some really good results and then he switched to coaches. And then he switched coaches again, and I, I don't know him well. I don't know where that came from or whatever. The guys that get me most excited that are falling through here are of course James, but seeing Jonathan De La Rosa come back last year and look awesome again, like, and I, and I, you know, were friends, so I can say this out loud. Your friends with him when he came back, I was like, it's over to you. You've been gone too long. Yeah, right. And then he came back and I was like, I'm glad I didn't like say that out loud. Right, right, right, right. You can get me a little embarrassed that I said it to myself. I mean, he looked awesome and I don't know how long he put back into that, but I know it wasn't as long as he's had now and I'm thinking he's going to beat what he was. Plus one factor that I, I like to point out because I've been on both sides of this is his personal and professional life are in a good place. And when you have those two things and you're in prep, it is a completely different animal. I would not be stunned to see him like right outside of that top three. I mean, it could be wild to see him jump up because yeah, he's one of the biggest people you will ever see in person. Like people don't know that. I've done some events with him and there'll be, I mean, we did one with Jose, Evan, my, I mean, and we're all like dead nuts off season. So we're just as big as can be and we all look small next to John. No kid. He just up just be billowing. He was a muscle everywhere. Yes, this forum are just, I mean, it's absurd. So he's one of the guys in the exploration sees the him and goes, oh, yes, this. He's like the guy that retired for two years and has 20 inch calves and 20 inch arms. And you know what I mean, just like, he's been around for a long time too. I remember I remember him coming up like as a friend of Victor Martinez, you know, we hear about Victor and then behind him. Now now we hear about, oh, he's got this buddy John Delorosa who also has that similar kind of crazy look and shape Dominican looking got, you know, like, same kind of crowd of people over there New York and it's like, I remember when there was a lot of buzz and man that was a long time ago. There have been so many body builders that have come up and retired since that time. You know what I mean, yeah, I just think that we're talking about him potentially like that would be crazy if you were to get into the top five. Is it possible man, I would for him. It's you got to physique he's my sleeper for like people going, oh, we, y'all, I'm a scene that guy for a while, you know, and then he shows that maybe like what if he walks on stage it is best ever conditioning now we're really in trouble. Yeah, because like, you know, sometimes you know, sometimes those physiques that are like really balanced and good. And there's no clear dominant body part and then there's no weak body part. Yeah, and then the person himself, John himself is that kind of a quiet guy real nice dude. He's not like ranting and making like viral videos of, you know, you know, so like sometimes people just like the list and they're like, yeah, but I think that's my sleeper. Yeah, like, I'm going to show up surprise people. Now, what about Raphael? I was just going to mention him. I remember seeing my think it was or at the Arnold the first time that I saw him and I was just like, holy crap, this guy isn't big, but he's just incredible. I'm going to be completely honest with you. I don't have any idea where he's going to place, but I can't wait to see him. He's one of my favorites. Yeah, this is a guy who, you know, sometimes people are always not big enough, but then he'll show up at a pro show and win it and qualify for the O. Yeah, I mean, like, oh, while he's going to the O again, so like, you know, okay. Yeah, type of guy and I know the criticism is in size, like just general mass, like, I know what his body weight is at on stage, but I just don't care about that anymore. I mean, you know, I come from a generation where we watch Dexter make an entire career at a BN225 and win everything. So, you know, I don't really care too much. I just want to see Rafael at his very best because he's insane. So there's also some other exciting guys like Antoine Antoine's always great. Like Antoine always comes out pumps a crowd. Does probably probably going to be the best posing or team for that. And I also just, I want to give Antoine a little shout out here because I think he's good for bodybuilding. You know what I mean? He's one of those guys. I'm really happy to see him doing this show and really happy to see him invited to the Arnold. You know, he's one of those guys he's been through hell and he puts it all out there for everybody. Like I got to tip my hat to those people who are just willing to just, you know, put it all to good use, I guess, and maybe try to help others. So I hope that he gets a little bit of that in return with, you know, maybe his best showing ever would be nice. Absolutely. Yeah, fellow Canadian. You know, got to give him a shout. Yeah. Yeah. He's been around for a while too. You know, I remember him doing videos with John Meadows years back and, you know, just I remember him like a long time ago. So it's it's cool to see guys like that who have been around for quite a while. Yeah. And think of being exciting today. You know, it's not like just like, oh, we're going to get to see him. He was awesome back in his day. It's like, yeah. He's still growing. He's making people. Yeah. And people are trying to remember like, I mean, I think the first time I saw Antoine compete was 2005. Okay. So like he's almost 20 years of competing. Yeah. That's wild. Just think about that. All those junior candidates he won and then, you know, he banged away at the back of the, you know, kind of near the back of the super's in Canada for a bit and he figured his stuff out. Beat me in 2012 got the pro card. Working with Meadows that year and then he, you know, he had his trouble and, you know, things went off the rails for a little while and then he did the big comeback and qualified for the. Oh, yeah. That was nice. Yeah. What? And he's been super open about addiction, which I think I have a ton of respect for that because some guys, they don't want to, they don't want to be public about that stuff. But they're terrible. And then he's going to be on biceps. Yeah. Tor one by step and then I think he tore the other one like a year later. So I'm going to came back from both of those just fine. Like crazy. And the number one thing he can do though as a recovering addict is to be able to talk about that publicly because he, you know, you don't even know how much strength that gives to other people who are in the position where they're like, oh man. I didn't realize that body builders could have these problems too. So I have a ton of respect for him on that level. Yeah. So I'm excited. I'm looking forward to going, you know, Emily's coming to the old this year. Yeah. So she's going to be on the trip. I know Dusty OS says, would bring in your woman on these trips. But she's coming this way. Because we're always outhorn around eating sticks. Yeah. With horse. Who really say that we are though, like I like to like, you know, lie to seem like we're something cool. I tell them they do. Oh, sorry, we're out of some ladies. She was anyways. Yeah. I went to a concert. I went to a concert together night. I went to a show with a friend. And you know, just as the band was coming on stage, it took a picture. And I sent it to Tamley and I'm like, hey, show's starting. And I was making a joke like about going out to the bar because I'm old. I'm like, no fights yet. And then she replies, she replies and no horse. I got a good one. No horse. Remember, no horse. I'm like, okay, okay, thanks, sir. I'm a minor, you know. Okay. What else we got going on Scott? You got some good questions for us? We got a bunch of questions, but you guys are in hot water first of all. And we need to cover that. Okay. So a couple things run out of the gate. It was not. Let me see if I could find that that particular one out. You all come back to it. We'll go to this one first. Next is Ella. So everybody. Not everybody, but there were a number of people that were highly disappointed in what you guys had to say. They were like, you guys, look at him. He's incredible. Look at the the physique he has and he's basically brand new still. How can you not see the potential in this guy? They they they listen to what you said and they think that you're completely writing him off that he's not anything special that he's he has no potential of turning into anything. That's what I think some people got from them. Well, I saw a couple of those comments and you know, I think this is part of the podcast thing, you know, you wind up talking about something that you didn't have on the agenda. So you may be chat sideways about it for 30 seconds. You don't quite go into depth, you know, you're sort of talking and reference to something else that you were talking about. And I get what they mean. I think to people got to remember like yes, he is unbelievably massive with crazy muscles. He could use some balance here and there if you're in a nitpick, but that's what we do. These are the best of the best. We nitpick them, you know, that's just the nature of it. But I think that it's also just like we're a little jaded. We've seen a lot of guys come along that had crazy potential. You know, we've seen guys come up where we're like man, this guy's masses, not if he just gets this in or whatever. And then I think just so many times we just don't really see the guy again. Yeah, like they maybe just never quite get it together. Do a couple shows and move on. And I think that it's just us being a little jaded like we take more than just sort of like, you know, I mean he did a quick appearance. He got his pro card and then he did the pros showing about second to Samsung, right? Yeah. And that was kind of yeah, I'm like, okay, well, let's see how this season goes. Right. Let's see how this season goes. And obviously, I mean, he could make massive step ups. I know he's got a career, help him to a degree. I mean, a career man was in his corner the last, like I saw pictures with him anyway. So, I mean, careers on a dummy, they're going to do it. They can get him at his very best. He's exciting. He's exciting. I guess maybe I'm just old enough that I don't have a lot of excitement left. You know what I mean? This guy said I touched out to buy boron in Vanneville, sulfate back in the day. It takes a lot to get me excited about a new supplement, you know? So I was going to say that it's, I think you kind of nailed it wrong is it's not that we're not, I mean, obviously he's ridiculous. But I feel like when you're doing podcasts, one of the things that you try not to do, it's just parrot the obvious. Like we almost say he's got big legs. You have ice. He's a freak. He's got all the ice. He's got all the ice. You know, it's just, you know, it's one of those things where to me. It's like, all I'm saying is I want to see how it stacks up over time with other guys. And he did like, I love, yeah, that's what you just never. I love to see the ones that can last a long, long time. You know, that was my, and again, it's not like, oh, I don't think he can. The only thing I've seen so far from him was awesome. Yeah. You were awesome. But, you know, it really does come down to wanting to see over time because there's a guy where you're looking going, well, what needs to be better. And I mean, obviously, we know he could bring his upper body to match, but it's like realistically, that's a, that's a much taller task than people try to act like it is. Like, do you think that Chris is going to show him how to do a barbell row? Like, right, you know, he is already doing all these things. And I'm sure he'll make drastic improvements in those things. So it's not a shot on that. It's just the greatness is obvious. So I don't really feel the reason to comment. If you look back, we didn't start going on about Samson until he did it twice. He blew up for the Olympia. And we're like, oh, cool. Then when he came in the Arnold, there was like, well, like, I didn't have Samson winning the Arnold when he won. Like, wasn't even in the back of my mind. Then he makes a huge jump again. And you're like, okay, this is absurd. Now, now we're leading into the Arnold again this year going, well, Samson could gain 10 more pounds. I mean, which is completely ridiculous to say, but again, like you were saying around, the track record says the trajectory is not slowing down. So that's the only thing I think people missed is because he's impressive as is. And if he never gets better, he's a threat to win any smaller show. So yeah, he is beyond impressive. But it's just, I don't like to just go tossing in. Like, it's very popular in our sport to look for a new winner. Right. Oh, that's guys the next Ronnie. No, he's the next him. And I think he's going to put on a hell of a show in a great career. But there is no next deck. So there's no decks Ronnie. They're just the next guy doing what he does. So it's exciting for sure. I'm also glad to see him not jumping into some crazy show right out the bat. Because we do see a lot of that. Guys is jumping in. I think your guy that won the Arnold amateur is doing the Arnold this year. And he trains out in Arizona. And I don't know him personally. But I'm like, I want us to deep to bad decision. Like if I wasn't his corner, but don't do this. There's nothing good comes out of this. If you get, you know, third from last, like you're not in that mix yet. So I don't see the point. But again, that's just my opinion of those things. I'd rather be like, go into a smaller show. Get the top three when who knows. Yeah. I just don't know if people who haven't been around the sport really understand when you're there, the difference. I've been to every level show there is. And when you're the Arnold, you're the Olympia. And the top group comes out. They're all ridiculous. Yeah. I think one of the things that people need to see in person kind of, one of the experiences that you can't get watching shows online or being just a massive fan digitally is that, you know, we see guys like Raphael or whoever do a pro show and win it. Right? Like man, that guy killed that show. Right? And then they stand in a lineup with the top five Olympians. And you're like, what a cavern between, oh yeah. Like, hotion, Derek, and, you know, the top group of guys. And the really great guys that kicked everyone's ass at other pro shows. And when you see it in person, you're like, oh, like, yeah, there's, because you know, sometimes you look at photos and you're like, how do they pick the top five? This is a great lineup. But then when you're there in person, you're like, oh, that's pretty clear. That guy, that guy, that guy, that guy, top five, like, like, just so much more mass on them or whatever. Like, you know what I mean? So I think that's one of those things. People get caught up in that a little bit. But when you're there and you see it in person, it helps you understand body building better. And it's why I tell everyone, like, if you ever get a chance to go to the Olympia or the Arnold, like, do it. It'll, it'll change how you view everything when it comes to like actual body building contests. You know, that's my favorite thing. Just because you said that and we have a lot of this going on in the States and how you have it. You guys seem to have a better path, wrong than we do here. But I really feel like more amateurs need to go to the, the nationals, go to the US says, go as a fan to these shows. Because I really, I, I, that jump also is freaky. You know, I had been to the USA's like three or four times before I ever qualified. And yeah, when I qualified and someone said, are you doing the USA or the nationals? I laughed because I was like, are you out of your mind? Yeah. And it was because I've sat five rows back from these guys and went, I look very good for a regional level body builder. I look terrible for a pro qualifying body builder, you know, so I think that, you know, like you said, right, completely agree, but just to hit for our, a lot of our viewer listeners are absolutely on that path. It's, it's, it's awesome to do because it also gives you a place to pace yourself and watch. And because then when you do look in the mirror and you are ready, you'll know. You're like, yeah, I can say with those guys, it'll elevate you. I mean, I went and saw the nationals. I saw two Canadian nationals before I ever did them. I saw one when I was 15, which like changed my life. And then I saw one the year before I did my first nationals. Like I said, I qualified could have gone. It was in my home town. Everyone was telling me, it's only 10 more weeks on the diet. And I'm like, nah, it's 10 weeks off season for me. I'll be sitting in the front row watching the show. And I sat there and I watched the heavy weights because there was no super zip the time. Showing my age. I'm watching 73. And sat there and I watched the heavy, that watched the heavy weights. And I was like, I could maybe make the top five here. So then I was like, so with another year of hard work, I want to be in this mix and smash in some of these guys. And so that was my goal. But the mindset, you know, seeing it from whatever, you know, I was really close, whatever, row I was in five or three or whatever. Seeing it, it really was locked in the mental. Like, you know, some people like you said, if you've never seen it up close, sometimes you just don't get how far behind or maybe how great you actually measure up. So, you know, especially when people are spending thousands and thousands of dollars, like you see people that have like mortgages and kids and all this important stuff. And they're like, I'm going to go to Toronto and do the nationals, right? And it's like, okay, that's great. Like, I'm not going to tell you how to spend your money. I'm not going to tell you how to invest your time. And I'm not going to tell you how to live your life. But I, as a bodybuilder, when I was doing that, I made damn sure that if I'm spending thousands of dollars to go to nationals, I'm a threat. Because there's no way I want to waste four grand to go to Toronto and get my butt kicked. That would have just sucked. So I didn't go to nationals until I was looking in the mirror going, I could win this. Right. Because I was just so hell bent on not wasting any time. And it wasn't an experience for me. It was a, a absolute goal, right? It wasn't just to see how, like, oh, see how this goes. I was like, so yeah, that's definitely something that changes your perspective as seeing it up close before you do it. Or yeah. What else we got, Scotty? Right. We got a bunch of list of questions. I'm going to jump to those real quick. And then I had another retraction for a little bit later. I'll pull up. I have a retraction too. Do you? All right. It might be the same one. Hey, it's so dusty. When measuring your foods, do you use raw foods or cooked weights? I used cooked. I always have. How long you run? Yeah, cooked. Cook. Cook and bulk. Yep. I get the, I get the measure. I get the measure raw thing like, but it is not, it's, if you're cooking, how do I put this? The people that say, oh, you got to measure your food raw to get real weight because you might cook your chicken more one day than other days. And then it's a little bit, you dry it out more. So now it weighs less. So now you can eat more of it or you might overcook your potatoes. So now you wind up having more potato because of whether way you weigh it. Like that sort of thing. But, but my answer to that is, aren't you a bodybuilder? Aren't you super consistent? Don't you do things exactly the same every day? There's the answer to your question. Just cook your rice exactly the same all the time. And then you can measure it cooked. Cook your chicken exactly the same all the time. Don't worry about it. Sorry, I cut you off asking Ron. What was your thought? No, no. That's basically this. I mean, that's the same mentality that I see, which is, you know, and to steal something Ron has said a million times. We're worried about that, but then completely off on things that really, really matter. You know, because these are, and again, I'm creating stories. But a guy who's arguing with me about cooked versus uncooked food, stays up three hours late to watch a movie tonight. Yeah. And then sleep soon. Like when you like Ron said that, if you when I was bodybuilding trying to turn pro or as I put on, my day was ground out day. Yeah. I went to bed sometime. I woke up at the same time. Everything was the same. Like it became a joke with my YouTube videos and stuff for fun. But like I used to use to sugar free syrup. I didn't weigh it. I put it on the exact same way. Yeah. Right. I guarantee you there were a few more grams this day or that day. You know, but it wasn't a huge deal. I didn't measure my sodium from the low sodium soy sauce. I added in about the same every day and it's fine. I just think that that's one of those things like it comes down to chances are you're somebody who has a life somewhere you're paying your bills and it's just faster to cook your food and I used to, I mean, now I have a luxury of being home more, but I used to cook. I started at six days at a time. Then I just realized the food tastes like garbage and I was eating sawdust by the fourth and fifth day. So then it just became twice a week. The longest time I had my routine of both of my off days a week were cooked days. Okay. Every single week. Exactly the same. Measured out. Simple to go. So it's not perfect. But I just think it's more sensible. And yeah, I can say as particular as I was about bodybuilding, that difference was not the biggest variance in my career where I was like, ah, I never looked back at a show and said, if only I had a measure that cooked or on the first. Yeah. I say I've never seen someone in unbelievable condition and thought that it was because they cooked their food raw or measured it right there. You know what I mean? Like it's hardly anyone does that. I've met guys that are like, oh no, I cook every rice meal separate. Yeah. Yeah. I don't quarter quarter cup dry rice. And then set that aside for one meal and I'm cook another quarter cup and then set that like up. You can go down a rabbit hole with that too. Because if you really think about it, depending on how much water is in your rice after you cook it, it's going to weigh different. It's going to sit in your measuring cup different. I have to show the same right at one time. And I was like, shall be, what do you think about this? You're like, you know, just don't overthink it because I had a client who was asking me like, should I measure it dry and you know, because I'm thinking I'm going to mess things up and shall be responsible as well. It works for people that I work with at the Olympia level. So it will probably work for him too. You know, just. You know, just. You cut the food. You scared for that. You're done. Yeah. You got to do as much an old J-Videally pulls like holes on top of the fridge. Yes, goop some right so it's like, okay, problem solved. J is doing it. Let's go. Yeah. Works for J. Works for J. Works for J. Yeah. It's going to come out as I like to say it all comes out in the wash. Yeah. You know. All right. So what was your, what was your, what was your, uh, retraction run? Oh, I had a laugh because during the barbarian brothers. Uh, episode. I accidentally said Richard mole. Who was Jaws, but it was Richard Keele of course, which I knew. And Richard mole was bull the bailiff on night court. And I was a fan, both those guys were great. They were both super tall actors. But Richard Keele is a legitimate giant. He's actually passed away now. But he actually had giantism. And I believe Richard mole, the, um, Bull from night court was just a really tall guy. But, but yeah, they were both good actors. And I, I got their names mixed up. And as soon as I did it, I knew I was like, oh, that was Richard Keele. And then I read it. So, like, two other guys, three other guys spotted. Oh, yeah. There was like five. That's Richard Keele. There's like, yeah, deep, a little at this point. Idiot. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. So, uh, I had to, uh, I got an issue of retraction over this. So, you know, I have to ask on your retraction. What is the difference between a really tall guy and someone with a giantism as you call them? Well, Richard, Richard Keele is a legitimate giant. So, he's got a pituitary gland. It's like way too big. And his, he had like the, the kind of the features that big forehead. The sort of, you know, different looking structure in the face. True giants, you know, you know, custom shoes that, you know, size 20. He started to get into like this sort of stuff, right? Um, uh, so yeah, legitimate giantism is like a growth hormone production thing, right? Uh, generally disorder. So there's a difference. And then some guys are just really tall and they play basketball, you know? Yeah. And they're rich. Okay, got it. Yeah, yeah. And then giant's also because of, you know, giantism and like massive amounts of G.A. She's a guy pretty young. Yeah. Your heart's growing overgrown. Yeah. That's sort of thing. They don't tend to live too long, you know? So, all right. Now that we're here. So, I think, to, with the barb brand brothers, it makes their life more full. Yeah. And then we do this on TV and everything else. Yeah. Yeah. So that was so bad. That was amazing. That's our new face on. We'll see you soon. We'll see you soon. We got it. Take, can you lift the audio from that? Oh, sure we can. Oh, sure. Oh, that would be. To turn it out, clean it up. They have to turn it to a producer to like elevate the, bring the spring, the vocals out, make it really good. I can do that. I can do all of that. Yeah. Yeah. We have a producer for that. Yeah. I just saw it. He, I doubt source it. You know, because he's too busy doing everything. Yeah. They have like a produced version of that song in the Think Big Movie, where they're over the road truckers. Yeah. I watched the intro scene. That's about all I got through. It was like 10 minutes long. Okay. So my mission for Scott is to find a good audio version of that song and somehow we have to try to use it without any copyright infringement. You think it's a small enough song that nobody would own. Nobody will know. Yeah. Nobody will know. This keeps your mind. Yeah. No one's making money on that song. That's right. It's not Spotify. We're fine. Yeah. All right. How about this one? So this isn't from our thread. By the way, guys, if we could use some questions for the next episode, so be sure to comment with questions for the next episode on YouTube. Plus, all the likes and comments, all that stuff you guys are doing, a freaking great job by helping the booster shows up. This is not from that, though. This is from our Think Big Facebook group. Matt posted this and I wanted to bring it to you guys. Everybody in the group was cool. We gave them some good insight, but I wanted to turn to you guys too and get your thoughts. So he says, hey, guys. This is my first time posting here. I'm wondering if anyone has tried the carnivore diet and has any tips or results. I'm keen to give it a crack, but I don't know how much. I don't know much about slash keen to hear people's results. Since he's using words like keen and give it a crack, I'm going to guess that he's from the UK. Yes, that goes without saying. So anything like that? I have not done that. And it simply put, I just never saw the point in starting a diet, even when I was retired, that I couldn't just do. I just, that's always been the most simple thing I learned in body, everything is if it's not something you can do long term with your lifestyle. I don't want to do it. And I haven't seen anything where you've looked at data that says, you should do this for sure. You know, I can find data that shows it's good. But there's nothing that's like, I feel like at the end of the day, if nothing, if something's not proven to be absolutely better for me. I don't want to even shift my life around and make it happen. You know, there's no reason. Like if somebody could prove to me that rice was hindering my health, I will stop eating it. But until then, it's fine. You know what I mean? So that's my, you're a good person. I, I, I don't slow down for any non facts. You don't even mean like I, so that type of thing like I wouldn't, I totally agree. It's the sustainability in ease, even as a bodybuilder, I always chose the easiest, least stressful way to eat. You know what I mean? Like, you know, a pseudo would say, have some potatoes or some rice. Like, let's do potatoes or rice. And I would just go, which is already in the fridge. Right. Right. There's my answer. Like, I put zero thought into that stuff, right? And, and, and, and, so if you said, hey, here's a new diet, but you can't eat any of this or any of this or any of this. I'm like, what do you mean I can't? I've successfully eaten everything and been in great shape. Yeah. Right. Like, I, you know, you should see, I literally ate like quite sizable amounts of crap every single day for the last 10 days. And I still essentially look identical because I managed it with, you know, damaged control and activity levels and the odd stretch of no carbs, you know? Like, well, I picked out last night, so I have like no carbs for three meals in next day and like just didn't care and like, and just managed to hold my weight. It's pretty much the same now. Right. And so that sort of proved to me that there's no like, you have to eliminate this entire type of food or anything like that. I, I think that with my knowledge now, like, you know, that it fits your macros. We don't really like to, you know, there's a lot of problems with it when you just let people free, free style their macros completely. Right. You know, and they wind up eating Oreos for their carbs and fats. It's so there's, there's sometimes stuff like that, but I think that a certain level of experience, I could probably get in great shape with no rules other than macros because I'm so aware of my body and all that. You've done it for so long. Done it for so long. So when someone says, like, you know, the carnivore diet and eliminate all carbs, I would have to see like hard data that I was going to live longer or something like that. Like, I think he's just trying to figure out how to get in shape too. I think that's what it's like, you know, you hear, okay, no work. So maybe I maybe that's my ticket, you know, or carnivore, you know. Yeah, well, there's some value in maybe trying it with like, I mean, you know, I think sometimes to the mistake with diets like that is people think, okay, I'm a carnivore now. And they literally say like, I'm going to be a carnivore now for the rest of my life, like, and then of course, you're going to take on. Yeah, you're going to get, but I don't see anything wrong with like, I'm going to do this for like four weeks. And I'm going to see what happens in document things and maybe I'll change it up or whatever. That's a healthier way to approach it. But sort of going all in on big huge trends that aren't really backed by like, you know, tons of real data yet. I think that's a mistake. So plus just work backwards. And this goes for not just like choosing diets, but in general, there are certain things, for example, like you've said million times around it on the same way. What kind of digestive problems do you have? Like non-mintagre. What do you mean? Well, if I ate something and I felt off, I just never ate that again. Yeah, I had a full serving of broccoli literally in 2009 with a meal and I got really bloated. And I was like, oh, I don't like broccoli. And then at another point in my credit, one more time bloated again. I got, oh, broccoli doesn't work for me and that was the end of it. Like right, I can't understand people who that's like they're trying to force broccoli down. You know, or or if they like I've had clients and I am with you Scott, like I've done a lot of, you know, the low fat fish in my career. I really saw a difference. And I have a clients go, I don't like fish, I'm like cool, then we don't eat it. Yeah, yeah. Okay, I don't care. The only way to do it, do. Yeah, then we're going to do this other really low fat item called chicken breast. Yeah. You know, I mean protein powders. So just keep those things in mind because I do feel like anytime you're choosing a diet, I had a conversation last night at the cigar bar during I got was asking me about he's he's lost like 80 pounds. Okay. He's now reached a point where it's not just losing weight anymore. You know, he wants to have some muscle and he's been doing intermittent fasting as a way to, so he wasn't measuring any of his food. He's just like, you're really not going to screw up in two meals since he's been fasting all this time. So he can kind of eat whatever, but now he wants more performance. He wants this and that. And he said to me, he goes, okay, so my understanding is the proteins high carbs are low and fats are moderate. Yeah, yeah. He's screaming. I was a loud one. But you know, so the factor is is just that they're nice and nuts, not necessarily the case. Also, carbs could should be high and fat. No, no, no, no. Doesn't matter. I agree with the protein side because you want to maintain or build muscle mass. The other two things I just want to do math. What's easier for your life? What feels better? You know, I like to look at a plate of food when I'm dieting, which means greens and rice filling my plate makes me happy. I do not want to have a tablespoon of oil. But mathematically fine. So if you really just don't like to eat very much, you want to eat that and have it's good oil and call it a day. Great. We're fine. So just factor those things into because I really do think when someone says I'm going to try the carnivore diet. Again, give it a roll, but make sure it's functional. I did the same thing with red meat. I like red meat. And I said, I want to see what happens if I just eat red meat. Always. And I have egg whites and stuff as far as my meats. And I just did my blood work every four weeks for a while. Just to see what would happen. And I was like, oh, nothing happened and I like it better. Cool. I'm going to do that. Right. Right. Right. That was the science behind the whole thing. I was like, I don't know what will happen. So I'm just going to test and as long as my blood works says that I'm fine. And it was. And I've had a blood work, you know, another panel done six months later. I literally rarely eat anything white meat. I don't really love it. And I'm like, oh, yeah, we're healthy. So that's cool. It's just more expensive. But that's fine. I want to touch on something. It might be slightly off the topic, but it's more of a general thing. Dusty. Dusty mentioned it. I remember Bill Bird did a bit on joining a group. Who joins a group? You remember that bit he did? He's going off. People. Yeah. And yelling at me. And that. Yeah. I joined a group. I got a giant group. I need to need to talk to people. They're just like me. But he had this still cynical take on joining groups. But I think that it's it's it made me laugh because we do we do see, especially with social media. A lot of people. I mean, there's there's a bit of a problem with the newer generation. Always wanting to identify with a group. And always wanting to be part of a group. It's kind of a cultural thing. I have always tried to not be in a group. Like, you know what I mean? And I don't mean, you know, getting a newsletter or something. But I just, you know, people. Like, if people say, what are you? I'm like, oh, my guy that has a lot of interests. And I do these things. Whereas other people, you say, what are you? And they can give you a definition immediately. Bidbiller. Yeah. Yeah. That's a big one. Yeah. Or just like this new generation though, I think it's all. Everybody, you know, when you're younger, we're all looking for a sense of identity. Yeah. Yeah. I think we just see that it's been a bit magnified by social media. Because everyone wants like a group, you know, even put it in their little, little bio, the group that are member of, you know, and I think that that is something that, you know, it's wired into us, right? It's like, casted with evolution and all that stuff. But I think we see it in the fitness world a lot. People jumping from trend to trend. Okay. Now I'm this hashtag to trend trend trend trend trend trend trend. Yeah. Trend trend trend. That's all I heard. Trend trend action. Wait, what's happening? I need to be free workout where we're coming up. But, you know, when you follow the trends, people do tend to get, well, oh, sorry. That's not going to get in huge. When you follow the trends, you know, I just, I think it's, you know, be careful. Be careful joining these groups when it comes to nutrition and diet and, you know, our old friend Lane would use a word zealots. Yeah. You know, what's your zealots? We can you end up, but you end up with and a lot of those is these absolute statements. Like this is the right diet. Yeah. This is the right thing. It was the same for me with with Harley's. Like I didn't have bikes for a long time again. And then I started by about a couple of Harley's. I don't own a single Harley t-shirt. I do not think there's anything wrong with your Kawasaki, your Indian, whatever that, I don't give her. Right. You really lost her confidence. It does. It's matter. Like, and, and, you know, if you, why'd you get on? I just like some, why? I like them. Well, this is better. Cool. Like, it does not matter. But it's important because a lot of times, I mean, my dad was, he was the stereotype. I mean, every black Harley shirt I'd ever seen in the history of the world was in his closet. Yeah. So you're a Harley guy. I am not right. I have a couple of them. You know, you know, but that's it. So I agree with you, Ron, especially with things like nutrition because you find yourself picking sides. You don't even have to pick. Yeah. I was at some advice that I heard a while ago, and it related to so much. And it related to social media was be careful what bandwagon's you jump on because you don't want to have to go back and delete embarrassing videos of yourself. Yeah. You do remember. I don't know if it was. I don't know if it was. I don't know if. Oh, it was, I was, I think I'm, we might have just been talking to him. It might have been you and I just talked into Rob Bailey. If you remember this, Ron, but one of us asked him if he was still a vegan. And he said, no, but I don't eat meat. Yeah. And I was like, what do you mean? And he goes, I don't want to identify with them because it's become a cult. He's like, I eat within the, what they say, but I am not a vegan. I do not talk about it. Yeah. He wears leather boots. Right. A true, like there's these because he, I remember he told me once that there's like a purest type of vegan that will like attack you for saying you're, oh yeah vegan because you're not. Oh, you have leather boots on. Oh, yeah. Yeah. You have leather belt. Your, your car has leather seats. Like there's real purest out there, right? And people see that extreme man maybe they get into something. Maybe they get into the carnivore diet or they get into the vegan diet. And they think, oh, this is great. And then they realize like, oh, there's like a, there's like a deep end to this group. Yeah. I don't want to be in that group. Yeah. Yeah. That's, yeah. But that was a prime example because he's like, I still live my lifestyle the way I set out. But I will not use that word to describe myself or how I eat that side. Just describe how I eat. Yeah. I think this guy is maybe he's newer to trying to get into shape. And my thought is is that a lot, what I'll do with people and I'm sure I'm absolutely positive you guys will do the same thing is say you have somebody that comes to you and they're not following any kind of diet right now. If you just put them on clean foods, the chicken rice diet, you know, use clean foods. They're probably going to start losing fat. And they might even say, oh, my God, I can't believe I'm eating this much and the scales dropping. So I would start there and eventually there are those people that you say you remove the carbs. And then maybe you get to get really lean you end up removing some fats. Maybe you're on protein only. Maybe you have gone carnivore, you know what I mean at that point. And by then it makes sense for a period of time. But I bet that if he's not on a fixed diet yet, if he just cleans things up, all clean sources get on a fixed meal plan that he'd do all right. You know, he would start making progress. And that'd be my thought to do that first. Yeah, I definitely agree. Definitely farm grade sources. Oh, wait. Harma. With a pH. With a pH. Oh, wait. All about the farms in the farm. All right. You got a couple more from Patreon. So let's just try to make sure we get through these. He's supposed to hurry up. Yeah, so we got we got we're more on time. You're when I'm sharing. We want to make sure we cover these. So King Kamali posted about shock days today. Months a month. You take one exercise for one muscle and you do five hundo reps for that one exercise and how ever many sets it takes. He called it shock days to shock the muscle into new growth thoughts on something like this. For God. Um, yeah, so there's I got like two takes on this. Um, one is it. I think things that make training fun and exciting and maybe someone super motivated to do them. I have to like make sure that I give credit to the value of that because I remember being a young body builder and reading about the eight hour arm workout in muscle mad. Later became rich pianist because he took it from muscle mad, right? But I remember reading about the eight hour arm workout and we were so excited to do it and we did it. We did the eight hour arm workout. We packed all our shakes and we went to the gym at nine in the morning and we trained all day long with the eight hour arm workout. And measured our arms the next day and they were bigger because they were like inflamed. Yeah. You measure and they're like literally like over a quarter inch bigger and you're like, oh man, arms crew, right? I just remember all the excitement and I'm not going to say that that wasn't valuable or fun. And then there's also some interesting studies and some evidence about like underlating your volume, you know, like, you say have a weak body part like you're trying to bring your quads up. And a lot of people think in terms of like the whole year they're like, well, you know, 20 sets of quads. I'm going to be a recover from 20 sets of quads. Okay, well, maybe you can't recover from 20 sets of quads all year. But maybe you can hit 20 sets of quads a week for like five weeks and then back off. And if you back off your other volume to make room for all this quad volume, maybe you will see it gross, spurt and your quads. And there's been some, I've seen some cool stuff that just might be a cool way to deal with weak body parts is really target them. You know, we give them their own day, we give them a few extra sets. Maybe we really prioritize our splits for our weak body parts. Maybe an interesting way to do things and I'm open to it. So I say there might be value in like shock type of things, but I don't think one single workout is is you can imagine to make everything, you know, more balance. But I, I'm not going to completely discount it, you know, there's, there's fun and motivation and training hard and, you know, like I said sometimes we do crazy stuff just to make our minds harder. And there's a value there, but you know, it is what it is. Yeah, I think the, the, the stick for me and why my answer is way shorter than runs and it's just now is because. No, shut up. I just read, well, though, because on the edge of the run, I just read exactly what he said. And if I read exactly what he said in the answer is no, right there you go. Okay. That's he's dusty smart when you, when you expanded, you know, far enough obviously any, any shock will like I do push clients all the time. They say hey, I'm out of town, say they're on a very specific training program, I'm going pick every piece of equipment in that gym, you don't have. And just replace a press for a press of this for that. And I promise you if you train as hard as you always do, you are going to be wrecked tomorrow. So sort of. And it's going to be fun. Yeah. And and you nailed that and I agree a million percent with that. It's just, I wish it were that easy to create new growth the way he sold it because I would have been a monster because when I was a kid, I was like, you run. What else can we do? You know, if somebody told me, okay, if you just had the beginning of every workout, do 10 sets of biceps, I'll do it. Yeah, I want my eye. I'm sure you're having a really every day. Yeah, every single day got it biceps, you know, so I just like to make sure people understand those. Those. Absolute are always funny to me in body building, but yes, doing anything different. It is going to be, you know, it's going to change things. If you ever want to have your board with your trainer team, I challenge you to walk in the gym, whatever body part it is and do your usual workout backwards. It'll be good. Yeah, that's, that's, I love that. That's great. I forgot about that. I used to do that too. Just flip your fun thing to do and all of a sudden when you're going to your, I mean, most of us are, I am definitely the guy who wants to do my heavy stuff first. You want to humble yourself. Do your entire workout and then go do your dead lifts when you're completely annihilated. Right. It's game changing and you are sure the next thing. You're going to do it all the time, but it is fun. And I've done that on days where I was kind of like, I'm healthy to train, but I can tell I'm just not 100% there. Rather than have a crappy workout chasing my log with it's not going to win. I'm just going to do it backwards. And it's going to be really hard and I won't know if I left any reps, like if I was strong or the time before, you know, so that's fun. Yeah, like it. All right. So Brian has when he says any guidance or how you or body builders you know deal with training with ongoing back or sciatica issues. I'm a, I've had. I've had sciatica before and yeah, they really sucks because it makes like, you know, even like chess supported rows will hurt because you're everything get, you know, you're tensing, you know, you're tensing your core and you're tensing your, you're tensing your hips and everything to stabilize. So it's really hard to get away from, you know, you can't just not do barbell rows. And you know, even doing your pull downs and stuff, you feel like, you know, every time you come down and you contract, you feel like the shoots down your leg or whatever. I've had like, sciatica that was really interruptive of my training and it usually had to do with hip flexor issues. Yep. Um, glute, uh, tightness, IT band, all that. It's just something's a mast down your leg and usually IT or quad. It's usually not what you think. Most people with sciatica issues are like, what's so remote with my glute and hamstring. Yep. That was it. Yeah. Yeah. No, it might be your quad. It might be your calf pulling on your quad, which pulling on your IT band pulling on your glute, you know, blah, blah, blah, blah. Um, so there's something he's really got to get worked out. It's like, you know, you're not a sex man because it can really interrupt a lot of stuff. You know, you think you can train around, you know, what appears to be a lower back issue, but, um, It can hurt doing all sorts of stuff. It's real pain in the ass. I mean, I wish somebody told me that stuff in years ago, because I had gone as far as to had seen an orthopedic surgeon to look at my back and get an MRI and got court his own shots. And then I was like, you know, I'm not in this the SI joint, all that kind of stuff. And later, I realized that my glutes were too weak. So if I were to strengthen my glutes up and then I think you nailed something with hip flexors, I can't speak for it. We don't know what his situation is, but those two things nobody nobody ever said like, hey, you got an imbalance here. You know, your glutes are too weak. Nobody ever said, hey, have you tried stretching your hip flexors? Like nobody said that they're like, yeah, well, look at your spine and see if we need to do surgery. You know, it's like, why not have started there? And now, if any of that, like after I strengthened my glutes, I've told that story here before it changed everything. And in my ability to stabilize like bent over row type movements got so much better with stronger glutes and being able to activate them. And now, like, I started getting a little bit of back pain this past week. And instantly, I knew I'm like, oh, I got to stretch my hip flexors. I did that for a day and guess what, it's gone, you know? Yeah, it's what I do in the morning. I get up every morning. And my lower back is tight and hurts. And I stretch out my hip flexors because I've been having that hip issue. And I stretch out, especially my right hip. I get up in the morning. My back is tight. Like feels like I came and bend over to touch my toes. But I'll hook my foot and I'll stretch it out and lean back into it and get things moving. Put the gun on it, get things going through the glute. Yeah. And then like literally five minutes later, I'm walking around the house like normal. And Emily will be like, oh, you woke up. Like, walking like a zombie in five minutes later, you're just like walking around the house doing everything. And it's just how I just need to release it. It's so tight every morning. Yeah. I was going to say just to help the guy, if you can reach out to anyone locally that knows a great physical therapist. And I say that because PT's are like personal trainers are like hair stylist like there's a million a month there. But if you can find someone that is great, they will probably and I literally, I mean, my guy when I was when I kept pulling my ad doctor totally different injury, but I kept having an issue. I reached out, found a guy to go see Jason who I literally saw every single week from the day I saw him for this first thing. It took him five minutes. Worked my body around and he goes, you have poor ankle mobility in your right ankle. Yeah. Cool. Anyways, my ad doctor's messed up dumb ass. And he's like, yeah, I'm going to fix your ankle. And then it was coming. Right. Now there are some things where they're going to say, here's the issue. It's going to take time and let me tell you what you can do. But right now, you're trying to train around an issue. And all you're going to do is have someone like you said, Scott, someone to tell you what's actually wrong, which a good PT can literally, they'll put you through emotions, do different strength tests on different things. And this is why anybody who's ever followed my Q&A very long. A question comes up on something like this. And I go, call a good PT if you're in Arizona, go see Jason. He will solve your problem. Right. Or way out of my depth. I couldn't, yeah, even remotely cover this, even if I could physically see you, because I don't know what he's testing. But there are ways for them to actually break down exactly where the weakness is in a session if they're good. And then tell you how to fix it. And then your whole life has changed. Because like, look at your Scott, I mean, you completely changed an issue that was like damning for the longest time. And now you even know enough about your body to make adjustments on the fly. Now we're like, oh, no, no, this isn't my back. It was crippling before to the point where like, oh, man, I threw it out. Now I know the next two to five weeks is going to be shics every back day, every leg day. Yeah, you know what I mean? That's brutal. That makes me quit. Yeah. Yeah. All right. I got one more from Nick. He is at Patreon as well. Now he's posted this question a bunch of times. He's looking, get ready to make it. I'm going to, I'm going to warn you guys. I need you to make a funny answer. He wants a funny answer for this one. All right. And we'll go. So you got to be think funny. He says I've got two questions that were missed in previous threads. Fun question for Ron and Dusty. Who picks sets and reps specifically? How many reps to do? Everyone has heard of five by five, three by ten, three by eight or twelve, etc. But I have never seen a seven by nine. It's always the same sets and reps. Where did these come from and why? If you don't, if you don't know, feel free to make up a good story for the show. I feel like Ron could pull shit something very believably. Maybe it will be the new truth. I think you know, the new truth. It just needed to try to create a new truth. I've been holding this one Ron for you for like, he's poor Nick. He's posted this like five times. And it's, I pulled it multiple times. It just never was the right moment. So now you're on. Be funny and go. You don't mess this up. I think we've we've we've seen. I remember when honey came out with FST seven. Yes, yeah. And added the seven sets of 15 at the end of every workout with a specific exercise. It was like for the week area of that body part, whatever. Yeah. So it was that FST seven. And of course, because this was an odd number, it wasn't a three or four or five, right? And then on usual number. And he was able to get a patent from the US government. Did he really get a patent on that? Yeah. So so so anyone else who does seven sets, even if you just do it in your home gym, even if Scott even if you did seven sets, you now technically, oh, handy money. I technically have literally just somebody up on an FST seven for their biceps. Because it does work for a short period of time. So pretty soon, honey's AI will be combing the internet through your programs. And you will be sent letters of season to cyst to make sure that you don't violate his patent. You know, so I think that it's because it's just like a song. If a song's older than 50 years, it's public use, right? Right. So if a song's 50 years old, you don't have to, you know, ask permission to use it anymore. I believe 50 is the rule. Is that what it is Scott? It's 500. That was 100, but maybe 100. Well, there's a cut off. So the three sets, the four sets of five sets, these are all old enough that they're now in the public domain, and we can all use them without paying a feed anymore. You know, we don't owe Arnold money if we do five sets of five. Right? Right. Whereas if you do seven sets of something, you're going to owe somebody. You're going to owe somebody. You're going to owe any somebody. It's seven. Just say, seventy seven years old. There's a long. There you go. And I think it's the same here. You know, it's there's a, there's a, there's a time where the view comes public domain, and seven sets of nine is not public domain yet. Someone owns the patent to that. You know, this one. Do you remember, I kind of hope I'm going to get there right movie. But I think it was, there's something about Mary. I'm not certain, but the guy was like, you guys have, I've come up with an idea. You know, the eight minute abs. And he's like, yeah, I guess same idea, but seven, seven minute abs. And he goes, that works out great. Unless someone comes out with six minutes abs. It's like six will never work. It's not enough time. I remember hearing that. I don't know if it's a right movie. So someone is going to crucify me for being wrong. No, I, you know, it's funny. I remember the scene, but I don't remember exactly what movie it was. You know, but I just, that's what it reminds me of because that's what all these are. And it is correct. I think what's great about this question is, that's what bodybuilding is. It's like the six meals. You wouldn't believe how many clients I've had go. Is there any way we could do this in five? Yeah. Yeah. And they're like, oh, really? Yeah. I was like, yeah, there's nothing magic about six. Like, right. That's just how we formulate. And actually, I only five meals now because I don't want to eat six times. So I just eat five times. And I have four that my app types kicking up. I'm like, I'll just add a couple ounces of meat to each meal and stick with with. Yeah. Yeah. So that's a very valid question. But now Ron, we have danced around it. Sell us on why we've been doing it wrong all this time. And what we've been to do. Oh, I mean, you're not necessarily doing it wrong. You're doing what you're legally allowed to do. That's. Ah, very, right? So like, the reality. Yeah. You have to be careful. You don't violate these trademark and copyright infringements when you're working out. Even if no one knows. You know, it's, it's, you know, tread lightly. You don't want to accidentally do seven sets of something like our shit. Yeah. You know, I'm going to just start writing the word ish at the end of every fine. Sevenish. Six sevenish. Yeah. Seven or so. Right. You know, that was good. Yeah. Do some sets more than five less than eight. Yeah. Yeah. And the same with the reps though. You do have to, it is funny though that we'll be like, because I do write the same rep ranges. It's like eight to ten, twelve to fifteen. It's like, these aren't even odd or even numbers necessarily. Yeah. Yeah. Am I getting like a delay? I thought I was moving slow as weird. You're good. But anyways, that was a great question. I can't believe you held it for that long. I thought that was fun. That's good. That was fun. We just needed to set it up right. Yeah. We had the right time, the right moment, the right day. And it worked. I'm not in a broad you guys. You guys, I had to tell you guys too. Listen, I went up proof your professionalism to our audience. Audience, I was like, guys, you got to be funny and go. And they did it. So there's that was my answer. Believe a book. Just good. He was solid. I like it. I believe him. I mean, I'm afraid to do seven sets. Put it that way. After this, I'll be looking over my shoulder in the gym. So if I'm going to do seven sets. I can Instagram message and ask if it's okay if I do seven sets. I'm going to go for a lot of say the word seven anymore. You can go and cap that though, Ron, and have that on your phone. You know, right. You say one of my lawyers. Yeah, exactly. Yeah, perfect. See, I have permission. I got to ask you guys, is that it for questions? That's it. That's all we got. So we got a, you know, I know we're getting the end of the show here. Maybe it's only the last five minutes. I'm sure you're still watching, but maybe it's only the last five minute crew that deserve this conversation. Okay. Oh boy. What did you guys do for new years? Oh, I already know. I just got to. What, what did I do to him right? Let's see if I might. Scott walked his dogs at night and then he came home and then he went to bed before midnight. Close. Yes. He fired guns. He's got to be guns. No, no, no, no. Because I know because the range and the, you know, they were, I don't even know if they were open, but we're. But you're, you're American, right? He was, he doesn't live for highland. He lived for highland. He lived for highland. He lived for highland. He lived for highland. He lived for highland. He lived for highland. Higher crackers go on off. No one's going to notice it. No, no. It's a little nice. This guy gets hit. A couple of. A couple of kids. A bird shot near. Maybe off. Yeah, you don't need to worry about. Yeah. So we don't disappoint me. I want you guys telling me lavish stories of Americanism. We finished work. I finished work early. So by 7 p.m. We were settled in and we watched a couple of our TV shows, which there's a TV show. I want to tell you guys about. And we had previous, we purchased a bar chocolate. So we split the bar chocolate. And we went to bed by like 930. Something like that. That was a nice split. One apple. Yeah, we get these big cosmic crisps. And since we had this, because I told you guys this before. And you guys said that that's what it was like a peasants meal. That's like the crowd said like the whole family. Because the dogs like the apple too. So we have to give pieces of the apple to the dogs. And they started one apple amongst four. Talk to my wife. You gotta talk to my wife on this. Not a very tight recordage of apples. She doesn't want to whole apple. Okay, she's saving for retirement. Make a kind. I'm going to need y'all the bump up the money that you're going to this. I'm going to die with like 8 million in the bank. Well, the thing is when apples nowadays, if the cost of apples, I mean, they're like, It's expensive. You know what I'm saying? The $7 apple. Right. Cosmic crisps by the way. Cosmic crisps is nailing at this year. That's how it gets to juice that apple. It is. They're like around something. They're huge. It's going into that apple. The TV show. So you guys remember the movie Fargo. Right. Yes. So the TV show each season is different. It's a different scenario. I watched season one back in the day when it came out. Loved it. Season two, like I didn't really get into it. And I trailed off and didn't watch it. The latest season. I want to say it's season five or season six. Whatever the latest season is, you don't need to have watched anything previously. But I strongly encourage you to watch the latest season of Fargo. Give it a minute. And you'll, it's, it's, it's just so well done. There's like some action in there. There's some definite. There's some humor. And just, there's a, so a little bit of artiness to it. It's just a really well done show. So I strongly encourage you guys to watch Fargo. All right. So, okay. What's that? What's dusty watching in the new year? So I watched television while I do cardio and it's got like really close season. I want to watch it. I'm just going to do some stuff in the office and I didn't fix my camera. I really after that. Yeah. So no, but my, the reason I'm selling this whole story that doesn't matter is because the value of the television isn't as high. I just need something to watch on to cardio. So I've been watching Jack Ryan, which is good. But I'm not telling anyone that's using that right. Yeah. And it's, it's very good. But it's not on the level where you like tell people to go watch it. Right. You're enjoying it. You don't want to be responsible for other people. Yeah. So definitely, if you're a cardio walker that just watches and you'll love this. Ron, this, you'll get a kick out of this. So I just decided to do 30 minutes of cardio five, six days a week. Just walking. Well, then I ran into the issue that I would be dealing my cardio before an episode. And then I would start a new episode. You'll finish that episode tomorrow. Then have to start a new one during it. And you wouldn't allow me to skip the intro. So I'd have to like, while walking carefully, drag it and change. So now I do 42 minutes of cardio because I just watch a full episode. So that was how I determined it's time to do more cardio. Yes. But it's, it is actually really good. And I've knocked through. I'm going to finish the fourth season this month. Just because I watched an episode five, six days a week. Nice. But yeah, very good. So, but it's like here, it's your easy. I always joke that there are movies in our films. So if I say something, this is a good movie. Yeah. We're not talking about something that's going to compare to old classics, or anything like that. You know, it's just a good movie. It's an entertainment. You're good. Right. But okay. If I do come out in the morning and tell Nikki what's going on in my world, I have to go in. I'm like, he's a lot going on. I have a between Russia and us. And I'm just not sure if I go. And I found out some bad stuff. And she's like, why do you think it's to me every day? So yeah. That's what I want you to go and down. Yeah. Very real. It's really fictionally important. Yeah. I like that I bought into him though because of, you know, he is actually great at the role which excites me. Yeah. You remember who played Jack Ryan? Remember who's played Jack Ryan already? No. And make the movies. All the classy movies for Jack Ryan is the main character. No. Number the hunt for Red October. Alec Baldwin was Jack Ryan. Okay. And then in Patriot Games, it was Harrison Ford was Jack Ryan. And, it's not a... What was the third movie that they had a longer title? Harrison Ford did another one where he was Jack Ryan. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. I don't know. Harrison Ford Jack Ryan. Easy. Um. I'm not right here. Boop. Uh, there was. Clear and present danger. Yeah. And then Ben Affleck was Jack Ryan in the sum of all fears. And, uh, And then, um, What's the guy's name? I don't even know what this connection existed. Shadow recruit either. Shadow recruit. I can't remember his name. And I've seen these entertainment top. But there's the old top. Yeah. Yeah. Chris. I never saw that. I think it's fine. I think he might be right. But you'll get in trouble for saying that if you're wrong. So it's fun. Yeah. Yeah. It's been like a string of great actors that have played Jack Ryan. He's a good character. You know, he's a Tom Clancy sort of answered a James Bond in a lot of ways. You know, and it's a great, uh, but but seeing him do it. And I actually, um, did you ever get the story about his success, like getting the part of the office? Chris in ski? I don't know how he got the part in the office. No. All right. So it's not about how he got the part. But this is interesting. So I'll make it quick. But he he had it was a little clip I saw. And he was talking about how he moved to go to becoming actor. And his mother told him. Yeah, his mother. I don't know if he went to LA or New York. But anyways, his mother told him, she said, listen, all I ask is that you, like, get yourself out of this. I'm not going to pull you out of being an actor because you're a loser, essentially. So he's working tables doing all this stuff and just not really getting anything. Um, so he. He reached out to his mom in like September. And he's like, hey, I, um, I'm done. You know, this is not working. And you know, I'm just not really getting anything. And basically I want to come home. And for whatever reason his mom's like, you know, It's not really a lot going on right now. Why don't just hang out to the end of the year. And then come home. Hmm. And two weeks later, he got the office. Dang. That's crazy. I mean, it's like, it's like, it's like, it's like, he's tell that story. I literally get to what those words that I like played it again. I'm like, right here that right? And it was literally, I don't know exactly, but it was within it was under a month from when his mom was like, Let's hold out. You know, that's a scenario of square. I mean, let's be honest. Anybody who either has friends or kids. You see him like dragging a feet long enough to be an actor. You're kind of like, yeah, it's probably time to get a job. So she just had a vibe. She's like, ah, it's just hold out. Like, you're not going to go become a great whatever the hell else you're going to do right now. Anyways. So just wait. And now look at him, you know, wild to me. Yeah. Yeah, I love those stories. And you know, they, it's like that old saying, um, like, what's that old saying about, you know, if you quit today, you'll never, you'll never see what tomorrow brings, you know, like the losers are just the ones who quit. Right. You know, it's sticking with it. They could just got us to get in there. Like every great success story, many great success stories are often just stories of stubbornness. Yeah. Refusal to it, Mitt reality. I'd like to call myself a success story, but yes, it is how I turn pro. I just stood up in the aisle. Yes, we stood up in the aisle. I just stood up in the aisle. I came together. Eventually, it just worked out. Yeah. Yeah. How did you make it, you know, man, the overnight success of, you know, 20 years of waiting tables. Yeah. How about you, Ron? What'd you do for, for new years? Uh, new years. We went over. We actually went over to George's house. Oh, nice. George, George and Christina had Emily and I over for dinner because we don't like to do anything on New Year's Eve because we don't want to leave our dog home alone because the fireworks are crazy and down here. Even though we can barely hear them, he just we're up in the tower really high and he seems to have to hear all the fireworks and of course. So we normally, we normally stay home on Halloween night New Year's Eve. Any night where there's fireworks and we stay home and just watch movies. You know, I'm just trying to keep the volume on the TV up and then jet as all calm and relax and our dogs get, you know, but George and Christina invited us over for dinner. So we went over there when we took the dog and the dogs, you know, did they're saying and we played cards and had a big steak meal. Dusty would have loved it. And the, um, yeah, was he good time? Did you notice Dusty, he said the nights that there are a lot of fireworks like New Year's Eve or Halloween, Halloween. Yeah, I've learned this. So in Canada, you guys do fireworks on Halloween, huh? Yeah. Yeah. Well, I don't know about us guys. I just know about the degenerates and neighborhood. Yeah. Fire fireworks off on Halloween for some strange reason. Yeah. You look up to you. Yeah. Yeah. Pop and off feel like what's going on? Well, because I do rail the conversation all the time. So I was going to leave that one because I'm like, dude, I'm so annoying. Victoria was the one who told me because she has these, uh, they're like these calm cookies that we give to her little dog. Uh, and she said this Halloween or maybe the past Halloween. She's like, oh, we should give Maddie some calm cookies before it gets dark. And it's like, why? She's like, well, because of the fireworks. So you know, so you know, Halloween. Just wear masks and knock on doors. That's all we do here. We don't do any fire. Give it it's Detroit. That's sort of every night. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. We just wear masks and just rubbed off. I got around in the dark. Yeah. It's the home invasions. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I think it's, uh, Canadians like to set off fireworks on Hell. Halloween because, um, we don't have real freedom. So we like to do simulated freedom. And I call it an American imitation, um, fetish sort of thing. There's little moments where we like to pretend we're free. And, uh, they're probably setting the fireworks off secretly kind of singing the Star Spangled Banner. They're having a bit of realizing. Yeah. Yeah. Probably, you know, I'm sure Trudeau hates them. Oh, here's this like fireworks. I can't imagine that guy's a fan of anything fun. So, um, there's probably more and more firework use as, uh, the, you know, the feeling of, you know, sort of depressing drain captures Canadians. Right. We ended up guys. We'll be going. Yeah. Right. We ended up guys. We'll be going. Yeah. I don't know if he's ever leaving. I don't know if he's ever leaving. I think he's a type of guy that could have 1% approval. And he'd just be like, everything's fine. Everything's good here. It's fine. Yeah. He's definitely proven that. Yeah. You can Gavin or homies. Uh, Gavin or homies. Hey. Okay. Is that a show? Do we have a show? Yeah. We, I guess we won't be going to put it out. We don't have a show. We don't have a show. Sort of stuck now. We're just being consistent. I also have it. I have to say, I know you guys want to go. And I'm, I'm Scott's probably messaging me move on. Um, but I have to say, um, I'm, I'm, I'm very, uh, happy with the response to the, the show from everyone that's been cognitive lately and messaging. And you got a great message from someone the other day Scott that you shared with us that was, um, like really, you know, people saying this show helps them through so many tough times. And we just want to make sure that especially our last five minute crew really know that hearing that stuff is really great. It, um, you know, because there's lots of times I got, I know Dusty and I, we both have, uh, you know, this sort of like, what the hell am I doing here sort of feeling half the time when I'm talking about it? And it's nice to know that, you know, people are looking forward to the show and it's an important part of their week. You got to get through cardio or the commute or, you know, they're significant other yapping out that. And that's nice to know that they have a place to go. Hey, on that note, I did have a comment that I wanted to share with you guys. And this is from Billy Ryan. He had said, uh, I want to thank you all for talking about the breakup. If you guys remember, we talked about dealing with breakups a few episodes ago. He says, I'm not sure if it was my story, but I did post it on the think big body building page. Which, to give me as the Facebook group. Since I've been there for years and this, oh, since he's been there for years and disappeared at the group, he means. But we were married for seven years, six years together for seven. I was incredibly crush. I'm doing so much better now and I can't thank you guys enough if it weren't for you guys and others like you who I can honestly, I can honestly say that I wouldn't be here today. So I mean, it's cool to know that we can help people get through difficult times like that. And yeah, we have gotten a bunch of really good messages. They touch us, me, man, to know that we can, uh, that other guy who I shared the message with you guys, he was saying that like through all of his cardio. He got through like some of those brutal cardio sessions listening to our shows, you know. And if that's what I've always wanted is to be that, that thing that they can go to, because you get through those times, those things, those incredible feats in a contest prep. You come out the other side and you realize like, wow, you know, I'm different because of this. And we were, we were there. We were part of that for them. So I love knowing that. Agreed. Yeah, that's fantastic. Also to the feedback on the DJ episode, everyone loved Dennis. Oh, yeah. Yeah, of course. I had two people say that was our best, the day thought was our best interview ever. I was like, oh, I mean, we've had some very great guests on that great, you know, we've had a really good interviews, but I think they just really loved his Ronnie story and kind of the old like we kind of got him talking about the, you know, the kind of the peak days of his career as opposed to like, you know, more current events or whatever, we had a real good sort of old school interview with him. And I was really happy that people had a great time listening to that fun too. You can tell he had fun. Yeah, that's the best part, you know. Yeah. So anyways, much appreciated. So 2024 big things coming. Lots of goals. Maybe next episode. We'll talk about our plans for 2024. And what we are lining up. I know we've got a lot to learn on. We're going to see each other a few times this year too. By the looks of this. Yes. So yeah, and we're going to see some of you guys this year. We're going to see a lot of you guys this year. So make sure you come and say hi at all. The expose and boost and show us your t shirts. Yes. You know, you learned your t shirts this time. So so okay, guys, is that it? That's our first episode of the new year. Yes, sir. One, one, two, four. That's the year. That's the data. This one. Okay. Thanks everybody. Remember, I am mutant.com. Go to I am mutant. Get your ISO surge. Get your all in. And you should all buy this point in time. You should all be on the gear. I don't know how much longer we have to harp it you about getting on the gear. But I don't understand or you could watch this show and have any any sense and not be on copious amounts of gear. Oh, yeah. Yeah, get the gear in your system. It's available. I am mutant.com. These dusty 20 big run 20. And remember the think big Patreon keep a producer home. Thank you guys. Right. I've got my call fee on Apple. Yeah. Or now the price of the. I've got a cosmic Chris. Right. Right. Whatever neighborhood you live in, Google cosmic crisp, whatever that's worth. Don't eat that to the things you pay for on once a month. That's a good question. Okay. Thank you everyone and remember it's just body building. That's my favorite one. What the very last line you mean? Yeah. Yes. That's my favorite delivery of it. It was just the face. It was flawless. Okay. I might like it.

his lats are his lats are more strided there than they did at the Olympia. Yeah. Remember his lats weren't really strided at the Olympia. Remember his glutes were crazy, but the lats weren't really like crazy strided. It was like the one body part that wasn't. Yeah. Hey everybody. Welcome to It's Just Body Building. I'm one of your hosts, Big Ron Parlo. Of course I got Dusty Han Shah and the producer Scott McNally. Check it in. Remember like share, subscribe, comment and bring the bell. Yes. Got to hit that bell. Remember Patreon. Think Big Body Building Media. Keep a producer home. Thank you guys. So hit the hit the Patreon to support the Think Big Channel and hit the algorithms and the bell and all that stuff to help us out. And remember, I am mutant.com. Go to I am mutant.com get your ISO surge, get your all in and everyone should get on the gear Dusty. I'm excited about the rebirth of mutant at the Ono Classic. Yeah. Gonna see a bunch of new stuff. Everyone's got to come down to the booth and see us. Of course Scott will be there too. I'm excited for all the shenanigans at the booth. It'll be a lot of fun. And I'm going to bring my fancy headphones got so we can look like, you know, real partners. All right. And see love it. Well, they're over ear. You know, like the ones I play guitar with. They look more like Scott's right. Yeah. Very fair. So it's so noisy in there, right? Yeah. And I think that'll be better. I think we'll be able to hear each other more. It'll be smoother. And the setup's going to be different. Anybody who saw us last year, we're going to have a couch set up and chairs and stuff. And it's going to be it's going to be kind of cool. So I encourage everybody to come by and hang out and who knows you might even get on the podcast. Because I'm thinking that we'll be able to like record on and off throughout, you know what I mean? So we see somebody walking by. I'll be like, I'll grab them and be like, hey, Ron, I need you for five minutes. You know what I mean? I want the lady with a huge tits. Yeah. The guy. I want to look at her. Yeah. Yeah. The one that was at the. Yeah. Remember she was like her boobs was big as my torso. Each one. Yeah. They were like, it must have been like, like, oh, wow. They were gallant. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You know what's bad. They started doing about the gallant. Yeah. Gallant. I think if the gallant of gasoline, you could afford it. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Terrible. Just disgusting. We've got to have her on. No. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I'm definitely looking forward to the Arnold. I'm looking forward to seeing everybody. Are we going to actually talk about the competition, the men's open? Are we going to touch on that? Are we going to dare to comment on the actual Arnold classic? Because you know, this is not where people go for proper rundowns competitions. We will most likely get distracted somewhere between the beginning and the end of the list. And I'm sure we're going to miss somebody completely. So what are we going to do, gentlemen? We're going to venture into this a little bit. Well, I should. I think we should do it and do it poorly. I mean, as well as we can. As it is, you would expect of us to start this out. I had something I wanted to show you guys. I don't know if you can tell this is a hologram cup from the Arnold classic. It was the official Arnold was sponsored by Chocolate Milk in like 2008. And I got one of these cups in to celebrate the our show today. This is going to be like my official my official pre Arnold cup from I have a question. Yeah Arnold was sponsored by Chocolate Milk. Yeah, it says just seems the official beverage of Arnold. But it's a rare answer. It's a rare answer. Turn it around. I think there's a rare answer to the child. It just says drink milk.com. It says three a day milk cheese yogurt chocolate nourish energized rehydrate. And it said got milk right on it. Do you see that? Yeah. No. Like like acidic they like like chocolate milk had a meeting and they're like we're going to we're going to sponsor the Arnold classic this year. Yeah. What year was that again? I think it was like 2008 2009. But I've saved it because it's a nice plastic hologram cup that the Arnold's chocolate milk bodybuilding is because the white one's Arnold's good or what's the deal there? I don't know. I don't know. Hey, you know my chocolate milk bodybuilding story goes back to the very beginning. I remember in grade 10 I was going to high school and when I would finish school every day I would buy a 500 mil chocolate milk and one of the home baked chocolate chip cookies from the school bakery. Yeah. And I would walk. It was about eight blocks to the gym. And I would walk and drink my chocolate milk and eat my cookie. And I did that every damn day. And then I would go train like you know an asshole high school kid. Yes. With unlimited recovery. Great. And it worked. Look at you now. I feel like that there's two things about that one. If I were to drink chocolate milk and then immediately go train back or legs that would be revisited. For sure. Well there was enough time. It was an eight block walk and you know a bullshit with my friends for a bit at the jam your high school kid. You know go get changed into your gym clothes. There's actually changing into gym clothes occurring at that point in your life right? Yeah. You're not just going to the gym completely equipped and ready to yeah. So yeah it was one of those. It was a different life dusty. It was a different life. I like some of these younger guys to take that in though like that was that worked. You know that they're working well. They're working well. Make sure the molecular weight of the carbohydrate that they're eating while they go in to do decline hammer strength press single arm sideways. How long is the saccharide chain in this carbohydrate source? Rod like I don't know but you should try chocolate milk. Yeah. I don't know but I'm really happy when I start my workout. There you go. Right and flangey. Oh yeah. So I prepared some stuff. I wanted to dazzle you guys with some video. So I think probably well all agree that how do you in Samsung are going to be the front runners right? So I think the the fun story will be is okay. All right. Who's going to be third right? I mean that's that's probably the story. Maybe not but regardless we have some pretty recent footage of the two front runners. So check this out. Here's some hotty video that I grabbed and then I've got a back shot of him too. This is from couple three weeks ago now. So you know man you know you could even be leaner than those who knows. I don't even know. Here I only throw up this back shot here boom. Look at that. Like we know he's going to be peeled right? Yeah. He's like he's he's we know he's going to be full. Like they're he's not going to miss. How do he does not miss there's that. No he's not going to miss. Oh I just kept getting wider. Yes man there we go. There we go. Since the Cynthia Olympia he's been training lots because of Derek Lansford. Yeah. Yeah. His lots are is Latsuk's more striated there than they did at the Olympia. Yeah. Remember his lats weren't really striated at the Olympia. Remember his glutes were crazy but the lats weren't really like crazy striated. It was like the one body part that wasn't. Yeah. And he's got more going on there. It looks like to me. And I found this shot here. I'm Samson. Let me see if I can bring this up. Boom. Check that out. That's so pretty. That is so pretty. Yeah. It's such a classic body builder look from the front. It really doesn't mean like that like definitely what does a body builder look like from the in the front relax and stuff and Samson really that that giant powerful structure at the wide shoulders and you know that six foot frame that's so hard to fill out. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. His arms. His left arm is absurd looking. That here's the thing for me. Like if you if you could look like either of them I got it look like Samson. I mean it's just while the frame the frame. Yeah. Beautiful. Right. Yeah. And this is six days ago and then he had another shot. I see. Here's him. I think this is the most muscular shot he hit here. Oh, well, there we go. It's a short video. Looking peeled from six days. Yeah. It's gonna be very dangerous. But the story will be the back double bicep again. It is the area that Samson has shown the most improvement on in the last two, three years. Right. Remember like you know what just two years ago is back double and then it made that huge jump when he won the Arnold. His back double was like way better. So and and I know we talked about how nobody was really at their best condition at the O. Everyone was just a little bit not their best you know. So if he improves on last year's Arnold where he was at his technically I think at his very best and has a better back double bicep than last year's Arnold now we're talking about threatening hotty. But I think unless he can beat hotty in the back double it'll be it'll be difficult to beat hotty. I think that's kind of to me what this show comes down to in a lot of ways. Yeah. That's a fair assessment. I think that and again this is purely based on seeing them already not on what they're you can't say how much you can't tell them if someone has improved when they're as good as him. Yeah alone. Yeah as well as you can when you put them next to each other because I had him not on my joking response but I had him as a very strong possibility to win the Olympia last year. Yeah and it soon as they came out I was like oh no like it was it was pretty drastic that he was not ready to beat those top two at that point. So we'll see the good news is the third place is why no yeah. Yeah that's the fun like and everyone let me let me real quick. Where is he? Why might not see him? Who's that? Okay. Oh there's Antoine. So I need to eat my words here a little bit and I want to publicly do it because no one else knows. Okay but I saw pictures of Antoine I don't know two months ago and I sent it to YouTube and I said he doesn't look as good as he used to look. He's going backwards. Remember? Yep. I remember getting that message and no one argued with me. It was like and then a month went by and I literally sent both of you guys another one said yeah I'm gonna shut up now. Holy like it's the best he has ever been and I think it's purely because he's mad at me. I think that's the worst. So we need to take my full credit for why he got really good but they heard the rumor and wow. So I will I will confirm that that happened and I also think that you know most people don't ever go out of their way to admit that they were wrong about something so Kudos to you Dusty you're eating it on that one and you're not the only person. I had a couple other people like a few months ago. They were like Antoine really like he's got a lot of work to do like coming he's a little bit coming for my money. Yeah and I mean like I don't know where it was you know when he started his prep ready might have been like at his lowest bodyweight for ages I didn't really know I just knew that people had commented to me and now I've had multiple people say oh he's like rocket ship right now. So you know I love the side leg on Antoine. There's just he's got such good quality in his legs you know everything. I have to point this out because of the lineup and I think it's good for up and coming bodybuilders to understand too is as much as everyone goes into a show to win. Of course. I mean if you're competing you could peat to win but I think it's important to simultaneously remember that whether Antoine you know sneaks by everybody in wins or takes six place and comes in his absolute best anybody who knows bodybuilding is like damn like you look awesome and I feel like that it's I've been working with and talking to a lot more you know like national level people lately and the lot of them have that hole in their mindset of just like win or failure and it's just not how it works in bodybuilding because there's no defense so I have to bring it up when I see his physique because you know full well like being honest he's not winning this show but he is winning you know what I mean oh yeah I know that and he's doing it clean you know he made that post the other day he has now it's more than that a thousand days clean so it can grads to him and it always makes me happy too to see somebody who's in recovery to share their recovery with others because there's a lot of other people out there that need to hear that message and you see a guy like Antoine it's like hey if he can do that I can pretty much do anything you know what I mean absolutely I'm I'm excited to see as posing your teen because man he brings a house down at the smaller show is right he just his posing your teens just blow people away the smaller shows so to see him on the on the big stage doing it's routine will be great I've been to crowd just goes nuts sorry this is great this shot doesn't show his shape just based off the angle but look at that just the nastiness of this condition right here yeah yeah yeah that's great huh yeah let me take a sim yeah absolutely so sorry do you rail this little but I had to call myself and it probably real quick let's okay for what yeah so here's your list a chem a chem looks really good I have no idea what his body weight is but he looks very hard and grainy which is what he needs I know those photos that were floating around I think you sent him dusty yeah the two most musculars yeah yeah those look great you know you pull those up Scott yeah yeah I'm grabbing them he's finding a chem a chem is one of the guys that continues to like like nothing's getting lost in his physique over the years you know usually stuff starts to like slip away yeah like they're enough and slip in a way and just so people who have never seen a chem in person photos don't do his cartoonish physique justice it's waste is tiny and his lots hang like when he's just standing there like you walk up behind him you're like what is it's very very impressive bulk yeah yeah and then we got just then what we talked about you know just in just an bit of a break right so that yes yeah just an headache break which would be awesome you know what about what about our you know it's just body-loving favorites James Hollingshead I'm really excited to see him he's posting pictures showing that he's in great conditioning and he's getting hard or he's hard everywhere he's strided everywhere you know I'm I I love how his physique looks on stage you know what I mean when he's posing when he's running through his shots I don't know what he weighs do you have any idea what he's weighing but he looks he looks great just thick dense hard core muscle will uh we'll have to see him in the lineup I'm really hoping that this can be you know hey his best showing ever would be great it would be awesome to see James I mean the arms look a little bigger are they are the arms and did he bring his arms up because I mean he's awesome about him yeah yeah very very uh the look of the physique has uh has has a hard core you know density to it so yeah it does and it's mellow so it's coaching him right I guess I believe so yeah so this is mellow so be all over him yeah mellow so be all over him so we'll see what happens we'll see what happens I'm excited you know I'd love to see him do awesome um Mohalachabha oh yeah yeah he's great I mean who knows how he'll place what what were you saying Scott I was gonna say the horse MD guy I want to see what he does I just had his pictures pulled up here I mean is he gonna have the size to hang with these guys he has like just some incredible shape here's a shot of him oh yeah I mean look at those legs yeah he's got a great physique man amazing structure big popping muscle bellies all over the place we'll just see how he looks next to there's some really big guys in this lineup you know like yeah well this is bad to the um the the divider that people don't understand is like think of all the pictures we've pulled up and realize that someone in this group of 12 guys or whatever it is isn't going to win yeah like like you put any of these guys in another show a smaller show did I say and they're in it for the win and you're looking to got like this gone uh he looks fantastic but he won't be in the really like him I agree but I really like him and now that I see the same like him look at that weird the weird delton him that in the separation just like everything is perfect on him if you ask me I would take this look if I could of course a pro level physique I'll take that thank you I'm done yeah if I could have anything with that would have been to put in and we have for exactly I'm putting maximum effort to look like half as good as any of these guys yeah it was unbelievable I just I'm it rocks me to see who got grainy that is too look at his calf what is this angry about the calves yeah it looks like he has multiple calves yeah I know some calves more than one set yeah that's why the rest of us are don't have any the test is multiple people took mine I got I got long ankles is what I have really long ankles is all I've got there so I'm I'm really excited for this Arnold because it's exciting to go into a show and we've been saying this for the last couple of big shows not knowing who's winning yeah like for years you know Scott when I started I got into body building later than Ron did but when I started going to all the shows you always knew who was winning yeah like you knew who was winning for the every Arnold ever went to I knew and I was never wrong I should have been wrong a couple times but I went the way that everyone thought it would but you know whereas now you're really looking and I do feel like even the top three was always relatively you're kind of new yeah you know I would not you know I would not dare to guess who the top five is in order that because there's there's seven guys in need to fit in that top five that third fourth and fifth place is gonna be crazy you know that said it's a huge lineup so I feel like I feel like we're in a position where everybody's gonna probably get a good look you know I don't think that people are gonna get as likely overlooked here there's that and that just let me ask you guys this too so Samson one last year is there anything with the Arnold you know how with the Olympia you got to knock out the champ that whole thing is there is there do you think there's anything at the Arnold where Samson will get any type of additional grace for the fact that he is the like the raining champ no because there's a Mr. Olympia there oh yeah hoties the king hoties the guy that has an Olympia title those to me that Olympia title is like if follows you for the rest of your career no matter what stage you stand on it's like that guy's gotten Olympia and it it it dexter did it the whole time he was so dangerous he was a Mr. Olympia you could never take that away from him I think that I think that Samson being the returning champion actually still has a hilded climb because hoties got in Olympia which is actually good for Samson I I I don't know I think that maybe maybe that he'll bring his best cousin that I don't know I'm excited I also I also don't think it matters in all anymore because look at the Olympia last year Derek did not knock out hotie so that whole mindset in my opinion they've thrown away and I do believe there was a time that that was kind of a thing but I think it as soon as as soon as Jay fell yeah and then you know because Rally didn't fall he he burned out you know his body but once Jay lost and then Dexter lost again like it started and then Phil lost it became a thing like no Olympia guys loose because for years they did like you know Hanging it lose he laughed Dorian didn't lose he laughed Rally just kept going so he didn't his body shut down I don't even count him as losing Jay's the first one to say he didn't beat him at his best you know so I don't think matters at all anymore and that's what I love is I think that for whatever reason whether it's the right thing or it's good for money it's better if we don't know like yeah I stopped caring to go to finals at the Olympia like I went to dinner a couple times yeah I can beat the traffic if I was going to dinner now because I knew what was going to happen you know so this year you can bet that like every year at the Olympia Ron and I will be there screaming only this year Scott's coming yes so just one more thought because I know we had a bunch of other stuff but so if let's say let's say how he does it he wins then second place goes to Samson now that means that everybody else going into up against looking for that third place spot is being compared against Samson right that's who who has in your opinions who has the closest and that's a frickin tough question I can't answer it who can go up against Samson Samson's game in you know that's when you flip over everything I said earlier and you put an excellent third it really could be who knows man you suck because let's just win this whole tangent that's probably who I would say would get put that list up again put that list that's again yeah we got a pick a third a we got to pick a third is that what's going on and that's if you know I mean because it could go either way because if if Samson won and then hot and hot he took second doesn't yeah then then who's comparing against hot he this it's uh either way man it's a this is I I'm with you like I really can't figure this out it does not either way the guy said who couldn't make the top five comes in third oh yeah exactly I if you had to pick a third if I had to pick a third hmm third like let's just say hot he and Samson are one two and whatever order yeah I mean that's tough who has actually who's already been to the oh in this lineup well Justin a keen and on Justin James James um uh didn't so Muhammad Shabon hasn't he been to the oh I thought he went to an oh you know and then uh Raphael so I mean Raph Raph's of he's a huge threat for third yeah he could be there I like friend okay I think the highest level it's it's the size it's over look because he's not as big yeah would you ever seen him in person with a shirt off for me to use the sentence he's not as big right let's see man it doesn't make sense yeah I've seen him in the gym with like a crazy pump and I'm just like how was that guy not big enough in any like sense of the word you know this is funny all right slide okay that's my that's my vote just so you guys know I'm I'm disagreeing with the honesty and I'm putting Nexela in third I could totally see that happen I would not be shocked just lost an argument with myself you can tell yourself you can tell yourself after the show so we'll see conditioning decide everything but he's a freak so before we got to everything else I did want to ask on the theme of the Arnold because I'm freaking pumped because I'm getting in my car and leaving in like two and a half three days right now and I know I'm going to get to hang out with you guys we're going to do all sorts of fun stuff at the Arnold and there's going to be a bunch of other people coming to the Arnold too and some of them have never been to the Arnold before so at as tradition I would like to know what are some things that people need to make sure they do when they go to Ohio this upcoming weekend bring hand sanitizer dead serious yeah that's a serious one as much as we joke about it oh yeah because you're going to be doing a ton of hand shaking well you are that's fine well though people are too because they're gonna go meet people and you're running into people you know and it's just a lot and I find that the bathrooms are so disturbing that I prefer to use hand sanitizer to try and wash my hands and those bathrooms and I always wonder how many people watch me walk out in our like disgusting bastard but I'm taking the hand sanitizer out of my pocket on my way out right right so but no that's one for sure also bring a lot of money because the Chick-fil-A sandwiches are very expensive oh yeah yeah what's the most it I had not to Chick-fil-A there so yeah there's the only time I had it they were only like half warmed up and they were like flattened from being stacked on top of each other completely terrible and I still remember you know I still remember that sandwich I refied my house to buy that for you um about that for you here's I'm swear I still I'm still making payments on it here's a here's a bit of advice for people ask yourself a question is it really important that you work out that weekend hmm if it's not don't bother it's literal there's there's lots of great gyms in the area that's the thing like there's American Barbell just out of town if you want to go for like I think it's like a 25 minute 30 minute drive there's you know there's all the power shacks there's a there's a bunch of them around town and then there's fitness we're the same yeah yeah yeah yeah Metro Fitness and there's Pro Jim which is where everyone's like that's the gym that's like two blocks away they call a pro isn't called Pro Jim I think so used to be the powerhouse right but they changed the name but that gym so packed that you know the last several Arnolds I didn't even bother going until Sunday night I just went Sunday and I went Sunday night last year after like most people have started leaving town right and I had like a great workout but I don't often train at the Arnold anymore because you know I need my sleep there's lots going on and it is hectic but Rod will be training at the Arnold this weekend I'm bringing my camera guys we're gonna do a workout together we'll do something it's just bodybuilding bro workout get some video for you guys it'll be fun I'll try to say it was anything else so there's the expo there is the the shows obviously there's the amateur I feel like the amateur gets overlooked and there's not a lot of people going to watch that if you go and check out the amateur I guarantee you that you were gonna see some incredible amateur body builders from literally around the world you you may be one of the few people in the audience that actually speaks English because it's like everybody's teams and their families and stuff like that and they're all like these guys are in speaking in Arabic and these guys are Italian and you have these Japanese people over here and these guys are freaking serious these are guys that go to like the ipp world these are guys that like pull out all the stops like we're talking deathbed bodybuilding at its best you need to get on stage at that 198 definitely like that I just made that up that term is awesome what is deathbed bodybuilding it's people that are squeezing into weight classes they have no business getting into it's when you need a wheelchair to weigh in you know right wheel you up to it yeah yeah so there's that there's that and plan to but what else what else what about food what about food plan to plan to just eat shit food or have all your meals like so here's the thing with people I was people are getting Airbnb's now because they want to have kitchens right yeah but I just cannot stand losing the ridiculous simplicity of staying in the hotel attached to the conference center like I'm not I'm just I don't need a kitchen man I'm fine I'll eat buffet breakfast and I'll figure lunch out and I'll I'll take a few meals with me to begin with and then I'll have you know what I mean like I got my way protein and my bag of oatmeal and other not I'll get some steak and fries I'm okay so if you're if you're not in prep you don't want to lose yeah that's the thing I'd push on yeah yeah don't don't be so worried about everything if you're gonna if you're off season you're gonna be eating and that's fine you know prepping okay do your Airbnb thing because is you know there's no hotels with kitchens attached to the conference center I don't think so yeah we're we're doing the most likely ice of some sort in the cooler to keep her food cold for two days there you go our hotel that doesn't get any so that that is the thing that people realize is a lot of these hotels don't have refrigeration and if you are in prep you do need to bring your food um on a weekend like this they may not accept putting your food downstairs separate yeah they have a nice machine bring a cooler that can hold the ice rotated out every morning your food doesn't take on and you know you can heat it up or not it doesn't matter it's three days it's good your food and not a huge deal only thing that I suggest for my clients is either buying those packaged ricees that you just have to heat up oh yeah because they stay better or tossing them completely and going to like rice cakes just for convenience because you don't always have a microwave cold chicken easy cold rice that's five days old that's now looks like it's been frozen no been there not the best not the best yeah and for those of you not on prep the bear burger across the street from the expo centers really burger place Ron and I went there and then we all went to that um don't just don't tell them that one no okay no we don't want them to go there it's small you know what you're gonna talk about I think so the sushi slash turkey place no no no no no these are the Mexican place right across the street and they had all sorts of tacos and stuff like that yeah I like that taco play that was good that places yeah if it's the last thing go then we give them some options I don't know you're involved I'm not right you gotta keep your own my date night you know cheese yeah yeah the only thing I didn't like about that taco place was the the table that we got the first night we went I wound up getting like the couch side like you ever go to like you know it's not a ground too remember like real low yeah yeah remember like you know you go to those the odd like kind of restaurant where they have like more casual seating and like the chair doesn't match the table the table is like here on your chest and you're sitting on like a cushy couch type of thing it looks good what is you walk up to it but the yeah it's so inviting and it's like the cafe from friends yeah you know and then you sit out and you're like I can't eat like this this is brutal can I have a normal chair oh they're all so you can shit yeah I'm that guy all right that's good stuff well I hope that helps and we got through this without really much well dusty did talk a little bit about the bathrooms but I guess we'll probably get a good review you know about the bathroom situation from Ron after and remember it is new new people running the Arnold now so it's possible they are you know improving bathrooms year to year we'll see I think last year was a little bit of a step up wasn't it didn't like back and I wasn't just traumatized we were shocked yeah yeah it was also because we went to Dubai before that so the trauma yeah I'm still in counseling but anyways yeah nothing was worse than what I witnessed in Madrid at the Arnold Europe in like 2016 you remember all the way back this is almost a decade ago now we're happy yeah yeah no I walked into a bathroom and there was like giant expo bathroom people it's nuts and um no toilet paper in any of the stalls no hand paper anywhere no soap none like just nothing and then there's a bathroom attendant mopping but he doesn't speak English and I tap him and I'm like soap and he just goes yeah yeah just pick there you go you're fine to that yeah you're good stop shooting him pissing on your hands yeah well not what he doesn't yeah okay oh what's next we got some questions we have some good cues what about our Patreon and YouTube people we do show them some love yeah we we have all sorts of them I know dusty you had some good stuff too so think if you've got anything lined up there um this one's just completely gonna be off topic but I had to start with it because I really like Lucas's tone western for the next show sandwiches I'm sure y'all love them all of us what's your go to starting from red filling sauce or not veg or not sweet maybe savory let's hear it I really feel as though Ron should lead off with his complicated sandwich well I can do bread meat bit of cheese throw some barbecue sauce in there stats I'm fine I don't need anything else on my sandwich though I don't want yeah I don't want your rabbit food on my sandwich and I don't want any other sauces I don't want spicy nothing I don't want your white sauce I don't just leave it alone just let me enjoy my rotisserie chicken and cheese and barbecue sauce plus what are your thoughts on like a chicken put a bunch of vegetables on and just get so big and hard to hold and hard to bite into it just annoying why easy to eat want to get this over with something's going to the dentist make it easy or get this over with you know enjoyable the sandwich oh this is I think mainly a run with this is like another of us have to answer we don't even have to yeah it gives what I just I just have been waiting to say that sandwich I just like you all I'm sure you all love it we're gonna skip this move forward yeah you all love them how about this one then we'll go to this one then okay um was there ever moment or incident during your career where you had a sudden dawning of appreciation for the extremeness or extreme um unconvention unconventionality of what you were doing um in other words did you ever have a moment where you did notice something like and you thought to yourself wow this is absolutely wild people don't do this kind of thing basically like extreme bodybuilding where you're like holy crap this is next level I think like the closest thing I ever came to that would be like a couple of times right around the show like when you're peaking or something and you see a new striation across your glute it maybe you never seen before or something and you feel like oh this is like crazy you know or someone asked me a question too what are some of the things you notice when you're shredded like what are some of the things that happen when you shred it that you know maybe happened to you and don't happen to other people or whatever that was a question I had and it's sort of in there a bit with this question because that's stuff would trigger things like I know when I get super peel that can feel my rectus femoris that middle quad that v quad yeah I can feel it sliding against my outer quad when I bend and flex my quad I can feel there's like muscle friction in there what I don't know what this sensation is and in my forearms when I pull my fist back like pull it back like that I can feel these muscles all like sliding inside my arm and there's a ham strip the outside head of my hamstring I can feel it like sliding against its weird I don't know how to other express it than that but whenever I would get to that stage where I could feel certain things I'm like oh I'm getting like really lean now really lean and I would think this is stuff that people wouldn't even understand like the average normal person wouldn't they're just looking at you like what you know that sort of thing you know Dorian used to talk about his feet being so lean that he hurt to walk on tile floor yep like he hurt backstage his feet actually hurt all the time yeah so I mean I've had that like I've had where I'm like man like I've got to put some slippers on or something I never wear those so I remember those days and that would make me think oh this is this is messed up like you know or yeah the jaw too another thing was like if I got lean enough my jaw felt like it moved weird like it felt like it had more range of motion almost or like it was kind of not quite sitting correctly in the back yeah that was out of the way yeah there's just little things like that that I used to notice so those are the things I ever that I was like really caught my attention was the first time I got lean enough and was more important I really know tired enough that I remember I went for a walk and I stepped up a curb one curb one step yep and I went oh the handshing lifts the foot yeah like like I knew which muscle did what when I would step and I'm like oh okay like it not that that doesn't obviously makes sense but I'd never had felt individual muscles do their job on every day activity you know like if you doing a hamstring curl obviously you know what's doing it but just going through life you're like oh this muscle is the one that I felt the most when stepping up one step you know it was like a flight of steps where I was like oh well I'm tired you know I'm like I've reached a point where I'm tired enough to notice a single step there's I like that yeah there's an interesting thing that I've talked about with some guys I don't know if we've ever brought up on the show but I feel like training while you're really lean for some reason it seems to improve your mind muscle agree like and I don't know if that's because you're so invested in the diet so you want to train properly so you just connect like I don't know what comes first the the chicken of the egg in the muscle connection while training while you're ripped but there's something about training when you're ripped like my biceps like I just remember like how they feel when I'm peeled and I'm squeezing them versus like when I'm off season just kind of a weird sensation that happens and it it makes you think like oh I'm connecting better to things and I remember every time I would be really shredded I would like it could feel everything on my back like individually better it's like I could separate them in my head better and I don't know why we maybe that's all something my brain made up who knows like you know like a phantom memory from when you're a kid like an but that's just how I feel I have to say one thing wrong kept using past tense as if he's not shredded right now yeah right it's a good point I kind of remember like you remember yesterday that's important I shouldn't have just said that it occurs because of effort I'm not putting it in I just walk around like this and I'm not shredded I'm just lean yeah okay I had to point that out for anybody who's a potty rock the Arnold and he's like hey I'm man it yeah you're in single digit body fat without question so anyways moving forward for the right right so if I lost I'd find pounds I'd feel all these weird things again yes exactly yeah sitting down sitting down you if you sit down I'm like a hard seed or something you feel the fact that you've got no fat in your butt you know real so I so my my feet go numb if I sit on the toilet for too long all the time now so that contest prep thing that used to happen to you when you got real peel that happens to be all the time I can't sit on the toilet I can't waste time in the toilet you know you sit on the toilet and you spend like an extra 20 minutes on your phone I don't do that anymore yeah you my business done and I got to stand up because my feet are going up yes that's it that's all I got I'm sorry and I got somebody going your hip flexor lifts your foot that's not what I'm talking about just tell you what I felt yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah before it happens I want to jump in I'm aware all right what's the biggest mistakes that you see people making when it comes to their arm training oh yeah yeah for most people I think particularly by steps you use more weight than you need to yeah yeah I used so many muscles to curl for so many years and now I actually enjoy I'll be curling and you know someone next to me will be using 10 pounds more dumbbell than me and my arm is now growing I just had grabbed like you know 60s 80s for alternating dumbbell curls and they would move from you know the side of me to my shoulder but my arm had nothing to do with that nothing so now it's like 40s 40 on some lumen especially like a spider curl or something that might be 30s so that that would I would say is the big thing for me was just way too much weight I think getting your arm volume right is important I still think there's something about arms some people they can take a lot of volume like I probably did more total sets for my arms and calves than any of my other body parts but that's what I had to do to get them to grow and like this weren't growing and then I did more sets for them where's other body parts that's not how it worked you know what I mean like some of my craziest like my legs are at their biggest when I was just doing like regular dory and training all the time you know and that's not a lot of volume um whereas my arms were not at their biggest when I was doing regular dory and training I'd have like an arm day you know so yeah I just kind of thinking out of the box like you do what you got to do and don't feel slaved into a certain amount of volume like go I do X number sets for chest and chest is a bigger muscle group than biceps therefore I should do less for bicep no matter what like that's almost of a think right like big muscle groups get more sets smaller muscle groups get less sets but I think you gotta be able to you gotta be able to just flip that for a bit see what happens you know yeah so it's good it's good um how about this one tips for trimming body here he says I use the the Phillips one blade and set the guard so I leave one third of an inch of hair but it still makes me it so bad um I hate being alive for the next week um what can I do to help with the itchiness into prevent it from happening altogether he says I use moisturizer and trim after the shower so my skin isn't dry or dirty I prefer to have a trimmed chest and belly but at the moment it just isn't worth the itching hmm I don't know what a Phillips one blade is have to look that up oh you know oh you do yeah they're great I don't I don't only it sucks I can't help them because I get none of that it's just like a really good trimmer that's like a right cheap trimmer that you can pop the blades off of the works really well um here you could you could use that to shade before a show and it would be enough oh really like that yeah yeah yeah okay that's all I ever do is just clipper and then um so I would clipper all the time and I had like I always had like good clippers like the type the barber would actually use on your neck you know like good clippers like I'd like $100 clippers you know and um I would just clip my whole body with that all the time like maybe every week or so I'd clipper every couple weeks I clipper and then about three weeks out from the show I would start blading once a week yeah you know and I would use a blade and I would actually shave like just so the skin got used to it yep but I would do my last shave like Thursday before the show or something like that like I wouldn't do it like I even Wednesday before the show but I wouldn't do it like Friday because that would be too risky a case you've got like an inflammation or codder yeah yeah just saying like that so it but yeah I never had any that clippers is awesome I don't get itchy from clippers at all so I don't I don't share that guys problem yeah yeah and he uses moisturizer too so I'm not sure I remember one year I did put an air on my legs oh god just to try it out yeah and I'm futtering burn my legs man so bad they were burned yeah yeah yeah yeah that's all over the place yeah that was a mess people don't understand too they think that like so I because I'm with you dusty like just using clippers I think is fine and that's even for contests you know I think that we we think it has to be absolutely perfect you know and the reality is we're removing the body here so that the muscle can be seen right we we aren't obscuring any kind of definition or anything like that and it's just part of the look but if you have a little bit of stubble it's not going to be a problem at all I remember seeing this is this is might it might have been the year I got this cup I was in line to see branch worn in the expo and this was I think it might have even been like after the show and I get up to him and of course he is like a freaking monster and and I had not seen a lot of really like truly big body builders up into this point so I've got to meet Jay that weekend I got to meet branch but the thing I remember to have branches he's in that muscle top tank top and those huge boulder delts head about as much stubble on him as my face on it like after I had you shaved for like three days you just saw like hairs all over his arm the guess what it's like hey didn't you just compete it's like yeah did you just win yeah yeah that's fast for good awesome and it's for my way by the way that Jay is getting the uh getting an award this weekend so we'll get a nice little tribute video of Jay one hour at the show nice oh okay that's a nice you know that's exciting yeah yeah so what's it like they do in like yeah like time achievement something like that Arnold lifetime achievement award yeah you know I had one more that I had a guy at junior nationals who had done really good in the morning show and I went to go see him in his hotel room and he hits his front double bicep and I realized he hadn't shaved his armpits so he literally has like full on bushy armpits and I was like dude you got a shave your armpits you know and he's like oh man I really don't like shaving my armpits I was like you're going out stage to get your pro card you shave your pits and he's so he reluctantly shaved them and that was a year he did win the card but all the judging had already happened meaning that he probably would have been fine otherwise like you you know what he would have said anything so still good you know yeah yeah yeah yeah I can't imagine all right dusty do you have one on the ready there I know you had a few good ones I got one for Ron oh what's more disgusting picking your nose or biting your nails no oops I don't know dude yeah I didn't know what those nails have been yeah I would say stop this is a good question it's a good question so how I look at it is is there ever a reason where you have to pick your nose and is there ever a reason where you have to bite your nails yeah and I think that like I could see someone being like I had to pick my nose I had no tissue there was something up there it was fucking drive me crazy I had to go do with it yeah I could see that but biting your nails I don't really I think that's like a real bad habit sort of nervous thing that doesn't need to be done I don't know if your nails gross properly manicured they'll never need just taking care of you I don't know yeah yeah you know I mean like the nails are something you can control for the most part nose can just happen literally nose getting out of to you I've not the road you tap your nose where I was oh my god there's something in there it's sticking out but I can't just yeah yeah yeah if you need to trim it is this funny but I used to always say this to my employees because I made them clean I made them clean the floors every single night and they would always say to me well why do we have to do it doesn't need to be done and I'm like if it needs to be done it's too late yeah that's good it means they're dirty same thing with your fingernails if they need to be trimmed it should have already been done look at those puppies look how clean those are you're manicured pretty nice see well done let us take good care of them let us take care of them let's just just do this it's all me just bring a lot calm yeah yeah yeah you could go the opposite if you bite your nails then you never have to worry about manicuring them I just look terrible yeah they'll take you to make sure to start with something very important serious you know what I mean yeah of course we got that hand-adhandled now oh this is a fun one simple but what do you guys think is the most overrated exercise and what would you do instead I have an opposite question almost to that I'll bring it up after perfect course you over you're rated exercise there's a lot there's some pretty trendy stuff that is the waste of time yeah um hmm that's hard there's so many how about is it you think in is there you think in a machines or you think enough just like free we're immediately things ventpress but anyways right you're going to big picture does go big picture yeah okay well the bad the bench press can still be done in a way that can make it way better it's most people do it in a very inefficient way yeah it's something it's a bad movement but it is like the movement um what that like I always find it funny this is how often people go how much you bench and not because it just why is that the measure of strength I've always found an interesting you know right because for example if you can incline it's more impressive if you can bench before the 19th is they used to ask how much you could overhead press now it is that it makes sense to me it's sure yeah it kind of changed to the bench but yeah that used to be the big thing I guess like before the 1900s where you'd be like oh how much can you press overhead yeah yeah which is very impressive yeah standing it's it's tough here's see somebody like a strict press like no like moments but all yeah I'm like yeah yeah see someone do three 15 with like who locked hips like just standing three 15 from a click from the bar sitting on their clavicle like from a clean you know and just pressing that's amazing not standing it's pretty impressive man yeah um I think the worst exercise is like I think the ones that are the biggest ways to time for most people because they just they just don't get the bang out of them is all they're like unbraiced and I say unbraiced stuff like you see people doing cable crossovers but their body moves back when they do the squeeze and they think that's like better for the squeeze like they don't realize how much how much power they're wasting out the back end of the movement or you see ladies doing cable kickback movements with poundages that are completely unconsequential to their glute like meaningless poundages that are just a complete joke to that powerful muscle but they're not braised that one foot they're standing on there's no way they're braised enough to move any meaningful amount of poundage yeah so they would be much better off just loading up a hip thrust machine and doing extra sets of hip thrust like they would get they would get it would be like getting a hundred thousand dollar return on their million dollar investment versus getting a ten dollar return on their million dollar investment that's that's the difference in how being braised can can make that much bang for your buck difference obviously there's a good there's a correct and incorrect way to perform every exercise but anything you're doing where you're giving up power because you're not stable enough to really generate force it's one of the problems I have with walking lunges I mean walking lunges can be done in a way that are more effective than others and they can be placed in the program in a way that's pretty good and they're in a great athletic movement for coordination and all that stuff but if your goal is just to get bigger legs for a lot of people walking lunges are really inefficient and because yeah balances a factor load is difficult a lot of gyms don't have a squat rack at the end of their walk where where you're going to do them like are you picking the weight up and putting it on your neck well now you're super limiting your load are you using dumbbells or you know how like there's just so many things like a lot walking lunges can be done in an extraordinarily impressive way or it can be a complete waste of time and so you know if your goal is to get huge like a set of squats would probably do you better or set of hacks squats even better so that's just how I feel about being efficient in the gym you know all movements can be made better than maybe some people are doing them but at the end of the day like you know your investment needs a return. Wait a minute so on that note you just brought something my attention investment needs a return right okay I hope I'm right so here's the thing stop doing calf raises you either have them you don't return on investment I've been working for that guy for 30 years as it paid me yet that's nasty that's a fact good we just got after world to stop training calves it's good the other half already had so yeah the guys are calves doing the training I'm why should the guys are up calves straight them scoffer lots to be dead that's a calf raise right my chance training is wrong if to finish the sentence when you think about doing calf raises go train arms yeah 10 sets in the last 10 years yeah occasionally I'll do what set you know just for like Instagram you know right okay hop up yeah opposite from Casey at Patreon what lift did you always shun until you tried it yourself hmm thinking hip thrust hip thrust for me it's funny hip thrust actually came to mind yeah I did them all the time but never in the gym they weren't loaded vertically yeah well they were about short range of 100 oh sorry yeah yeah hopefully a solid answer I remember when the first time I used like a proper hip thrust machine and I just like I don't think I was even training I was just feeling it out but I remember I don't know if there was like two plates aside on it or what but I was just feeling it out and I knew how you're supposed to do them like you know you're not supposed to do you know you're just like you're head up and your pelvis is just what's coming up and down right and I remember I got like a tiny cramp in my glute hmm doing like the first set just toying with it toying with a lightweight and just like flexing the crap but I'm like glutes at the top and driving my pelvis up and I was like oh that's got a bite to it that could be useful I could see how that's useful okay you know what I mean I remember that yeah I was never really that down on hip thrust I remember when they first came out everyone was kind of like oh are the people going to be doing these all over the gym now remember when hip thrust first became a thing no gyms had hip thrust machines so people were doing them like the freeway area yeah they were like a barbell over to the dumbbell area and laying on a bench and everyone's like oh my god this is in the way and it was a big pain in the ass I remember that yeah so mine would be Bulgarian spitsquats oh okay oh they take the John Meadows way you mean yeah and it's not that I didn't I just I think I back to the typical me can't just squat can't just do this and as soon as I two things one stopped going all the way up did quick pauses you know like a two count at the bottom and the top of the motion controlled the native and also braaced with my opposite hand the use had run took balance out the equation those things are hell oh yeah I mean that's a great hit love them so that yes to not ignore your statement Scott yes John is the one who showed me how to do them correctly okay also you're going to add one little tweak because everyone goes against it some people say like on a hip on a Bulgarian spitsquat some people go straight up and down with their glutes some people their glutes starts here and then goes back towards their feet and people argue one is wrong and one is right to me it's what do you want to feel if you're working my quad yeah then I want to go straight up and down and lean into my toe if I want to get that glute involved you know you let it swing back and forth but that movement I am sore every time and for those who want a John Meadows special all you have to do he would have me start a 20 pound double set of 15 40 pound double set of 15 60 pound double set of 15 80 pound down about go to failure then immediately drop and grab the 60 go to failure immediately drop and go to the 40 go to failure immediately drop and go to failure that's the worst idea ever yeah and then you would take a 17 minute break and do the other like yeah well that was just me the break but everyone else is normal yeah that's something I like to bust out on someone who's like oh I want to jump in on a leg down I don't want you to come back so we do that yeah that's a great pick and in your right it goes back to my exercise selection thing because I mean I spent my whole life you know I was aware of Bulgarians squats you know I saw guys putting barbells on their back, cooking their foot on a bench or holding two dumbbells and hooking their foot on a bench and I remember thinking like oh that's a good exercise like for balance and stuff and endurance and whenever they're training but what a lame exercise for hypertrophy because they've got well imagine I'm like a bar on your back doing those with your your foot your your foot hooked like if something does go wrong you're probably dumping a barbell and jumping out of the way right so I just thought that's just a terrible idea I'm going to use a hacksquat and so I just thought that was a dumb movement for anybody builder to do but then meadows introduces he starts doing them in the squat rack holding onto the rack so he stabilizes and just uses one heavy dumbbell and I was like oh this is this is I'm now interested in trying this and it is a winner look at Donna she shows up A yeah her's a little bit of a mess but she she came on and said she needed to look my hand apparently well here we are here we are so I'm gonna I'm actually we're we're adding a third soon so yes I don't think that uh I don't think that the third will ever be up on my lap because that will be uncomfortable oh yes yes yes you will so you will make it happen we'll just move the the piece over here but yes uh the powerful rescue that we've shown on here before it's got a girl that they're working on for me we're just working on her with some small dogs so these two can get ready for another pit in their life look at her that's amazing that's Nova Gray right there some asshole litter on fire as you can see so yes I'm getting I get daily updates just see you guys know and I and I I'm partial not gonna lie but anyone who's near Texas if you get a chance to work with this rescue I don't know how they do it they have 34 dogs there right now I think and right now because they are working with her on some different things and then my timing because Nikki shows and whatnot but like there's enemy pictures that were on like a you know with the iPhones where they upload them their phone they mean they come to mind yeah every couple of days I get pictures videos I'm like you know they they do it right and the way they take care of these dogs and she is an example of the dogs they take like if they get they got puppies the other day just because they were abandoned they immediately take them to another place to get you know help from um they get them started and find them a good home and and move forward but they're all in the you know older dogs dogs with major issues dogs that don't have front legs or whatever it is and so super stoked and I think I've been in love with this dog for two years since they got her and I finally broke I got to do this so and Pippe's a people they they have a hard time adopting them out you know here in the Detroit area there are so many Pippe's my dog was a rescue and you know it's a shame but they are people look at the breed you know and they judge them by that and then you know it at a dog that's growing like that the likelihood of it finding a new home is going to be super, super low so I'm all for that I love rescue I wouldn't I wouldn't want to do it any other way with a dog like that with a Pippe I just feel like that's part of it you know is being able to help one of them. I think it's quite crazy because in her case uh before I realized I had like true interest I do was like when she would still have fresh scars I mean did just happen when they picked her up friendly wanted to love up on you you're like wow how how like how do you experience that and still you know go through that the only changes of course you know each individual person that comes in you got a properly introduced you can just like let's have one run in your home because stranger danger not the Dale doing either there's that she's scared you know stranger danger yeah so I'm excited I cannot wait to to bring her here and Harvey's ready to have somebody because Donna doesn't actually know how to play so it's quite funny yeah she you throw the ball she chases Harvey and bites him like twice and then she's like yeah I'm done and then lays down so Harvey's alone on all of this on all of his playing so she's quite excited yes so random tidbit since Donna came to the table we wanted to let everybody know about Nova I don't like that they buy by Donna say bye bye now they last five minute crew will be happy that she got in before the last five minutes I always could tell who waits to the angular there Donna on the club yeah yeah Harvey's busy for those wondering you know I I want to say something I'll make this really quick so the Kai Green reaction video did really good but we had a lot of people who said stuff like this I like Kai Green but geez his gut is massive and my I did respond to one comment but I wanted to say it officially on the show it was a different time you know what I mean it was a different time in body building and we didn't pay attention to guts and they would like bubblegutt I don't think was even a term back then and eventually you know the bodybuilding decided that they wanted to change that and then they put some thoughts in and everybody everybody has done a really good job at I think working on their app control but at the time like we didn't pay any attention to that it wasn't in my opinion it wasn't Kai's fall you know what I mean that like everybody back then had some level of stomach in the amount of food that Kai was eating you know there's no wonder that his stomach was stretched out so much so that's my yeah my spiel we just all saw it as like the prep well for most guys we were like oh it's a price of eating the food it takes to be massive you know it the only people we commented on where the guys have like massive guts remember like JP Fuchs jump here Fuchs had that like really huge disdended abdomen were like oh that's a little too much yeah but like other guys I walk around 320 that's fine he's just full of food you know Scott Scott I'm sending you a picture though because like this is when I saw Kai when the Arnold alright in 2016 and I just even to this day I'm like I don't see this gut oh yeah yeah people are going so crazy but like I understand if he breathes or turns but like he is what five eight maybe 285 here I mean I don't know what he used to wear on stage but I know I I mean in person Kai is probably the second biggest person I've ever seen yeah in my life first being market rule but like it's it's I just don't see why you know he was in a gym when they got when they had a talk about this it's like I don't know to me I just don't agree and I still think in today's environment he'd be a nightmare for people oh yeah yeah there's no funny even though we say it was a different time I think it's a different time and if Kai Green was in this if that Kai Green was in this lineup we'd be having a different discussion of the top three yeah yeah so I go with my take he's awesome guys still think that like that whole lucky cultivated with the predator hair yeah oh yeah like it's just like totally unique you know what I mean I just love watching is re judging because he posed different like even his his quarter turns were art yeah he had a different way in double in way he would hit a rear double the finished version was was fine but how he got there I was watching like every shot you know I'm grateful that I actually got to go to the pre-jazing that year to watch in person you know I feel like he was one of the guys you could really tell when he was on stage that he was doing his favorite thing in the world to do yeah for me I like to eat the most I'm really glad I got to see uh I'm glad I got to see Kai compete many times you know he was he was just incredible and I remember the most mind-boggling thing about Kai was Eddie would come out at the Olympia and pose and I would be man I can't believe this guy's not gonna win yeah yeah because Phil Phil was so incredible like Phil would come out and pose I was like nobody's beating him and then Kai would come out and be like man in another era this guy would just be cleaning up everything but Phil's in the way right and Phil's just gonna remain in the way because he's just that he's just a little bit better and he's always better at every show and you know I mean Kai beat him that one time at the Arnold member and then after that it was like yeah but that was just that was a crazy you know Kai's one of those guys man his generation. I feel like I'll be like I feel like back then and I'll be curious to see what some of these kids I say kids people younger than me that are in the sport will say about who they view as the best back then the battle between Phil and Kai was pretty close in my head and then I look back and I'm like no wasn't like I had an emotional connection to Kai because I liked him he was always super nice I didn't really know Phil very well and Kai was he was one of the first guys who I I knew who he was and I knew he wouldn't know who I was and I was in the new work airport and then he did know who I was and made sure to tell me to you know he came over and said hey how you doing I was like wow you know so it definitely like changed my perspective but I did find that that was why in my head they're they're battle was closer than it really was right you know I was like oh I just favored you a little bit because once I looked back I was like oh yeah no one was beaten Phil that was insane yeah yeah yeah people used to ask me why does Phil beat Kai because they were both so awesome and I used to say that this is what I said I don't know if it makes sense but I said that the two reasons I thought Phil beat Kai is in the front relaxed I thought Kai's neck looked kind of skinny and he didn't have any traps in the front relaxed okay I know you're being pretty good and it used to kind of bother me because when Phil stood in the front relaxed he had traps yeah he did and it just filled in a spot for me that I just noticed and then I felt that Kai's fizzy cad more sort of sharp corners on it like there was more triangular stuff going on with Kai and on Phil everything was around and I just remember thinking that's how my brain perceived some of the muscle groups were there was just more roundness on Phil and more like sort of almost like Kai was like you know those artists that like do things different on purpose like like almost like that which sort of suited Kai like yeah yeah very true you know what I mean like having like his back was a little more triangular in ways and some of his that his biceps were Pete Sharper and he just had more like corners on his physique and Phil was all round everywhere and I just for some reason that's just what I saw yeah it's crazy yeah Kai was the best guy could be I thought you're gonna say something more than a line of like they're both awesome but Phil is awesome or yeah that's you oh I know how to answer that yeah that too that's funny you know what else we got that's next buddy that was about all we had we I mean we had a few more questions but I think we are about out of time we need a some type of a solid finisher here yeah let's do one more all right let's see we had a training question about DC training we had one see guidance about how far to take your sets we had one about let's say the sandwiches all of sandwiches the trimming body care bro with Ron do you have you have a good finisher dusty I'm rolling through them right now while you're reading them off we talk more about sandwiches sandwiches we all y'all love them everyone loves them Sammy he's a good sandwich in comment if you're coming out to the Arnold guys for the last five minute crew comment if you're coming out to the Arnold I want to know who's showing up for my crew to come and hang out with us that's he's got I want to touch this just for fun because it's it's like a time bomb is it easier to coach women or men and I actually think this is a good one this is a good one because it's easier to coach um coachable people coachable people not so awesome awesome our answer Scott's a couple coaching Nikki coaching Nikki does his wife has been like the easiest and I don't mean easy there's been you know decisions to be made but just the smoothest like gotcha boss yep no problem considered executed done deal oh results have occurred oh more results have occurred yes did it awesome good like it's just insane obviously she lives with dusty she trains with dusty but the coaching experience with her she might as well be a top 10 Olympian with how calm and that's great just ridiculously executable right yep and and now because of that we find ourselves in a position where she looks really good six weeks out we're very excited so I think most people would generically say that men are easier to coach because you know women have more statistically women are gonna have more issues with food there's more higher incidents of food related um eating issues or psychological attachments to things and they statistically but at the end of the day it comes down to the person because I've died at plenty of guys that were head cases too and had all sorts of you know nonsense that they just couldn't get past in their head so yeah not not you know someone who doesn't have someone who's ready to do what they got to do and they're calm about it but yeah good question what about you Scott like what obviously I know that we all agree with what was just said which is just it's the individual but what are usually easier to coach men yeah what what is it easy like what are things that make it more difficult to coach anyone like maybe something in their head or whatever or something that makes it easier to coach someone you know I mean because you know like in my head the thing that I'm getting at is like four four nicky four me I always just loved the process I never like even when I was vying for my pro card I never thought about the finish line during a prep I just did when I supposed to every day I didn't even really hang up on the results because I understood that I hired someone I trusted yeah and he would take care of it if I put all of my focus into the day to day execution that's a good I would send pictures and not think you know and I I always felt that that made me invincible like you know a lot of people for example like Chris used to laugh but the last couple days before show a lot of people are really like amped up because things got a change and I got to do this I got to do this and Chris used to come to my room he'd be like I opposed and I'd run me through the shots in nineteen different plots in the room everyone knows that and then he'd go okay eat this and I would eat it and we chat for a minute and I'd go to sleep and he'd come knock on my door and wake me up and I'd do it again for three days I slept all day every day for three days other than when I posed and he used to laugh because he's like you're so relaxed I'm like I don't need to stress you do yeah yeah so what what are some things you think make it easier and or harder that people could maybe even try to avoid yeah I I was trying to think like one or the other and I've known coaches who've said one or the other I know one coach who works with a lot of women and he stopped coaching men he was like you know what a lot of the he was like a lot of the good male pros have more of an attitude and ego that they know how things should be done and they know their bodies and this is what they want to do versus the women are like hey I hired you for a reason because you do a really good job at this so I'm going to listen to what you say so you know I have heard people say that you'll be out loud like that yeah sorry but then yeah but I think the best people you just mentioned it dusty like the way you said I guess I don't have anything to add to it you know you just people who are just like they're to have the experience the easiest people the the most fun people are the brand new people who are competing for the first time and they're like hey you're good coach you've done this a hundred times or a thousand times I'm excited to see how this works you show me and then they're like what are we doing next and then we're like oh we're not going to do anything with the water and they're like oh really why you know it's like that's exciting to me versus when you have expectations of what you think you're supposed to do because I have I'm thinking it out more now I've had clients who've worked with me longer term and if we start doing something different than we did last time sometimes they start to they start to bite back a little bit and they're like but wait we did this last time why aren't we doing that now you know and I mean and they they have those expectations so yeah yeah I wanted to add one little thing that that just for clients my clients your clients those who want the best results for to go really really well are those who train the hardest in the gym like if you want to see results yeah when people go oh I don't have to do you know this guy doesn't do as much cardio usually that guy trains is not soft yeah and again not across the board but there is a correlation between how hard someone trains and what their cardio looks like how much muscle mass they maintain I can't stress enough the importance of that piece of the puzzle and I hate it because that's the piece I can't touch online you know like I've seen you train hard but it's those who can do that when they're smoked but does that something you can teach somebody even because like listen when I first went in the gym one of the reasons I coaches love it yeah I fell in love with it because I loved that I could be crazy with the training you know what I mean and down the road it just I could take it to new levels but it started out with that interest whereas some people it's like they just don't have it they literally they have no ability to push intensity no I think there's there's definitely a case you can't train some of it because I've had clients I can say it now I actually I got rid of a client um good guy but what we ran into was he would argue with me he would send me video and it would be nowhere near intense like not even a question and I'd go look you can do more than that with more weight no I can't I'm telling you yeah that moved very highly new there we can add multiple plates to that leg press and 10 reps yeah and after a while I was like I'm stealing from you because how I do this won't work so hire someone else and I'm not mad at you we just can't do this you know yeah really shocked but I'm like there's a difference in I advice I I think Ron I think you had one more rep there well did or didn't is it really worth it to risk it probably not so I'm but if I'm like you had 90 more pounds and 10 more reps at least yeah you're not even talking about the same thing you know yeah and for you to get in shape we're gonna need three hours of cardio yeah or you're gonna have to do 36 per body part twice a week yeah exactly you have seven hours to devote to training per day yeah yeah so yeah that's it that's that's that's the coaches dilemma and you know to be honest I think most coaches that do it full time always have at least one client where they're kind of like man I might have to cut this guy loose because I just don't know if I can get him to train hard enough to like you know you're trying to you know part of your job is to try to motivate people you know like but some coaches like they don't they're like that's not my I'm not I'm not in that business I'm not a mode like Chris acidos job is he's not in it to motivate anybody that's not that but it's not I mean like at Chris is like I'm here to like you need to look this way to compete at this level that's all I care about like Chris isn't gonna listen to you bitch about your wife or your job I couldn't picture them like he's not gonna read he's not even reading that text he's just skipping over it looking at your photo of your back double by a step and he's looking at your body weight and then he might have read the little blurb about how you passed out in the hallway yesterday but that's but maybe and he might might care about the passing out at work he might care he might not probably not so so when you think of your family depleted yeah so yeah good oh okay good you're passing out now okay we're we're rock bottom I told J and O three this is where you got a gold buddy you got a fine rock bottom did you see that tweet that you know Trump made last week that's the view of the next one yeah it all goes in this random so there's a tweet about this yeah yeah yeah so so I want like the other competitors that are using their coach for like an emotional balancing poll and and an eating disorder consultant and a stress management tool and all that stuff that you know they're entering medical doctor yeah untrained medical and psychological therapist you know you know you think that your coach is there to get you through everything and get you to the stage like I don't know not all coaches are in the business of of holding your hand to the stage like you know it has to come from you got a really want to do this you know really I'd rather my coach was really good at making hard decisions then really good at dealing with nonsense right you know I mean great that's very well said like you know my coach makes me feel so good okay but results matter you know and hey they might be a great combo maybe that coach fits that person they happened to work together well but I don't think many coaches can be a therapist for all 50 clients or you know whatever they're doing you know what I mean and god they probably hope all 50 don't need a therapist you know so I was like those those rare clients that are in prep where you're getting close and you realize you never hear from them and so you just kind of like send out a feeler sometimes like everything good no like yeah why you're like yeah I'm really ripped this morning I didn't want to be like oh yeah or those you're just like and it's not that's not that I'm not saying too little or anything you just you're stunned because everything is okay got it boom which is how I always was but it's still a little surprise when you coach enough people when you get someone who just executes and then you're like I love it much better brand like yeah I thought so too like everything is right here like so there's a reply there's a coaching reply there's a meme of a coaching reply and it can be the most professional reply of all time or it can be a dismissive reply of a bad coach no changes no sometimes that's the most professional response you're gonna get from an experienced veteran and then no changes can also be they have no aid and I didn't even look at your pictures yeah yeah so true all right I like that question that's finished it off there we go that was good that was fun a little fun with that one you know well I got a you know we're done the episodes so signing it back to those emails got some emotional support to the staff sir that's a work to do got to talk to somebody about their marriage got to help somebody make a work decision while they're on the web carbs it's only competitors that aren't allowed to do that the rest of you poured in it's fun yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah just kidding just kidding they're all great um remember everybody like share subscribe comment and remember I am mutant dot com supporting the show born hardcore mutant will be reborn hardcore at the Arnold classic this year come and see us at the booth we will all be there you might even get get a spot on a couch if something crazy happens so come down and visit us for sure and remember dusty 20 big run 20 20% off get your ice a surge get your all and and everyone should get on the gear do you have any last words to add gentlemen see you see it the Arnold how is our coverage we only skipped a few people this good I think we never done it still terrible but it was easy because there's like two guys to focus on we you know yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah don't come does for coverage okay remember everybody it's just body building

Hey, but stop guys, this Friday at the mutant booth at the Arnold Classic, Ron Dusty and I will be recording the podcast. So if you're coming out to the Arnold, be sure to stop by and Friday. Early, we're gonna figure out a time. We'll have you guys all come back hang out with us. You might even be able to get on the show. You don't have to be on the show, but you might be able to get on the show. Plus, we're gonna get you guys involved. It's gonna be a lot of fun. So stop by and by. I would love for this show just because I'm sick and disturbed. I would love for it to be a like, like an out of this world conditioning battle. So we got to remember like share, subscribe, comment and ring the bell. You got to say the end, ring the bell. Who did? I did. You waited. It was like a long delay. Yeah, I was like, I was just pulling it apart. You saw me. I was waving the end. Yeah, I was just letting you know. Harvey, go get a bonus. Something. Are we ready for the Arnold? Is that what we're talking about? Scott. Yeah, what are we talking about? I had a question for you. Arnold time about that, too. Okay. You don't have to take it. I know if you guys want to take it out the gate, we can. You can take some time to think about it if you want. But I know that we all three of us, including myself, have been to the Arnold a ton of times. And we kind of take for granted what the whole experience is like. I bet that there are going to be some people watching this podcast right now that have never been to the Arnold. Either they want to live, I careously, through those of us going, or they are going. And they want to know what to do when they're there. So I wanted to ask you guys out of your vast experience at the Arnold Classic. Excuse me, the Arnold Sports Festival. But are the things, what's number one? What's it like there? And then number two is like, what are the things that you suggested? Everybody does while they're there. That's a good one. You know, Columbus isn't like, you know, you're not going to Vegas, right? Yeah. Going to a college town. So remember that like the number one thing there is, what is it? The Buckeyes? Ohio State Buckeyes? Ohio State Buckeyes? For Bulls Eye. Yeah, the Buckeyes. So it's all because of the. Yeah. It's a Buckeyes, right? So nervous. It's good. Yes. Yes. Yes. Yeah. I got it right. We got a Spartan. So that's something. No, no, no. We have so many schools down there. Sorry, but I got it right. So it's like the Buckeyes, right? So that's like the number one thing. There's Dave the hockey team to the blue jackets, but I don't think they have an NBA team do they know? No NBA teams. Those are the two. Those are the two reasons to be in. It's not a big city. It's not a big city. It's not a big city. The hotel, it's, you know, most convenient to stay at one of those two hotels. You know, like the ones we always stay at dusty, you know, that's not the most convenient way to do it. And training, uh, training is wrong. Sorry. That gym that. Yeah. Was the powerhouse there? Was it the one you're thinking of? Well, that powerhouse. It's changing, right? It's changing, right? Yeah, it's the powerhouse. You know, I had a good workout there when I was there last time, but it's like, you know, it's going to be super busy. So there's, there's been a couple of years where I went to the Arnold, and I didn't train at all, but didn't even train once, just because I didn't, didn't even bother. I just rested. Maybe I trained like a few extra days, because in a row before I left, and then just like rested. Yeah. So, um, I mean, there's some great gyms. Obviously, there's all those powershacks, and there's American barbell. You know, I did a mutant on a mission in an American barbell. And, uh, I mean, that's a great gym. But, you know, it's a little bit of a drive. So if you don't have time to take like a, you know, 20 minute Uber, whatever it is, you know, everybody's, you know, it's kind of a hectic weekend, right? So, um, that's the one thing about the Arnold dusty. I think you'll agree is the Arnold is the Arnold to me seems a lot more hectic than the Olympia. Oh, yeah. Well, because there's no escaping the Arnold, like, when you leave the expo in Vegas, the Olympia is over because people are just in Vegas, meaning like, not every person is there for the Olympia. Yeah. When you go to the Arnold, the chances are that weekend, you're there for the Arnold. Like, everybody's here. Yeah, we're seeing different things. Yeah, you're just the side. Like, you know, let's go visit Columbus or Ohio in March because that'll be smart. Yeah. I'm still doing this in massive judgment on the fact we won't push that back. And, but whatever. Um, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. That's very true. You know what's funny though is, so I was trying to think of the thing that I would suggest most with the Arnold. And I would say the biggest thing is understanding how busy it really is. I, I fully expect this should be like it used to be because last year was a good kick-up that did a good job. And now everyone's realized that that one word that we can't say is over. And, you know, I think it'll be nuts. I mean, it's one of the things. One thing I would suggest is if you are going to have to go to the bathroom and you aren't having to go yet start walking in that direction because it's going to take you 20 minutes to get there. So, trying to have to pee. Great. Having to go to the bathroom. Great point, Dusty. Scope the bathrooms. Make sure you know what the nearest bathroom is at all times. It must be a very strategic, key dick bathroom user. One thing I will say beyond any doubt, no one can argue me. I'm right. This is a correct answer. The Arnold Classic typically has the filthiest, most disgusting bathrooms of any expo you'll ever go to. Almost completely uncapped like no one cares at all. And they'll be by the end of Saturday there's about an inch of liquid just on the bathroom floor. Oh, really sure. How much of it is water and how much of it is urine and you're hoping your chucks are new enough that that rubber seal around the toe is really really going to hold. You know, your socks to start seep in through feeling like, yeah, you're kind of walking in, you're looking at the floor and you've got your hands out like this, you know, to be tip-y. So you don't slip. And it's gross and there's no soap in the dispenser, everybody's just raw dog and it with their hands and it's just a nasty thing. Some of the nastiest bathrooms I've ever seen in my life have been at the armor classic. And I don't know exactly who's fault that is. And maybe they've turned that around, Dusty. I know they got the new team on board running the show, so maybe that's fast. Yeah, maybe that's the thing. No, it's definitely not going to be. So you nailed it. And I actually, this is for almost every show and you know, this to run is bring your own hand sanitizer. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Because the capability for everything between the, between the fact that there may not be soap, there may not be way to dry your hands or they have those crappy ass fan things that don't do anything. I literally, and I always wonder what people think because a good percentage of time, I piss and walk right out. And they're probably thinking, that's sick bastard. And then I just shut that guy's hand at the booth in minutes ago. Literally, I keep it in my pocket. I immediately put it in. I have learned because I do not know if the gym is well. I'm a big on the sanitizer stuff. Yeah, make sure to come out like using it. So people know like, okay. I like to, I enjoy a good virtue signal. I enjoy that. This is a big joy. Make sure you guys know. Yeah. You might start done it or maybe at this, at this expo, I think if somebody walks up and stinks like they always do, I'm just going to reach in my bag and put on the other. On myself. Right. Oh, you do that. We do this too, right? Oh, yeah. Let me just grab that. Yeah. Like, yeah, you know, maybe I'll have a, like, get some samples. You want some? Oh, yeah. You want to borrow my stick. Deal. Keep it. Oh, yeah. Oh, man. But our solution, I think we should be okay. So besides the bathrooms. Okay. Yeah, I started off on such a high note. I think it's got a lot of bad. I'm going to be. Everybody. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Ron and Dusted give our own classic advice. And it's just bathroom. I had a grand clean. New. New. New. New. New. New. New. New. New. I'm both going about. It's. So here that no one listens. Um. So good. No, but, really, there's a lot of great things. So I, I, uh, there's a lot of great things about the Arnold. It's, it's real tight. If you stand one of those hotels, you don't really have to go anywhere. Yeah. You know, it's not like Vegas where you got a, you know, hop in an Uber and get your ass down to the convention center for the Expo or take the little train or there's nothing that's just all right there. If you stay at one of those places, you just walk. And it's real tight, takes a few minutes to get there. It's easy, at the Olympia that was quite a walk. They sent us on to go to the night show. They heard it us all around this long way. And we came all the way back to the door we'd come in. But they just wanted the line on one side. So they heard it everybody this way. And it was like a 10 minute walk around the mall. And then we came around the doorway. But they made us walk around that way. We didn't know that we were going to write us back for this door. 10 minute walk for no reason. I was so mad. I was like, this one to happen at the Arnold. No. Oh, that was a mess. So it's all one more. It's all in one roof. Oh, good dusty. One more thing. Yeah, it across from where you guys stay. At one of the other hotels, which might be where you stay, you've got to get chocolate chips, cookies for max and air mass. Yeah. OK. And they're in the little skillet thing. Oh, yeah. So you may find dusty at Max and Irma's if you get there at the right time. I earned these chens, baby. How are you like a champ? Oh, yeah. We're going there for sure. OK. Sorry. That's the only advice I have for the all. So we should tell people too that there's literally like it's not just body building. It started out as Larmor in Arnold making this agreement, right? That they were going to have a show in Columbus. And now it's like everything. Like you're walking down this hallway. And there's like power lifting happening over here, and fencing happening over here. And people doing like an art contest, drawing paint paintings over here. And there's body painting going over there. And there's a whole section, just for strongman stuff. Like a huge, strongman stuff. And what else? I mean, power lifting, you'll be like looking in one little room. Artary. Artary. Artary. Artary. Yes. Can we get in? Did you say fencing? The fencing was there. It was really cool. Yeah, fencing. And I mean, remember when we went to the Arnold UK, they had that guy that I knew riding flatland. You're kidding. And that little spot. Yeah. Yeah. And I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I mean, I go here up 300. And he like shook my hand. And he runs a company that does shows. So he's got a couple guys that jumped some ramps. And they've got a van with the ramp down the side. And it's like a traveling show, right? They can go set it up at schools. They can do the show anywhere. They don't need a lot of space. Yeah. It's got a couple of really good ramp riders. And he's got a really good skater. And you know, a guy with one of those trials bikes, you know, like the mountain bikes where they hop like from like post to post. And do that sort of stuff. And then he's got a parkour runner. So this guy like uses the ramps, but just running. And he like flips off the ramps and does all this parkour stuff. So, and then he does flatland like in between the shows, right? So it's just like a little traveling thing. And actually just emailed someone to try to find out if they have any BMX at their own oclosic this year. Because so far they had it in at the last Arnold in Brazil. And they had it in the UK. So I'm going to see if I go check it out. That'd be cool. And then they'll be shows happening in the expo. We didn't even talk about the expo yet, but that's huge. It shows happening in there. Yeah. And it'll be a stage in the back. And then there's the the the ballroom where the big show happens. And that's the amateur has always taken place in there too. So they have the Arnold amateur, which wasn't going to happen this year for two days. And then then it is. Yeah. They changed that over. I don't think Mike Davies is involved in it anymore. But that that's always a good show. That's always like a really good show for the amateurs. And you know, it's super international. Like they'll be people from all these different countries there. You know, competing. And this is the kind of stuff where there are countries that are literally sending their athletes to compete in this show. They're paying for them. They're paying for their team from like Portugal or whatever to come out here and compete. And it's interesting because when you're sitting in the audience at the Arnold amateur, I felt like one of the very few people that spoke English, not kidding. Like that's how how diverse the audience is for that. All their friends and family and team members and stuff. So it's a very unique experience. And you get to see it's kind of cool. I'm sure you guys get this too. It's cool to see how bodybuilding looks in other countries. Obviously we're all doing the same stuff. But there's like a slightly different take and a slightly different look and you know, different genetics that you get from different places in the world. And I love seeing how that translates on stage. You know, like a lot of, you know, kind of the stereotypes we throw around. They're of like all, you know, guys from this country are always big. Guys from this country are always ripped. You know, like there's all these stereotypes. Yeah. But they're sort of rooted truth. They're rooted in like who the famous guys from that area are and what they look like. And so there's like this, but I know what you mean. Like I've gone to shows before. I've been like man, all the Mexican guys that were in like the light weights and middle weights were just peeled. Yeah. Everything. One of them. You know what I mean? So you see this like thing like a certain team is there and they're all in great shape. Yeah. Wow. They're like really doing there. You know what I mean? So yeah, it's pretty cool. But they're not messing around either. Like those are the same guys that are like trying to go to like, you know, IPB worlds and stuff like that. Yeah. You know, they're all the punches to be like the best. Like heavyweight they're ever was. You know, and I mean just like yeah, yeah, you know, to the bones and times. Yeah. Yeah, really impressive. I remember when we were at the Arnold in Madrid one year, which actually was the number one worse path for me. I've ever been to. That's another. And we had to be in times for wrong. Yeah, he was still writing the path. I'm not going to get over this. A whole episode. And just thrown in. There was a like a team from the Philippines that was there to compete. But they were sponsored by the mutant distributors. So they were all wearing mutant shirts and mutant hoodies and. And bags. And anyways, I like said, hi to them. There was like five or six of them. And they were all Filipino guys. And then like they went to compete, you know, on the stage. And I was kind of trying to peak, but I couldn't really tell what was going on. You know, it'll work in the booth. Yeah. They are later. And two of them had won their weight classes. Nice. And they took their shirts off and they were posing and they looked identical to each other. But one was a middleweight and one was like like a light weight or whatever. But they literally looked like a genocle. That's pretty. But they were awesome. No. But a lot of people don't know about like like that level of body building. Kind of some kind of in a way gets like missed the most. And then they're like, you know, people's pros. Yeah. Right. And then people see their local people at the gym all the time. Yeah. But you know, like international level competitors, like they don't get a lot. There's like so many really good ones. And they don't get a lot of like recognition, you know, unless they win and turn pro. You know, because it's like, do you know who can you name 10 guys that went to the world's last year? God, no. You know, I can't. Right. I've seen some of them. You know what I mean? And I see their other faces. And like, oh, yeah. I know that guy. Right. You know, I mean, yeah, because there's a lot of them, right? So it's just all some possible to like know them all, you know. But yeah, it's just it's a really, really great level of body building. You know, because there's an appreciation for all the different weight classes. And they're all really elite at those body weights. So it's interesting, you know. Now, what's happening at the booth, you know, over at the expo. So this is going to be at the Arnold, unlike the Olympia. This is Friday, Saturday, and Sunday, right? Yeah, you did expo. It's my least favorite part. Yeah. The Sunday at the Arnold is kind of funny because you know that some people like party hard Saturday. Yeah. Yeah. So there's like a certain element. On Sunday, there's like a certain element of like, you're like, Just a little bit. Yeah. You know. But I think it's too though that for me, if I was going to do an expo any type, like another industry so that I'm excited about it. I'm weird because I would walk the expo and I'd be done one time. I wouldn't circle the expo for three days straight. It's just like, I don't think there's that much at any expo. I've been to some wild ones like big expo's or different things. So I think that sometimes people are bored when they're walking around. Because they do. I feel like some people come like they stay because they spend the money. Yeah. I've seen that. And I felt that too, but also as like from being the guy who's walking around the expo perspective, I also feel like, well, you know what, maybe I see some like Sundays a good day to get deals, you know, maybe maybe I wanted to talk to this athlete over here, but on Saturday it was like a nightmare. And I knew he's going to be there on Sunday. Then I'm like, you know what, I'm going to show up on Sunday when it's chill. And then he's just staying there by himself when we can talk for five minutes, you know? Right. So I like that. We're pretty good about that though with the mutant. Like it's, I think because there's like so many of us people kind of hang out for a bit. And then we have like little round, like round table discussions with people like Ron and I and Jane, we talking to one person and then they realize it's one thing I think is fun is like somebody will come up and say they're a fan of Jamie. Okay. So they're like, oh my god. I mean the giant. Yeah. And then after like five minutes they start to realize that they're just like friends. You know what I mean? You can quickly erase that part and body, in which I love like they start to realize that you're just bullshitting and like talking like you would with anybody else. And they're like, oh, Jamie's just a cool guy. You know what is cool? Which I love about the shows because you know, I've seen the other ones. I think it's one nice thing about not being a like a Jay Cutler. Because he has no time. It's literally hey man, how are you? Quick conversation. You gotta go. You know, it's really cool for us. We have a huge advantage because we don't have 700 people waiting in line. Yeah. So you get to like actually hear people's stories and yeah, you know, to talk to people. That's fun for us. Like I, I, you know, doing wrong. I love the paycheck. See, it runs. I love the paycheck of having a line like that. But you don't get to enjoy the people. I mean, Matt, some freaking awesome people like Ron and I where we've even seen them multiple times. You know, sometimes not even the same event. You'll meet them at the, you know, at an event in England and see them again in Germany. You know, people really dig them. So that part I enjoy is just being a spend time with the people. And I feel like the Arnold does give you a little more of that. Because I feel like you're a diehard bodybuilding fan of the Arnold. Like you don't know, I mean, you're, you're the, or are you just bodybuilding any of the other sports too. And you also get the, the people who came for fencing who are just wandering around and they're like, Who are these freaks? Yeah. Like everybody's together, you know, and it's cold because it is cold, you're not going to wander too far away anyway. Like I don't care what hotel if you're in one of the host hotels, you are literally like all connected. So you don't even have to go outside. You just literally walk from your room downstairs down a hall. Maybe through a tunnel that goes over the sidewalk. And then you're in the expo. And there's a good chance you never have to leave. But there are good little restaurants and stuff around too. Like I, I like this place. It's a burger place called, I think it's called like the bear burger. Or something like that. Okay. And it's a really, right across the street. Right across the street. It's nice. So mutant always has their team dinner at Buco de Beppo. Oh yeah. It's always go to, yeah. Oh man, that's like family style Italian. You know, like huge servings, you know, like big bowls that you share of like, you know, big plates of chicken parmesan, come out and stuff. It's just awesome. I love going there. And it's pretty cool because it's like, you know, you know, that remember that place dusty. It's really like kind of a ceiling like really crowded, like wouldn't boost. It's just kind of a cool old Italian place. And it's a lot of fun to go to. And we pick out, we pick out there like it's so easy to just eat and eat and eat. Yeah. Yeah. I think like last time, like, I was actually fading at the table. Like, sorry. I thought it was like, oh, come on Dutch. You could stay awake for this. Yeah. Now I'm looking forward to that. And we, but this time, I think we're like taking over the entire restaurant. Yeah. Because we have like 30 people coming. Cheese. Yeah. Perfect. The Arnold. And I heard, I heard we got our special guests coming from Detroit as well. Yes. That's you. I'm invited. I'm coming out to dinner with you guys. All right. I look forward to that. Yeah. All right. Good. That'll be good. It'll be one year since we signed Jamie because remember we were like took Jamie to dinner and we like said, hey, like I think you'd be good fit for mutant and I, and then I, you know, made a few calls. So, yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And he is a great fit. A lot of fun. Like you were saying, like Ron or Dusty, you were saying, like, you know, somebody might come up as a fan of Jamie. And I saw that at the Olympia. We're like he'd be talking to somebody else and somebody would be like, oh, man, there's Jamie. I really, you know, I can't tell you how much I looked up to this guy. You know, and then before you don't, we're all talking to him. And then when Jamie's done, I'm like, hey, come on over here, man. And you know, it's, it is, that is a cool feeling. Yeah. Yeah. That is a cool feeling. The only thing I will say is that I think some of our listeners, they'd come up and they meet us. And then they would say, like, after a couple minutes, they'd like, okay, listen, I don't want to take up too much of your time. I understand you're really busy. And my thought to that is, this is what I was here to do. You know, and I mean, like, I'm here to hang out with these guys. So don't go anywhere. Stay. That'd be my thought. Yeah. You know. Yeah, it's a lot of fun, you know. And it's a little more concentrated than the Olympia because at the Olympia, you have to spread out so much, right? I don't know if you guys touched on that when I was out. But, you know, like, they're spread out and hotels and stuff. But at the Arnold, everyone's at the same two hotels pretty much. Like it seems like that. Yeah. You know, like I'm sitting at the bar eating a steak by myself. And lunch for just wanders up because there's nowhere to literally know where to sit. It stands there for like 30 minutes and just chats, you know. And then like before he leaves someone else comes up and they got to order some food to go because it's nowhere to sit. Like it's, you know, it's just like, it just all crammed together and talking. And you have conversations with people you wouldn't normally like bump into, you know. Who? Like we all see that seem to see the same people at all the expos. But sometimes at the Arnold, you'll run into like other people. Yeah, I haven't met that guy yet. Like there's some of that happens, you know. Yeah. So yeah. Maybe we're giving out awards again too this year. Never know. Remember last year I wound up on stage with Arnold and Brandon Curry. Oh yeah. Don't forget, right? I was a magical moment. Ron was Ron was so worried about how it turned out. I was watching. He's like, how was it? I'm like, you are the only person that analyzes perfection for ten minutes after. It could have been any more smooth. He's like, I don't know. I don't know. I was like, literally it was forever. I was standing here watching. I thought the handshake with Arnold was a little sketchy. I could have just put it in like smoother. Well, it wasn't off the fact that I like didn't. Yeah, I was like, I know. Yeah, another was no sidewalk was all good. Yeah, yeah, it was. Yeah. You know, just one of those things they even said, you guys will come off. And then Arnold will come off. They said that. That's the only thing that really actually said. I'm remembering having this conversation once before. I really think we really gave you no instruction other than you'll come off and Arnold will come on. Yeah. So then Sean Sean said to me, because he's done that before. He's like, yeah, well, we got to raise his hand, give him the jacket, you know, bubble bus to around. And then I'll let you know, I'll give you the nod, we'll walk away. And I was like, oh, thanks, Sean. And then so we're like standing there with Brandon's hand in the air, you know, and Arnold walks right up with a trophy. I'm like, oh fuck, what do we do with my hands? Yeah. I don't do it. I don't do it. I don't do it. I don't do it. I don't do it. I don't do it. Oh, that was so great. Oh, man. Yeah. I think we talked about that for like an hour. The next, the next, the next, the next, the next. Yeah, you over. Yeah, you over. I realized now that I kind of forgot about that. And I don't know if that was because it was like traumatic. So I like jettisoned it. And it just all came rushing back. It's exactly what it is. Yeah. We would you if you had to bring it back. Remember that time? No. And it was funny. It started as a good memories. No. I was like, oh, yeah, the time was on stage with Arnold. And then I said, and it rushed back as I go, oh, God. Oh. You know, you forgot. You forgot about the pressure. Oh, man. That was good. So Scott, you've had another week to think about it. Yes. Who is winning the Arnold classic? Oh, man. Oh, man. There's only one division. There's the men's open. I have to bring the list back up in order to answer that question. So you can skip me for a moment. And then all. We're doing the back. Okay. So we're going to do who's winning and who's your dark, dark horse. They like shake things up. Could win also, but whatever. All right. Go to wrong. Well, my money just because you know me in the statistics is on Nick. That's my money. Right. Right. But dark horse, if I had to pick one, two, one. Surprise. Is that that it? Just one to surprise. I mean, I think Nick is a safe bet. So it's the other, it's the other option. Like, you know, it's almost like you're saying who's in second or could topple some people or whatever. You know. I don't know. I keep, I keep thinking that Samson's rate of improvement is. Didn't stop at the Olympia. Right. So imagine, you know, I was talking to Andrew Barry about this the other day. Imagine what he's going to look like in a few years now with maturity, more maturity to his muscle. Like imagine the potential not only the short term gains he's made, but imagine as he like really starts etching that in. Right. I'm also going to go out on a limb. Just because I can't get it. I kind of get excited. I think that we are going to see like a, I'm going to go out on a limb. I have a feeling. I think we're going to see a, an Andrew Jack where you're like, oh my god. He's in shape. Yeah. I think that's what we're going to see because you know how it's gloots of like kind of in there. But nothing freaky. But like Andrew Jacked with like Derek Lundsford glutes shredded like truly shredded. What does that look like? And Chris knows exactly how to do that. He's got a suffer. Chris knows that that's what makes it different. I mean, everyone still goes back and looks at every, I've had, I've had so many people go, you know, the year that a pseudo helped Rami when he was kind of small. Yeah, he looked really, really good. Yeah, a little more, I would love to see them have some more time together. You know what I mean? Like he was in really good shape and he was tight. He wasn't as bad as him. But it was a step toward something. Yeah, yeah. It was like an improvement. And then it was like conditioning was better. And it was all these things like that that were like, oh, this is better. And I think that we're going to see a step in Andrew. I think that Chris really wants to show that, you know, because you know, he loves to do that, right? Take someone who's good and make them like really good. Yeah, right? So yeah, I just, I'm excited. I think that there's potential there because, you know, the coach can want to do that, but does the guy have the mileage? Yeah. And Andrew Jack is kind of like body builder young, even though he's like, you know, kind of started late, but body builder wise, he's kind of young. So that's when a guy like, you know, Chris coming in and like, you know, really pushing him can make the biggest difference. So, you know, and psycho Lewis too, you know, I don't know him, but I mean, man, I mean, he's helped some of the best, you know, if that's what they need, if that's what they need, that's what they need, you know, we'll see. I think with the guy like Andrew Jack, the most important thing is that you're just pushing him. Just pushing. Like who cares? Like, okay, pick a style at training whatever. Push him. Like, you know, like, okay, what type of dial don't care what type of dial you're going to put him on, but like push him. Like, yeah, I'm like, you know, we've got the genetics. He's got the if you just add the suffering, and then you get the world class conditioning with the crazy mass and all that stuff. And that's what I'm, I'm hoping to see just because, you know, I like seeing that shit. Oh, I got a question for Ron, what do you expect out of big ramen? So, you know, I'm pretty skeptical of when I hear people say, oh, we, we fixed this, we fixed that, we corrected this, we corrected that. Just because of personal experience, I know what it's like to have nerve issues and muscles that aren't the same as it used to be. And like, it's not just a massage away. Like, geez, usually just gets worse for the rest of your life. They just doesn't, like, I don't know. I'm very skeptical that they fixed very much. If they did, like it be shows up in the dense and the legs are gone. Yeah. And the lats are fuller down like lower and his triceps are big and round and hard looking. I'd be just blown away. I want to know what stem cell treatment or what what happened because I wanted all over my body. You know what I mean? So I just don't know if that's what we're going to see if, you know, I mean, Rami could win this show. Yeah, it's possible. Rami could win this show. It's possible he wins this show. It could show up with like vengeance in his eyes and they could have brought him down like 20 more pounds, just shredded to shit out of them. Just said, screw it death face, bring him in, just walk him on the stage, just peel to the bone, who cares if he's under 300. And he probably probably have a better chance at winning. You know what I mean? It's still be the big story. He's still be the biggest guy by, you know, and also too, like, you know, comparing him to a guy like Nick does he actually look better lighter because then he's not blocky like if they're both kind of blocky, then it's still a comparison. But if like, you know, Nick's not the least blocky guy from the front, right? Yeah. So, you know, who knows it might be an advantage to come in lighter and tighter with a smaller waist and really, really sucked in and ultra conditioned instead of trying to be huge when you're already Rami. So I don't know. He could win this show. But I just, you know, he's got to show up and prove it. What do you think? I think that this show, there's two options for Rami and I'm going to be on a song which what I think it is. I think this show will put Rami being a, an Olympia winner again to sleep. I think if he doesn't, I mean, here's the spot he's in. If he doesn't come in and win, yeah, that's over. Because these guys aren't getting worse. They're getting better. Yeah. So Nick Walker is going south. Getting worse. And Samson's going north at a fricking rate that cannot be stopped. Then come the Olympia. We're not talking about, you know, it doesn't matter. Like if Rami beat Samson, but didn't win the show and he still wasn't like holy cow, we're not talking about, can, you know, Rami's not even a subject for Samson anymore after that. He's still saying. So these guys are drastically improving. So this show, for me, I thought this was an interesting decision because I like to play chess. And understanding the game is, you want to do a J, where people write you off and you have time and you come back and you're a mind of who the you are. You know what I mean? And I don't think that's going to happen. I think you're going to remind us what we already know, which is, you know, and I think he's a freak's freak. But I do, I just have a feeling like, because for example, like you just said Ron, Ron, like Nick, his look. But when Nick hits shots, like when he's a front double, I don't see anything. I see no flaws. He knows how to pull that waist in. He just looks freaky and I'm like, I don't care. I love it. You know, when Rami hits shots, even good shots, I'm like, what's up with this? Why is your midsection not look that tight? There are a lot of things that are starting to happen. And like you said Ron, like typically when your body starts to head in the direction, I've never seen, I mean, when Jay's back started to change, it didn't come back. When you know, when Ron is back, started to go, it didn't come back. Like when she started going south, I just think you go south. Dennis Wolveslats didn't come back. Nothing came back. Like yeah, what people, you know, I'm going to say this. I'm going to say this. I think that when you're especially when you're big, like the bigger you are, when it's over, it's over. Yeah, we're great. Like it's over. As soon as you're not your best anymore, it's over. Because your body can only be, you know, especially the big guys. The body can only be 320 and I'm clearly speaking for personal experience on this. That's why like, but percentage of the planet's been 330. I know what it's like. Once you're that weight and then, you know, stuff happens to your body where you can't maintain that anymore. Like you start to get hurt and your body's breaking down and you're getting into your late 30s and you add you add you add it. Like it's over. You'll never be that big again. It's impossible. And that's just the level they're at. These are that formula one. Guys, if they're not top, top, top condition and situational, you know, they're training and their ability to push their bodies like, you know, if you, if you have to hold back 5% in the gym at the Olympia level, your odds of winning are like reduced drastically, I feel. Like the margin for errors, the margin for being able to like hold back is just so slim. Do you guys agree also though that my opinion in the highest level is there's two judgeings that take place on the stage. There's ramen against ramen and then there's ramen against everybody else. Absolutely. Yeah. That's the other thing people forget about is you are judged against your best also. So I feel like that's the whole that people don't get. It's like, I'm sorry, but everyone saw the pictures after this, you know, after this year's Olympia. I mean how go toe to toe with when you work with the seat notes and now which ramen of those two wins? It's that one. Back then for sure. Never won yet. That ramen beats this ramen. So that happens. Then you look up and you say now, Nick Walker against the best. Oh, Nick Walker is better than he's ever been. Okay. So if, and I agree with you guys in all this, I think part of the factor can be somebody who's really big, right? What about a guy? I mean, obviously he's not small by any means, but he's not a mass monster, just sheer volume. What about William Bonic? Because William Bonic's looked better in the past, you know? I mean, he could he could he pull it back together because I feel like for me, to me, there's more of a case for Bonic being able to still win something like this. I don't know. I think it's possible. I wouldn't write him off. I'll put it that way to be real dangerous. I wouldn't either. Because he was off at the Olympia. He wasn't like, there wasn't like, oh, where did your lat go? Why didn't you waste getting so big? That didn't happen. He was just a little off. So yeah, in this case, I consider the Olympia a fluke for Bonic, not the other way around. I think that's the thing that happens in bodybuilding over time is you're trying to decide which one was the fluke. Yeah. And he's only been off once. And he nails it every. And I hate to even say he was off. Off against himself. You know what I mean? Yeah. So I would never bet against him. I think he's one of the most consistent, and I think Bonic's a freak. Like I consider him a freak show. So absolutely the freak is he has got to be one of the most consistent freaks there is. Yeah. He's extremely dangerous. And what your point was about him being off at the Olympia, that's sort of the same as how Jay was able to come back and win the title because Jay didn't lose the title because his body lost the title. He lost the title because even he said he got complacent and he didn't get into it in their shape and he got beat. And he knew right away that he was going to win the following year because he's like, Oh, Jesus, all I have to be is in the condition. I didn't get out rustled. And his body was still relatively very healthy. He was still killing it in the gym, so Jay came back with 100% conditioning issue the next year to smash it. Whereas, like you said, Ronnie's was in a conditioning issue. Ronnie's body literally started just not being able to do it. Yeah. So that's what I think the same thing is what you just said about Bonic relative to Rami. I think that's the situation there as well. I saw a couple years ago, who's the 2020 show. The show that almost didn't happen backstage, I was really sold and just how crazy he is. I pulled this up right now. I've got, check this out. When I see if I can share this with you guys, I don't think I've ever shown this to you. This footage, let's see here. I'm going to go to this, hit this. All right. So check this footage out. This is in the pump up room. Again, you could just see it backstage how incredible he looked. There's Rami. And this is before he got, this is right before he got real good, but Bonic's coming up here in a minute. Oh, and I'm going to be excited to see, what's his name again? Patrick Moore. We haven't seen him in a little while. What kind of muscle do you think he's growing? It'll either be the exact same guy or it'll be drastically different because I haven't seen him. Yeah, look at this. Just look at, like, how much freaking muscle he has on him. Isn't that insane? I look at that like the Mr. Potatohead thing, right? Like it looks like a delta was put on like a nose. And then the arm was added. You don't have me in like, yeah. I think I think you're muted around. There you go. Did I ever tell you my story about when I first heard of William Bonic? No. So I was in Dallas with Gasp. This would have been like 2006. I don't know. Seven. I was with Gasp back then. And I was in Dallas and we shot some footage. I can't remember the year. Anyways, they paired me up with Neil Hill. And we did like a chess video. And Neil was kind of like coaching me through. Like they said, hey, do you want to train with Neil Hill? We need an instructional video. And we thought it'd be cool. It's like Neil trains you. And I was like, oh, yeah, sure. I'd love to, you know, tell Neil to do it every once. So we did this chess workout and stuff where hangin' out. And we went Nate afterwards and Neil said he's like, oh, yeah. He's like, he goes, I got this guy that I'm helping. He's like he's, he's, he's going to be really, really good. And I was like, oh, yeah, and he goes, yeah, like he's going to be like texture Jackson good. And I was like, oh and he's like, yeah, like he, he'll win an Arnold. And he might be able to win an Olympia. Like, you know, like he was really like this guy's real. And I was like, oh, who is it? And he's like, oh, he was like, oh, he was really in Bonic. And I was like, oh, because I'd seen like one pitcher of them. And I remember thinking he looked like a mini-kai green because he had the same dreadlocks. Yeah, yeah. And I said, I said, is that the guy that looks like a mini-kai green? And he goes, yes, he goes, he's going to be incredible. And I was like, oh, cool. So like, that was like the first time I really knew who he was. And then like, you know, within a year or two, he was like, you know, on the scene and, you know, smashing stuff, you know, blown people away. So yeah, it's just, you know, he's, he's, he's one of those freaks, you know, where I got like, you know, I got like Neil's arm and was like, you got it. Like, yeah. You know, you have all of it. I would like to see him do really well for this show. I would like to see that. In fact, I'd be interested to see imagine if he comes in at his best and a Nick comes in at his best, what that kind of battle would look like between their two scenes. I would love for this show just because I'm sick and disturbed. I would love for it to be a like, like an out of this world conditioning battle. That's like four or five guys that look like they're going to die. Yeah, so shri. Like, their faces are just just to snow. There's no GH water left in the cheeks. I want guys just death camp. I want like, I want it to just be a anatomy chart just stupid conditioning like everyone kind of accidentally pick the same strategy and they all come in just sucked and nothing. I just for some reason want to see because because all these guys, so many of these guys are so big. Yeah. That even if they come in light, it doesn't, doesn't make them look smaller. Like, we're, it's like home free to just get shredded because they're so huge. Yeah, you know, so I would love to see that and that includes includes a keen. I want to see him in that crew. Oh, yeah. Yeah, I'd love to see him peeled out of his mind, you know. So. Okay. It's like a, it's like the most trait statement before a show, but it's when you hope for is you want to not know who's going to win. Yeah, yeah, he really did. Like those shows where like we're like, no, no, no, I next definitely win and then you go, well, well. Wait, and then all day on the side try. Yeah, yeah, bothers you. All day everybody's talking about it then, right? Yeah, because there's, there's always, and you know, I mean, obviously in our area around like there's typically the blowout. Like, you know, no one wondered like when Daxter was winning the Arnold. You're like, well, you know, like, because because he was so nuts, you know, but like I would love it if the guys came in and it was just a battle, preferably, which never happens. But I like when there's like a three or four person battle, the two is cool. But like when they have a shuffle around because they're not because they're doing it for the show, but they're really trying to figure it out, which means we have no idea what the judges are looking at. We're like, oh, this guy's either winning or he's getting forced. Like, yeah. Oh, yeah. The Olympia. But it's, I mean, our defeat would just happen to the Olympia, right? True. All this is, yeah. Great thing. We weren't really sure. You know, like, to put in rammy on the end thing was like, is that? Are they messing with us? You know, like, what the, you know, like it was just such a chaotic judging call out. And I love those. I love when, when the crowd, because you know, we've talked about how lame bodybuilding crowds can be. And, and I love it when the call out just sort of like takes care of that, like at the prejudging of crowds, just like when you get that, when you get the crowd yelling and screaming and prejudging, it's like, oh, yeah, this is going to be a killer night show. Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah. Sometimes it works out, you know, sometimes it works out a lot more interesting than others. We know that for sure. There's like 300,000 reasons for this to be a hell of a fight. That's what the winner thought was, yeah. Oh, yeah. I guess it's 300. Yeah. Yeah. For sure. You know, I like it. You notice, but there are one or two additional entrance once the 300,000 was said. Yeah. Yeah. Damn. It's a beautiful thing. It's like what somebody likes to be a killer. I'm like, nah, I'm not going to go. I'll pay. I'm on my way. Yeah. What, what's like third place? First place is 300. If it's like it usually is, let me guess while Scott. Be like 100. But I, it's usually, usually it's like half half. Half half. For a little less. 150 or 100. Yeah. Last year. Last year was 200 and then 120 and then 70 and then 375. Then 20. So those first three, they're actually pretty cool though because it's more than half for second and then more than half for the guy that third versus second. That's a cool one. Not too bad. Let's a cool breakdown. You know, right? You know, yeah, see. No, I'm sharing. Too much sharing. Too much sharing. I want to take all. Yeah. There we go. And let's give them all swords. Wait, never mind. I don't want socialism in my body building. We're sharing. Not every get a trophy or a check. Yeah, no, just first place, that's it. Valid. What do you look at Scott? You got a very intro with Scott. I was looking for him. I was looking for the impression he's about to tell us something. So I was looking for the rest of the prize money, but I am not seeing it though. So, but I mean, it is a huge jump because they said, this is the second year. So that last year, 200,000. Before that, it was 130. So I mean, like, they're really jumping up. So I'm not sure. I'm sure somebody, I'll tell you what, if you're watching this and you know, then comment with what it is. And I will take, I'll, I'll pin your comment at the top, so everybody else will know too. We can rely on our audience for that. Okay. Okay. What do you got, Dusty? You're looking at looking at something. I'm looking at my ring door, but the sea will dodge your losing their mind. Ah. Okay. They have a really issue with my deliveries, and I order a lot of stuff. Right. Have you guys heard of, and don't get this twisted, Ron? If you heard of Stanley's, like, Stanley's cup, the cups that they have that are like, what's the, what's the, was like a thermos cup? Yeah. Look at Yeti. It's like a Yeti, but they're called Stanley Cup. Yeah. Okay. And I heard this, because my oldest was like, I ordered a Stanley Cup, but I'm like, I Stanley Cup, like we're going to hold up the air and win the Stanley. No. She's like, no, a cup. So she tells me she ordered this $50 cup. Yeah. And I was like, you make like $10 an hour. You bought a $50 cup. We got it. That's all. I'm looking at it. Right. So she orders it. And I was like, whatever, she gets it, puts ice in it has a drink, and then she goes to work, and then goes to her friend's house, and then comes home the next day, and she comes down stairs. She was like, I show you something, and she opens the cup, and it's still full of ice. Oh, wow. I like the same now. And now I have hundreds of dollars of these cups coming into my house. I must have one of these stupid cups. Yes. I have now listed without even using one, a Stanley Cup as underrated. Wow. Because I like my ice. I actually picked two colors to make sure they could come to Marred just so I for sure had them for the trip. So when I'm at the booth, I see cold beverage. Oh, hell yeah. And I bet you though, equally keep coffee too. So there's that. They actually if you scroll down on lists how long it will keep these. It will keep a like a cold drink in there cold for seven hours with no ice. Wow. I like some days for ice in there. Yes. I don't like for them. These ones are wonderfully, and you can be powered from the two. Somebody researches. Look who owns Stanley. Oh, dusty. Another. Damn. I saw there was lots of fun colors to dusty. I assume you ordered an array of colors to go with your shirts and hats and shocks. Yeah. I started out with just the basics. Like I said, because I had to get it here. My black one, I got a shiny black and then a dark black. Those don't get here to Thursday. That does not help me. It does not help me. So right. We did two quickies, 140 dollars later for two cups. Oh, God. The 40 answers though. 40 answers. Yeah. I see this. That's your drink warm. They're wrong. Because this beverages. It's very icy. Yeah. These are there. I get to skip all this because I don't really like. I don't really care about. There. Yes. Really care. I get to remember. Like obviously I am still one. Characters. I'm still one ice. I look like is a rooster. I know, I know. I just. I'm really thrilled. I'm fine with just ice cold water. This by just fill my shaker with ice cold water and just drink it. I'm okay with that. This one here like my ice is like it's dwindling. And I got to keep refilling. It's a disaster. Oh, that's cool. The next. I'm totally okay with that. Probably have an ice maker on it, you know. Whenever I'm forced to buy a new fridge, I'll buy one with an ice maker on it. But for now. I'm okay. I don't really bother. You know this is a chicken and a fridge But I'm afraid to part but I don't really make ice I don't really ever have ice in my freezer You know Victoria is not a big ice fan either and I wonder if it's a Canadian thing just because it's already so cold up there You guys don't really want to eat it. I'm not in a tap like almost freezing Because it's like one degree My family there let's We gotta go somewhere warm so you can find out what water is like for the rest of us Yeah, I say hey in Mexico maybe I put ice in my in my jug, you know put some ice in the jug Look maybe I would be more of an ice guy I have to laugh at how I'll not ice you are because my freezer makes two different types of ice So I have big ice and Yeah, you have an ice in the fan. We have even I use then we have the big the big squares of ice if anyone's having a drink I Oh boy, I'm a mess You have an array You don't want to serve like scotch on the rocks with the wrong type of rocks and then you don't want to put the wrong type of ice in a diet coke like you gotta have Different types of ice people are gonna think you're some kind of barbarian Run I just thought of you and I was like Ron doesn't want surprises from like I still know I she's like ice I'm like bigger small ice. He's like big I'm like how big Just can't get into an interview That's the moment right there. Okay, all right. Sorry. Do you rail this girl? But everyone order a Stanley Cup use code I'm kidding. I don't have a code, but you won't want and let anyone out there who's sort of like me and like on the regular day-to-day They don't really care about ice like I'll occasionally throw some ice in my shaker at the gym if I just happen to be By the ice machine, but I'm not really like I'm not I don't have it really use ice at all So let me know if you're if you're like me I want to know if I'm team ice or team no ice We need to know which one yeah, but like I said if I pull up till the drive through window and I ordered a diet coke There'd better be some ice in it, but not a whole cup full of ice not all That's a problem. I'm not anti ice I just don't have it in like you know, it's like I'm not anti chocolate cake I love chocolate cake, but I don't have it in my house Well listen guys, we we aren't gonna have time for Saturday episode That you can't happen this week so that said I did have some listener questions Do you guys have the time to tackle them today fire? Okay, because I'm hoping to I'm not gonna stop time as well. I'm this is my thought is that there's gonna be some people like me They're doing a several hour drive to Columbus and they can listen to this episode Like while they're on their way to get all pumped up for the Arnold and we already talked about that right? So then we just got to fill the rest of their drive now Right, so you're driving to the arm of course I just came back to because I was literally just there for elite Last week so how many hours is that you drove there last week? Yeah? Yeah, I drove some things like day eight interview three hours Three hours oh Okay, that's fine. Yeah, that's not bad at all and it's kind of a cool drive too because once you get through Toledo You get on 23 which is just like a two lane highway type thingy, you know It's like there's there's no real lights. It's all just like it's all corn in just woods and you know nothing Casional farmhouses It's only like a 50 that's 60 or 55 mile an hour road, but it's just like it's easy There's no traffic or anything if you leave at the right time So it's a nice it's a nice drive until you get to close Okay, then it picks back up. Okay. Oh There was a comment this was from